Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary COLLEGE OF THE ENVIRONMENT SCHOOL OF AQUATIC AND FISHERY SCIENCES FISHERIES Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 FISH 101 Water and Society (5) I&S/NW Examines ecological and social issues associated with water resources as human populations increase and climate warms. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 101 FISH 200 Freshwater Ecology and Conservation (3/5) NW Julian D. Olden, Gordon W. Holtgrieve Offers students exposure to the complex relationships between freshwater ecosystems and human societies, including topics associated with freshwater biology, management, conservation, and sustainability. Focuses on key concepts in freshwater ecology, and delves into applied issues involving conservation and management. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 200 FISH 230 Economics of Fisheries and Oceans (5) I&S/NW, QSR C. ANDERSON Examines how and why people and businesses make choices that lead to over-fishing, hypoxic zones, and oil spills in aquatic environments. Applies economic principles to understand how alternative policies might change these decisions, and how distributional effects influence politically feasible solutions. Offered: jointly with ECON 230; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 230 FISH 250 Marine Biology (3/5) NW Lecture-laboratory course in marine biology focusing on physical, biological, and social aspects of the marine environment. Topics include oceanography, ecology, physiology, behavior, conservation, fisheries, exploration, and activism. Weekend field trip. Honors section research project. Offered: jointly with BIOL 250/OCEAN 250; AS. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 250 FISH 260 Recreational Fisheries: Science, Management, and Policy (3/5) I&S/NW Grue Provides an overview of Washington's recreational fisheries emphasizing science, management, and policy. Optional laboratory focuses on science and technology behind fishing tactics, tackle, and equipment, ways to minimize impacts and enhance conservation, and politics associated with opportunities for recreational anglers. Suitable for students with or without a strong science background. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 260 FISH 261 Recreational Fisheries Seminar (1) Christian E Grue Overview of issues and perspectives associated with management of Washington's recreational fisheries: opportunity; science and technology behind tactics, tackle and equipment; ways to minimize environmental impacts and enhance conservation of target and non-target species; etiquette; and challenges of enforcing regulations. Suitable for undergraduate students with or without a science background. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 261 FISH 270 Aquatic Ecophysiology (5) NW Focuses on fundamental physiology, with an emphasis on processes relevant to living in a variety of aquatic environments. Includes a broad survey of taxa, from prokaryotes to mammals, and a variety of aquatic habitats. Prerequisite: BIOL 200. Offered: jointly with MARBIO 270/OCEAN 270. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 270 FISH 274 Introduction to Data Analysis for Aquatic Sciences (3) Basic knowledge of data acquisition, manipulation, and visualization are necessary for conducting biological research. Students will be introduced to bash, R, and Jupyter Notebooks, but the concepts learned will easily apply to other computational work. By the end of this course students will be able to import data into R, perform analysis on that data, and export the results to graphs, and presentations. Prerequisite: BIOL 180. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 274 FISH 290 Scientific Writing and Communication (3) Designed to teach undergraduate students how to gather information on scientific questions; critically read scientific writing; learn the structure and functions of scientific papers to effectively communicate; learn techniques for effective communication of science in oral and poster presentations; and understand the ethical boundaries associated with scientific communication. Offered: AW. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 290 FISH 296 Study Abroad: Aquatic and Fishery Sciences (1-15, max. 30) NW For participants in UW study abroad program. Specific content varies and must be individually evaluated. Credit not does not apply to major requirements without approval. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 296 FISH 300 Exploring Opportunities in Marine Science (1) Explores academic, research, and career opportunities in the field of marine science and helps prepare students for graduation. Intended for junior and transfer students studying marine science. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: jointly with MARBIO 300/OCEAN 300; W. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 300 FISH 310 Biology of Shellfishes (5) NW Aquatic invertebrates with emphasis on taxa with economic and cultural significance. Dramatic diversity, adaptation to environment, and evolutionary forces highlighted. Laboratories, field trips. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 310 FISH 311 Biology of Fishes (5) NW Luke M. Tornabene Covers morphological, physiological, behavioral, and ecological diversity of fishes of the world; designed to provide a basic foundation for advanced courses in all areas of aquatic sciences. Offered: jointly with BIOL 311; A. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 311 FISH 312 Fisheries Ecology (3/5) NW Ecological characteristics of fishes and shellfishes in the important freshwater and marine habitats of North America. Relationship between physical aspects of the habitats and community structure. Impacts of human activities on diversity and abundance. Prerequisite: BIOL 220 or FISH 270. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 312 FISH 323 Conservation and Management of Aquatic Resources (5) NW Topics include population dynamics, extinction risk, meta-populations, marine reserves, bioeconomics, protection of endangered species, sustainable harvesting, and management institutions. Examines case studies such as salmon, albatross, and whales as representative of conservation issues in aquatic sciences. Sampling, experimental design, computer skills, and research writing. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 323 FISH 324 Aquatic Animal Physiology and Reproduction (3/5) NW Adaptations of aquatic animals to environmental challenges. Energy pathways from feeding and digestion through maintenance (metabolism, movement, repair), homeostasis (respiration, osmoregulation, thermoregulation), growth and reproduction (sex determination, manipulation, sex change). Roles of sensory, nervous, and endocrine systems in mediating environmental information. Cannot be taken for credit if credit received for FHL 471/BIOL 471. Prerequisite: either BIOL 220, B BIO 220 or FISH 270/MARBIO 270/OCEAN 270. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 324 FISH 328 Forestry-Fisheries Interactions (4) NW Offered: jointly with ESRM 328. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 328 FISH 330 Climate Change Impacts on Marine Ecosystems (5) NW Links physics of climate to marine ecosystem processes, exploring both observed climate impacts from the past and projected ecosystem changes due to human-caused climate change in the future. Case studies include polar, sub-arctic, temperate, tropical, and upwelling ecosystems, and ocean-acidification and its projected impacts. Recommended: Requires high school or college physics and algebra with a basic understanding of Newton's Laws and the ability to comprehend and construct vector diagrams. Offered: jointly with ENVIR 330; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 330 FISH 340 Genetics and Molecular Ecology (5) NW Application of molecular markers to ecology, evolution, and the management of living resources. Emphasis on understanding the strengths and weaknesses of the approach based on case studies. Prerequisite: BIOL 200. Offered: jointly with BIOL 340; A. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 340 FISH 370 Marine Evolutionary Biology (5) NW Emphasizes geobiological patterns of marine evolutionary biology environment; processes of evolution; marine prokaryote and eukaryote diversity; and applications of evolutionary principles to ocean change, and conservation and management of marine biodiversity. Prerequisite: either FISH 270/OCEAN 270/MARBIO 270 or BIOL 220. Offered: jointly with MARBIO 370/OCEAN 370; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 370 FISH 404 Diseases of Aquatic Animals (5) NW Overview of communicable and noncommunicable diseases that affect fish and shellfish. Major pathogens of free-ranging as well as captive animals discussed. Students learn to recognize, prevent, and control economically and ecologically important disease syndromes. Offered: Sp, even years. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 404 FISH 406 Parasite Ecology (5) NW Introduces students to disease ecology theory, with emphasis placed on the ecological processes that govern parasite transmission. Topics include parasite diversity, evolution, and taxonomy, distribution, ecology, and physiological effects of parasites on human and wildlife hosts, and parasites as players in food webs. Prerequisite: BIOL 180. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 406 FISH 423 Aquatic Invasion Ecology (4) NW Julian D. Olden Explores the patterns, drivers, and consequences of species invasions in freshwater, estuary, and marine ecosystems. Focuses on the science and management needs for preventing, controlling, and eradicating invasive species. Topics illustrated with cases from the Pacific Northwest and the world. Prerequisite: either BIOL 462 or BIOL 180. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 423 FISH 424 Biology and Culture of Aquatic Organisms (5) NW Explores the concept of sustainability and the interrelationship between environment, aquatic species, and culture of aquatic animal and plant species globally. Current practices, animal biology and health, near-shore ecosystem conservation, water quality, and strategies to improve the sustainability of aquaculture for food production and species conservation. Offered: Sp, odd years. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 424 FISH 427 Tropical Marine Biology (5) NW By examining the biogeography, evolution, and ecology of coral reefs, mangroves, and sea grass beds, provides an integrated overview of tropical-systems biology. Integrates ecological and physiological concepts in order to show how anthropogenic stressors such as increased temperature, pollution, and ocean acidification can impact the resilience of tropical marine ecosystems. Laboratory research project. Prerequisite: either FISH 270/MARBIO 270/OCEAN 270 or BIOL 220; and either FISH 290, FHL 333, or MARBIO 305. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 427 FISH 428 Stream and Watershed Restoration (5) NW Overview of restoration principles and techniques with specific application to freshwater aquatic systems. Develops knowledge and skills to assess ecosystems conditions, identify and prioritize restoration opportunities, and evaluate them from a scientific and economic perspective. Prerequisite: either BIOL 356, ESRM 304, or FISH 312. Offered: Sp, even years. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 428 FISH 437 Fisheries Oceanography (4) Investigates how the environment influences distributions and abundances of marine vertebrate and invertebrate species. Uses studies to understand fish and zooplankton life histories, predict trends in populations, reduce uncertainty in resource management, and to decouple anthropogenic from natural effects on aquatic populations. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 437 FISH 441 Integrative Environmental Physiology (3/5) NW Comparative advanced aquatic physiology focusing on the functional response of organisms to natural and human-associated environmental stress. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 441 FISH 444 Conservation Genetics (5) NW Advanced genetic concepts and methods related to species' conservation and management. Includes genetic diversity and evolution, small populations and fragmentation, genetic viability, management of wild and captive populations, reintroductions, hatchery-wild interactions and forensics. Labs include molecular techniques. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 444 FISH 445 Aquatic Foods in the Global Food System (3/5) I&S/NW Ray Hilborn Examines how aquatic foods contribute to the global food system and how they impact the environment and human health and well-being. Emphasis on the comparative costs and benefits of aquatic foods to terrestrial foods, and assignments have students evaluating carbon footprint, water use, labor standards, nutrient content and other impacts across different foods. Prerequisite: either BIOL 359, BIOST 310, ENVIR 250, FISH 274, NUTR 290, QMETH 201, Q SCI 381, STAT 220, or STAT 311; recommended: experience working with data in either R programming language, Microsoft Excel, or equivalent. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 445 FISH 447 Watershed Ecology and Management (3) NW Gordon W. Holtgrieve Investigation of stream and river ecosystems from a watershed perspective. Emphasis on fundamental processes affecting the structure and function of flowing aquatic ecosystems and their catchments. Topics include river/stream hydrology, geomorphology, nutrient spiraling, food webs, and global change. Case studies explore human interactions with rivers and approaches to river management. Prerequisite: BIOL 180 or ESRM 201 or FISH 101. Offered: jointly with ESRM 447; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 447 FISH 448 Watershed Ecology and Management Lab (2) Hands-on examination of river and stream ecosystems with emphasis on physical and biological processes, field methods, analysis of data, and writing scientific papers, includes field trips. Prerequisite: ESRM 447 or FISH 447 which may be taken concurrently. Offered: jointly with ESRM 448; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 448 FISH 450 Salmonid Behavior and Life History (4) NW Thomas P. Quinn Behavior, ecology, life history, and conservation of salmonand trout, including their distribution, homing migration, reproduction, ecology of juveniles in different freshwater habitats, seaward migration, and the ecological and evolutionary factors affecting them. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 450 FISH 452 Marine Geospatial Information Science (3) NW Introduces the use of Geographic Information Systems (GIS), seafloor mapping, hydrographic surveying, and spatial analysis in ocean science. Emphasizes sampling and analysis of spatially-referenced data about the coastal and marine environments, integrating these technologies in an applied research setting. Offered: jointly with OCEAN 452; A. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 452 FISH 454 Introduction to Quantitative Ecology (5) NW Tim Essington Examines concepts in ecological modeling focusing on the rationale, interpretation, and motivation for modeling in ecological sciences. Explores individual, population, and ecosystem-based models. Excel-based computer exercises, model building and interpretation, readings. Prerequisite: MATH 125, MATH 135, or Q SCI 292; and Q SCI 381 or STAT 311. Offered: jointly with Q SCI 454; A. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 454 FISH 455 Fish and Wildlife Toxicology (3/5) NW Overview of fish/wildlife toxicology: history of the field; regulations; methods used to assess risks contaminants pose to fish/wildlife; classes of contaminants and their direct, sublethal and indirect effects; and contemporary threats of contaminants to fish/wildlife, their habitats and prey. Includes laboratory. Offered: jointly with ESRM 457; W. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 455 FISH 458 Advanced Ecological Modeling: Applying Ecological Models to Manage and Conserve Natural Resources (5) NW Trevor A. Branch Models of fish and wildlife population abundance, including age-structured models, the interaction between human exploitation and protected areas, calculating extinction risk, and examining the effect of alternative management strategies on natural populations. A core part of the course is fitting models to data using both maximum likelihood and Bayesian approaches, and increasing the programming abilities of students by implementing models in R. Recommended: FISH 454/Q SCI 454; and familiarity with the programming language R. Offered: jointly with Q SCI 458; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 458 FISH 461 Resource Economics for Management and Policy (4) I&S, DIV Examines how and why resource users make decisions leading to over fishing and pollution. Introduces market and non-market economic tools that support the natural resource management process. Evaluates incentives presented by alternative policies, with an emphasis on regional and global fishery management case studies. Prerequisite: either FISH 230/ECON 230, ENVIR 235/ESRM 235/ECON 235, or a 300-level FISH course. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 461 FISH 464 Arctic Marine Vertebrate Ecology (5) NW Explores the structure and function of Arctic ecosystems, life history, and adaptations of vertebrates, and how species are affected by climate warming. Emphasizes upper-level trophic interactions, evolutionary drivers, food chains, energy transport paths, and influence of sea ice. Case studies provide background on Arctic conservation and management. Prerequisite: BIOL 180. Offered: W, odd years. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 464 FISH 473 Limnology (3) NW Ecology, conservation, and management of inland aquatic ecosystems. Explores interactions among biological, chemical, and physical features of lakes and other aquatic habitats. Prerequisite: BIOL 180. Offered: jointly with BIOL 473; A. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 473 FISH 474 Limnology Laboratory (2) NW Examination of biota of fresh waters, survey of limnological methods, analysis of data, and writing of scientific papers. Prerequisite: BIOL 473/FISH 473/CEE 462, which may be taken concurrently. Offered: jointly with BIOL 474/CEE 463; A. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 474 FISH 475 Marine Mammalogy (3/5) NW Evolution, taxonomy, physiology, life history, and behavior of marine mammals; the techniques of studying and the management and conservation of them. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 475 FISH 477 Seminar in Marine Biology (3) NW Reviews current research in marine biology. Emphasizes critical readings and discussion of primary literature. Prerequisite: FISH 250, OCEAN 250, or BIOL 250; Q SCI 381, STAT 220, or STAT 311. Offered: jointly with BIOL 477/OCEAN 477; W. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 477 FISH 478 Topics in Sustainable Fisheries (3, max. 9) I&S/NW Seminar series featuring local, national, and internationally known speakers in fisheries management and conservation. Conservation/restoration in practice. Pre-seminar discussion section focusing on select readings. Topics may include harvest management, whaling, by-catch, salmon, marine protected areas, introduced species, citizen action, co-management, and marine ethics. Offered: jointly with BIOL 478/ENVIR 478. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 478 FISH 479 Research in Marine Biology (1-15, max. 15) Individual research on topics in marine biology. Research projects supervised by an individual faculty member. Projects may include laboratory work, fieldwork, and literature surveys. Prerequisite: BIOL 250/FISH 250/OCEAN 250; Q SCI 381. Offered: jointly with BIOL 479/MARBIO 479/OCEAN 479; AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 479 FISH 480 Human Dimensions of Fishery Management (3) I&S/NW Techniques and philosophy for conservation, management, and development of harvested marine populations. Emphasis on integration of ecological, sociological, and economic dimensions of institutional decision making for policy formation in uncertain environments. Offered: jointly with SMEA 480. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 480 FISH 489 Peer Teaching Assistants in Aquatic and Fishery Sciences (1-5, max. 10) Designed to prepare graduate and public school teaching by developing mentoring and communication skills through direct experience. Skills gained through attending lectures and weekly preparation sessions, directed discussions with faculty and TAs, and teaching course lab or discussion sections. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 489 FISH 491 Aquatic Ecological Research in Alaska (12) NW Intensive, full-time research training experience where a team of students works on focused research problems guided by a group of faculty, postdoctoral, and graduate student mentors. Examines behavioral ecology, limnology, and population dynamics. Students also choose specific research questions for their own exploration. Course location: Alaska. Offered: S, even years. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 491 FISH 492 Ecology and Conservation of Marine Birds and Mammals (9/15) NW An intensive, field-based course that offers motivated students the opportunity to learn about these ecologically and culturally important marine animals and the conservation problems they face. Emphasizes first-hand learning and individual research projects. Offered: jointly with FHL 492/MARBIO 492; S. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 492 FISH 493 Capstone 1: Proposal (1) Includes defining a capstone research question, conducting a literature review, preparing a project proposal and budget, reviewing peer proposals, and attending/critiquing the quarterly capstone symposium. Prerequisite: FISH 290. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 493 FISH 494 Capstone 2: Research (3-) Self-directed research or project under direction of a faculty member. Includes defining research question, determining methodology, data collection and analysis. Required for graduation for majors. Prerequisite: FISH 290; FISH 493; Q SCI 381. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 494 FISH 495 Capstone 3: Research Synthesis (-3) Self-directed research project under direction of a faculty member. Data analysis, writing a paper, and presenting findings. Required for graduation for majors. Pre-requisite: FISH 494. Prerequisite: FISH 494 Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 495 FISH 496 Study Abroad: Aquatic and Fishery Sciences (1-15, max. 30) NW For participants in UW study abroad program. Specific content varies and must be individually evaluated. Credit not does not apply to major requirements without approval. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 496 FISH 497 Special Topics in Aquatic and Fishery Sciences (1-15, max. 15) NW One-time offerings of topics in fisheries by resident or visiting faculty. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 497 FISH 498 Internship/Experiential Learning (1-15, max. 15) Structured, practical training in the fishing industry, government agencies, and other areas utilizing fisheries, food science, or quantitative science expertise. Experiences are supervised and evaluated. Written reports required. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 498 FISH 499 Undergraduate Research (1-15, max. 15) Individual research within the School of Aquatic and Fishery Sciences. Each project supervised by an individual faculty member. Written reports required. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 499 FISH 502 Marine Geospatial Information Science (3) Introduces the use of Geographic Information Systems (GIS), seafloor mapping, hydrographic surveying, and spatial analysis in ocean science. Emphasizes sampling and analysis of spatially-referenced data about the coastal and marine environments, integrating these technologies in an applied research setting. Offered: jointly with OCEAN 502; A. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 502 FISH 507 Special Topics in Fisheries (1-15, max. 15) View course details in MyPlan: FISH 507 FISH 510 Current Topics in Genetics and Physiology (1-5, max. 15) Contemporary problems and issues in genetics and physiology as they relate to aquatic and fisheries sciences. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 510 FISH 511 Current Topics in Evolution, Ecology, and Behavior (1-5, max. 15) Contemporary problems and issues in evolution, ecology, and behavior as they relate to aquatic and fisheries sciences. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 511 FISH 512 Current Topics in Quantitative Science (1-5, max. 15) Contemporary problems and issues in quantitative science as they relate to aquatic and fisheries sciences. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 512 FISH 513 Current Topics in Management, Conservation, and Restoration (1-5, max. 15) Contemporary problems and issues in management, conservation, and restoration as they relate to aquatic and fisheries sciences. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 513 FISH 514 Current Topics Aquaculture, Utilization, and Pathology (1-5, max. 15) Contemporary problems and issues in aquaculture, utilization, and pathology as they relate to aquatic and fisheries sciences. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 514 FISH 520 Advanced Ecology of Marine Fishes (4) Focuses on the unique ecological challenges facing marine fishes, including individual, population, community, and ecosystem-scale processes. In-depth discussions of issues based on extensive reading of primary literature and analysis. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 520 FISH 521 Research Proposal Writing for Graduate Students (4) Practice in reading, writing, critiquing, and evaluating research grant and contract proposals. Lecture and discussion of funding resources, structure of proposals, proposal review, evaluation criteria, and agency feedback. Examples of successful and unsuccessful grant applications. Preparing proposals and critiquing others' efforts. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 521 FISH 522 Hot Topics in Aquatic and Fishery Sciences (2) Discussion of the primary literature of aquatic and fishery sciences. All readings are current, high profile papers which spark a new avenue of investigation, set out a new paradigm, or define a central problem, etc. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 522 FISH 526 Ecology of Aquatic Ecosystems (3) Explores natural and human-driven processes regulating the structure and functioning of freshwater and marine ecosystems. Topics include biogeochemistry, energy, and material flows among habitats, evolution in ecological time, commonality of marine and freshwater habitats, and the issues of scale in understanding ecosystem dynamics. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 526 FISH 530 Application of Bioenergetics Models to Aquatic Food Webs (4) Modeling framework quantifying bioenergetics, including consumption, growth, nutrient recycling and contaminant bioaccumulation; links physiology and behavior of individual organisms to ecological processes within populations and aquatic food webs. Common applications include estimating predation, carrying capacity, or growth potential in different habitats. Offered: Sp, odd years. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 530 FISH 531 Aquatic Food Web Processes (4) Examines how temporal-spatial variability in environmental conditions, nutrient, food supply, predation, and competition among species and life stages regulate species in freshwater and marine food webs. Demonstrates how behavior and physiology of individuals are mechanistically linked to distribution, trophic interactions, and processes relevant to ecosystem-based management. Offered: Sp, even years. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 531 FISH 538 Fisheries Acoustics (3-5) Horne Studies the use of sound as an aquatic sampling tool and application of acoustic technologies to resource management and aquatic research. Topics include: sonar equation, survey design, equipment use, and abundance estimates. Uses case studies in bio-acoustic predation, habit evaluation, ocean observatories, and marine renewable energy. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 538 FISH 539 U.S. Fisheries Management and Policy (3) Examination of basic laws and policies in the US that govern fisheries management and their implementation by managers at federal, tribal, state, and international levels. Includes lectures, guest speakers, and field trips. Offered: jointly with SMEA 539. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 539 FISH 541 Integrative Environmental Physiology (3/5) Comparative advanced aquatic physiology focusing on the functional response of organisms to natural and human-associated environmental stress. Includes lecture, laboratory work, and team-based research project. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 541 FISH 545 Applied Population Genetics (3) Collection, analysis, and interpretation of genetic data (allele frequencies, microsatellite data, DNA sequences) for detection of population structure, population assignment, estimation of population size, and phylogenography. Includes discussion of scientific papers and analysis of example data sets. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 545 FISH 546 Bioinformatics for Environmental Sciences (3) Examines how to incorporate molecular information into environmental and conservation sciences, with an emphasis on analysis of DNA and RNA sequence information. Prerequisite: introductory biology, genetics, and statistics courses. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 546 FISH 547 River Ecology and Watershed Management (3) Investigation of stream and river ecosystems from a watershed perspective. Emphasis on fundamental processes affecting the structure and dynamics of flowing aquatic ecosystems and the riparian zone. Case studies explore human interactions with rivers and approaches to river management. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 547 FISH 549 Best Practices in Environmental Data Science (3) Mark Scheuerell Provides overview of data science tools and best practices to create transparent and reproducible workflows when working with environmental data. Students learn how to translate raw data into databases and tidy digital formats. Covers how to track the history of file changes (version control), collaborate online with others, and create digital recipes for re-creating one's work. Recommended: either working knowledge of R programming, or FISH 552 and FISH 553. Offered: W, odd years. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 549 FISH 550 Applied Time Series Analysis in Fisheries and Environmental Sciences (5) Eli Holmes, Mark Scheuerell, Eric J. Ward Overview of theory and practical aspects of fitting time series models to fisheries and environmental data. Topics include autocorrelation and crosscorrelation, autoregressive and moving average models, state-space models, and estimating model parameters. Focuses on conceptualizing analyses, implementing analyses, and making inference from results. Recommended: background in R programming; FISH 552; FISH 553; and Q SCI 482. Offered: Sp, odd years. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 550 FISH 551 Data and Resource-limited Methods in Fisheries Management (4) JASON M. COPE Provides an interactive overview of the principles and methods behind data-limited analysis and fisheries management, demonstrating the latest tools and theory for science-based analysis of global fish stocks that lack data and resources needed to apply traditional stock assessment methods. Prerequisite: either FISH 454/Q SCI 454 or FISH 458/Q SCI 458; and FISH 552; recommended: knowledge of basic biology and fisheries science and management; and familiarity with the R programming language. Offered: W, even years. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 551 FISH 552 Introduction to R Programming for Natural Scientists (2) Introduces R, a freely available and widely used platform for statistical analysis. Covers reading, storing, and manipulating data; introductory graphics; basic statistical analyses; and fitting linear models. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 552 FISH 553 Advanced R Programming for Natural Scientists (2) Covers the use of maximum likelihood estimation and programming in R. Uses R functions to estimate parameters of models and to quantify uncertainty. Prerequisite: FISH 552; Q SCI 381 or Q SCI 482, or permission of instructor. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 553 FISH 554 Beautiful Graphics in R (2) Branch Explores how to create beautiful scientific graphics in the open-source language R. Covers the theory of visualization, critically examines elements of good and bad graphics, and teaches students how to translate data in their graduate theses into publication-quality graphics. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 554 FISH 555 Age-Structured Models in Fisheries Stock Assessment (4) Ray W Hilborn Age-structured models as the basis for many stock assessments of commercially important species. Parameter estimation, analysis of uncertainty, and evaluation of alternative harvest strategies for such models constitute the core of most fisheries population dynamics. Prepares students to participate in stock assessments as conducted by NMFS and other agencies. Prerequisite: either FISH 454, FISH 458, or permission of instructor; recommended: FISH 458 or familiarity with stock assessment models, maximum likelihood estimation. Offered: Sp, odd years. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 555 FISH 556 Spatio-temporal Models for Ecologists (5) Applied skills for the understanding, interpretation, and development of new models for spatial patterns in marine, terrestrial, or human communities. Mixed-effects models will be implemented using flexible techniques in R. Statistical properties will be learned using simulation experiments, real-world data, and a class project. Prerequisite: FISH 552 and FISH 553; and either FISH 454, FISH 458, ESRM 451/Q SCI 451, FISH 558, FISH 559, SEFS 590, STAT 516 and STAT 517, or permission of instructor; recommended: Knowledge of the R programming language Knowledge of likelihood-based statistics Intermediate background in statistical analysis Offered: Sp, even years. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 556 FISH 557 Demographic Estimation and Modeling (4) Knowledge and practical skills in demographic estimation and modeling, with a focus on capture-recapture modeling. Emphasis on hands-on practice in fitting models, including models integrating multiple data streams. Recommended: graduate level coursework in introductory statistics, with an emphasis on linear models; and working knowledge of R programming language. Offered: jointly with SEFS 557; W, even years. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 557 FISH 558 Decision Analysis in Natural Resource Management (5) Focuses on age and size-structured population models; Bayesian methods; Sample Importance Resample algorithm; Markov chain Monte Carlo algorithm; policy evaluation; and risk analysis and uncertainty in fisheries management. Prerequisite: Proficiency with the use of R programming language; and coursework in population dynamics; and maximum likelihood estimation; recommended: QSCI 381; QSCI 458/FISH 458; and coursework in surplus production models; age-structured models; and probability distributions. Offered: A, odd years. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 558 FISH 559 Numerical Computing for the Natural Resources (5) Focuses on generalized linear and mixed effects models; numerical integraton and differentiation; Bayesian and maximum likelihood parameter estimation; root finding; ADMB and WinBUGS coding; and risk analysis. Offered: A, even years. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 559 FISH 560 Applied Multivariate Statistics for Ecologists (4) Use and interpretation of multivariate analysis, including the majority of approaches in common use by ecologists. Emphasizes the conceptual understanding and practical use of the methods, illustrated with ecological case studies. Prerequisite: Q SCI 482 or equivalent. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 560 FISH 561 Resource Economics for Management and Policy (4) Examines how and why resource users make decisions leading to over fishing and pollution. Introduces market and non-market economic tools that support the natural resource management process. Evaluates incentives presented by alternative policies, with an emphasis on regional and global fishery management case studies. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 561 FISH 562 Ecosystem Based Fisheries Management (2) Theory and practice of ecosystem based fisheries management. Areas of emphasis includes by-catch avoidance, the interaction between physical and biotic habitat and fish productivity, trophic ecosystem models, area based management and dynamics of fishing fleets. Offered: Sp, odd years. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 562 FISH 563 Ecosystem Based Fisheries Management Laboratory (2) Laboratory covering the theory and practice of ecosystem based fisheries management. Areas of emphasis includes by-catch avoidance, the interaction between physical and biotic habitat and fish productivity, trophic ecosystem models, area based management and dynamics of fishing fleets. Recommended: either Fish 454, Fish 458, or Fish 558; R programming experience. Offered: Sp, odd years. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 563 FISH 567 Topics in Advanced Ecology (3, max. 6) Discusses literature on active research areas or controversies in different branches of ecology. Offered: jointly with BIOL 567/SEFS 567; W. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 567 FISH 576 Applied Stock Assessment I (2-5, max. 5) Provides a review of population dynamic modeling basics and stock assessment data types, and details of processing fishery and survey data for use in stock assessment and running Stock Synthesis stock assessment models. Offered in collaboration with stock assessment scientists in the Fishery Resource Analysis and Monitoring Division at the Northwest Fisheries Science Center. May only be taken for credit once. Prerequisite: either permission of instructor or FISH 552; FISH 553; and either FISH 555 or FISH 558. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: W, odd years. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 576 FISH 577 Applied Stock Assessment II (2-5, max. 5) Focuses on developing, running, evaluating and documenting the base and sensitivity Stock Synthesis models required for a stock assessment update submitted to the Pacific Fishery Management Council. Offered in collaboration with stock assessment scientists in the Fishery Resource Analysis and Monitoring Division at the Northwest Fisheries Science Center. May only be taken for credit once. Prerequisite: FISH 576. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: W, odd years. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 577 FISH 578 Graduate Topics in Sustainable Fisheries (2, max. 6) Seminar series featuring local, national, and internationally known speakers in fisheries management and conservation. Case studies. Conservation/restoration in practice. Post-seminar discussion section led by speaker on topics covered in lecture. Topics may include harvest management, whaling, by-catch, salmon, marine protected areas, introduced species, citizen action, co-management, and marine ethics. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 578 FISH 581 Case Study Research: Design and Methods (3) Provides in-depth training in case study theory, design, and methods. Designed for exploring prospectus ideas or beginning analysis of thesis research. Through readings, discussions, exercises, and lectures, students learn how to select units of analysis, control data quality, and collect, analysis, and report data. Offered: jointly with SMEA 581. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 581 FISH 600 Independent Study or Research (*-) Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 600 FISH 700 Master's Thesis (*-) Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 700 FISH 800 Doctoral Dissertation (*-) Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: FISH 800 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022