Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Undergraduate Admissions and Orientation Start Here The UofM Experience Visit Connect Apply Admitted Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact The Basics Info For... High School Freshmen Transfer International Online (UofM Global) Readmits Graduate Law School Non-Degree Seeking Parents & Families HS Counselors Application Process Deadlines Costs + Value Tuition OverviewResidency PolicyBorder County Waivers Paying for College Student Right To Know Take Action Request Information Apply to UofM Campus Visits and Events Contact Us Follow Us Online FacebooktwitterYoutube Home Undergraduate Admissions and Orientation Admissions Basics International Students Request Info > Visit > Apply > WORLDLY + welcoming University of Memphis welcomes students from all over the world, with 84 foreign countries currently represented in our student body.* Learn what sets the University of Memphis apart (PDF ) > Here are just a few reasons why the UofM has been the top pick for many international students: Rankings + Prestige "Top Public Schools in the U.S." - U.S. News & World Report View all rankings > Flexibility + Accessibility Choose from 250+ programs in 12 colleges/schools Select Central Campus in Memphis, TN, UofM Lambuth campus in Jackson, TN, or fully-online UofM Global Culture + Soul: City of Memphis “Best Overall Destination” - TripSavvy “One of the Most Affordable Cities” - Huffington Post and Kiplinger "Top market for job seekers" - indeed.com *Any student enrolled at the University of Memphis who is a visa holder is considered an international student. The Undergraduate Application Process Graduate Students: Learn more about applying to a graduate program > Complete the online application Pay the $50 non-refundable application fee Upload unofficial transcripts to secure document upload system Submit English Proficiency scores if applying from a non-English speaking country After admittance, complete I-20/visa documents and next steps View Detailed Instructions > View Deadlines > Why Memphis? Learn what sets the University of Memphis apart ABOUT UofM > Tuition Learn more about fees and use the tuition calculator Tuition Overview > Scholarships Learn more about the International Merit Scholarship Merit Scholarship > International Student Resources Access resources to assist with the admissions process ISS Resources > Living on Campus Explore housing options. Dorms and apartments are available. Explore Housing > Graduate International Students Apply to Graduate School Grad Students > What's Next? After You Apply Apply to UofM ✔️ Wondering what happens next? Next Steps > After Admittance Did you receive your acceptance letter? Congrats! Complete these steps next. Admitted Students > About UofM Check out a virtual tour, and learn more about the city, student life and more. About UofM > Student Life Get involved and make the most of your college experience. Check Out Campus Life > Academic Support & Student Services Counseling, tutoring and more services are available. Support Resources > About the City of Memphis Memphis is a melting pot of diversity, culture and history. Explore Memphis > Get Connected For more information, contact admissions@memphis.edu. Follow @uofmemphis on social media to connect with fellow Tigers and stay up-to-date on news. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/29/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.