skip to main content University of Nevada, Reno Homepage Apply Visit News Give Search www.unr.edu Search www.unr.edu Search Search www.unr.edu Search www.unr.edu Quicklinks Expand or Collapse to view popular links for this site Alumni Faculty & Staff Parents Students Academic Calendar Campus Catalog Directory Email Access Library Maps MyNevada WebCampus Workday Zoom Login Menu Expand or Collapse to view links grouped by top level headings Quicklinks Alumni Faculty & Staff Parents Students Academic Calendar Campus Catalog Directory Email Access Library Maps MyNevada WebCampus Workday Zoom Login Research Continuity COVID-19 About About Research & Innovation Programs & Services News News from Research & Innovation University Research Council Center for Advanced Studies Fellows Directors & Executive Committees Lectures Nevada Research Report Bylaws Knowledge Fund Brand Info Research Hub Innovation Hub Patents, Commercialization & Licensing Commercialization Process Who owns the IP? Spin-outs Non-Disclosure and Material Transfer Agreements Funding & Grant Support for Innovations Contact Enterprise & Innovation Grace Chou David Maine Cara (Baird) O'Hare Kim Sampo Jo Sumrall Research Infrastructure Health & Safety Events Contact Request Research Development Services Apply Visit News Give Research & Innovation Research Continuity COVID-19 About About Research & Innovation Programs & Services News News from Research & Innovation University Research Council Center for Advanced Studies Knowledge Fund Brand Info Research Hub Innovation Hub Patents, Commercialization & Licensing Non-Disclosure and Material Transfer Agreements Funding & Grant Support for Innovations Contact Enterprise & Innovation Research Infrastructure Health & Safety Events Contact Request Research Development Services Research Hub A starting point for the support and resources you’ll need for conducting research, scholarly and creative activity at the University. Announcements & events Proposal support & funding opportunities Research ethics, conduct & safety Research commercialization Connect & grow your research Awards & fellowships Division announcements Little Valley Bioblitz: Join us for this family-friendly, community event and a weekend of biological surveys, hiking and camping! Register by Monday, May 30, 2022. improveresearch@unr.edu: Share your input about how to improve the environment and infrastructure for research, creative and scholarly activities. Limited submission proposals are currently open for a variety of grants. On-Going External Reviews of Proposals: Submit your proposal for review by an expert consultant. All division announcements, new external funding opportunities and division event invites are sent out through our ResearchNotes group email list. Sign-up for researchnotes emails Research & Innovation events Jun 04 08:30 AM Training and Workshops Little Valley Bioblitz View all division events Proposal support and resources Submit a request form for capture management, external review, writing and editing services. Proposal development services request Proposal development support Capture management The Research Development team provides proposal development services for large-scale, interdisciplinary projects. We are here to help and will work with you and your research team to develop a support strategy tailored to your needs and timeline. External review of proposals Have your proposal reviewed by another expert in your field via an external consulting firm. Use the feedback to increase your chances of success. Writing and editing support The Research Development team has edited hundreds of proposals and can provide critical feedback on a proposal’s structure or content, as well as copy editing. Graphic design support We can connect you with vetted graphic designers and scientific illustrators to capture the essence of your research in a powerful image. Request proposal development support Samples of successful grant proposals Research & Proposal Development Services maintains a library of recent successful grant proposals written by University of Nevada, Reno faculty. Learn more about obtaining a sample proposal. Resources for writing Grant writing workshops We host seminars with external facilitators who comprehensively address both practical and conceptual aspects important to writing competitive grant proposals. Watch for email announcements through ResearchNotes or check our calendar for dates. Data management plans Required in many proposals, these plans provide the framework for sharing and managing data. Find information and create a data management plan using our online resources. Institutional information for proposals This quick reference for proposal prep and submission includes basic information such as signature authorities, F&A rates, fringe benefit rates, institution numbers such as tax ID and Nevada vendor number, the University’s legal name and more. Institutional data and stats Institutional Analysis is a useful source of information on University operations and enrollment. Access descriptive reports and inferential studies, including enrollment reports for your proposal. College support personnel Find your college grant coordinator listed on the Sponsored Projects contact page. Proposal submission Pre-award support The Pre-award team facilitates timely submission of sponsored project proposals, sponsor requests for revisions and additional information prior to issuing an award, and submission of sponsor approval requests during an active award. Contact your pre-award administrator. Guidelines and submission resources We review all proposals prior to submission to ensure accuracy, correctness and legal sufficiency considering agency requirements and the University’s policies. Submit your proposal to Sponsored Projects five business days before the proposal deadline using our guidelines. Proposal routing and approval View information about our pre-submission review and approval routing for proposals. Project management services for awards A resource for Principal Investigators: A project manager is responsible for planning, organizing and directing the process of a specific project while ensuring that it is completed on time, within budget and within scope. In the context of Sponsored Projects at the University, the project manager will support research efforts by administering the many logistical aspects of sponsored awards. Learn more about project management services and how to request support. Awarded submissions and reporting Award negotiation, acceptance and account setup We work with PIs to review, negotiate and accept awards with terms that are acceptable for a public entity of the State of Nevada and to establish an account for project expenses. Learn more about the process once an award is granted. Award negotiation and acceptance Account setup Fiscal management Find information about invoicing, electronic drawdown of federal funds, and financial reporting. Effort reporting Effort reporting is the process of certifying that salaries and wages charged to sponsored project accounts are reasonable in relation to the actual work performed. Learn more about effort reporting and training for effort certification. Record retention Find information about records necessary for a project, how long to keep them and where to store records. Project closeout Closing out a project involves ensuring that all conditions for the award compliance have been met. Learn more about the project closeout process. Funding opportunities and resources Internal funding opportunities via Research & Innovation Research & Innovation provides competitive opportunities to fund scientific research, as well as creative and scholarly activities. These funding opportunities are intended to promote collaborative research, competitive resubmissions, and critical seed funding to support the research careers of the University’s faculty. Dimensions grants for CLA and RSJ Publishing Subvention Research Enhancement Grants Seed Funding View all internal funding opportunities External funding opportunities For an individualized proposal and funding consultation please fill out the proposal development services request. New grant finding tool: Pivot funding database Limited submission proposals Funding spotlight: FY21 Defense Established Program to Stimulate Competitive Research (DEPSCoR) Early career research funding opportunities Arts, humanities and social sciences fellowships and grants Business, economics, managerial sciences and accounting funding opportunities Large center opportunities Research ethics, responsible conduct and safety Whether you’re working with animal or human subjects, in an art studio or a lab, the University expects everyone to do their part to conduct ethical, safe and responsible research. Advisors and mentors need to assure that they are meeting regulations within their space and that students and trainees receive guidance in areas such as: research integrity, data acquisition and management, authorship, research collaborations, conflicts of interest, and others as appropriate. Research compliance and training Expectations for responsible conduct of research Compliance and conduct training Guidance on research misconduct Roles and responsibilities for PIs and college leadership Working with animals Visit Animal Resources for assistance with any research or teaching use of vertebrate animals. Required training for animal studies Animal Resources services Working with human subjects Quickstart guide to basic IRB submission info Human subjects research and Institutional Review Board resources Health and safety for your space Visit Environmental Health & Safety for assistance with any of the topics listed below or any other health and safety related issues. Establish a lab, studio or creative space Your responsibilities in terms of safety Required training for your research group Waste disposal practices (chemical, biological, radioactive, electronic) Injuries or exposure to hazardous materials Working with biological agents Wearing respirators Certifying or repairing a biosafety cabinet Building environmental permits Commercializing research The Enterprise & Innovation team is available to assist researchers with protecting intellectual property (IP) – including filing for patents – and finding commercial partners to help bring your novel research into the world. The process may sound complex and daunting, but we are here to assist you every step of the way. Patents, commercialization & licensing services We have a broad range of services and support for every part of the commercialization process, with resources for University employees and students, and external businesses and entrepreneurs. Obtain assistance with filing for patents and protecting your innovations Learn about our step by step process to research commercialization See how intellectual property ownership is handled through the University Find or list technologies that are available for license Report your innovation by filing a disclosure Commercialization services and support Non-disclosure & material transfer agreements We have a streamlined process for initiating agreement contracts using your NetID for University internal users and a simple login process for external users. Non-disclosure agreements protect the confidentiality of proprietary information that is being exchanged. Material transfer agreements establish the rights and obligations for the exchange of tangible and intangible research material. Research agreement information (NDAs & MTAs) Funding and grant support for innovations Overview of funding and grant services for technology commercialization Request letters of support and commercialization plans for grant proposals Obtain advice, training and support for SBIR and STTR grants Learn about competitions, venture capital programs and other funding resources Funding and grant support WolfCorps The WolfCorps program is designed to prepare University teams to apply for the Bay Area Regional I-Corps training course. The I-Corps offers an immersive experience for the process of moving research innovations into products and services. Contact Enterprise & Innovation to join WolfCorps Sierra Accelerator for Growth & Entrepreneurship (SAGE) SAGE helps Nevada technology entrepreneurs win competitive grant funding from the U.S. Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) and the Small Business Technology Transfer Research (STTR) programs. These programs provide funding in excess of $100,000. Sierra Accelerator for Growth & Entrepreneurship Connect and grow your research Subscribe to our researchnotes email group Check the Research & Innovation calendar Fill-out a quick event evaluation We host events throughout the year to boost research, scholarly and creative activity and help with career advancement. Some examples of events are: proposal writing workshops and seminars for CAREER awards, NEH and NSF funding; “open-houses” to learn about the core research facilities and other R&I services; and networking events to facilitate interdisciplinary collaboration. Celebrating research through awards and fellowships Research & Innovation is continually working on initiatives to recognize faculty and reward creativity, productivity and innovative research endeavors. Foundation Innovation Award We award two faculty or staff members annually for contributions to innovation or the commercialization of ideas that impact and benefit the public’s well-being. We consider innovation to be all forms of discovery, creation and production of inventive and progressive ideas, methods, and products that promote society’s growth. Our categories for the two awards are the Early Career Innovator Award and the Established Innovator Award. The recipients will be recognized at the Honor the Best Ceremony and receive $5000 for their work. Foundation Innovation Award Details Outstanding Researcher Award One University faculty member is awarded annually for a distinguished record in research or creative activities over their academic career. The faculty member must have contributed a meaningful amount of their work while a member of the University of Nevada, Reno. The evaluation is based on records and supporting material supplied by the faculty member. An award of $5,000 will be presented to the recipient at the Honor the Best Ceremony. Outstanding Researcher Award Details Regents' Awards for Research Nominations for the annual Regents’ awards for research are reviewed through Research & Innovation. The awards are given annually to NSHE faculty members at UNR, UNLV and DRI. Any NSHE employee or student can nominate faculty members for the campus selection process. Regents’ Researcher Awards – $5,000 for distinguished records in research Regents' Researcher – Distinguished-Career Regents' Researcher – Mid-Career Regents’ Creative Activities Award – $5,000 for a distinguished record in creative activities Regents’ Rising Researcher Award – $2,000 for early-career accomplishments Regents’ Researcher Awards Details Research & Innovation Leadership Fellows Program This professional development program offers faculty the opportunity to gain experience toward potential career opportunities in research administration. The Research & Innovation Leadership Fellow will develop a deeper understanding of the administration of a research enterprise; interact with University leadership and stakeholders at the local, state, national, and international level; and participate in the development of policies and procedures relevant to faculty members and the research enterprise. This is a five month appointment for an equivalent of one day per week (20% effort). Leadership Fellowship Details Awardee spotlights Advancing understanding of how our bodies’ systems connect, including the connection of blood flow to dementia UNR School of Medicine’s Scott Earley – the 2021 Regents’ Mid-Career Researcher of the Year – leads an impressive research program achieving breakthrough discoveries in ion channel regulation Most ever CAREER Awards received by University faculty Seven awardees representing four colleges/schools received NSF’s prestigious award in support of early-career success and continued development in their fields of research and education. Chemistry professor named Outstanding Researcher of the Year Professor Thomas Bell received this prestigious award for his numerous scientific accomplishments, contributions to organic and medicinal chemistry and the global impact of his research. Division Contact Information Location: Ross Hall Room Number: 201 Mailstop: 0403 Mailing Address: 1664 N. Virginia Street, Reno, NV 89557 Phone: (775) 327-2363 Directory: Visit the Research & Innovation contact page Follow the University University Twitter University Facebook University YouTube University Vimeo University Flickr University Instagram University LinkedIn University of Nevada, Reno 1664 N. Virginia Street, Reno, NV 89557 (775) 784-1110 Employment & Careers Non-Discrimination Statement Privacy Website Help Commitment to Diversity Commitment to Accessibility Contact the University Equal Opportunity and Title IX