Arts & Humanities Skip to content Skip to primary navigation Skip to search box Skip to admissions quick links Skip to secondary navigation Skip to breadcrumb TC Menu Search for people, news & websites Go Resource Links Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Columbia Library myTC Directory Apply Now Request Info Search Bar Primary Navigation About Academics Admission & Aid Faculty & Research News Give to TC Arts and Humanities Secondary Navigation Main News Faculty Activities Secondary Navigation More A&H Distinguished Speaker Series A&H Pedagogical Forum Student Activities Resources Events Staff TC Arts & Humanities Carousel Patrick Schmidt joins the faculty of the Music and Music Education The Music and Music Education program is pleased to announce that Patrick Schmidt will be joining the faculty of Teachers College, Columbia University as Professor of Music and Music Education, in Fall 2022. Previously he served as faculty and chair of Music Education and Dance at Western University, Canada, as well as Associate Director of Florida International University’s School of Music in Miami, Florida and at the Westminster College in Princeton, USA, for 11 years. Tony Award for Orchestrator and TC Alumna Katie Kresek During an unforgettable night at New York’s famed Winter Garden Theater, TC alumna Katie Kresek (M.E. '05, Ed.D. '18, Music and Music Education) won her first Tony Award for Best Orchestrations alongside her colleagues for their work on Moulin Rouge! The Musical. Read Here NOW ON VIEW Brain Battle The Art & Art Education Program presents Boston artist C. David Thomas. Thomas’ compelling new body of work combines recent digital images of his brain with lithographs made in the late seventies and early eighties as away to explore the artist’s battle with Parkinson’s disease. Explore the Show Introducing our new Podcast, MALTED Episode Four Art and Art Education alumna, Dr. Kryssi Staikidis is interviewed by Art and Art Education Doctoral student, Carina Maye, about the book—Artistic Mentoring as a Decolonizing Methodology: An Evolving Collaborative Painting Ethnography with Maya Artists Pedro Rafael González Chavajay and Paula Nicho Cúmez. Listen Now New Program in Dance Education Combining the best of dance practice and pedagogy, Teachers College’s new doctorate in dance education aims to cultivate the next generation of leaders in the field. Photo by Jennie Miller. Learn More NOW ON VIEW In Prison Pink The Art and Art Education Program presents In Prison Pink, an exhibition of works by Kristina Bivona. In Prison Pink highlights mementos of ritual and self healing post-incarceration. The objects, herbs, and prints highlight the many ways women have held their bodies together alternative to institutional medical and social practices. Explore the show Welcome to the Department of Arts and Humanities The largest academic unit at the College, the Department of Arts and Humanities prides itself upon its intellectual and artistic richness, its diversity, and its distinctive approaches to education. The Department consists of ten academic programs along with many subprograms nested within. Our major areas of scholarly inquiry are art, art administration, dance, music, history, philosophy, applied linguistics, bilingualism, English and literacies, and social studies. These areas of research, practice, and instruction, collectively, address human wisdom, capacity, potential, and creativity. Read More Upcoming Events See All Events The Arts and Humanities Podcast COVID-19, Bilingual Education and Black Lives Matter Episode 3 A conversation between Patricia Martinez-Alvarez, Professor of Bilingual Education and three Teachers (Stephanie Ubiera, Sabrina Poms and Ellieana Lora) about COVID-19, the transition to virtual teaching, addressing Black Lives Matter in the classroom, and centering the experiences of African American and AfroLatinx children in bilingual classrooms. See all episodes Remote Learning Resources On this page, we provide an overview of online learning and resources to help you make the most of your online learning experiences at Teachers College, especially if you have never participated in an online course before. Learn More In the Media Carousel Fox Business How teachers are surviving coronavirus and distance learning Drew Coles (Ed.D. ’17) discusses the additional responsibilities of teachers working remotely amid schoool closures in honor of Teacher Appreciation Week. Drew Xavier Coles Coles, Drew Lecturer - Music & Music Education Tuesday, May 5, 2020 Soft Revolution SOFT REVOLUTION: Art is a Human Right Sociologist and author Jennifer Lena drops some inspiration and insight in regards to the Works Progress Administration and #ArtsNewDeal. In this interview she did with Canadian stars of stage and screen Torquil Campbell and Ali Momen of SOFT REVOLUTION, they discuss her recently published book Entitled in the context of their appeal to the Canadian government for a new “WPA” for Canadian artists. Jennifer Carroll Lena Jennifer C Lena Associate Professor of Arts Administration Thursday, Jun 18, 2020 Humanities New York Definitions of Black Agency: The Legacy of Mildred Johnson Edwards "In the context of New York and its racial segregation, Mildred Johnson Edwards wanted to create an institution for Black children that modeled the pedegogical beliefs that she held. And yet, her need to create that school was itself a result of segregation." Ansley T. Erickson Ansley Erickson Associate Professor of History and Education Policy Tuesday, Feb 18, 2020 Dance Education Barbara Bashaw is Featured on the Cover of Dance Teacher Magazine Barbara Bashaw articulates her vision for building “an international community with a shared interest in dance teaching and learning” – a goal, she says, that will require “developing researchers and championing research that will push public policy.” Barbara Bashaw Bashaw, Barbara Arnhold Professor of Practice in Dance Education Wednesday, Feb 12, 2020 Education Week Affirming Black Girls’ Humanity: Yolanda Sealey-Ruiz blogs in Education Week about the huge disparity in school suspension "Before deeply investigating the disparities in their suspension data, school districts must first acknowledge and affirm the humanity of black girls. They must understand how their practice of disproportionately suspending them is an infringement on their humanity. Black girls deserve to be seen for their complexity and should not have certain aspects of their behavior stereotyped as defiant and deviant. Stereotypes flatten their experiences." Yolanda Sealey-Ruiz Sealey-Ruiz, Yolanda Associate Professor of English Education Wednesday, Feb 27, 2019 WDET Jam Out Like a Presidential Candidate [PLAYLIST] Dr Lena writes about how candidates try — and sometimes fail — to effectively use music to bolster their campaigns. According to Dr. Lena, candidate playlists “seem to be about… communicating the candidate’s platform…and in other cases candidates are trying to communicate their tastes.” Jennifer Carroll Lena Jennifer C Lena Associate Professor of Arts Administration Friday, Aug 23, 2019 Our Programs Each of our ten degree and five non-degree programs offer our students the skills and knowledge they need to thrive and assume leadership in today’s changing cultural and educational environment. Applied Linguistics & TESOL Learn More Graduate student studying in class Art & Art Education Learn More A student works on a sculpture. Arts Administration Learn More Students smiling in class. Bilingual/Bicultural Education Learn More A graduate student demonstrates for her classmates. Dance Education Learn More English Education Learn More Graduate students study and smile in class. History & Education Learn More Students stand and discuss issues together Music & Music Education Learn More Students play instruments together. Philosophy & Education Learn More Students discuss programs with an open book. Social Studies Education Learn More Students study together outside Non-Degree Programs Advanced Certificate in Bilingual/Bicultural Education Learn More Community Language Program Learn More Community Language Program TCSOL Certificate Learn More Students hold festive Chinese dragon to celebrate TESOL Certificate Learn More Students study in a classroom together Creative Technologies Certificate Learn More Graduate student works on a stop-motion animation project. Language Program Management Certificate Learn More Courses Nav Image Need help choosing a program? View the tabs above or contact us directly, and we will be happy to help. Our Stories View As View as grid View as list More Stories Follow us on Social Media Loading... Tweet by @ {{item.user_screen_name}} {{parseDateToFromNow(item.source_created_at)}} - View Post Show Actions {{ai.link_label}} @{{ai.retweet_from}} Watch Video View Image Instagram Post by @ {{item.user_screen_name}} {{parseDateToFromNow(item.source_created_at)}} - View Post Show Actions Watch Video View Images View Image Facebook Post by @ {{item.user_screen_name}} {{parseDateToFromNow(item.source_created_at)}} - View Post Show Actions {{ai.link_label}} Watch Video View Image LinkedIn Post by @ {{item.user_screen_name}} {{parseDateToFromNow(item.source_created_at)}} - View Post Show Actions Watch Video View Image Contact Us Department Chair: Kelly Parkes Phone: (212) 678-3469 * Fax: (212) 678-3746 * Email: ahofc@tc.columbia.edu Address: 334B Horace Mann Box Number: 104 Contact Us Teachers College, Columbia University 525 West 120th Street New York, NY 10027 Tel: +1 (212) 678-3000 Map & Directions Directory Ask a Question Resources Admission & Aid Student Life Courses Academic Calendar Office of the Registrar Office of Teacher Education TC NEXT Employment Legal Consumer Information / Student Right to Know Legal Notices Policy Library Non-Discrimination Title IX Compliance Ethics Reporting Public Safety GDPR Notice Make a Gift to TC Diversity Work at TC TC Facebook TC Twitter TC Instagram TC Youtube TC LinkedIn © 2022, Teachers College, Columbia University, New York, NY 10027. Back to skip to quick links