Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Topics Social Sciences Date June 22, 2021 2021-06-22 Media Contact Jill Kimball [email protected] 401-863-5450 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Partisanship guided Americans’ personal safety decisions early in the pandemic, study finds Results from a new study show that many Americans remain fiercely loyal to their like-minded communities, even when their health is on the line — an important lesson for future pandemics. PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — What motivated Americans to wear masks and stay socially distanced (or not) at the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic? More often than not, it was partisanship, rather than perceived or actual health risk, that drove their behavior, according to a new study co-authored by researchers at Brown University. By analyzing the results of two online surveys of more than 1,100 adults in total, Mae Fullerton, a Class of 2021 Brown graduate, and Steven Sloman, a professor of cognitive, linguistic and psychological sciences, found that in spring and fall 2020, political partisanship was the strongest predictor of whether someone would wear a mask or practice social distancing to stem the spread of novel coronavirus. Those who identified as liberal or moderate overwhelmingly said they wore masks and practiced social distancing, even when they believed their risk of contracting the novel coronavirus was minimal. Those who identified as conservative were much less likely to say they always wore a mask or socially distanced, even when they believed they were at high risk of contracting the virus and falling ill with COVID-19. The findings were published on Friday, June 18, in the Journal of Health Psychology. Sloman said the results show that many Americans tend to remain fiercely loyal to their like-minded communities, even in situations where their health is on the line. “It turns out that life is not the most important thing to people,” Sloman said. “Many people are putting their partisan leanings ahead of their self-interest. We’re willing to outsource our thinking to other people in our communities, even when our lives are at stake.” At the start of the study, Fullerton and Sloman predicted that respondents’ risk of becoming sick with COVID-19, or at least their perception of risk, would be the primary factor guiding their mask uptake and social distancing. Instead, they found almost no correlation between behavior and risk — whether perceived or real. Among survey respondents who considered themselves to be at high risk of contracting COVID-19, 59% reported they had limited their encounters to two or fewer people in the prior week. Meanwhile, among those who perceived they were at low risk of contracting COVID-19, 58% reported the same. In other words, people who felt they were in a high-risk group didn’t seem any more likely to practice social distancing than their lower-risk peers. The same was true of mask-wearing: 62% of those who reported that they were elderly or had no health insurance said they always wore masks when they anticipated coming within 6 feet of others, compared to 61% of those who were younger and had health insurance. They found, in fact, that the biggest predictor of whether someone was likely to wear a mask and practice social distancing wasn’t risk but political partisanship. Among those who identified as liberal or moderate, 66% reported that they always wore masks when they anticipated coming within 6 feet of others, compared to 45% of those who identified as conservative. And while 95% of self-identified liberals and moderates said they thought it was important to wear a mask to prevent the spread of the virus, only 74% of self-identified conservatives said they believed the same. Conservative-leaning respondents were also significantly less likely to practice social distancing (31%) than their moderate or liberal counterparts (49%). Crucially, the researchers also found a high correlation between compliance with stay-at-home orders — which were in effect for 95% of Americans at the time of the survey — and peer agreement. Among those who said they believed it was “extremely important” to comply with orders to stay socially distanced, 86% said their peer group reportedly held similar views. “ Americans can’t be boiled down to figureheads and followers or believers and non-believers. Getting into people’s heads is complicated, but it matters. ” Steven Sloman Professor of Cognitive, Linguistic and Psychological Sciences Fullerton said the findings confirm something behavioral scientists have known for a long time: that most people’s health decisions have more to do with the behaviors of people around them than with scientific evidence. Studies have shown, for example, that people are more likely to quit smoking if someone close to them has quit smoking recently, and that the amount of food a person eats on Thanksgiving is often driven by how much others at the table are eating. “This study supports other findings that preventive behavior is strongly influenced by social norms,” Fullerton said. “People clearly are more motivated by their politics, their culture and their peers than by their likelihood of catching the virus and possibly suffering from terrible side effects. This suggests that communicating the risks of not wearing a mask and not staying socially distanced might not be the most effective way to stop the spread of a virus.” Both Fullerton and Sloman said the reason many conservative Americans didn’t wear masks and socially distance may be in part because the people they trusted most — people who include, according to past studies, family doctors, local television hosts and church leaders — weren’t wearing masks or staying distanced either. Getting buy-in from influential community figures, then, may be key in ensuring more unified compliance with public health recommendations in the future. And that might start with bringing more widely known trusted personalities on board, from television hosts to beloved celebrities to leading federal lawmakers. “In some cases, communicating the risks via government-appointed experts might not be as effective as communicating the risks via political leaders people know and respect,” Fullerton said. “That’s a good lesson we can remember the next time we’re facing a public health crisis.” Ultimately, both Fullerton and Sloman said, the key to keeping people safe and healthy is understanding their most sacred values. For example, Sloman said, many libertarians didn’t refuse to wear masks just because some of their local politicians vocally opposed masking; some perhaps did it because individual freedom is their most sacred value, and they believed mask mandates infringed on that freedom. Many older people at high risk of severe COVID-19 due to other health challenges, Fullerton said, may have chosen not to practice social distancing because, to them, the costs — not meeting a new grandchild, for example — outweighed the benefits — potentially living a few years longer. “Americans can’t be boiled down to figureheads and followers or believers and non-believers,” Sloman said. “Getting into people’s heads is complicated, but it matters.” Other study contributors were Nathaniel Rabb, a project manager at the Policy Lab at Brown; Sahit Mamidipaka, a student at Northview High School in Georgia; and Lyle Ungar, a professor of computer and information science at the University of Pennsylvania. The research was supported in part by a donation from Adobe. Tags COVID-19 Research Undergraduate Research Related news: Social Sciences Facebook whistleblower kicks off William R. Rhodes ’57 Lecture Series on Ethics of Capitalism April 27, 2022 Frances Haugen told an audience of Brown students, faculty and staff that algorithms governing social media are the root of technology’s challenges — and that social media can be a positive force to keep people connected. Read Article Open details for Facebook whistleblower kicks off William R. Rhodes ’57 Lecture Series on Ethics of Capitalism Social Sciences For vaccine text-message campaigns, Brown researchers confirm success is all about timing April 6, 2022 A new study from researchers at the Policy Lab offers important information on when text-message vaccination campaigns work and when they don’t. Read Article Open details for For vaccine text-message campaigns, Brown researchers confirm success is all about timing Social Sciences Brown social scientist wins prestigious Bradley Prize March 25, 2022 The Bradley Foundation’s $250,000 award to Glenn Loury, a professor at Brown, recognizes the scholar’s influential role in promoting viewpoint diversity in academia. Read Article Open details for Brown social scientist wins prestigious Bradley Prize Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Partisanship guided Americans’ personal safety decisions early in the pandemic, study finds Open details for Partisanship guided Americans’ personal safety decisions early in the pandemic, study finds Bookmark this Page