Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Residence Life & Student Housing (RLSH) About Apply for Housing Apply for Housing SMU Housing Portal Rate and Fees Living On Campus Living On Campus Residential Commons Upper-Division Housing Apartments Policies Get Involved Get Involved Dallas Community Departments Faculty Graduate Students Staff Undergraduate Students Make A Request ☰ Make the Hilltop Home. Student Affairs RLSH Apply for Housing Apply for Housing If you have housing business to conduct, this is the place to begin. We’re delighted that you’re going to live on the Hilltop. Whether you’re a first-year student, upperclassman, transfer student, or graduate student—on-campus housing has something great to offer you. SMU Housing Portal Let's get started How to Apply for Housing We do our best to make the housing application process worry-free. We take you step-by-step based on who you are—incoming first-year or transfer student, returning resident, current student not living on campus, or graduate student. To learn more about how your housing applications are processed after submission, visit our Housing Assignment Priority page. Incoming First-Year and Transfer Students Welcome, incoming first-year and transfer students! Below are the steps to get you started with the on-campus housing application. As you work through the process, we are here to help. Get in touch if you have questions or if we can be of any assistance. Once you are admitted to SMU, accept your offer of admission and pay your admission deposit. Allow one to two business days for access to the housing application. You will receive an email when the housing portal is ready for you. Log into the SMU Housing Portal using your SMU ID and password. Follow the step-by-step directions to complete your application. If you haven’t received instructions by email within three weeks of paying your deposit, email us (housing@smu.edu) with your name and SMU ID number. Returning Residents We are excited to have you back! Returning residents are rising sophomores, juniors, and seniors. Reapply for SMU on-campus housing on the SMU Housing Portal during the advertised reapplication period in February and March each year (limited housing for third-year students and above). No housing deposit is required. You can find additional information on reapplication and a step-by-step guide on the Reapplication page. Current SMU Students Not Living On Campus Current students not living on campus or who are returning after an absence may email housing@smu.edu for access to the SMU Housing Portal. Summer School & May Term Spending your summer in the city? We offer housing for students enrolled at SMU during the summer! See our Summer School & May Term information for all the details. Not currently living on campus? Contact us for access to the portal for summer. Resident Dining Plans All SMU students living on campus must buy a meal plan from the residential plan options. All first- and second-year residents must purchase The Works meal plan. Dining and Meal Plans All students living in a Residential Commons or traditional residence hall (Smith, Perkins) must have a meal plan. Meal plans are optional for residents in Martin, Moore, Daniel, 3050, and Service House. Meal plans may be used at Umphrey Lee Center and at Arnold Dining Commons. Convenience meals are available at Mac’s Place, and flex dollars can be used at any SMU dining location or campus convenience store. Students with special dietary needs may consult with the SMU dietitian at 214-768-4349. Further information is available from Dining Services at https://smu.campusdish.com/. On-campus dining plans provide convenient meal options and seven-day, all-access dining in Umphrey Lee Center and Arnold Dining Commons. Student Classification Dining Plan Options First-year students and sophomores The Works, $200 flex The Works, $300 flex The Works, $500 flex Juniors (third year on campus) The Works OR Block 150, $200 flex Block 150, $300 flex Block 150, $500 flex Seniors (after third year on campus) The Works OR Block 150 OR Block 50, $200 flex Block 50, $300 flex Block 50, $500 flex Ready to select a plan? Learn more and sign up with SMU Dining Services, which manages all meal plan requests and changes. Housing Timeline Below is an overview of our housing application and assignment process. Visit our Important Dates page for specific dates. January Returning resident reapplication opens in late-January New student housing application opens in late-January Incoming Spring students move-in prior to the start of classes February–March Returning student reapplication deadline is March 1 Returning students participate in Room Selection in March New student applications continue Summer school application opens mid-March April Cancellation deadline for juniors and seniors is April 1 Fall room rent charges are billed to student accounts for returning residents May Information about Fall Move-In is distributed and sign-up begins on the SMU Housing Portal for move-in times in late-May June Roommate request deadline for incoming students is June 1 Fall room rent charges are billed to student accounts for incoming residents July Incoming students receive notification of their assigned community and room type (double or single occupancy) The deadline to request a loft is in July August Roommate notification is sent by email in early-August New student move-in (based on Move-In Timeslot selected by student) Returning student move-in (based on Move-In Timeslot selected by student) October Spring admitted student housing application opens in mid-October November Spring room charges are billed to student accounts New spring applications completed in November take priority for assignment in December December Late-December, incoming spring-semester students are assigned and receive notification by email of their community, room type (double/single), and move-in information Residency Requirement SMU requires most incoming students to live on campus for two years. Living on campus is important for having the most robust and fulfilling SMU experience. First-year students must live on campus for their first two years at SMU and are assigned to one of our 11 Residential Commons. New transfer students who are under 20 years old have a one-year residency requirement and are assigned either to a Residential Commons or to Upper-Division Housing. New transfer students who are over 20 years old have no requirement to live on campus but may apply and be assigned on a space-available basis. Learn more about the research supporting this decision on the Residency Requirement page. More information Reapplication Current on-campus students who plan to live on campus for the next academic year must go through the reapplication process by following the steps below. Typically, this process is made available in late March for the next academic year. Reapply Summer housing Spending your summer in the city? We offer housing for students enrolled at SMU during the summer. Review our summer school and May term information for details. Apply Policies & procedures You can find all our published policies and procedures, which detail how we operate and why we deliver services in the way that we do. If you are a current resident, you may be looking for our student conduct and community policies. Review Resources Whether your student is a first-year or a returning upperclassman, we have helpful housing resources to help you make campus home. Check out information related to student disability accommodations or our gender-inclusive housing information. Explore Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share