Skip to Content Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Indiana University Bloomington Indiana University Bloomington IU Bloomington Menu About History Rankings & Campus Statistics Mission & Strategic Planning Leadership & Administration Safety & Emergency Information Visit Campus Transportation & Parking A-Z List Jobs at IU How to Hire IU Students Admissions How to Apply Cost & Finances Visit IU & Bloomington Academics The Academic Experience Degrees & Majors Business Health & Wellness Science, Engineering & Technology Public Service Arts & Culture Schools Academic Opportunities Study Abroad Online Classes & Programs Schedule of Classes & Academic Calendar Academic Advising & Support Libraries Research Hoosier Life Traditions & Spirit Student Organizations Recreational Sports Athletics Health, Wellness & Safety Housing & Dining Visiting Bloomington Attractions & Things to Do Diversity on Campus Career Prep Find Your Passion Get Experience Develop Your Career Use Your Network Alumni & Giving News & Events Indiana University Bloomington Home About Admissions Academics Research Hoosier Life Career Prep Alumni & Giving News & Events Home Hoosier Life Attractions & Things to Do Attractions & Things to Do Put a big college campus in a small city and magic happens Broadway shows. Garage bands. Fine dining. Street food. Gallery strolls. Nature hikes. Whatever you’re into, you’ll find plenty to keep you busy here. Indiana University and Bloomington are, in many respects, inseparable. Events start on campus and spill into the city. Festivals fill the city and get magnified on campus. And the natural wonders that surround both are enjoyed by all. An environment filled with music, dance, and theater Thanks to the Jacobs School of Music and the many arts-oriented student organizations, there is almost always a musical performance going on somewhere on campus—most of them free. There are more than 1,000 free musical performances on the IU campus each year. IU also boasts a full season of classic and contemporary opera and ballet theater, a university orchestra, and four museums and art galleries. First Thursdays The first Thursday of each month is a time for you to celebrate the arts and humanities at IU Bloomington. Get ready for the best day of the week From big auditoriums to intimate theaters, Bloomington has it all There are dozens of theaters and concert venues at IU and across Bloomington. Here are just a few of the standouts. IU Auditorium If you want to see big names and big shows, the IU Auditorium is the place to go. Each season, the auditorium showcases Broadway musicals and plays, top comedians and musical performers, and family-friendly acts. IU students get discounted tickets. See what the IU Auditorium offers IU Cinema The IU Cinema bills itself as the place for film, and it’s not exaggerating. Every semester, it screens more than 100 films. It also brings celebrated filmmakers to campus and offers students and the community a variety of educational experiences. Learn more about IU Cinema Buskirk-Chumley Theater Owned by the city of Bloomington, “the Buskirk” as B-towners call it, hosts a wide variety of events every year. From jazz concerts to stand-up comedy festivals, there’s always something new happening at this intimate theater. Explore the Buskirk So many festivals, so little time Bloomington is famous for its Lotus World Music and Arts Festival—a yearly celebration of world music and arts. But that’s one of many festivals that take place all year long. The year kicks off with the PRIDE film festival, which showcases the LGBTQA community and filmmakers. From April to November, the Bloomington Farmers’ Market returns, bringing fresh produce and local music to downtown Bloomington in a festival-like atmosphere. Summer brings festivals celebrating food, comedy, art, and more. And when fall arrives? It’s IU season, with Homecoming, Parents Weekend, and more!See the Bloomington Event Calendar Restaurants to satisfy any craving are on every corner Bloomington is a foodie city—and we have the accolades to prove it. People have been known to come here just for the food! With somewhere in the neighborhood of more than 400 eateries scattered across town, you’ll never have trouble finding something good to eat. Local favorites include the ethnic restaurants on Fourth Street, alfresco dining on the square, and pub food at Nick’s or the Upland Brewery. Museums and cultural centers abound Indiana University and Bloomington are home to dozens of museums, art galleries, and cultural centers. Eskenazi Museum of Art This gorgeous building designed by I. M. Pei houses more than 45,000 art objects ranging from Picasso paintings to ancient jewelry. Neal-Marshall Black Culture Center The center works to connect IU and the surrounding community with black culture through a variety of programs and exhibits. The Kinsey Institute The Kinsey Institute has been working to advance sexual health and knowledge worldwide for more than 60 years. It offers tours of the building and its gallery daily. See the whole list of museums and cultural centers in Bloomington Mother Nature might be the biggest star of them all Bloomington is nestled in the hills of south central Indiana. Within easy driving distance, you’ll find Indiana’s largest lake, a national forest, a state park boasting a waterfall, and more. Whether you choose to explore by bike, boat, foot, or car, you’ll be wowed by the natural wonders that surround you. Explore more See everything Bloomington has to offer Learn more about visiting IU Traditions & Spirit Student Organizations Recreational Sports Athletics Health, Wellness & Safety Housing & Dining Visiting Bloomington Attractions & Things to Do Diversity on Campus Indiana University Bloomington social media channels Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn Contact, Address and Additional Links Services Canvas One.IU AskIU Find Directory A-Z List Courses Campus Map Required Disclosures Library IU Bloomington Libraries IUCAT OneSearch@IU Resources Knowledge Base IT Services Faculty & Staff Resources Diversity Non-Discrimination Notice Protect IU Email About Email at IU Outlook Web Access INDIANA UNIVERSITY BLOOMINGTON 107 S. Indiana Avenue Bloomington, IN 47405-7000 Phone: 812-855-4848 Accessibility | Privacy Notice | Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of Indiana University