Skip to main content Visit Harvard.edu Explore More News Speeches History Contact Biography Inauguration News Spring Commencements Dear Members of the Harvard Community, Earlier today, I invited the members of our last two graduating classes back to campus for their long-awaited Commencement. The gathering will follow closely on the heels of our usual festivities, making for a very busy few days at Harvard. I hope you, too, will consider attending to celebrate not only their achievements but also your own efforts to see them through a period of great uncertainty and change. As always, I am grateful for your commitment to our mission—and to one another. Have a wonderful holiday break. All the best, Larry — Dear Members of the Harvard Classes of 2020 and 2021, I write with happy news. The time has come to make good on my promise that we would one day welcome you back to campus for an unforgettable and joyous Commencement. We will gather in Tercentenary Theatre at 8:00 a.m. on Sunday, May 29, 2022, to celebrate your achievements, marking the conclusion of what has been an extraordinarily trying time for all of us with an affirmation of our community’s strength and spirit. Planning for festivities is under way. Each of the Schools will host programs in addition to the University-wide gathering, and we will be reaching out to you and sharing additional information as it becomes available. In the meantime, I hope you will take a moment to indicate your interest, which will aid us in the work ahead. I am looking forward to giving you a proper send-off from the heart of Harvard Yard. Nothing can replace the energy and excitement of being together, and I hope you and your loved ones will be able to join us for what we hope will be a once-in-a-generation event. All the best, Larry Published on November 18, 2021 Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Share through Email Copy the link Security & Brand Report Copyright Infringement Report Security Issue Trademark Notice Website Accessibility Digital Accessibility Privacy Statement Get In Touch Contact Harvard Maps & Directions Jobs © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube