Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering The Harriet W. Sheridan Center for Teaching and Learning Home About Staff Proctors and Head Teaching Consultants Teaching Consultants Sheridan Center Advisory Groups Departmental Liaisons Visit Staff Jobs at the Center Student Jobs at the Center Programs & Services Teaching & Learning Resources Learning Collaborative News & Events Site Navigation Home About Staff Proctors and Head Teaching Consultants Teaching Consultants Sheridan Center Advisory Groups Departmental Liaisons Visit Staff Jobs at the Center Student Jobs at the Center Programs & Services Assessment Departmental Assessment Plans Campus Assessment Projects Assessing and Researching your Teaching Certificates Sheridan Teaching Seminar Course Design Seminar Teaching Consultant Program Head Teaching Consultants Invited Speaker Program Consultations Course Consultations Grant Consultations Teaching Observations Goals and Contexts Early Student Feedback Departmental Support Departmental Assessment Plans Learning Outcomes and Mapping English Language Support English Language Workshops Individual Support Conversation Partners Program English Language Program Fellowships & Awards Provost’s Faculty Teaching Fellows Graduate Student Proctorship in Academic Administration Graduate and Postdoc Teaching Fellows Junior Faculty Teaching Fellows University Awards Grant Support Institutes & Retreats Launch Anchor Problem Solving Course Design Institute Data Science Course Design Institute Seminar for Transformation Around Anti-Racist Teaching Orientations Tutoring Tutoring Supported Courses Summer 2022 Language Courses Apply to be a Tutor People Workshops & Roundtables Teaching Essentials for Graduate TAs Teaching Statements & Portfolios Sheridan-RISD Museum Collaborative Workshop Series Writing [email protected] Past [email protected] Programming Writing Center People Consultations FAQ Opportunities Writing Fellows People Courses English 1190M Outreach Apply Teaching & Learning Resources Teaching Resources Teaching in Times of Disruption Course Design Creating a Syllabus Resources for New Instructors Interpreting Your Course Feedback Evidence-based Practices Establishing Learning Goals Classroom Assessment Entrance and Exit Tickets Sample Exit Tickets Mid-Semester Feedback Guidelines for Assessing Student Learning Grading Criteria & Rubrics Creating Grading Criteria Designing Grading Rubrics Rubrics Criteria Rubrics Scales Enhancing Student Learning with Technology Promoting Study Skills Classroom Practices Learning Contexts First Day(s) of Class Lectures & Large Classes Discussions & Seminars Labs Active Learning Critical Reading Contemplative Pedagogy Promoting Metacognition Teaching with Podcasts Classroom Communication Tips Effective Multimedia Lecture Slides Teaching Problem Solving Writing to Learn Digital Teaching & Learning Working with TAs Teaching Writing Writing Fellows Courses Teaching a WRIT Course A Guide to the Writing Support (WSUP) Flag for Faculty Teaching Statements & Portfolios Mentoring Resources Effective Mentoring Practices Inclusive Teaching Anti-Racist Teaching Definitions Diversity & Inclusion Inclusive Mentoring Learning Collaborative Problem Solving Problem Solving Course Design Institute Problem Solving Fellows Research Writing Writing Across the Curriculum Seminar WAC Participants Writing Fellows People Courses English 1190M Apply Data Science Data Science Course Design Institute Data Science Fellows News & Events Upcoming Events Past Events Newsletter Student Jobs at the Center The Sheridan Center hosts a wide variety of paid student roles focused on supporting and cultivating a culture of intergenerational, interdisciplinary teaching and learning at Brown. We also offer learning opportunities for student staff through ongoing professional development around learning, pedagogy, and diversity, equity, and inclusion. We currently have the following student openings at the Sheridan Center. Creative Technology Assistant at the Multimedia Labs Creative Technology Assistants, or CTAs for short, are the heart of Multimedia Labs at Brown. CTA are responsible for developing group trainings for lab members on MML equipment, provide assistance and project consultation on the use of the MML’s creative technology and software, and help the MML professional Staff maintain our lab locations. The Multimedia Labs are dedicated to fostering the use of technology for innovative pedagogy and creative expression. We provide the entire brown community with software, hardware, training, facilities, and support in a range of technologies including audio, video, virtual reality, 3D printing, large format 2D printing, animation, digital imaging, and creative coding. This position is an opportunity to: Develop your skills as a trainer, workshop facilitator, and creative professional. CTAs will be given the opportunity to not just work in the MMLs, but add to our community-driven space through their own unique lens. More information can be found about the Multimedia Labs by visiting www.brown.edu/go/mml. The Sheridan Center also has student positions in the following areas that are not currently hiring, see the individual listings below for the hiring timeline for these openings: Writing Center Associate Writing Associates are current graduate students who facilitate virtual and in-person one-on-one meetings with writers from various disciplines and at various academic levels (including pre-college, undergraduate, and graduate students as well as alumni and staff) during 50-minute pre-scheduled appointments. In addition to supporting writers at Brown, the Writing Associates program is designed to help associates develop their writing pedagogy and enhance their teaching portfolio. Writing Associates work one or two 3-hour shifts per week, and commit to attending one professional development meeting per month. Additionally, associates can opt to design and facilitate writing-related workshops for courses at Brown. Writing Associates are trained in evidence-based inclusive and anti-racist writing pedagogies. No prior experience with these pedagogies is required, but applicants should demonstrate a willingness to learn and apply these pedagogies to their tutoring praxis. Successful associates are also learner-centered and reflective of their own writing and language-learning process. The Writing Center is not currently accepting applications for Writing Associate positions. Associates are hired on an as-needed basis; open positions are advertised in [email protected]. Writing Fellows Writing Fellows are trained peer tutors who support other Brown students to improve their ability to communicate in writing. Coming from all academic disciplines, Writing Fellows learn inclusive, equitable, and anti-racist approaches to peer tutoring. In their first semester, Writing Fellows complete the course ENG1190M: The Theory and Practice of Writing. After their training, they are assigned to courses and work twice with up to 9 students or three times with up to 6 students on up to 100 pages of writing over the course of a semester, each time receiving paper drafts, reading and responding, and meeting individually with writers to discuss revision plans. The 2022-2023 Writing Fellow application cycle is currently closed. The program's 2023–24 application cycle will open in Spring 2023. More information can be found on the Sheridan Writing Fellows website. Problem Solving Fellows The Sheridan Center invites applications for a yearlong position beginning the Spring of 2022 as a Problem Solving Fellow (PSF) who will support the Associate Director for Undergraduate STEM Development. This position is for students who are dedicated to continually developing their pedagogical and problem solving skills in order to improve the experiences of undergraduate students at Brown. PSFs will be able to: Design effective problems Collaborate with faculty members and students about problem solving Provide feedback to peers about their teaching and problem solving Investigate and report on problem solving learning and teaching at Brown Inclusively lead and develop students’ teaching and problem solving Perform class observations This position is a stipended position of $1,475 per term. Students who have completed the course UNIV 1110: The Theory and Practice of Problem Solving with a satisfactory grade are eligible to apply and has at least one term of experience as a UTA or an equivalent position as a peer educator (e.g. tutor, peer mentor for the New Scientist program, etc.). More information and the application can be found on the Sheridan Problem Solving Fellows website. About Staff Proctors and Head Teaching Consultants Teaching Consultants Sheridan Center Advisory Groups Departmental Liaisons Visit Staff Jobs at the Center Student Jobs at the Center The Sheridan Center The Sheridan Center Brown University Box 1912 Sciences Library 201 Thayer Street, 7th Floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-1219 Fax: 401-863-6976 Email [email protected] Facebook Facebook Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top