Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Neuromotor Science PhD You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Neuromotor Science PhD Apply Request More Info Neuromotor Science PhD Accreditation Admissions Curriculum Departmental Research Scholarships & Financial Aid Neuromotor Science PhD The Neuromotor Science PhD program in Temple’s College of Public Health examines the neural and sensorimotor factors of human movement: how humans learn, perceive and control movement. Students contribute original research that advances understanding of neuromotor control and biomechanics of human posture and movement in individuals across the lifespan and the spectrum of health and disability. The program draws from disciplines including engineering, kinesiology, neuroscience, physical therapy and rehabilitation science to create a highly interdisciplinary learning experience. Students are trained to assess neuromotor function and its impact on health, functioning and disability. They develop novel interventions to improve human movement, particularly involving posture and locomotor control and function. The program also requires students to develop, write, defend and publish a dissertation. Graduates of this program are prepared for research and teaching positions at Carnegie Research 1 institutions and in other clinical research settings, healthcare systems and in industries related to human health and movement, such as medical technology. What sets apart our Neuromotor Science PhD? A unique curriculum: Our Neuromotor Science PhD program is unlike any other in the country. It combines the studies of neurophysiology, cognition and learning and biomechanics of the sensorimotor system and examines the impact of health conditions, disease and disability on human movement. Preparation to be a leader in research and education: PhD students develop skills in grant writing, scholarship and teaching, preparing them to be successful in top-tier academic and research environments after graduation. Extensive research opportunities: Students collaborate with nationally recognized faculty in the Neuromotor Science Research Consortium, a state-of-the-art research facility with a network of labs that involve expertise across fields and disciplines. Program Format Courses are offered onsite at Temple’s Main Campus, and students complete the program on a full-time basis. Graduates of the Neuromotor Science MS program may apply 30 credits towards their doctoral degree, and complete the PhD program in two to three years. Those without a Neuromotor Science MS degree may complete the doctorate in four to seven years. Funding for Doctoral Students The College of Public Health offers all PhD students a competitive level of support, including tuition, stipend and health insurance, for four years. Graduate assistantships sponsored by the College of Public Health are outlined below. Research assistants perform supervised research activities and work with faculty on grant proposals and ongoing research. Through these experiences, you will develop both research and grant writing competencies. Teaching assistants are assigned to assist in teaching courses, including grading exams and papers or teaching lab sections. Teaching assistants learn current pedagogies that prepare them for academic teaching. They can also receive certification in higher education teaching. Highly qualified candidates are nominated for university fellowships, and candidates from minority groups can be nominated for Temple’s Future Faculty Fellow program. Our Advisors The College of Public Health offers personalized advising services to students in each department. Neuromotor Science PhD students can seek support from their program director. W. Geoffrey Wright Neuromotor Science Graduate Program Director Phone: 215-204-9008 Email: wrightw@temple.edu Related Graduate Degrees PhD in Kinesiology Concentration in Integrative Exercise Physiology PhD in Kinesiology Concentration in Athletic Training Student Organizations You can engage with peers and find leadership opportunities in student-led clubs and organizations in the College of Public Health. Learn more about student clubs and organizations. HP-NMS-PHD Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Neuromotor Science PhD Accreditation Admissions Curriculum Departmental Research Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info