Skip to main content University of Pennsylvania School of Arts & Sciences College of Arts & Sciences Graduate Division College of Liberal and Professional Studies Center for Particle Cosmology Toggle navigation Main navigation About People Research Events Spotlight Search Home Center for Particle Cosmology Spotlight Devlin Lab researchers publish study detailing their work on Large Aperture Telescope Receiver October 8, 2021 Ningfeng Zhu, Ph.D. Read more Prof. Vijay Balasubramanian discusses time on Netflix series Explained October 6, 2021 Vijay Balasubramanian, Cathy and Marc Lasry Professor and Center for Particle Cosmology faculty, was featured on the episode "Time" of the Netflix Read more With help from Prof. Cullen Blake NEID spectrometer fully operational July 26, 2021 The new NEID spectrometer at the WIYN Observatory is fully operational after taking it's first observations in January 2020. Thanks to a team of scientists including Read more CfPC Co-Director Bhuvnesh Jain talks about the increasingly important role of "big data" in astronomical research June 14, 2021 Bhuvnesh Jain, Walter H. and Leonore C. Read more Center faculty, staff, and students contribute to "most precise 3D map of the universe to date" June 9, 2021 Faculty, research staff, and students from the Center for Particle Cosmology and the Department of Physics and Astronomy have contributed to the efforts of the Dark Energy Survey, a global collaboration to better understand the role of d Read more New stellar stream, born outside the Milky Way, discovered with machine learning July 17, 2020 Finding this new collection of stars, named after Nyx, the Greek goddess of night, was made possible using machine learning tools and simulations of data collected by the Gaia space observatory. Read more OMNIA 101: Exploring The Unseen May 6, 2019 Masao Sako, Associate Professor of Physics and Astronomy, and Mark Trodden, Fay R. and Eugene L. Langberg Professor of Physics, explain how dark matter and dark energy shape their work. Read more Knowledge by the Slice: Observing the Invisible April 25, 2019 Bhuvnesh Jain, Walter H. and Leonore C. Annenberg Professor in the Natural Sciences, and Michael Weisberg, Professor and Chair of Philosophy, discuss the mystery of dark matter and the use of some of the world’s largest telescopes to search for it. Read more The search for Planet 9, 10, and beyond April 11, 2019 Planetary scientists and cosmologists at Penn work together to find planets that might be hiding in the far reaches of the solar system. Read more Dark Energy Survey completes six-year mission January 8, 2019 A global research effort to map a portion of the sky in unprecedented detail is coming to an end, but the task of learning more about the expansion of the universe has only just begun. Read more Co-Directors’ Message As knowledge about the universe grows, the fields of physics and astronomy become more expansive. Even as we gain answers, questions remain about the origins and evolution of the universe and the fundamental theories of matter and energy. The Center for Particle Cosmology brings together theorists and experimentalists in cosmology and particle physics to answer these questions in an environment distinguished by unfettered interactions and collaborations between members of the traditionally distinct groups. Learn more Events Elon Musk Public Lecture Rittenhouse Lectures HET and HEE Seminars Astro Seminars There are no upcoming events scheduled at this time. New stellar stream, born outside the Milky Way, discovered with machine learning Finding this new collection of stars, named after Nyx, the Greek goddess of night, was made possible using machine learning tools and simulations of data collected by the Gaia space observatory. Read more at Penn Today Donate Contact Us The Center for Particle Cosmology Department of Physics and Astronomy 209 South 33rd Street University of Pennsylvania Philadelphia, PA 19104-6396 Bhuvnesh Jain and Mark Trodden co-Directors College of Arts & Sciences Graduate Division College of Liberal & Professional Studies © 2022 The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania Penn Weblogin