Brown University Quick Exit General Health Physical Health Acne Asthma Breast Exams Bronchitis Colds Concussion Headaches Meningitis Mononucleosis Sleep Seasonal Flu Sun Safety and Skin Cancer Stomach Flu Testicular Self-Exams Travel and Health Yeast Infection Emotional Wellbeing Mindfulness Sleep Stress Self-Care Techniques for Stress Relief Wellness on Campus Social Wellbeing Community, Connection and Coping: Remote Resources Consent Economic Stress Roommate Relationships Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Bacterial Vaginosis Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy Gender Care GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Premature Ejaculation Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Accessing Care Gender Care GYN Visits LGBTQ Health Care at Health Services Men's Health Exams Pregnancy Tests STI Testing Options Resources and Links Nutrition & Eating Concerns Eating Well at Brown Being a Vegetarian Dietary Guidelines Eating Off Meal Plan Meal Plan And Dining Information Supplements Eating Concerns and Body Image Body Image Concerns Eating Concerns Help at Brown Sports Nutrition Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S) Sports Nutrition Accessing Care Help at Brown Worried about a Friend Sexual Health Sex 101 SHAG! Erectile Dysfunction Orgasm Premature Ejaculation Sex and Alcohol Sex Toys Sexually Explicit Media Contraception Birth Control Pills Cervical Cap Condoms Depo-Provera Emergency Contraception Fertility Awareness Method Implant Internal Condoms IUD Ortho Evra (The Patch) Ring Spermicides and Lubricants The Recent Election & Contraception Access Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Yeast Infection Safer Sex Ship n SHAG! Sexual Health and Safer Sex During Covid-19 Abstinence Condoms Dental Dams Internal Condoms Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) Pre Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Safer Sex Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) STIs AIDS/HIV Bacterial Vaginosis Chlamydia Colposcopy Gonorrhea Hepatitis B Herpes HPV and Genital Warts HPV Vaccine Molluscum Contagiosum Oral Sex and STIs Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pubic Lice and Scabies Sexually Transmitted Infections Syphilis Talking with a Partner STI Testing Options Trichomoniasis Urinary Tract Infections Yeast Infection Sexual Assault & Dating Violence Get Help Sexual Assault Response Line SHARE Advocates Dating Violence First Five Days After an Assault Male Survivors Sexual Violence and Assault Sexual Harassment Stalking Help a Friend SHARE Advocates How to Help a Friend Get Involved in Prevention Interrupting the Red Zone: How we keep each other safe Culture of Respect Collective Sexual Assault Peer Education (SAPE) Help Prevent Sexual Assault Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Relationships and Communication Consent Dating Violence Learn More Common Reactions to Sexual Violence and Assault Predatory Drugs Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Sexual Violence: Key Terms Resources and Links Alcohol & Other Drugs Alcohol Alcohol and Your Body Recognizing a Problem Risks and Realities Sex and Alcohol Ways to Cut Down Other Drugs Caffeine Cocaine Ecstasy Energy Drinks GHB Inhalants Ketamine LSD Marijuana Methamphetamine Predatory Drugs Psilocybin (Mushrooms) Rohypnol Tobacco Smokeless Tobacco Smoking Cessation Tobacco Learn More Law and Policy Summary Educational Links Accessing Care Resources at Brown Off Campus Resources Calling EMS How to Help a Friend Quit Smoking How to Talk to a Friend about Drinking or Drug Use Google Tag Manager Accessing Care STI Testing Options What's the difference between anonymous and confidential testing? HIV is the only STI that can be tested anonymously. Anonymous testing means that your name is not associated with the test or the results in any way. You are given a number or a code to identify yourself when receiving your test results. Health Services does not provide anonymous HIV testing but the resources below include anonymous HIV testing sites in the area. It's important to ask about the test site's policies before you get tested. All other STI tests are confidential. Confidential STI testing means that your test results and any other information you discuss with your medical providers will be a part of your medical record. Information in your medical record is not a part of any other University record and cannot be shared with anyone (including parents, professors, deans, friends, or peer counselors) without your written authorization. Health Services places a high value on confidentiality; nevertheless, all STI testing sites are required by law to report positive STI results to the RI Department of Health. This information will be used for statistical purposes and the Department of Health may contact you to help you in seeking any treatments you might need. The Department of Health cannot disclose your results, information, or even the fact that you have been tested to anyone else including your parents, friends, insurance agencies or school officials. If you have questions about STI testing, medical providers at Health Services will address any concerns you may have during your visit. Why get tested? Being tested allows you to take charge of your own health. If you test negative, you can continue to protect against future risks. Should you test positive, many test sites will help you access a variety of resources to enhance your physical, emotional and spiritual well being. Some people get tested with the idea that if they test negative, they don't need to practice safer sex or safer shooting anymore. This is not true. If you test negative, you still need to protect yourself and your partners. If you test positive for an STI, early medical intervention will allow you to take measures needed to maintain your health. Many STIs, such as chlamydia and gonorrhea, can be treated with antibiotics. Others, such as HPV and herpes, can be managed to decrease symptoms and reduce the risk of transmission. If you test positive for HIV, there are treatment possibilities to prolong your life and improve your overall health. Whatever your results, you can make changes that will make your life longer, healthier and happier. How am I tested for STIs? There are many different tests for each of the different STIs. There is not one test that will screen for all STIs. Some STIs are hard to test for if you do not have any symptoms. Some STIs can be tested through blood work, urine tests, or saliva tests. Other STIs can only be tested by culturing a sample of body fluid from the penis, vagina, rectum, or open sore. If you go in for testing, it is important to talk with your medical provider about which STIs you are at risk for to determine which tests you should receive. Sometimes weeks or months need to pass to give your body enough time to develop antibodies that will show up in a test. Does my health insurance cover STI testing? If you have insurance sponsored through Brown University: Most STI screening will be covered, either as part of a routine GYN exam, or as part of a problem visit. Correspondence from the Brown sponsored insurance company is generally directed to you, as the covered individual, at your University address. If you have a private insurance (not Brown University sponsored): Insurance varies widely. STI tests may not be covered. Many policies cover testing if there are symptoms of the STI. Some policies do not cover "screening" STI tests, which are: Tests done as part of a routine GYN exam, Tests done when the you may have been exposed to an STI but have no symptoms, Tests done when you want to have tests for STIs "to be safe." Health Services will work with individual students to contact your insurance companies to confirm in-network coverage and navigate explanation of benefits issues that can arise. Will my parents find out I've been tested? Be aware that private insurance companies sometimes notify the subscriber (often parents) as to what tests are done for covered individuals. Therefore, the subscriber may get a notice from the private insurance company that "student X had a Chlamydia test done on date X ," though results are generally not reported. If you are concerned, it is a good idea to contact your insurance company before you get tested to find out their billing policies. You can opt for the lab to bill you directly at your University Box Number for STI tests. This avoids using your private insurance altogether. Be aware though, that tests can be costly out of pocket. For example, current prices for Gonorrhea and Chlamydia tests are in the vicinity of $100 each. Prices are subject to change by the lab with which Health Services contracts. If you are still not sure about how you'd like to proceed with STI screening, you can always discuss this further at an appointment with a medical provider. Call 401.863-3953 for an appointment. Where can I get tested? Below is a listing of local STI testing sites, which tests they administer and whether the results are confidential or anonymous. University Health Services 401.863-3953 13 Brown Street, Providence All tests available. Testing fee is charged and can be billed to insurance. Confidential. Available only to Brown students. Planned Parenthood of Southern New England 401.421-9620 175 Broad Street, Providence All tests available. Testing fee is charged. Confidential. AIDS Care Ocean State 401.781-0665 or 640-5212 557 Broad Street, Providence HIV tests only. Free. Anonymous or confidential. AIDS Project Rhode Island 401.207-8377 404 Wickenden Street, Providence HIV testing only. Free. Anonymous. Miriam Hospital Immunology Department 401.793-4715 1125 North Main Street, Providence HIV and other STI testing. Free. Anonymous testing available. Other Health Care Settings STI testing is now offered routinely during family planning visits, prenatal visits, and in drug treatment clinics throughout Rhode Island. STI testing can be done as part of a standard physical exam, if requested. There is often a charge for the test in these settings. Specialized sites are typically more experienced with STI related issues. Related Links Brown University Health Services 401.863-3953 Call if you have questions about whether or not you should get tested, if you have questions about STIs, or if you want to make an appointment to be tested. AIDS Project RI (APRI) 401.831-5522 Call to ask questions about HIV/AIDS and other STIs, to be connected with local AIDS support resources, or to find out about volunteer opportunities and APRI events. National AIDS/STD Hotline Call to speak with health specialists about the transmission, prevention, and treatment for infections such as gonorrhea, chlamydia, HPV/genital warts, herpes, HIV and others. You can also ask to receive free information about STIs and prevention methods. English: 1-800-342-2437 or 1-800-227-8922, 7 days a week, 24 hours a day Español: 1-800-344-7432, 7 dias/semana, 8:00am to 2:00am TDD: 1-800-243-7889, Monday through Friday, 10:00am to 10:00pm About BWell: Quick Links About Us Staff Confidential Appointments Sexual Assault Response Line Workshops Peer Education Programs Health Empowerment Tools PHONE NUMBERS 401.863-2794 Health Promotion 401.863-3953 Health Services 401.863-6000 Sexual Assault Response Line 401.863-4111 EMS 401.863-3476 Counseling & Psychological Services 401.863-4111 DPS Make an Appointment What is Peer Education? Learn about BWell's Peer Education Programs! Get involved in empowerment and prevention work at Brown. Get Involved Meet Our Staff About Us Make an Appointment Brown University BWell Health Promotion Health and Wellness Brown University Box 1928 450 Brook Street Providence, Rhode Island, 02912 Phone 401-863-2794 Fax 401-863-7953 [email protected] © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Related Offices Brown EMS Counseling and Psychological Services Health Services Social Media BWell on Facebook SHAG on Facebook BURP on Facebook Health Services on Facebook