Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Alumni Association Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Alumni Clubs Alumni Community Benefits CAA Arts Access Career Resources Events Get Involved News Columbia Alumni Association You are here: Home CAA Naples | TheatreZone Events Past Event CAA Naples | TheatreZone Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo April 24, 2022 2:00 PM - 5:00 PM America/New_York Off-campus Join CAA Naples to see The Bridges of Madison County, the grand finale to TheatreZone's banner 17th season! When: Sunday, April 24, 2022; matinee show starts at 2pm, followed by light cocktail reception to socialize with local Columbia alumni. Where: TheatreZone is in a dedicated building nestled within the campus of the Community School of Naples, 13275 Livingston Road, between Pine Ridge and Vanderbilt Beach Roads, Naples, FL. The Bridges of Madison County, based on the best-selling novel and developed by the Pulitzer and Tony Award winning creative team of Jason Robert Brown and Marsha Norman, captures the lyrical expanse of America's heartland along with the yearning entangled in the eternal questions, "What if.." Francesca Johnson, a beautiful Italian woman who married an American soldier to flee war-ravaged Italy, looks forward to a rare four days alone on her Iowa farm when her family heads to the 1965 State Fair. When a ruggedly handsome, National Geographic photographer Robert Kincaid pulls into her driveway seeking directions, what happens in those four days may very well alter the course of Francesca’s life. The show stars Broadway veterans Kristin Carbone in the role of Francesca Johnson and Larry Alexander as National Geographic photographer Robert Kincaid. Winner of multiple awards including two 2014 Tony Awards for Best Score and Best Orchestrations, this sweeping romance about the roads we travel, the doors we open and the bridges we dare to cross will leave audiences breathless. Please RSVP by April 15th. $45 per person; includes show ticket and light reception. RSVP: https://naples.alumni.columbia.edu/theatrezone?utm_campaign=theatrezone&utm_medium=email&utm_source=columbia141 Contact Information CAA Naples [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Alumni Center 622 West 113th Street, Mail Code 4525 · New York, NY 10025 Phone 212-851-7800 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close