Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu UofM Media Room Publications News Releases Podcasts Events Resources Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact News Releases Awards News Releases Archive Take Action Music Performance Calendar Upcoming Art Exhibits University Events Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedIn Home UofM Media Room News Releases Carnegie R1 University of Memphis receives prestigious Carnegie R1 designation as a top tier research university Dec. 16, 2021 — The University of Memphis has been named an R1 institution by the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education, putting the UofM in the top tier of research universities nationally. This milestone solidifies the University as one of two flagship public institutions in Tennessee. Carnegie R1 status is a credit to the vision, work ethic and dedication of the faculty, staff and leadership at the UofM. “The attainment of top tier Carnegie R1 status demonstrates not only the remarkable talent of our faculty and staff, but also our capacity to compete at a national level and succeed,” said UofM President M. David Rudd. “This is a truly remarkable accomplishment that will stand forever as a moment of great significance in the history of our wonderful University. We thank the Governor, state legislature and our trustees for their past, present and future support.” In addition to placing the UofM in a position to receive larger research grants, Carnegie R1 status has a significantly positive impact on the overall perception of the University. It increases the value of a degree, serves as an impressive recruiting tool and builds on the already extraordinary sense of pride within the UofM community. The criteria for Carnegie R1 evaluation includes research expenditures, grants received, degrees awarded in four doctoral areas and the amount of post-doc and non-faculty researchers employed. Both aggregate and per-faculty member measurements are considered. “I want to thank our research faculty and staff who embraced our aspirational goal and responded,” said Jasbir Dhaliwal, UofM executive vice president of Research and Innovation. “It was heartening to see how they took it upon themselves to search out, compete and secure external research funding for their research ideas, efforts, labs and students. Never in my 30 years as a professor have I seen an entire campus mobilize so positively and passionately around a common goal.” The UofM reached $50.23 million in research awards in the 2021 fiscal year, a new institution record that put the University in a strong position to gain Carnegie R1 recognition. This continued a year-over-year upward climb in research awards as the UofM reached $40.76 million in 2020, $32.59 million in 2019 and $31.86 million in 2018. Approximately 20% of the faculty were responsible for 75% of proposals three years ago when the University began its research revitalization strategy aimed at reaching Carnegie R1 status. In 2021, that number rose to 38% of the faculty. The UofM has also seen an 80% increase in federal awards over the past three years and had 144 award-winning principal investigators and 20 departments securing $1 million or more in 2021. For more information, please go to https://carnegieclassifications.iu.edu/. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/22/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.