UT University Health Services https://wwww.healthyhorns.utexas.edu/ APPOINTMENTS MyUHS SERVICES ABOUT UHS LOCATION CONTACT Monday - Friday, 8am to 5pm by appointment Coronavirus updates COVID Positive: What To do Medical emergencies and what to do when UHS is closed Nurse Advice Line Charges and Insurance Immunizations and medical clearance requirements Medical and immunization record requests Search a health topic Meet the staff Tour UHS Eligibility to use UHS Affordable UT Student Health Insurance Plan Your feedback Incoming students International students LGBTQIA+ inclusive healthcare Longhorn Wellness Center Emergency HIV risk reduction Pharmacy Resources Sexual Assault Forensic Exams Volunteering FOLLOW US (512) 471-4955 Email UHS LOCATION 100 West Dean Keaton Student Services Building (SSB) https://www.healthyhorns.utexas.edu/ Appointments MyUHS Services About UHS Location Contact UHS Top UHS COVID-19 Information Home Protect Texas Together Symptomatic Testing Asymptomatic Testing Exposure Action Chart Vaccines and Boosters Self-Report a Positive Test Guidance for Ending Self-isolation Travel Proactive Community Testing (PCT) for COVID-19 PCT is for patients who are feeling completely healthy. If you have any symptoms of COVID-19, no matter how mild, you must be tested at the UHS Symptomatic Testing Center. Learn more and schedule your appointment. If you have tested positive on a rapid antigen test, your results should be considered a true positive. Do not return to PCT until you have completed your isolation period which is a minimum of 5 days. After this isolation period, if you need to test, you must use a rapid antigen test. Please make sure you select this test when visiting PCT. You can also purchase a rapid antigen home kit from a local pharmacy. PCR tests, which are the only tests used at the UHS Symptomatic Testing Center, should not be used for 90 days after any positive test. COVID-19 Self-Test Kits COVID-19 self-test kits are available to current UT students, faculty and staff members for free at various distribution sites on campus. To obtain the kits, just show your UTID to the staff member onsite. Visit the self-test page for more information. Proactive Community Testing Schedule for May 25th - June 3rd, 2022 25 May - Wednesday Location Time Test Offered Type Student Services Building SSB, Glenn Maloney Room G1.406 9 a.m. to noon RT-PCR Saliva Test (6-12 hours) Walk-up or Schedule an Appointment Student Services Building SSB, Glenn Maloney Room G1.406 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. & 2 to 5 p.m. Rapid Antigen Nasal Swab (15-30 mins) Walk-up or Schedule an Appointment Proactive Testing Jester PTJ, Speedway & 21st St 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. & 2 to 4:30 p.m. Rapid Antigen Nasal Swab (15-30 mins) Walk-up or Schedule an Appointment 26 May - Thursday Location Time Test Offered Type Student Services Building SSB, Glenn Maloney Room G1.406 9 a.m. to noon RT-PCR Saliva Test (6-12 hours) Walk-up or Schedule an Appointment Student Services Building SSB, Glenn Maloney Room G1.406 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. & 2 to 5 p.m. Rapid Antigen Nasal Swab (15-30 mins) Walk-up or Schedule an Appointment Proactive Testing Jester PTJ, Speedway & 21st St 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. & 2 to 4:30 p.m. Rapid Antigen Nasal Swab (15-30 mins) Walk-up or Schedule an Appointment 27 May - Friday Location Time Test Offered Type Student Services Building SSB, Glenn Maloney Room G1.406 9 a.m. to noon RT-PCR Saliva Test (6-12 hours) Walk-up or Schedule an Appointment Student Services Building SSB, Glenn Maloney Room G1.406 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. & 2 to 5 p.m. Rapid Antigen Nasal Swab (15-30 mins) Walk-up or Schedule an Appointment Proactive Testing Jester PTJ, Speedway & 21st St 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. & 2 to 4:30 p.m. Rapid Antigen Nasal Swab (15-30 mins) Walk-up or Schedule an Appointment 30 May - Monday Location Time Test Offered Type PCT Closed - Memorial Day 31 May - Tuesday Location Time Test Offered Type Student Services Building SSB, Glenn Maloney Room G1.406 9 a.m. to noon RT-PCR Saliva Test (6-12 hours) Walk-up or Schedule an Appointment Student Services Building SSB, Glenn Maloney Room G1.406 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. & 2 to 5 p.m. Rapid Antigen Nasal Swab (15-30 mins) Walk-up or Schedule an Appointment Proactive Testing Jester PTJ, Speedway & 21st St 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. & 2 to 4:30 p.m. Rapid Antigen Nasal Swab (15-30 mins) Walk-up or Schedule an Appointment 01 June - Wednesday Location Time Test Offered Type Student Services Building SSB, Glenn Maloney Room G1.406 9 a.m. to noon RT-PCR Saliva Test (6-12 hours) Walk-up or Schedule an Appointment Student Services Building SSB, Glenn Maloney Room G1.406 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. & 2 to 5 p.m. Rapid Antigen Nasal Swab (15-30 mins) Walk-up or Schedule an Appointment Proactive Testing Jester PTJ, Speedway & 21st St 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. & 2 to 4:30 p.m. Rapid Antigen Nasal Swab (15-30 mins) Walk-up or Schedule an Appointment 02 June - Thursday Location Time Test Offered Type Student Services Building SSB, Glenn Maloney Room G1.406 9 a.m. to noon RT-PCR Saliva Test (6-12 hours) Walk-up or Schedule an Appointment Student Services Building SSB, Glenn Maloney Room G1.406 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. & 2 to 5 p.m. Rapid Antigen Nasal Swab (15-30 mins) Walk-up or Schedule an Appointment Proactive Testing Jester PTJ, Speedway & 21st St 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. & 2 to 4:30 p.m. Rapid Antigen Nasal Swab (15-30 mins) Walk-up or Schedule an Appointment 03 June - Friday Location Time Test Offered Type Student Services Building SSB, Glenn Maloney Room G1.406 9 a.m. to noon RT-PCR Saliva Test (6-12 hours) Walk-up or Schedule an Appointment Student Services Building SSB, Glenn Maloney Room G1.406 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. & 2 to 5 p.m. Rapid Antigen Nasal Swab (15-30 mins) Walk-up or Schedule an Appointment Proactive Testing Jester PTJ, Speedway & 21st St 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. & 2 to 4:30 p.m. Rapid Antigen Nasal Swab (15-30 mins) Walk-up or Schedule an Appointment PCT Appointment Tips Help your community. If you’ve made a PCT appointment and can’t make it – cancel the appointment. After your PCT test, be sure to book your appointment for the following week. Appointments open one week ahead. Check the evening prior to or the morning of the day you want to test for available appointments. If you need a test for airline travel, please select PCT PCR Saliva Sample (Available Mon-Fri, 9 a.m. to noon. Results in 6-12 hrs) when scheduling your PCT appointment through UHS. About PCT Proactive Community Testing (PCT) provides a quick and painless saliva or painless nasal-swab COVID-19 test for asymptomatic UT Austin students and employees. Testing helps the campus community monitor and respond to COVID-19 cases, contributes significantly to slowing the spread of the virus and is provided at no cost by the university. PCT FAQs To Qualify for PCT You must be a current UT Austin student or employee who: Is not experiencing COVID-19 symptoms, even if mild. PCT is for those who are 100% healthy. If you feel even a little sick, call your healthcare provider. Students, contact the University Health Services Symptomatic Testing Center for testing options. Employees, contact your healthcare provider or UT Health Austin. To take the PCR saliva sample test, you must not have had a positive COVID-19 test within the past 90 days. To take the rapid antigen nasal swab test, you must not have had a positive COVID-19 test within the past 5 days. If you must be around others, then a negative rapid antigen test for COVID-19 on the evening of day 5 or morning of day 6 can reassure you and others that you are LESS LIKELY TO BE infectious. Test only if you are fever-free for 24 hours without the use of fever-reducing medication and your other symptoms have improved (loss of taste and smell may persist for months after recovery and need not delay the end of isolation). Which Test Should I Choose? Considerations Rapid Antigen Nasal Swab Test PCR Saliva Sample Test Advantages1 Rapid identification of infectiousness Most sensitive test available Sample collection Short nasal swab Saliva, nothing by mouth 30 minutes prior Turnaround time 15 – 30 minutes Typically, 6-12 hours When offered Weekdays, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Weekday mornings, 9 a.m. to noon Qualifications for test type No COVID-19 in the past 10 days (5 days if you must end isolation early, have no fever and symptoms are improving) No COVID-19 in the past 90 days Test Type LFD/LFA Antigen NAAT RT-PCR Recommended Testing Frequency Twice a week, at least 36 hours between tests Weekly Rapid Antigen Nasal Swab Test Advantage: Rapid identification of infectiousness Sample collection: Short nasal swab Turnaround time: 15 – 30 minutes When offered: Weekdays, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Qualifications for test type: No COVID-19 in the past 10 days (5 days if you must end isolation early, have no fever and symptoms are improving) Test Type: LFD/LFA Antigen Recommended Testing Frequency: Twice a week, at least 36 hours between tests PCR Saliva Sample Test Advantage: Most sensitive test available Sample collection: Saliva, nothing by mouth 30 minutes prior Turnaround time: Typically, 6-12 hours When offered: Weekday mornings, 9 a.m. to noon Qualifications for test type: No COVID-19 in the past 90 days Test Type: NAAT RT-PCR Recommended Testing Frequency: Weekly 1More information here: CDC Table 1 How To Schedule a Proactive Community Test for COVID-19 UT Austin Students Log into the MyUHS patient portal: Click Profile. Ensure we have the best phone number and local address for you. We will call this Profile number, if necessary. If this is your first time to schedule an appointment through the MyUHS patient portal since June 22, 2020: Select Medical Clearances and sign UHS Consent to Treat. Select Health History. Click Done or Looks Good. Click Appointments, then Schedule an Appointment. Select your UT Austin status. If you are both a UT student and employee, select Student. Follow insurance status prompts. When prompted, select “I want an appointment for a COVID-19 test or COVID-19 concern.” Select "I do NOT have symptoms of COVID-19. I just want a COVID-19 test (including Proactive Community Testing)." Follow prompts to schedule. Save a screenshot of your appointment QR code or access it via the MyUHS portal to present at your appointment. Carefully read the information in On the Day of Your Test (below) to ensure that you can be tested on the day of your appointment and maximize the accuracy of your result. UT Austin Employees Log into the MyUHS patient portal: Click Profile. Ensure we have the best phone number and local address for you. We will call this Profile number, if necessary. If this is your first time to schedule an appointment since June 22, 2020: Select Medical Clearances and sign the UHS Consent to Treat. Select Health History. Click done or Looks Good. Click Appointments, then Schedule an Appointment. Select your UT Austin status. If you are both a UT student and employee, select Student. Select the option to schedule Proactive Community Testing and follow prompts. Save a screenshot of your appointment QR code or access it via the MyUHS portal to present at your appointment. Carefully read the information in On the Day of Your Test below to ensure that you can be tested on the day of your appointment and maximize the accuracy of your result. On the Day of Your Test If you do not feel healthy, cancel your appointment and contact your healthcare provider. Students, contact University Health Services for testing options. Employees, contact your health provider or UT Health Austin. If you are receiving the PCR saliva sample test: Drink water so you are hydrated for the test, but do not eat, drink, brush your teeth or use tobacco for 30 minutes before your appointment. Do not apply lip products before your appointment (e.g., lip balm, lipstick or lip gloss). If you are receiving the PCR saliva sample test for travel documentation, please verify testing requirements with your destination and airlines. If you are receiving the rapid antigen nasal swab test on or after day 5 of having COVID-19, test only if you are fever-free for 24 hours without the use of fever-reducing medication and your other symptoms have improved (loss of taste and smell may persist for weeks or months after recovery and need not delay the end of isolation). If testing in the Student Services Building, free parking is available in the 27th Street Garage. Bring your parking ticket into the clinic for validation. Test Results PCR saliva sample test results are available typically in 6-12 hours. Rapid Antigen nasal swab test results are given within 15-30 minutes. Results will be available on the MyUHS patient portal. To access results, log in, click Health Records and select the Labs tab. A secure message will be sent to you for all results. Results will not be released to your department/faculty/employer. If you test positive, notify all your close contacts starting from 2 days prior to testing positive or symptom onset and ask them to test 3-5 days following your last interaction, regardless of their vaccination status. Learn about additional steps to take by viewing the Exposure Action Chart. PCT Participation by Classification Dashboard The UT Austin COVID-19 Dashboard includes information about the percentages of undergraduate students (by graduating class), graduate students and faculty and staff who have participated in on-campus PCT each week. See where your classification stands. Free At-Home Test Kits Through COVIDtests.gov, every home in the U.S. (residential address including U.S. Territories and overseas military and diplomatic addresses) is eligible to order 8 free at-⁠home COVID-⁠19 tests. Click here for a list of frequently asked questions on how college students can order their kits. Laboratory Information and CLIA Certificate Saliva PCR specimens are analyzed by the UT Austin High Throughput Testing Core (HTTC), a unit of the Center for Biomedical Research Support (CBRS) core research facility (Office of the Vice-President for Research). HTTC is certified by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments (CLIA) to perform clinically diagnostic testing. View our CLIA certificate. Rapid Antigen short nasal swab tests are conducted by UHS. View UHS Laboratory licenses. For questions about PCT not answered above, email pct@austin.utexas.edu. UHS COVID-19 Information Home Protect Texas Together Symptomatic Testing Asymptomatic Testing Exposure Action Chart Vaccines and Boosters Self-Report a Positive Test Guidance for Ending Self-isolation Travel INFORMATION Home Medical emergencies / After-Hours care Appointments Service extension fee Diversity statement STI Testing Sexual assault forensic exams Tour UHS Eligibility to use UHS Medical withdrawal & course load reductions Medical and Immunization record requests Patient rights and responsibilities Campus concealed carry Hours Parking Jobs Volunteering You Share, We Care Monday - Friday, 8am to 5pm by appointment (512) 471-4955 Email UHS University Health Services is committed to providing high-quality care to patients of all ages, races, ethnicities, physical abilities or attributes, religions, sexual orientations or gender identities/expression. SPECIFIC QUESTIONS? Incoming Students International Students Dell Medical Students LGBTQIA+ Inclusive Healthcare Parents Faculty and Staff LOCATION 100 West Dean Keeton Student Services Building (SSB) FOLLOW US Monday - Friday, 8am to 5pm by appointment (512) 471-4955 Email UHS University Health Services is committed to providing high-quality care to patients of all ages, races, ethnicities, physical abilities or attributes, religions, sexual orientations, or gender identities/expression. INFORMATION Home Medical emergencies / After-Hours care Appointments Service extension fee Diversity statement Get yourself tested Sexual assault exams Tour UHS Eligibility to use UHS Medical withdrawal & course load reductions Medical and immunization record requests Patient rights and responsibilities Campus concealed carry Hours Parking Jobs Volunteering You Share, We Care LOCATION 100 West Dean Keeton Student Services Building (SSB) FOLLOW US SPECIFIC QUESTIONS? Incoming Students International Students Dell Medical Students LGBTQIA+ Inclusive Healthcare Parents Faculty and Staff Home l ©2022 The University of Texas at Austin l UT Emergency Information l Accessibility l Privacy l Finding Credible Health Information Online l Report violence, misconduct, harassment or discrimination l Staff Intranet