Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Parking Services Parking right arrow down arrow Locations right arrow down arrow Maps Visitors right arrow down arrow Maps Uptown UC Blue Ash UC Clermont 1819 Innovation Hub UC Reading Victory Parkway Students right arrow down arrow Uptown UC Blue Ash UC Clermont Leased Properties Parking Permits Faculty & Staff right arrow down arrow Uptown UC Blue Ash UC Clermont 1819 Innovation Hub Victory Parkway UC Reading Value Pass Mobile Pay Instructions Citations right arrow down arrow View Account Events right arrow down arrow Events Calendar Football Basketball College-Conservatory of Music Event & Meeting Planners Other Event Prepaid Parking Instructions Athletic Events Prepaid Parking Resources right arrow down arrow Policies How-To Videos Alternative Transportation FAQ Home » About UC » Parking Services » Students » UC Blue Ash Set Navigation title in component Uptown UC Blue Ash UC Clermont Leased Properties Parking Permits UC Blue Ash Student Parking Parking Policies Parking Registration by Semester You may register for your semester parking beginning on the following dates (see below). Summer semester - April 1 Fall semester - July 1 Spring semester - Dec. 1 Registration Details Parking registration is required for all vehicles parking on the UC Blue Ash (UCBA) campus. Parking Services uses license plate recognition (LPR) to verify that someone has registered to park in a lot. Your vehicle license plate is considered as your permit, so make sure your vehicle information is always kept updated in the system. Any vehicles not linked to a permit will receive a citation. Only UCBA students are permitted to register for a UCBA student parking permit. The cost for the parking permit is included with your UCBA fees. Student parking registration allows for parking in the white-lined stalls located in all of the UC Blue Ash parking lots. Yellow or green-lined stalls are considered reserved and individuals parking in them may be ticketed. Student parking registration allows for parking in the ADA parking stalls with state issued ADA placard, located in all of the UC Blue Ash parking lots. Yellow or green-lined stalls are considered reserved and individuals parking in them may be ticketed. Students with UC Blue Ash parking registration have reciprocity parking privileges on the uptown campuses. UCBA students who live on the Uptown West campus and require parking must purchase a west campus permit. Reciprocity parking is available on UC Blue Ash campus. UC Blue Ash Campus Map Blue Ash Citations Issued Prior to July 1, 2020 Citations issued prior to July 1, 2020 will not be managed through the parking portal, but by the Blue Ash College payment portal. college credit plus (CCP) Student Parking Registering For Parking Online You will need to register for parking through our parking portal. While, there will be no charge, it gives us the necessary information to register your parking space. Below are some helpful tips before getting started. Make sure to have your vehicle information ready. License Plate, Make, Model and Color are required in the registration process. You can register more than one car on your parking registration, however, only one vehicle can be parked at a time. Keep vehicle information current throughout the year. This helps us ensure space for registered customers, and makes it easier to contact you in case of emergency. How-To-Video: Register For UC Blue Ash Parking Permit register for your permit or view your account College Credit Plus Student Parking All students coming to campus will need some proof of parking privileges. We understand that a semester parking permit isn’t always necessary due to the hybrid class model, so we’ve developed multiple options to meet your parking needs on campus this semester. If you will be on campus 3 times or less for the semester, you will not need to pay for parking. You will receive a printable PDF permit from us that lists the dates you will be parked on campus. This permit will need to be displayed on the front dash of your vehicle while parked. Complete our temporary parking permit form to receive your permit by email. If you will be on campus weekly, you will need to purchase a semester parking permit. The permit is $70 for the semester and can be purchased online in our parking portal. If you fall somewhere between the two options above (e.g., you will be on campus 5 times this semester), a daily rate of $5/visit is available. Please contact us at parking@uc.edu or 513-556-2283 to set that up. If you aren’t coming to campus for classes, but may need to visit campus to drop something off or pick something up, we will have temporary 30-minute parking spaces marked for your convenience. Parking Services University of Cincinnati 4 Edwards Center 51 Corry Boulevard Cincinnati, OH 45221-0624 513-556-2283 parking@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Parking Services University of Cincinnati 4 Edwards Center 51 Corry Boulevard Cincinnati, OH 45221-0624 513-556-2283 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top