Powercat chevron double-chevron chat-purple home computer window with a question mark close facebook linkedin menu search twitter youtube apply-purple apply-white chat-white request-purple request-white Jump to HeaderJump to Main ContentJump to Footer Kansas State University Connect Canvas OrgCentral Navigate KSIS HRIS Webmail Sign in Browse A-Z Research Search Search Student Opportunities K-State offers a wide array of opportunities for undergraduate and graduate students to gain real research experience, explore their interests and make a difference in the world. Undergraduate research Academic discovery and creative inquiry are crucial to student success and preparation to enter the workforce — and not only at the graduate level. K-State offers many opportunities for undergraduate students to engage in research. The Office of Undergraduate Research and Creative Inquiry maintains an Undergraduate Research Clearinghouse and administers a number of programs to help students identify research opportunities. Many of the university's colleges and departments offer undergraduate research opportunities. The Office of Research Development produces a weekly Funding Connection that includes student opportunities. The Sigma Xi Grants in Aid of Research Program awards grants of up to $1,000 to students from all areas of the sciences and engineering, up to $5,000 for astronomy research, and $2,500 for vision-related research. The Kansas Academy of Science offers student research grants. The organization welcomes student-authored articles in the Transactions of the Kansas Academy of Science and student participation in its annual meeting Summer research programs are an excellent way for students to strengthen research foundations and make connections for the future. The Chapman Center for Rural Studies offers undergraduate research opportunities in history and the humanities. Crossing Borders: An Interdisciplinary Journal of Undergraduate Scholarship offers undergraduates from all disciplines an opportunity to publish their work. Graduate research Graduate students have access to research and scholarly activities encompassing a wide range of academic interests. Our students confront crucial global challenges with industry-leading researchers and attend valuable workshops and forums. Kansas State University is equipped with state-of-the-art research facilities, including the future National Bio and Agro Defense Facility, ensuring graduate students have access to the answers they need. Graduate research has many benefits, including the possibility of funding your education. Students involved in research projects also may be eligible for awards, including the University Distinguished Professors Graduate Student Award. The USDA APHIS NBAF Scientist Training Program, or NSTP, offers support for MS, PhD, or DVM/PhD students in target laboratory-based fields of study such as microbiology, virology, molecular biology, diagnostics, and bioinformatics. The Sigma Xi Grants in Aid of Research Program awards grants of up to $1,000 to students from all areas of the sciences and engineering, up to $5,000 for astronomy research, and $2,500 for vision-related research. Visit the Graduate School for more information about graduate research. Explore funding opportunities through the Funding Connection, a weekly publication of the Office of Research Development, and explore other resources and events designed to support those engaged in research, scholarly, and creative activity and discovery. The Kansas Academy of Science offers student research grants. The organization welcomes student-authored articles in the Transactions of the Kansas Academy of Science and student participation in its annual meeting. Find fundingExplore resources for funding your research project. Contact our staffConnect with someone who can help find the right research opportunity for you. Office of the Vice President for Research 120 Fairchild Hall 1601 Vattier St, Manhattan, KS 66506‐0500 785-532-5110 | research@k-state.edu Contact Us Emergency Statements and Disclosures Accessibility KBOR Free Expression Statement © Kansas State University Updated Updated: 11/11/21