Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Herff College of Engineering About Future Students Students Programs Research Alumni News | Events Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Future Students Choose Your Major Visit the College Apply to the UofM Scholarships & Fellowships Student Life FAQs Take Action Visit Herff Apply to UofM Orientation 2022 Contact Us Follow Us Online FacebooktwitterLinkedIn Home Herff College of Engineering Future Students Visit Herff College of Engineering Schedule Your Visit to Herff College of Engineering Experience Herff for yourself! Don't just read about it; see it in person. From access to graduate-level labs as undergrads to learning opportunities with nationally recognized industry professionals and professors, we have many educational and experiential learning opportunities that make Herff a great place to earn your degree and begin your career in engineering. You and your family are invited to tour our facilities through one of our tour options. Individual and Family Tours Option 1: Engineering Luncheon Our most popular tour throughout the fall semester and a few times during the spring semester is our Engineering Luncheon. These luncheons consist of lunch, an info session, details on Herff's world-renowned engineering programs, and a tour of labs from each engineering department. We hold these luncheons on Fridays during the fall semester. We begin promptly at 11:30 a.m. and end about 1:00 p.m. For more information about this tour option, email askhcoe@memphis.edu. Option 2: General Engineering Tour Our General Engineering Tour can be scheduled most weekdays, Monday - Friday from 9 a.m. - 3:30 p.m. These tours consist of a brief informational session, details on Herff's world-renowned engineering programs, and a lab tour (if time and personnel permit). To maximize your visit to the Herff College of Engineering, we suggest you also consider attending the UofM Campus Main Memphis Campus Tour so you can get all of your questions answered. Click HERE to set up your General Engineering Tour today! School Group Tour Information The above tours are designed for prospective students and their families. If you are looking to bring a group of students on tour please send a request to: Isaiah Surbrook, Director of Engineering Student Services, msrbrook@memphis.edu. Graduate Student Visit Information Please contact Dr. Roger Meier, Director of Graduate Programs, by email rwmeier@memphis.edu or 901-678-3284. Additional Information View our ME+Engineering video for a short overview of the college. Click HERE for the 2020 Herff College of Engineering Viewbook to learn more about student life, residence life, scholarships, and academic programs here at Herff. Colegio de Herff del Ingeniero Viewbook 2020 Aprenda más sobre los programas ofrecidos en nuestro Colegio Herff en escala nacional clasificado de la Ingeniería en la universidad de Memphis. Interactive UofM Campus Tour Take an interactive tour of the UofM campus and go behind the scenes as our IEEE Robotics team prepares for a competition. Memphis Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/19/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.