Skip to main content Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide powered by Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Center for Biomedical Engineering Center for Biomedical Engineering Search form Search About Facilities Centers + Initiatives CBME Mission Contact Us People Primary Faculty & Staff Committees Affiliated Faculty Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Research Academics BME Courses Undergraduate Program Graduate Program News Events About Facilities Centers + Initiatives CBME Mission Contact Us People Primary Faculty & Staff Committees Affiliated Faculty Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Research Academics BME Courses Undergraduate Program Graduate Program PhD Program Admission Requirements Apply Now Program Overview ScM Programs Admission Requirements 5th Year Apply Now Financing Program Overviews Request Information Careers BMEB Resources News Events Graduate Program The Graduate Program in Biomedical Engineering is a joint venture by the Division of Biology and Medicine and the School of Engineering. The Program provides cutting-edge, interdisciplinary, graduate-level education at the interface of engineering, biology, and medicine appropriate for careers in academia, government, or industry. Students engage in broad opportunities across the Brown University community from the engineering/physical sciences through the life sciences on campus to Brown's Warren Alpert Medical School and associated teaching hospitals nearby. Why choose Brown BME for graduate school? Cutting-edge, interdisciplinary, graduate-level education at the interface of engineering, biology, and medicine. Brown BME is ranked #2 in the US in impact by Academic Analytics. The program is distinguished by its strong and collaborative connections between academic science, clinical medicine, and industry. A friendly scale and collaborative culture. Graduate students make up a quarter of Brown’s <9000 student population and engage with more than 700 full time faculty. Learn more about Brown’s Graduate School culture, distinctive opportunities, and academic programs. Students and faculty from diverse training, ethnic, gender, and social backgrounds. The University is committed to creating a more diverse and inclusive academic community. Please read about our commitment to diversity, equity, and inclusion. >30% of our primary BME faculty are women. Graduate students in BME come from diverse training, including research and industry, and backgrounds, including sciences (such as physics, chemistry, and biology), mathematics, and several fields of engineering (such as mechanical, electrical, and chemical engineering). Graduate students gain both the intellectual and the practical skills required for developing today's emerging science into useful biomedical technology and therapies. Students customize their curriculum. choose your own engineering, biology, and medical school courses options to gain valuable clinical experience at nearby teaching hospitals associated with the Brown Medical School The program is designed for student success. There are rigorous checkpoints, but most students who enter our programs finish. Located in the heart of affordable, spirited, and creative Providence, RI “Providence combines the accessibility and friendliness of a small town with the culture and sophistication of a big city. With a thriving arts community, vibrant and diverse neighborhoods, outstanding hotels, a renowned restaurant scene and so many things to do, Providence is the perfect place to [attend graduate school].” -Providence Warwick Convention & Visitors Bureau Providence has recently been featured in Architectural Digest, GQ, Travel + Leisure, and the New York Times. Learn more about BME graduate studies at Brown: Master's Programs Doctoral Program PhD Program Admission Requirements Apply Now Program Overview ScM Programs Admission Requirements 5th Year Apply Now Financing Program Overviews Request Information Careers BMEB Resources Contact Center for Biomedical Engineering Brown University Box A-2 Arnold Lab 91 Waterman Street, Suite 211 Providence, RI 02912 +1-401-863-6778 [email protected] Quicklinks Apply Now Research Faculty Academics Give to CBME Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2016 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat