Loading... Penn Clubs EventsFAQLogin Reach-A-Peer Helpline ProgrammingHealthCommunity ServicePeer EducationUndergraduateGraduateSAC Description RAP-Line is a peer helpline established by Penn students to provide peer support, information, and referrals. It is open to all students who wish to share a problem, are in need of information, or just want to talk to someone anonymously and confidentially. The service is run by trained student volunteers who have an awareness of campus resources and skills in active listening techniques. Volunteers acknowledge that they are not professional counselors, but rather peers who provide a warm, safe, unbiased, and supportive environment conducive to self-help. RAP-Line is a stepping-stone in serving the Penn community. The phone call is free, anonymous, and confidential. RAP-Line is not a crisis-intervention line. RAP-Line offers two services: 1. 24/7 Text Line Send a message to 215-515-7332 to connect anonymously with a RAP-Line peer supporter. 2. Phone Line The Line is available every night from 9 pm to 1 am. Reach us at 215-573-2727. Don't be shy! FAQ Most Recent Question: Hi! When will the application form for the Spring 2021 training class be posted? - Anya Arora You can access the application here: https://forms.gle/st34C2nf5NFseRxs8. Applications are due Friday, February 5th, 2021. Please direct any questions to training.rapline@gmail.com. - Ashna Sethi Helpful 👍~0 people found this question helpful~ Have a question about Reach-A-Peer Helpline? Post this question anonymously.Submit Members JBN Jennifer Ben Nathan Co-President Hidden Email ST Sylvie Tuder Co-President Hidden Email AE Amarachi Emezie Officer Hidden Email ABR Apoorvi Bharat Ram Officer Hidden Email See more Click here to see the 1 question asked about this club so far! Basic Info 7 Registered (20 - 50 Members) Not Currently Accepting Members Application Required Fall Semester Contact facebook.com/RAPLine presidents.rapline@gmail.com instagram.com/penn.rapline twitter.com/penn_rapline How to Get Involved We will be recruiting members for our Fall 2022 Training Class. You'll find a link to the application here when the date approaches! Please direct any questions to training.rapline@gmail.com. Additional Pages Alumni Org Tree Made with by Penn Labs