skip to main content University of Nevada, Reno Homepage Apply Visit News Give Search www.unr.edu Search www.unr.edu Search Search www.unr.edu Search www.unr.edu Quicklinks Expand or Collapse to view popular links for this site Alumni Faculty & Staff Parents Students Academic Calendar Campus Catalog Directory Email Access Library Maps MyNevada WebCampus Workday Zoom Login Website Navigation Menu Expand or Collapse to view links grouped by top level headings About About the University Campus safety Diversity initiatives Employment & careers Giving EO & Title IX Degrees & programs Majors Minors Online programs Graduate programs Colleges & schools Admissions Freshman admissions International admissions Transfer admissions Graduate admissions Financial aid & scholarships Tuition & fees Campus Life Campus experience Housing Dining First-year student guide Fitness & recreation Student engagement Events calendar Research & Innovation University research Graduate research Undergraduate research Innovation hub Research hub Athletics NevadaWolfpack.com Buy tickets Events schedule Support athletics TV & radio Menu Expand or Collapse to view links grouped by top level headings Quicklinks Alumni Faculty & Staff Parents Students Academic Calendar Campus Catalog Directory Email Access Library Maps MyNevada WebCampus Workday Zoom Login About About the University Campus safety Diversity initiatives Employment & careers Giving EO & Title IX Degrees & programs Majors Minors Online programs Graduate programs Colleges & schools Admissions Freshman admissions International admissions Transfer admissions Graduate admissions Financial aid & scholarships Tuition & fees Campus Life Campus experience Housing Dining First-year student guide Fitness & recreation Student engagement Events calendar Research & Innovation University research Graduate research Undergraduate research Innovation hub Research hub Athletics NevadaWolfpack.com Buy tickets Events schedule Support athletics TV & radio Apply Visit News Give Visit the University of Nevada, Reno Explore our 290-acre campus, home to some of the most technologically advanced libraries, facilities and labs in the country. In-person and virtual visits We can't wait for you to visit our 290-acre campus. Visit in-person or virtually with group and individual appointments. Select from in-person and guided virtual tour options We offer a variety of in-person and virtual campus visit options. Whether you want to learn about admissions and financial aid, meet with the Director of Admissions, explore residence halls or explore academic programs, we have a tour that's right for you. Walking tours Join us for a guided, 90-minute tour of the beautiful and historic University of Nevada, Reno campus. Our staff can answer questions and take you through the University's 290-acre campus, providing details about the University. Register for a walking tour Nevada Bound Nevada Bound is a single-day, in-person campus visit program that provides prospective students and their families the opportunity to experience life at the University of Nevada, Reno. Register for Nevada Bound Virtual preview programs At virtual campus preview programs, you can learn more about: the admissions process, financial aid, scholarships, tuition, housing and more. Chat with campus representatives and get all your questions answered. Register for a preview program Take a self-guided virtual tour of the University In this time of limited travel, we’ve put together these virtual tours to open your mind to the endless opportunities of our fun and welcoming campus. Add lovely Lake Tahoe less than an hour’s drive away, and you’ve got a four-year plan that can’t be beat. Explore Nevada today! Campus housing tour Get a first-hand, inside look at each of our seven on-campus residence halls, their floor plans, room dimensions and more through our online, interactive housing tours. Start your interactive housing tour Nevada 360° tour The self-guided virtual tour allows you to explore 43 locations across campus, from Peavine Hall to the Pennington Student Achievement Center, all from your desktop, mobile device or tablet. Start my 360 tour Questions about visiting campus? Our team is happy to answer any questions you may have. Send an email Request more information Follow the University University Twitter University Facebook University YouTube University Vimeo University Flickr University Instagram University LinkedIn University of Nevada, Reno 1664 N. Virginia Street, Reno, NV 89557 (775) 784-1110 Employment & Careers Non-Discrimination Statement Privacy Website Help Commitment to Diversity Commitment to Accessibility Contact the University Equal Opportunity and Title IX