Courses | Teachers College Columbia University Skip to content Skip to main navigation TC Menu Search for people, news & websites Go Resource Links Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Columbia Library myTC Directory Apply Now Request Info Search Bar Primary Navigation About Academics Admission & Aid Faculty & Research News Give to TC Skip to content Menu Skip to content Academics Courses Course Schedule Search Selecting the subject significantly improves the performance. Keyword search may take more than 30 seconds. Show only: Online Classes Advanced search options TBA Mon Tue Wed Thu Fri Sat Sun Earliest Start Time Any Time 7 am 8 am 9 am 10 am 11 am 12 pm 1 pm 2 pm 3 pm 4 pm 5 pm 6 pm 7 pm 8 pm 9 pm Latest End Time Any Time 8 am 9 am 10 am 11 am 12 pm 1 pm 2 pm 3 pm 4 pm 5 pm 6 pm 7 pm 8 pm 9 pm 10 pm Exclude: Closed Courses Research and Independent Study Dissertation Advisement Fieldwork Search How to Use This Search Form Select the term. Use any or all of the filters to narrow your search. Click on the "Search" button when ready Searches show the first 20 courses. Click "Retrieve More" to see additional courses that match your search criteria. For the Columbia University Schedule of Classes click here. How to Register Please see the Registration Deadlines page for detailed information on registration policies, procedures and deadlines. This page contains important information to assist you in the registration process as well as the college policies related to registration, fees, withdrawal and grades. Contact Us Teachers College, Columbia University 525 West 120th Street New York, NY 10027 Tel: +1 (212) 678-3000 Map & Directions Directory Ask a Question Resources Admission & Aid Student Life Courses Academic Calendar Office of the Registrar Office of Teacher Education TC NEXT Employment Legal Consumer Information / Student Right to Know Legal Notices Policy Library Non-Discrimination Title IX Compliance Ethics Reporting Public Safety GDPR Notice Make a Gift to TC Diversity Work at TC Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin © 2022, Teachers College, Columbia University, New York, NY 10027.