Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information You are here Home > COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC > COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students > January 25, 2021: Update on COVID-19 Vaccine Distribution COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff January 25, 2021: Update on COVID-19 Vaccine Distribution Dear Colleagues, Vaccinations are continuing today, January 25. It’s so great that everyone is joining together not only to protect themselves, but also to increase our community immunity. Making sure that the community who is eligible is immunized against COVID-19 helps protect everyone else since it decreases opportunity for the virus and the disease to spread. Please remember to continue wearing face coverings (preferably surgical masks or other two-ply face coverings), practice physical distancing, and wash hands frequently, even after you have been vaccinated. We continue to vaccinate individuals in Groups 1A and 1B. Please refer to the website below for hours of vaccination. It will be updated as changes occur. https://www.cuimc.columbia.edu/covid-19-resources-cuimc/covid-19-vaccine... Town Hall on Vaccination, Wednesday, 1:30 pm A CUIMC-wide town hall on vaccination efforts at Columbia University Irving Medical Center/NewYork-Presbyterian will be held Wednesday, January 27, at 1:30 p.m. The session will include up-to-date information regarding the COVID-19 vaccines and supply, the new vaccination center at The Armory, and our efforts to reduce vaccine hesitancy. The discussion will be followed by a question and answer session. Registration via this link is required. You will receive a confirmation email before the event with instructions for joining. The forum will feature: Anil K. Rustgi, MD, Interim Executive Vice President and Dean of the Faculties of Health Sciences and Medicine Steven J. Corwin, MD, President and Chief Executive Officer, NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital Laura L. Forese, MD, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital Donna Lynne, DrPH, Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of Columbia University Irving Medical Center, Chief Executive Officer of ColumbiaDoctors, and University COVID Director Olajide Williams, MD, Professor and Chief of Staff of the Department of Neurology As of today, over 39,000 faculty, staff, and students at NewYork-Presbyterian, Weill Cornell, and Columbia have received their first dose of the vaccine. There have also been over 21,000 second doses administered. This includes over 21,000 first and second doses administered on the CUIMC campus alone. Second Dose Vaccinations (Individuals in Phase 1a) Please make sure to return to the campus where you received your first dose. Second dose reminders are sent via Connect. Please note: if you are on the CUIMC campus your appointment in Connect may list the WHS office on Fort Washington; please disregard those instructions and instead go to the locations outlined for this week on the website above. For questions about where/when to go for your second dose on each campus, please go to the Employee Information section on the VaccineTogetherNY.org site. Patient and Community Vaccinations at the Armory At this time, per NYS we are vaccinating people age 65 and over who live in the state of New York. For those who meet these eligibility criteria, appointments can be made through Connect and appointment availability can be checked on the VaccineTogetherNY.org site. Information is also available at 646.697.VACC. Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) The FAQ documents on the CUIMC COVID Vaccine Information page continue to be updated, so please check the site for the latest versions. Below is the Question of the Day: Why vaccinate against COVID-19? There is no cure for COVID-19 and hundreds of thousands of people have died from COVID-19. A vaccine is a proven and safe way to help your body fight an infectious disease. The CDC recommends vaccination as the first and best way to protect against COVID-19. Thank you and stay safe! Magda Sobieszczyk MD, MPH Chief of Infectious Diseases and Co-Chair of the CUIMC COVID-19 Vaccine Committee Melissa Stockwell MD, MPH Chief of the Division of Child and Adolescent Health and Co-Chair of the CUIMC COVID-19 Vaccine Committee Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top