Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School Admitted Students Guide: Professional Development Graduate School Skip to Navigation Admitted Students Guide: Professional Development admitted students home Professional development is an integral part of graduate education. In coordination with offices and centers across campus, the Graduate School helps graduate students develop the skills they need to succeed in both the academic and non-academic worlds. Our Professional Development page is a good place to start. The University provides abundant opportunities for students to develop as teachers, scholars, speakers, and researchers. Center for Careers and Life After Brown Brown University Box 1907 167 Angell St. Providence, RI 02912 (401) 863-3326 [email protected] brown.edu/campus-life/support/careerlab Center for Careers and Life After Brown (CareerLAB) The Center for Careers and Life after Brown is a valuable resource for graduate students in all departments and at all stages of their course of study. CareerLAB offers individual advising services and extensive programming for those seeking career information and job search assistance. Services are geared to both master’s and doctoral students. Entering graduate students may be interested in professional development programs such as Positioning Yourself for Success. For those ready to seek a job, program offerings include: The Academic Job Search; Finding a Post-Doc; The Job Search for Master’s Students; and Strategies for the Non-academic Job Search. The Career LAB also offers regular skill-building workshops, including interview techniques, CV and cover letter writing, resume writing, and networking. All graduate students are invited to attend the Graduate Student Career Options Conference (CareerCON) which brings Brown graduate student alums back to campus for a full day of career exploration panels and networking. Alums share their career experiences and advice in a variety of fields within business, government, and non-profits. Panelists include masters and doctoral students, and represent all divisions within the University. Students can take advantage of the Career LAB offerings by speaking to a professional career counselor about their needs. Be assured that counselors are aware that graduate students’ needs are different from those of undergraduates and are sensitive to their situations. All sessions are confidential. The graduate student section of the Career LAB website links to many resources for career exploration, skill development, and specific interest areas. For more information or to make an appointment to see an counselor, doctoral students should email [email protected]. Master's students please register on the Brown Student Job and Internship Board (JIB) and then make an appointment through the JIB. Graduate student networking groups on LinkedIn: Humanities & Social Sciences on LinkedIn: this group facilitates networking among current graduate students and alumni with advanced degrees from Brown University in these fields. Life & Physical Sciences on LinkedIn: this group facilitates networking among current graduate students and alumni with advanced degrees from Brown University in these fields. <<previous page: calendars next page: teaching>> Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants