Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Baylor University Summer Music Camps School of Music Menu Home Our Camps Worship Lab International Choral Conducting Masterclass and Young Artist Program Middle School Band And Orchestra Camp High School Band Camp 2022 High School Band Camp Audition Music All-State Choir Camp (High School) Summer Piano Institute Contact Us Baylor>Home Welcome to the 2022 Baylor Summer Music Camps WE ARE BACK! For over 40 years, the Baylor University Summer Music Camps have provided outstanding summer musical experiences to students from all over the country. Our summer music camps provide students the opportunity to interact with the world-class musicians and music educators including the Baylor School of Music Faculty and some of the best music educators in the state of Texas. Our goal is to provide experiences for musical and personal growth for every student that attends our camps. Attending a Baylor Summer Music Camp is a great opportunity to learn more about music and music performance, get to know the faculty at Baylor, learn about our university and traditions, stay in a dorm on our beloved campus, and to meet some musicians from all around the state and the nation. If you enjoy musical challenges and desire to make new friends with similar interests, then the Baylor University Summer Music Camps have much to offer you. We sincerely hope that you will join us this summer for an exciting week of musical study and a lot of fun. More detailed information about specific camps and workshops can be found by following the links at the top of this page (hovering over each link will show drop-down menus). Summer Music Camp office hours: Mon-Fri, 8:00 a.m.-5:00 p.m. Please Contact us by email this week because we are out of the office: Lori_Clifton@baylor.edu (Band/Orchestra) Jill_Gusukuma@baylor.edu (Choir) 254.710.1417 (Piano/Organ/Keyboard) 254.710.1355 (Alleluia Youth Choir Camp) Mark Your Calendars! Registration link for the Baylor Middle School Band and Orchestra Camp Registration link for the Baylor High School Band Camp Choir WOMEN - Registration link for the Baylor All State Choir Camp (WOMEN) Choir MEN - Registration link for the Baylor All State Choir Camp (MEN) Worship Lab/Alleluia Youth Registration Link Registration for the Baylor Summer Music Camps is now open! Here Are the Dates for the 2022 Baylor Summer Music Camps High School Band Camp June 12-18 This camp will be band only this year. Click Here for the Baylor High School Band Camp Audition Music Middle School Band and Orchestra Camp June 19-25 Summer Piano Institute June 19-25 All-State Choir Camp July 5-9 Worship Lab July 18-22 Alleluia Youth Choir Camp July 18-22 www.baylor.edu/alleluia/youth Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Our Camps Worship Lab International Choral Conducting Masterclass and Young Artist Program Middle School Band And Orchestra Camp High School Band Camp 2022 High School Band Camp Audition Music All-State Choir Camp (High School) Summer Piano Institute Contact Us