Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Law Menu Baylor Law About News Mission Statement and Core Values Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Practice Ready Law Professors, Life Coaches The Quarter System Quick Facts Public Service Legal Clinics Special Events Notice of Non-Discrimination Building Hours Contact Us History 100 Years of Practice Court Baylor Law Virtual Tours Academics Academic Calendar Academic Services Advocacy Transactional Degree Programs Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Experiential Learning Legal Writing Study Abroad at St Andrews Baylor Law Review Admissions Explore Apply Finance Visit Admitted Students Quick Facts Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Alumni & Giving Alumni Resources Get Involved Give Back Baylor Law School Alumni Information Update Submit Alumni Note Career Development Employers Current Students Employment Statistics Contact the CDO Baylor Law School Current Students Academic Services Calendars Health & Wellness Policies and Feedback Professional Development Leadership Development Student Life Title IX ABA Required Disclosures Law School Home Events Event Calendars Emergency and Closure Information Faculty & Staff Faculty and Staff Directory Faculty Scholarship Faculty and Staff News Faculty and Staff Resources Law School Home Library Library Collection Electronic Resources Library Services Policies and Information Library Online Catalog Technology Law School Baylor Law School News Baylor>Baylor Law>About>News Winners Announced for <em>The Closer</em>, Baylor Law's Elite National Transactional Law Competition January 19, 2021 Winners Announced for The Closer, Baylor Law's Elite National Transactional Law Competition On January 15-17, students from fourteen of the best transactional law programs across the nation competed virtually in the most challenging transactional law competition in the country. Finalists of the 2021 The Closer National Transactional Law Competition: Winners (Left) Floy Gaidarski, SMU Dedman School of Law (top); Preston Chaffee, University of San Diego School of Law (bottom) and Runners Up (Right) Jacob Landsberg, University of Oregon School of Law (top) and Madalyn Clary, Indiana University Maurer School of Law (bottom) WACO, Texas - On Sunday, January 17th, Floy Gaidarski, of SMU Dedman School of Law, and Preston Chaffee, of University of San Diego School of Law, were named the winners of the 2021 The Closer Competition, the most challenging transactional law competition in the country. Runners up for this year's competition were Madalyn Clary of Indiana University Maurer School of Law, and Jacob Landsberg of University of Oregon School of Law. The Closer is an elite transactional law competition with a limited number of invitations extended only to law schools whose programming demonstrates a commitment to excellence in practical transactional law training. At stake in the competition is the chance to win one of two $5,000 top prizes and bragging rights as a top closer. The annual competition, another example of Baylor Law's commitment to provide practical opportunities for legal education, provides a high-pressure environment and hands-on exposure to one of the most important aspects of transactional law: contract drafting and negotiation. As the host, Baylor Law does not field a team. The Closer is unlike any other transactional law competition. The deal that the participants negotiate is disclosed to competitors only twenty-four hours prior to the first round of negotiations. The tight timeline forces competitors to identify the most important legal issues and devise and negotiate solutions that best serve their client's needs with the efficiency required of lawyers under realistic time constraints. The Closer is more than an intense competition. It is also a unique learning opportunity for competitors. In 2021, more than 40 experienced transactional lawyers served as judges. During the first day of negotiation rounds, every student competitor received detailed individual feedback and critique from at least 12 of these lawyers. On Sunday, the four finalists received feedback from an additional five distinguished transactional lawyers. The number of negotiation rounds and the amount of feedback received in The Closer far surpasses any other transactional law competition. “The Closer is a whole new class of competition,” remarked Professor Carla Reyes of SMU Dedman School of Law and Floy Gaidarski’s coach. “What most impressed me about The Closer is the way that the problem required participants to not only understand the deal and the client’s related business needs, but also how to map those to a contract draft and how the provisions of that draft related to one another. The resulting negotiations resemble the real-world practice of deal lawyers more closely than any other competition I have ever seen,” she added. Conducting the competition virtually involved more than forty separate Zoom gatherings over the course of the three days, most of which occurred on Saturday when all 14 competitors participated in four preliminary negotiations rounds—two rounds in the morning and two more in the afternoon. This required four successive sets of 7 simultaneous Zoom meetings. Baylor Law students managed the logistics of all of the preliminary round Zoom meetings, placing judges, competitors and coaches in and out of waiting rooms at appropriate times and controlling various on-screen features to facilitate the most effective arrangement for the judges of the rounds to observe. Competitors, coaches, and judges participating in the competition spanned 5 time zones. The Deal Is Hypothetical - The Participants Are Real In this year's competition, participants negotiated a fictional assignment of patents and related intellectual property associated with a medical therapy device known as the MiraColt. The MiraColt is a mechanical hippotherapy simulation device that provides an alternative to live-horse hippotherapy, which has been shown to improve outcomes in individuals with cerebral palsy, other spastic or dystonic issues, stroke, Parkinson’s, autism spectrum disorder, and other special-needs conditions. Chariot Innovations, Inc., is a Waco-based corporation that was formed to market and sell the MiraColt device. As the MiraColt technology was developed by Dr. Garner, a Baylor faculty member, the technology is owned and controlled by Baylor pursuant to its Intellectual Property Policy, and Baylor holds two patents relating to the MiraColt invention. Baylor regularly enters into agreements with third parties to commercialize its technology and typically licenses its intellectual property in circumstances such as these. In the competition, however, Chariot Innovations is seeking a complete assignment from Baylor of the patents and all related intellectual property associated with the MiraColt. During the competition, students were randomly assigned to represent either Baylor University or Chariot Innovations, Inc. Closing the Deal – Under Pressure Floy Gaidarski, of SMU Dedman School of Law, was awarded one of the $5,000 prizes for best representing the interests of Baylor University and Preston Chaffee, of University of San Diego School of Law, was awarded the other $5,000 prize for best representing Chariot Innovations, Inc. “Winning The Closer was like crossing the finish line of the Ironman Zurich—a moment of joy realized by a lifetime of small sacrifices and stubborn resolve,” remarked Floy Gaidarski, and added “Thank you, Baylor University School of Law, for committing to the betterment of the transactional practice and special thanks to Professor Elizabeth Miller and her dedicated team for executing Baylor’s mission seamlessly. I was most impressed by the intricacy and authenticity of the deal. That detail distinguishes The Closer from any other competition and elevates the negotiation from superficial horse-trading to a conversation about underlying and overlapping business needs articulated in sophisticated deal terms.” Preston Chaffee, winning The Closer for his representation of Chariot Innovations, Inc. added, “In law school, […] there is no exam that tests your ability to act collegially, to collaboratively solve problems that both parties face, or to think on your feet in the moment. The Closer is an opportunity to exhibit those intangibles, get feedback, and feel like you're ready to serve clients with what you've learned. I have done four transactional law competitions representing USD, and this is by far the most organized and thorough competition. It emphasizes professional realism, but without losing its competitive feel. This is the most prestigious transactional law competition in the country, and I really consider it a national championship.” At the close of the event, Professor Miller remarked, “The professionalism displayed by the competitors is always so impressive. Floy, Preston, Madalyn, and Jacob all demonstrated knowledge and skills on par with those of a seasoned associate. The final rounds were as close as any we have ever had, and all four finalists accomplished something truly noteworthy—especially given the challenges of the virtual environment.” Final Round - 2021 JUDGES SCORING THE FINAL ROUNDS WERE: E. Steve Bolden II, Partner, Bracewell Glenn Callison, Shareholder, Munsch Hardt Jennifer Lindsey, Partner, Beard Kultgen Brophy Bostwick & Dickson, PLLC W. Gregory Looser, Co-Founder & Partner, Clarion Ventures, LLC Christina Marshall, Partner, Haynes and Boone Thank You BAYLOR LAW SCHOOL SINCERELY APPRECIATES THOSE WHO INVESTED IN THE CLOSER: SPONSORS Kim and Bill Shaddock Munsch Hardt J. Michael Tibbals/Freeman Mills PC Special thanks Chariot Innovations, Inc. Baylor University, Office of the Vice Provost for Research Baylor Research and Innovation Collaborative Baylor Law faculty, staff, and students who contributed their time and talents to make The Closer 2021 a success 2021 PARTICIPATING SCHOOLS AND COMPETITORS BYU J. Reuben Clark Law School – Avery Benesch Drexel University Thomas R. Kline School of Law – Yeshesvini Chandar Emory University School of Law – Grace Kim Indiana University Maurer School of Law – Madalyn Clary Northwestern Pritzker School of Law – Kevin Finkelstein SMU Dedman School of Law – Floy Gaidarski The Ohio State University Michael E. Moritz College of Law - Ellen Steinmetz University of Denver Sturm College of Law – Bradley Scoble University of Kansas School of Law - Samuel Klaassen University of Mississippi School of Law – Conner Whitten University of Oregon School of Law – Jacob Landsberg University of Pennsylvania Carey School of Law – Jennifer Kim University of San Diego School of Law - Preston Chaffee University of Tennessee College of Law – Trevor Torres For more information about the competition, visit The Closer on Baylor Law School's website, or contact competition coordinator Professor Elizabeth Miller. MEDIA CONTACT: Ed Nelson, Director of Marketing & Communications EMAIL: Ed_Nelson@Baylor.edu PHONE: 254-710-6681 ABOUT BAYLOR LAW Established in 1857, Baylor Law was one of the first law schools in Texas and one of the first west of the Mississippi River. Today, the school has more than 7,500 living alumni. It is accredited by the American Bar Association and is a member of the Association of American Law Schools. Baylor Law has a record of producing outstanding lawyers, many of whom decide upon a career in public service. Baylor Law boasts two governors, members or former members of the U.S. House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate, two former directors of the FBI, U.S. ambassadors, federal judges, justices of the Texas Supreme Court and members of the Texas Legislature among its notable alumni. In its law specialties rankings, U.S. News & World Report ranked Baylor Law’s trial advocacy program as one of the top 5 in the nation. Baylor Law School is also ranked #50 in the magazine’s 2019 edition of "America’s Best Graduate Schools." The National Jurist ranks Baylor Law as one of the "Best School for Practical Training," and #4 in the nation in its most recent "Best Law School Facilities" listing. The Business Insider places Baylor Law among the top 50 law schools in the nation. Baylor Law School received the 2015 American Bar Association Pro Bono Publico Award, making it only the third law school in the nation to be honored with the award since the award's inception in 1984. Learn more at baylor.edu/law ABOUT BAYLOR UNIVERSITY Baylor University is a private Christian University and a nationally ranked research institution. The University provides a vibrant campus community for more than 17,000 students by blending interdisciplinary research with an international reputation for educational excellence and a faculty commitment to teaching and scholarship. Chartered in 1845 by the Republic of Texas through the efforts of Baptist pioneers, Baylor is the oldest continually operating University in Texas. Located in Waco, Baylor welcomes students from all 50 states and more than 80 countries to study a broad range of degrees among its 12 nationally recognized academic divisions. Learn more at baylor.edu Are you looking for more News? All NewsArchives About News Submit News Mission Statement and Core Values Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Practice Ready Law Professors, Life Coaches The Quarter System Quick Facts Public Service Legal Clinics Special Events LEAD Counsel - Making a Difference Conference 2021 | Making a Difference Conference Baylor Law Students 2020 | Vision for Leadership Conference 2019 | Making a Difference Conference 2018 | Making a Difference Conference 2017 | Making a Difference Conference Starr Federalist Papers Lecture Series Presented by John and Marie Chiles R. Matt Dawson Lecture Series Notice of Non-Discrimination Building Hours Contact Us History 100 Years of Practice Court Baylor Law Virtual Tours Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Sheila & Walter Umphrey Law Center 1114 South University Parks Drive One Bear Place #97288 Waco, Texas 76798 tel (254) 710-1911 fax (254) 710-2316 Building Hours Monday - Friday 8:00am - 5:00pm Saturday - Sunday Closed Holidays Closed Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About News Submit News Mission Statement and Core Values Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Practice Ready Law Professors, Life Coaches The Quarter System Quick Facts Public Service Legal Clinics Special Events LEAD Counsel - Making a Difference Conference 2021 | Making a Difference Conference Baylor Law Students 2020 | Vision for Leadership Conference 2019 | Making a Difference Conference 2018 | Making a Difference Conference 2017 | Making a Difference Conference Starr Federalist Papers Lecture Series Presented by John and Marie Chiles R. Matt Dawson Lecture Series Notice of Non-Discrimination Building Hours Contact Us History 100 Years of Practice Court Baylor Law Virtual Tours Academics Academic Calendar Academic Services Advocacy Top Gun National Mock Trial Competition 2021 Top Gun XII Top Gun XI - How We Did It 2020 Top Gun XI 2019 Top Gun X 2018 Top Gun Competition 2017 Top Gun Competition 2016 Top Gun Competition 2015 Top Gun Competition Transactional Practice Ready Transactional Courses Professional Tracks & Capstones Transactional Dual Degree Programs Transactional Faculty Transactional Law & Practice Court Legal Writing Business Law Boot Camp The Closer National Transactional Law Competition 2023 | The Closer 2022 | The Closer 2021 | The Closer 2020 | The Closer 2019 | The Closer 2018 | The Closer 2017 | The Closer In House Counsel Externship Program Competition Opportunities and Results for Current Students Transactional Law Mentorship Program Degree Programs Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Experiential Learning Practice Court Program Legal Clinics Entrepreneurship Clinic Estate Planning Clinic Immigration Clinic IP Law Clinic Trial Advocacy Clinic Veterans Clinic Transactional Capstones Public Service Baylor Law's Pro Bono and Public Service Program Adoption Day People's Law School People's Law School | 2022 People's Law School 2022 Class Schedule People's Law School 2022 Survey People's Law School | 2021 Service Opportunities for Law Students Waco McLennan Pro Bono Challenge Waco McLennan Pro Bono Challenge Hours Recording Form Waco McLennan Pro Bono Challenge Sign-up Waco McLennan Outstanding Pro Bono Advocate Awards DAYL Pro Bono Challenge DAYL Pro Bono Challenge Hours Recording Form DAYL Pro Bono Challenge Sign-Up DAYL Pro Bono Annual Challenge Results DAYL Pro Bono Partners Service Award Resources Student Awards Competitions Intramural Opportunities Intermural Opportunities Externships Leadership Development Program Legal Mapmaker Legal Mapmaker Program Payment Study Abroad Legal Writing Integrated Approach Writing Courses Writing Faculty The Ultimate Writer Competition The Paper Chase Legal Writing Competition Study Abroad at St Andrews Baylor Law Review Admissions Explore Student Profiles Adan Abu-Hakmeh Lexie Ammons Allison Barber Paolo Ferrel Paige Heitkamp Drake Pew Leah Reyes Sami Shaffer Program Overview Advocacy Transactional Practice Legal Writing Experiential Learning Quarter System Community Career Development Curriculum More Information Request a Viewbook Is Law School Right for You? Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Accreditation Notice of Non-Discrimination Apply Dates and Deadlines Application Requirements JD Applicants Transfer and Visiting Student Applicants International Student Applicants Joint Degree Applicants Denied Application Review Quick Facts Application Status Checker Admissions FAQs Admissions Policies Finance Estimated Costs Financial Aid FAQs Scholarships Loans Veteran Information Financial Aid Step-by-Step Visit Individual Visits External Recruiting Events Open Houses Interviews Virtual Tours Pre-Law Visits Visiting Waco Finding the Admissions Office Admitted Students Next Steps Admitted Students Packet Scholarship Reconsideration Request Pay Your Seat Deposit Apply for Financial Aid Update Your Contact Information Set Up Your Student ID and Email Visits and Events Schedule an Individual Visit Attend an Admitted Students Day Watch a Virtual Tour Attend an Admitted Students Meal View a Recorded Session Attend an Open House Registration and Orientation Quick Facts Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Alumni & Giving Alumni Resources Get Involved Give Back Baylor Law School Alumni Information Update Submit Alumni Note Career Development Employers Current Students Employment Statistics Contact the CDO Baylor Law School Current Students Academic Services Calendars Health & Wellness Policies and Feedback Professional Development Leadership Development Student Life Title IX ABA Required Disclosures Law School Home Events Event Calendars Emergency and Closure Information Faculty & Staff Faculty and Staff Directory Faculty Scholarship Faculty and Staff News Faculty and Staff Resources Law School Home Library Library Collection Electronic Resources Library Services Policies and Information Library Online Catalog Technology Law School