Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Fogelman College of Business & Economics About Programs Students Departments Faculty & Staff Research News & Events Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Students Students Future and Transfer StudentsCurrent StudentsUndergraduate Student Services Office MORE Program at FCBE Why MoreSophomoresInternational EducationExperiential LearningCareer Exploration FCBE Complete Professional Program FCBE Internships FCBE Scholarships Student Organizations FCBE Academic Integrity FCBE Standards for Academic IntegrityFCBE Standards for Assurance of Learning / AssessmentThe Fogelman Student Code of ProfessionalismNetiquette Guide for Online CoursesUnderstanding Plagiarism Dean's Student Ambassadors FAQ Take Action Apply to our Undergraduate Programs Apply to our Masters Programs Apply to our Doctoral Programs Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedIn Home Fogelman College of Business & Economics Students Welcome Students We are pleased you have chosen the Fogelman College of Business & Economics to further your academic career. At the FCBE, we pride ourselves on not only providing you with a top-tier academic education but also on actually preparing you for a career in the real-world. Our College is AACSB accredited, the gold standard of business education and an honor earned by less than 5% of business schools world-wide. Our programs have received numerous awards and recognitions, including being ranked as one of the Princeton Review’s 2015 Top 25 Online MBA Programs in the country. So, rest assured that your degree from the Fogelman College of Business & Economics will carry significant weight and academic credence. Our faculty is extremely research-oriented, which keeps them on the cusp of ever-changing industries. But more importantly, they are invested in YOU. For instance, all of our online faculty members have undergone intensive training in order to provide the best possible digital classroom experience. If you are looking for a school where you will receive individual attention and constant communication with your teachers, then the FCBE is the right fit for you. We also offer unique, cutting-edge programs and resources that are specifically designed to enhance your experience at Fogelman College. Through the Avron B. Fogelman Professional Development Center’s Complete Professional Program (CPP) we offer personalized preparation and one-to-one training for potential job placement opportunities. The CPP provides undergraduate students training on ethics, healthy living habits, business etiquette, resume building, professionalism, and much more! Fogelman College is also the home to the state-of-the-art Cook Analytics & Trading Lab. The Cook Lab mimics a Wall Street trading firm and it is equipped with 12 Bloomberg terminals. These real-time data and analytic tools allow business students the opportunity to experience pragmatic hands-on learning in an academic environment. Whether you are a first year student or almost at the completion of your educational journey, we are here to help you be successful in reaching your academic potential and professional goals. Please see the links below for more information regarding your specific needs. Current Students Undergraduate Undergraduate Student Services Office Do you have questions about your academic coursework? Contact the Undergraduate Student Services Office to get advised, request permits, apply for graduation, and more. Majors and Minors Are you looking for more information about available majors and minors? Discover what courses are best for you. Business Honors Program Are you a high performing student? Enhance your academic experience by participating in the Business Honors Program. Complete Professional Program Are you looking for a way to gain an edge over the competition? Set yourself apart by joining the Complete Professional Program offered through the Avron B. Fogelman Professional Development Center. FCBE Internships Are you looking to gain real world work experience? Contact the Complete Professional Program office to submit your resume and learn about available internship opportunities. Scholarships Are you looking for ways to alleviate the financial burden of college? Learn about the scholarships offered by Fogelman College. Financial Aid Do you need help paying for school? Apply for financial aid. Morgan Morton Study Abroad Fund Do you want to travel the world and learn about other cultures? Learn if you are eligible for the Morgan Morton Study Abroad Fund. Student Organizations Do you want to get involved on campus? Join one of our many student associations. Student Services Do you require extra assistance? Contact Student Services for help with tutoring, advising, disability services, and more. FAQs Graduate Looking for information regarding our many graduate degree programs? MBA Programs Professional MBA Online MBA Executive MBA Specialized Master's Programs MA in Economics MS in Accounting MS in Information Systems MSBA in Finance Doctoral Programs Ph.D.'s in Business Administration are offered in six areas of study including Accounting, Business Information & Technology (formerly MIS), Economics, Finance, Management, and Marketing. Future Students See how a degree from Fogelman College can benefit you! FCBE Academic Integrity Cheating, plagiarizing, and other acts of dishonesty do not contribute to learning. They are, rather, attempts to avoid learning that defeat the very purpose of education. See below for our standards for academic integrity. Academic Integrity Netiquette Guide for Online Courses Understanding Plagiarism The Fogelman Student Code of Professionalism Important Contacts Undergraduate Student Services Office; 901.678.2855 email Graduate Student Services Office; 901.678.3721 email Ph.D. Admissions & Retention Coordinator's Office; 901.678.5250 email Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/28/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.