Skip to main content Logo for Cornell University and the ILR School The Cornell University logo seal and the ILR School logo placed side-by-side. Main navigation Toggle menu About ILR Who We Are About ILR Founding Faculty Alumni People at ILR Catherwood Library Faculty and Staff Resources Where We Are Cornell ILR in NYC Cornell in Buffalo Conference Centers News & Publications Research News ILR Review ILR Press Programs & Admissions Undergraduate Program Undergraduate Admissions Curriculum Requirements Tuition and Aid Apply Graduate Programs Master of Industrial and Labor Relations (MILR) The Executive Master of Human Resource Management (EMHRM) Program Doctoral Program MILR / MBA Dual Degree Program Professional Education Professional Workshops, Courses, and Training Certificate Programs Senior Leader Programs Customized Professional Programs Current Students Student Success Diversity and Inclusion Student Support Career Services Consider Graduate Schools ILR Commencement Beyond the Classroom Student Research Research Fellowships International Opportunities Credit and Non-Credit Internships Student Organizations Academic Resources ILR Class Enrollment and Course Information Academic Policies Resources for Graduate Students Faculty & Research Our Faculty Faculty Academic Departments Areas of Expertise Our Research & Publications ILR Review ILR Press Centers & Institutes Conducting Research Student Research Catherwood Library Public Impact Leadership & Professional Training Senior Leader Programs Certificate Programs Professional Education Research & Insights Centers & Institutes ILR Press DigitalCommons@ILR Student Engagement Research Fellowships Credit and Non-Credit Internships Global Service Learning Alumni Make an Impact Giving to ILR Make a Gift ILRAA Alumni Association Alumni Chapters ILR Alumni Association Board of Directors Learn More About Alumni Alumni Profiles Groat and Alpern Awards Search Search Close Search Toggle Search Breadcrumb ILR Home Faculty and Research We are home to world-class faculty who study work at every level. We create relevant research from across disciplines, including (but not limited to) sociology, history, law, HR studies, and anthropology. Our research influences public policy, informs business strategy and organizational design, and improves professional practices. We're innovative researchers, creating and using new approaches to help the world understand work. Latest Research Faculty Catherwood Library Research Resources Latest Research Read all latest-research stories The Power and Gratitude Imbalance In studying how individuals feel and express gratitude, Assistant Professor Alice Lee has found that power dynamics play a crucial role. May 25, 2022 The Power and Gratitude Imbalance New Report from Cornell's Labor Leading on Climate Provides Roadmap to Exceed NYC Climate Goals, Create Over 1 Million Jobs A new report released today by Cornell's Labor Leading on Climate in collaboration with the Climate Jobs NY coalition outlines a comprehensive climate jobs action plan for NYC to fight the climate crisis, make NYC safer and address racial and economic inequity by investing in a pro-worker renewable energy transition. May 19, 2022 New Report from Cornell's Labor Leading on Climate Provides Roadmap to Exceed NYC Climate Goals, Create Over 1 Million Jobs Impact of Incentives on Ethics Examined The presence of incentives directly influences the odds that an individual will act unethically, according to research led by Associate Professor Tae Youn Park. May 18, 2022 Impact of Incentives on Ethics Examined Calco, Falwell Partner with Public History Fellows Through a new program sponsored by the Cornell Public History Initiative in partnership with the Cornell University Library, Steven Calco and Marcie Falwell of the Kheel Center worked with undergraduate fellows. May 16, 2022 Calco, Falwell Partner with Public History Fellows 2022 Migrations Awards Include Grant for Worker Institute Faculty on Central American Workers with Temporary Protective Status The 2022 Migrations Awards include a Justice Futures Team Research Grant awarded to Patricia Campos-Medina and more for their project, “Displaced and Uprooted: Stories of Belonging, Central American TPS Workers' Defiant Struggle for their Right to Stay Home in the U.S.” May 12, 2022 2022 Migrations Awards Include Grant for Worker Institute Faculty on Central American Workers with Temporary Protective Status Global Severance Pay Program Outlined When apparel factories shut down due to COVID-19, many workers lost their incomes. ILR’s New Conversations Project proposes a model to protect workers. May 12, 2022 Global Severance Pay Program Outlined Our Faculty We host more full-time faculty involved in teaching and research that spans the broad range of work and employment disciplines than any other educational institution like us. Find an ILR faculty member Find an ILR faculty member Catherwood Library The Martin P. Catherwood Library offers expert research support through reference services, instruction, online guides, and access to premier collections. The collection consists of 250,000 volumes and 1500 serial subscriptions along with essential academic and practitioner databases and special format materials such as media and microforms. While many of these resources are academic in origin, we also collect directly from unions, corporations, governments, and non-profit organizations. Additionally, we are an International Labour Organization (ILO) Partner Library. Find online resources, see office hours, and get directions to our physical collections. Visit the Library Visit the Library The Kheel Center Our library hosts the Kheel Center for Labor-Management Documentation & Archives. The Kheel Center collects, preserves, and makes accessible special collections pertaining to the history of the workplace and labor relations. Over the years, many individuals and organizations generously donated their valuable materials to the Kheel Center. For some organizations, the center is the official repository. About the Kheel Center About the Kheel Center Undergraduate Research Students involved in ILR's many research opportunities develop close relationships with faculty, become authors or coauthors of published articles, and present at conferences and meetings. Find out more about undergraduate research at ILR. Find out more about graduate fellowships and financial aid. Centers and Institutes Each of ILR's centers and institutes focuses on a particular workplace-related theme and provides an umbrella of support for broad research programs involving our faculty. Centers and Institutes Centers and Institutes Research Resources ILR Press ILR Press publishes books about workplace issues, labor, management, and social policy. Written from a variety of perspectives, these books appeal to a diverse readership that includes scholars and students throughout the social sciences; practitioners, and, increasingly, the general public. Widely regarded as the most distinguished publisher in the field, ILR Press was founded more than fifty years ago as the publishing division of the ILR School. It is an imprint of Cornell University Press. Find out more Digital Commons DigitalCollections@ILR offers electronic access to unique material that encompasses every aspect of the workplace. As a service of our Catherwood Library. we offer research and scholarly output including journal articles, working papers, and reports have been selected for inclusion in DC@ILR by the individual departments, centers, institutes, and programs within the ILR School, and deposited by authors or the staff at the Catherwood Library. Find out more ILR Review The ILR Review is a peer-reviewed journal on work and employment issues. The Review is published by SAGE Publications. It is dedicated to international and interdisciplinary research that advances new theory, presents novel empirical work, and informs organizational and public policy. Find out more Footer News Events About ILR ILRie Alumni Magazine Contact Us Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Privacy Policy ILR Brand Coronavirus Resources Directory Centers & Institutes Catherwood Library Conference Centers College Map For faculty and staff Web Accessibility Dean's Statements LinkedIn Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube © 2022 Cornell University | ILR School