Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Engineering Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Engineering Major Apply Visit Request More Info Engineering Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Our Faculty Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Science in Engineering Develop a solid foundation in engineering principles as well as the flexibility of expertise in numerous fields with the Bachelor of Science in Engineering at Temple University's College of Engineering. This interdisciplinary academic program allows you to study beyond the traditional boundaries of civil, computer, electrical and mechanical engineering and choose from two concentrations and three areas of focus. As a student in the Engineering Major program, you will gain a combination of skills that prepares you for a career in specialized fields. Through this program, you’ll be able to analyze, design, evaluate or research engineering and related problems in the traditional civil, electrical or mechanical engineering, or you can become equipped to pursue advanced studies in business, engineering, law or medicine. Choosing the Engineering Major The cross-disciplinary Bachelor of Science in Engineering provides strong foundational knowledge in sciences and mathematics, as well as combines advanced learning from several departments to create skill sets that are highly marketable in a growing field. Students gain general expertise that can be applied across numerous industries, including the analysis, design and development of systems for diverse applications. If you’re looking for a more targeted engineering major, consider one of the other undergraduate engineering programs. Engineering Degrees Concentrations You can focus on Engineering or you can take one of the following concentrations. Electromechanical Engineering Develop your knowledge of robotics, process control and automation. Explore an array of topics that includes digital processing, electromagnetics, electronics, mechanical principles, transducers and sensors. Graduates are prepared for careers focused on the analysis, design and installation of robotics and automation for diverse industries. Energy and Power Engineering Explore all aspects of electrical power and mechanical energy, including solar and wind energy, as well as modern trends such as electric and hybrid vehicles. This cross-disciplinary concentration emphasizes innovation in energy generation and delivery, alternative resources, and efficient devices. Course of Study Students in the Engineering Major program may choose one of the following areas of study. Computer Hardware and Software Engineering: Integrate electrical engineering and computer science by focusing on computer programming, data communication, digital hardware, embedded systems and processor architectures. Cyber Physical Security Engineering: Meet the needs of the new century and integrate the tenets of electrical engineering, computer science and management information systems to achieve an interdisciplinary professional career emphasizing digital hardware, embedded systems and data communication resilient to cyber-physical system intrusion. Engineering Fundamentals: Cover the essentials in civil, electrical or mechanical engineering that will prepare you to pursue advanced studies in business, engineering, law or medicine. Explore the curriculum for each area of focus. Classes & Curriculum The following are examples of common courses required for students in the 128-credit Engineering Major program. Engineering Seminar Introduction to Engineering & Engineering Technology Introduction to Engineering Problem Solving Technical Communication Learn more about required courses for the Bachelor of Science in Engineering. Sammy Sadel Engineering BS, ’20 “My fascination was always with how things work, and in mechanical and bioengineering. I found the engineering program with an electromechanical focus — it turned out to be the best of both worlds.” Read more about Sammy Co-ops Cooperative education (co-op) is an optional program that can provide you with the opportunity to work professionally before graduation. Students apply the knowledge they have learned in the classroom to real-world problems in the field. A co-op will help you create valuable connections with industry professionals, build a strong résumé and have an enhanced perspective on your field. Learn more about co-ops, internships and other career development opportunities. Senior Design College of Engineering students have hands-on, practical opportunities to apply the theories and concepts learned in their coursework to real-world engineering design projects. In the Senior Design course, you'll plan, formulate and develop designs, as well as learn skills and techniques for managing and executing projects. Explore Senior Design. Related Graduate Degrees Civil Engineering MS Civil Engineering PhD Electrical Engineering MS Electrical Engineering PhD Engineering Management MS Master of Business Administration * Mechanical Engineering MS Mechanical Engineering PhD Computer and Systems Security PSM * Fox School of Business Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Science in Engineering offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $20,808.00 per year Out-of-state: $33,984.00 per year Explore financial aid and scholarship opportunities for the Engineering Major. Our Academic Advisors Through advising workshops, career coaching, individual appointments and walk-in advising, support services are available to all undergraduate engineering students. Such services range from academic mentoring, career development, choosing a major, degree planning, learning support and post-graduation planning. All academic advisors are available Monday through Friday, 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m., to answer questions regarding General Education (GenEd), college and major requirements, and university academic policies and procedures. Learn more about the Center for Academic Advising and Student Affairs. Laptop Requirement The College of Engineering requires that students own a laptop for their engineering coursework by their junior year of study. Learn more about the hardware recommendation. Student Clubs & Organizations Enrich your academic experience and social life by joining one of the College of Engineering’s student clubs/organizations, including the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE), the Temple University Amateur Radio Club and Temple Robotics. See the full list of engineering clubs and organizations. Student Competitions Each year, Temple Engineering students compete rigorously in regional and national events that celebrate design, engineering and innovation, including the Formula SAE Collegiate Design Series, the NASA Robotic Mining Competition, the Student Design Competition and many others. Study Away Opportunities Add a global perspective to your Engineering Major. Study abroad for a summer or semester. Accreditation The Engineering Program (BSE) was approved by the Board of Trustees of Temple University in 2012. It was reviewed in October 2017 by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET and has been awarded a full-term accreditation. The next review will take place during the 2023-24 academic year. EN-ENGR-BSEN Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Engineering Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Our Faculty Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info