Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home All Services LGBTQ Support and Sexual Health Peer Counseling LGBTQ Support and Sexual Health Peer Counseling Volunteer advocates with the Gay Health Advocacy Project are available during drop-in hours to listen, offer support, and connect you to additional resources. The project serves the entire Columbia community regardless of gender or orientation. We continue to develop our special commitment to advocating for the sexual and emotional health of the LGBTQ population. A number of Advocates speak second languages, including Mandarin. Students come to Gay Health Advocacy Project to discuss: Sex and relationships Coming out (or not) and other identity concerns LGBTQ life on campus and in New York City Safer sex and risk reduction Adjustment to Columbia Whatever else might be on your mind Volunteer advocates are undergraduate, graduate, and professional school students at Columbia who undergo intensive training and are supervised regularly by professional staff. Advocates are HIPAA-certified and required to uphold the strictest levels of confidentiality. In the rare case that a student recognizes a volunteer advocate, a different advocate can be made available. You can also apply to become a peer advocate. Other LGBTQ Support Queer Academics Discussion Group Queer Academics is a supportive discussion group open to LGBTQ students from all of Columbia's graduate and professional schools and General Studies. Come meet students from other departments and schools, identify and discuss issues relevant to our communities, and learn about resources on and off campus. View group meeting schedule. More Resources for Transgender and Non-Binary Students Visit our Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Care Services page to see a full list of services. Related Resources The Center: The Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual & Transgender Community Center From the Go Ask Alice! Archives: Gay, but afraid to say it? Risks of anal sex, other than STIs? Frequently Asked Questions: What should I expect at my HIV test during walk-in hours with GHAP? What if I test positive for HIV? Can I get tested for more than HIV at GHAP? What is the difference between STI testing at Medical Services and HIV testing at GHAP? Can they both administer the tests? Make an Appointment Closed Sorry, we are closed. Open Now edit location Check out our office locations and hours Health Unit Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Clinical Specialty LGBTQ Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close