Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Staff Senate Staff Senate Endowed Scholarship Support the Staff Senate Endowed Scholarship by purchasing our one-of-a-kind wooden collectible! View the 2021-22 Staff Senate Endowed Scholarship recipients In 1989, the Senate established an academic scholarship that was awarded to the child of a staff member. Today, fifteen (15) $2,500 scholarships are awarded based on need and academic achievement. These scholarships are made possible through generous support from Clemson University staff, faculty, administrators and community friends. Funds are raised by payroll deduction and from other fund-raising efforts by the Staff Senate. Eligibility Who can receive the scholarship? The applicant must be a child of a currently employed full-time Clemson University staff (non-faculty) member and fit the criteria for academic performance and financial need. Academic Performance: University policies state, in part, that students must have a minimum cumulative 2.5 GPA and be enrolled as a full-time undergraduate student to be considered for scholarship assistance. Official Registrar records are consulted to determine major, class, GPA and other selection criteria as of May 1. Incoming first-year students are also eligible to receive these scholarships which are restricted to undergraduates seeking their first Bachelor’s degree. They will be based on high school records, entrance examination scores and other qualifications established by the University Scholarships and Awards Committee. Admission acceptance must be finalized before consideration can be given to prospective recipients. Financial Need: Applicants must also submit a Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) by January 2 for incoming freshmen and April 1 for upperclassmen. Contact Clemson's Office of Student Financial Aid at 864-656-2280 if you have questions about the FAFSA. The use of this scholarship is not permitted for any summer sessions regardless of enrollment status and is subject to the Satisfactory Academic Progress Policy. More details regarding Satisfactory Academic Progress can be found at www.clemson.edu/financial-aid. Applying How do I apply for the scholarship? Students who wish to be considered for a Staff Senate scholarship must Complete the admission process by December 31 and be accepted to the University prior to May 1 to be considered. Submit a Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) by January 2 for incoming freshmen and April 1 for upperclassmen. Contact Clemson's Office of Student Financial Aid at 864-656-2280 if you have questions about the FAFSA. Submit the Restricted Scholarship application by May 1 each year (required). Supporting documentation is not needed, but please complete the box stating how the student qualifies for the scholarship. Application is open from March 1 - May 1 each year. Deadlines When must the application be received? The application opens on March 1 and is open through the deadline on May 1, 2022. This deadline applies to: Submission of the Restricted Scholarship Application Admissions acceptance (Students who wish to be considered for a Staff Senate scholarship must complete the admission process by December 31 and be accepted by the University prior to May 1.) Submission of the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) by January 2 for incoming freshmen and April 1 for upperclassmen. Selection Process How are scholarships awarded? Recipients of the scholarships are selected by the University Scholarships and Awards Committee in early June. Recipients are emailed to check their iROAR account. Staff Senate scholarships are NOT automatically renewable. Applications must be resubmitted every year to be considered for scholarship eligibility. Home Bylaws Committees Minutes Newsletter Staff Senate Endowed Scholarship Employee Emergency Fund Thank You, Veterans Contact Us Join Staff Senate Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram