Georgetown University Open Search Form Who We Are The Whole Person Our Catholic & Jesuit Heritage Our History Student Stories Faculty Stories Alumni Stories Campus & City Living in DC Opportunities Getting Around Service & Action Campus Life Housing On-Campus Dining Clubs & Organizations Arts & Culture Community & Diversity Student Life Blog Wellness & Safety Sports & Fitness Health Center Safety & Emergency Preparedness Athletics External Link Academic Life Restless Inquiry Our Schools Areas of Study Study Abroad Research Centers and Programs Global Initiatives External Link Library System Admissions & Aid Undergraduate Admissions External Link Graduate Admissions Financial Aid External Link Commitment to Access News Events Giving Alumni Info For Students Faculty Staff/AAP Alumni Parents Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Content Skip to Footer News Events Giving Alumni Info For Students Faculty Staff/AAP Alumni Parents Georgetown University Who We Are The Whole Person Our Catholic & Jesuit Heritage Our History Student Stories Faculty Stories Alumni Stories Campus & City Living in DC Opportunities Getting Around Service & Action Campus Life Housing On-Campus Dining Clubs & Organizations Arts & Culture Community & Diversity Student Life Blog Wellness & Safety Sports & Fitness Health Center Safety & Emergency Preparedness Athletics External Link Academic Life Restless Inquiry Our Schools Areas of Study Study Abroad Research Centers and Programs Global Initiatives External Link Library System Admissions & Aid Undergraduate Admissions External Link Graduate Admissions Financial Aid External Link Commitment to Access Open Search Form Georgetown University Home Who We Are Who We Are We’re a leading research university with a heart. Founded in the decade that the U.S. Constitution was signed, we’re the nation’s oldest Catholic and Jesuit university. Today we’re a forward-looking, diverse community devoted to social justice, restless inquiry and respect for each person’s individual needs and talents. Play Youtube Video We Are Georgetown We’re a community of people who bridge our disparate experiences and identities. Meet the people and places that make Georgetown home. Georgetown Faces A Testimonial “Georgetown is home to me not because of the fancy buildings like Healy Hall, or its prestigious reputation, but rather because of the university’s care for the whole person as each of us attempts to live our lives for others.” Ayodele’s Story 1 of 1 Previous Slide Next Slide Our Core Values Our holistic approach to education, the rigorous spirit of inquiry that makes our community and alumni a force for change in the world, our commitment to social justice – all underly everything we do as an institution with a rich Catholic and Jesuit heritage. Our Catholic & Jesuit Heritage 17,000 Students from 135 countries currently enrolled 9 Faith traditions represented by campus ministry chaplaincies 200,000 Total alumni in the global Georgetown network Play Youtube Video The Georgetown Experience You’ll come to Georgetown to deepen your passions and beliefs, and you’ll leave as the person you were always meant to be. Your heart and mind will open as you connect with a community that shares a commitment to social justice and the common good. The Whole Person “It’s likely that you will come to love some of the most amazing souls this campus has to offer. That love may come in the form of friendships that you know will last forever. Or maybe it will find its way to your heart through mentors who will offer guidance and perspectives that could change your worldview entirely.” – Jerome Student Stories “Research is detective work and that is what truly appealed to me… I try to focus on what gets me excited, and that is really appealing to students’ imaginations and framing it in the context of discovery.” – Professor Chandan Vaidya Faculty Stories “I was fortunate enough to have a couple of ambassadors and former ambassadors as professors, [and that] opened a whole new universe to me of opportunity. So, my time at the School of Foreign Service was really formative, and I am glad I can lean on it in some respects as ambassador.” – Alaina Alumni Stories Previous Story Next Story Explore More Campus Life Our History Contact Us Directory Visit Maps About Academic Calendar Careers Media Resources FacebookFacebook TwitterTwitter InstagramInstagram LinkedInLinkedIn YouTubeYouTube Georgetown University 37th and O Streets, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20057 P. 202-687-0100 Georgetown University Privacy Policy Copyright Web Accessibility Notice of Non-Discrimination © 2022 Georgetown University Search Georgetown Search Close the Search Dialog