COVID-19 Critical COVID-19 information and resources. Read More Skip to Main Content Font Size Smaller Bigger Contrast Lightb Darkb Menu Search University of Miami Health System Close Search Admissions and Education Page 1 Admissions and Education arrow--button Medical Programs Graduate Studies Postdoctoral Programs Professional Training Continuing Medical Education Externships Observerships Certifications Library Administrative Offices Student Life Close Drawer Research Page 1 Research arrow--button Basic Science Research Clinical & Translational Research Data Science & IT Departments Centers & Institutes Administrative Offices Funding Opportunities Research Resources Find a Core Facility Find Clinical Trials Close Drawer Departments Page 1 Departments arrow--button Clinical Departments Basic Science Departments Centers & Institutes Administrative Offices Library Student Life Close Drawer About Us Page 1 About Us arrow--button Leadership Culture Change History Administrative Offices Community Outreach Diversity & Inclusion Close Drawer Search Seeking Patient Care? Alumni Giving May 27th, 2022 Sylvester Rectal Cancer Program Receives Elite NAPRC Accreditation from American College of Surgeons Read the story May 23rd, 2022 A Dream, Finally Realized Read the story May 25th, 2022 Desai Sethi Urology Institute Makes Impressive Showing at 2022 AUA Annual Meeting Read the story May 20th, 2022 Dr. Mario Stevenson Is Awarded the Raymond F. Schinazi and Family Endowed Chair in Biomedicine Read the story May 23rd, 2022 NCI to Fund Sylvester-led Study on How Exercise and Nutrition May Improve Ovarian Cancer Outcomes Read the story May 19th, 2022 Dr. Joan St. Onge Completes Executive Leadership in Academic Medicine Program Read the story Next:A Dream, Finally Realized Next:Desai Sethi Urology Institute Makes Impressive Showing at 2022 AUA Annual Meeting Next:Dr. Mario Stevenson Is Awarded the Raymond F. Schinazi and Family Endowed Chair in Biomedicine Next:NCI to Fund Sylvester-led Study on How Exercise and Nutrition May Improve Ovarian Cancer Outcomes Next:Dr. Joan St. Onge Completes Executive Leadership in Academic Medicine Program Next:Sylvester Rectal Cancer Program Receives Elite NAPRC Accreditation from American College of Surgeons University of Miami Medicine Magazine Our special digital edition describes how Miller School researchers capture lightning in the laboratory, and their groundbreaking discoveries bring new treatments and cures. View Digital Edition The Miller School Experience The mission of the Miller School of Medicine – our “why” – is to empower our students to transform lives, and inspire them to serve our global community. About Us The Future is Ever Brighter Support for Ever Brighter: The Campaign for Our Next Century will further our work to train the next generation of compassionate health care providers and visionary researchers, promote health equity throughout South Florida and beyond, and position the Miller School to become one of the nation’s preeminent medical institutions. Read More Education Miller School teams are developing a groundbreaking, distinctive curriculum for the future of medicine. “The new curriculum will produce physician leaders who will have the opportunity to shape the future of medicine, direct health systems, and champion discovery and its translation into clinical interventions,” said Laurence B. Gardner, M.D., executive dean for education and policy. Medical ProgramsGraduate StudiesPostdoctoral ProgramsProfessional TrainingContinuing Medical EducationExternshipsObservershipsCertifications Research The University of Miami Miller School of Medicine is a research powerhouse, achieving international recognition for breakthroughs and advanced knowledge in diabetes, cancer, eye care, HIV, immune therapies, spinal cord injury, and much more. Basic ScienceClinical & TranslationalClinical TrialsDepartmentsCenters & InstitutesCore FacilitiesLaboratories Community Outreach Students and physicians at the University of Miami Miller School of Medicine are dedicated to providing quality healthcare to the underserved populations in South Florida. Community Outreach Patient Care At South Florida's only university-based medical system, UHealth delivers leading-edge patient care by the region's best doctors, powered by the groundbreaking research from the students and faculty at the Miller School of Medicine. Visit UHealth The Number 1 NIH-funded institution in Florida. National Institutes of Health research grants are vital for advancing research that leads to a greater understanding of a wide variety of diseases and public health issues. facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Research Gate Resources News Admissions and Education Research MyUM UM Network Alumni Association Giving Wellness Center Employment University of Miami Visit Campus Highlights Transportation & Parking UHealth Bascom Palmer Eye Institute Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center Emergency Information | Privacy Statement & Legal Notices © 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved