Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search More sites UM Alumni Association Philanthropic Giving Alumni News Get Involved Events Learn Benefits Our Stories Give About Us Get Involved Events Learn Benefits Our Stories Give About Us Search Get Involved Events Learn Benefits Our Stories Give About Us The Future Is Ever Brighter! This is our moment to take bold action, to drive positive change through the transformative power of people and ideas. Join us as we embark on this ambitious journey that we call Ever Brighter. Learn more. The Future Is Ever Brighter! This is our moment to take bold action, to drive positive change through the transformative power of people and ideas. Join us as we embark on this ambitious journey that we call Ever Brighter. Learn more. Welcome Founded in 1930, the University of Miami Alumni Association is your connection to more than 198,000 living alumni. Governed by a volunteer Board of Directors, the association is committed to encouraging lifelong education, providing quality services and programming, and assisting in the continued development and enhancement of the University of Miami. Give Today Custom Career Content Update Your Information Launch Experience News Feed ’Canes Communities celebrate return of two national programs More than 650 alumni nationwide turned this spring out to participate in ’Canes Day of Service and Global Networking Week. A mindful life Trae Williamson, Ph.D. ’20, is president of his family’s car dealership and part-time faculty member at Miami Herbert, giving him scope to illuminate mindfulness in all facets of life. Building and applying litigation skills Katie Phang, J.D. ’00, has built a stellar career as a litigator as well as legal analyst for NBC News. Her new show, “The Choice from MSNBC,” premiered in April 2022. Alumni family supports new digital tech initiative With a gift from the José Milton Foundation, the College of Engineering will launch a multifaceted digital technology initiative. UPCOMING EVENTS: ULearn: Digital Library Click here to explore free lectures, podcasts, online courses, and more. ULearn: Digital Library Click here to explore free lectures, podcasts, online courses, and more. U MIAMI ON: University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Alumni Association Newman Alumni Center 6200 San Amaro Drive, Suite 200 Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-2872 305-284-2872 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices