Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Student Center and Activities Student Organizations Student Organizations Guidelines and Funding Options Student Organization Resources Hughes-Trigg Student Center Hughes-Trigg Student Center Welcome Desk HTSC Renovations Event Information Event Information HTSC Event Calendar Reservation Rates Room Features HTSC Procedures About Us ☰ Guidelines and Funding Options Student Center and Activities Student Organizations Guidelines and Funding Options Applications for temporary charters will reopen in Fall 2022. The following guidelines apply to all student organizations at SMU. Student Affairs Event Guidelines Solicitation and Sponsorship Student Organization Standing Student Organization Advisor Expectations Donations / Fundraising / Solicitation Guidelines Party Theme Guidelines and SMU Student Values Statement Off-Campus Events with Alcohol Approval Film Screenings and Copyright Use of University Name Policy SMU student organizations are expected to comply with all SMU policies including "1.5: Use of University Name" which addresses student organization names. Read Policy 1.5: Use of University Name Student Organization Events During Finals Undergraduate and graduate student organizations may not hold programs, events, or activities of any kind during periods designated as final exams or reading days on their school's respective academic calendar in order to support student academic success. Signs and Posters Signs and posters should: Respect the rights of others, reflect responsible behavior, be conducive to the educational environment, and uphold the integrity of the University; Bear the name of the sponsoring student organization or department; Receive appropriate approval for each facility before being posted; Follow Stake Sign Guidelines for signs placed on campus grounds. Funding Options for SMU Student Organizations Student Senate Weekly Funding Requests may be submitted by any undergraduate student organization or individual student as long as the request benefits SMU and the student population and complies with the Student Senate Finance Committee Standards. Semester budgets may be requested by chartered student organizations through the Student Senate Finance Committee. Organization leaders registered on Connect will receive information on this process via email from the Finance Chair. Student Comptroller Mothers' and Dads' Clubs Grants are available for chartered student organizations from the Mothers’ and Dads’ Clubs via an annual application process. Organizations may submit an application via the Mothers’ and Dads’ Clubs application website, which opens at the beginning of the spring semester. If a student organization is awarded a grant, that funding is available for the upcoming academic year (beginning the summer immediately after the grant is awarded through the following fall and spring semesters). Grants range from $500-$2000 per organization. Application Website Presidents Commission on Substance Abuse Prevention Charged with addressing substance abuse issues in the areas of education, prevention, enforcement, and assistance. Events must occur after 10pm on a weekend night (Thur-Sun) and/or be focused on substance abuse prevention in nature. Available to recognized student organizations Applications open August 1 and close March 1 of each year Student Affairs Special Funding Implementation Workgroup on Sexual Misconduct Policies & Procedures Helps campus uphold SMU's commitment to fostering a healthy and supportive environment, to holding members of the community accountable if they violate the rights of others, and to providing care and counseling to the victims of sexual misconduct. Sole purpose of the activity must be centered around sexual violence prevention Available to recognized student organizations Applications open August 1 and close March 1 of each year Student Affairs Special Funding Fundraising Student organizations can fundraise for themselves and their activities. There are forms and processes both for raising funds (cash donations) and soliciting goods (donations of food, t-shirts, and other needed items). Student Comptroller Advisor Consult with your organization advisor. They may be aware of other opportunities particular to your organization. Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share