Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open the search panel Open the main menu Search Go Close the search panel Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers News Events Alumni Giving About Library Login Open the Search panel Admissions Admissions Why Columbia J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics Academics J.D. Program and Curriculum LL.M. Program and Curriculum Executive LL.M. Program and Curriculum J.S.D. Program and Curriculum Dual and Joint Degrees International Programs Public Interest and Public Service Experiential Learning Courses Registration Services Academic Calendar Executive Education Areas of Study Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Criminal Justice Data Analytics Environment and Energy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Intellectual Property and Technology International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace Leadership Legal History Litigation and Dispute Resolution National Security and Privacy Social Justice and Human Rights Faculty & Scholarship Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Directory Research Centers and Programs Scholarship Archive Workshops, Lectures, and Colloquia Careers Careers Private Sector Careers Public Interest and Public Service Careers Academic Careers Judicial Clerkships Employment Statistics Employment Policies Community Life Community Life Visit Campus Dean’s Welcome Your Campus, Your City Student Life Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Strategic Initiatives Workshops, Lectures, and Colloquia Faculty and Scholarship Workshops, Lectures, and Colloquia More in this Section Explore Workshops, Lectures, and Colloquia: Ambedkar Law Lectures Colloquium on Courts and the Legal Process Comparative Constitutional Law in the Global South Comparative and International Law Workshop Faculty Lunch Workshops Law and Economics Workshop Legal History Workshop Legal Theory Workshop Public Law Workshop Tax Policy Colloquium Related News and Stories Read All Stories More in The Press Faculty News Full-Time Faculty Members Join Columbia Law School Law School News News Celebrating Women’s History Month In The Press Seize, Don’t Just Freeze, Putin’s Billions Michael W. Doyle | The Washington Post Related Events View All Events Jun 1 2022 Revolution 12/13 | Abolition Feminism with Sarah Haley Wed, 6:00 p.m. - 8:00 p.m. The People's Forum, 320 W. 37th St., New York, NY 10018 Jun 2 2022 Why US-EU Cooperation is More Important Now Than Ever Thu, 1:00 p.m. - 2:00 p.m. Online Event Zoom Webinar View All Events Admissions Why Columbia Visit 435 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 212-854-2640 Contact Us Social Media (Administrative Title) Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Instagram Admissions Academics Areas of Study Faculty & Scholarship Careers Community Life Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers Login News Events Alumni Giving About Library Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Donate © Copyright 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York.