Skip to the main content United States Air Force Academy Go to home page image/svg+xml Page 1 Go to home page Link to home page Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Menu Search the Site Academics A rigorous academic program that balances STEM with the arts and humanities. Academics Core Curriculum Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Registrar Faculty and Staff Directory Academic Success Center Request a Transcript Investigator or Verifications Admissions News Research Learn more about cutting-edge research that supports the Air Force and our global society. Research Office of Research Research Centers Cadet Summer Research STEM Outreach Future Conflict Cadet Life Take a peek into the life of a United States Air Force Academy cadet. Cadet Life Dormitories & Dining Cadet Clubs Cadet Support Services Day in the Life Frequently Asked Questions Military With a focus on innovation and adaptation to the changing world of warfare, we’re setting higher expectations for what it means to serve. Military Basic Cadet Training Squadrons Airmanship Military Careers Wings of Blue Athletics About There’s no limit to what you will achieve here. Academics. Athletics. Military training. We deliver the future leaders of modern warfare. About Leadership Character Development History Awards Traditions Educational Innovation More Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today In This Section: Frequently Asked Questions Parents Clubs & Spirit Committees Contact Your Cadet PARENTS We understand being the parent of a cadet isn’t easy. Not only is your child being challenged to cope with the demands of college, but they must also balance rigorous military training to successfully graduate as Second Lieutenants in the United States Air and Space Forces. To ensure you have all the resources and knowledge to support your cadet during their academic career, we’re here to help. Frequently Asked Questions Your role as a proud, supportive parent is an important one. To help you effectively communicate and support this new chapter of your cadet’s life, we’ve compiled a list of the most commonly asked questions. Each cadet’s experience is unique, so for all remaining questions we ask that you first reach out to them for the most timely and relevant information. To learn more, click here. Graduation Graduation Week comprises of many activities and events across the U.S. Air Force Academy. Cadets and their guests take part in receptions, award ceremonies, baccalaureate services, concerts, parades, air demonstrations, and commissioning ceremonies. The week culminates at Falcon Stadium with the Graduation Ceremony. Speakers rotate between the President of the United States, Vice President, Secretary of Defense and Secretary of the Air Force. At the close of the ceremony, cadets are dismissed and ceremoniously toss their caps into the air. Cheers and celebration are quickly silenced by the roar of the legendary Thunderbirds flying overhead to honor the graduating class. To learn more, click here. Parents Clubs and Class Spirit Committees Local parent clubs and class spirit committees are an essential part of the Academy experience, as they facilitate communication between the university and parents of cadets. These organizations provide opportunities to ask questions, voice opinions and grow personal networks, while supporting cadets by purchasing gifts and sponsoring morale events. To learn more, click here. Parent's Weekend Parent’s Weekend is an exciting opportunity for cadets to reconnect with their family for the first time following Basic Cadet Training. It is held over Labor Day weekend and includes a Cadet Wing Parade, an Information Fair, and an opportunity for parents and cadets to attend Academic, Squadron, Athletic and Airfield open houses. To learn more, click here. RESOURCES Parents’ Guide for 2020-2021 2026 Appointee Booklet Prep School Appointee Booklet Important Dates Guide to Difficult Conversations Talking with College Students about Alcohol Sponsor Family Program Association of Graduates Parents Portal Air Force Academy Foundation Parent and Family Giving Media Parents Weekend 2021: Senior Leader Panel with Parents (video) Parents Weekend 2021: Senior Leader Panel with Parents Club Presidents (video) Class of 2025 Swearing In Ceremony (video) Prep School Parent Virtual Discussion on June 1, 2021 (video) Parents Virtual Discussion on April 26, 2021 (video) Class of 2025 Appointee Brief (video) CONTACT US Marie Nikovits, Parent Liaison 2304 Cadet Drive, Suite 3200 United States Air Force Academy, CO 80840 Phone: (719) 333-3828 | Toll-Free: (877) 268-3383 USAFA.Parent.Liaison@afacademy.af.edu ACADEMICS Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Research Centers Faculty and Staff Directory CAMPUS Events Employment Emergency Weather Helping Agencies Apps COMMUNITY AF CyberWorx USAFA Band Force Support Wings of Blue VISIT Visitors Campus Map Facilities Cadet Chapel Planetarium Base Access Contact Us Social Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Flickr © 2022 United States Air Force Academy, All Rights Reserved The appearance of hyperlinks does not constitute endorsement by the Department of the Air Force or the information, products, or services contained therein. For other than authorized activities such as military exchanges and morale, welfare and recreation sites, the Department of the Air Force does not exercise any editorial control over the information you may find at these locations. Such links provided are consistent with the stated purpose of this DOD Web site.