Skip to main content Skip to main content Give Give Schedule a Visit Lyle Visit SMU Tour Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Computer Science About CS About CS Why Computer Science? Message from the Chair Mission & Objectives Contact Us Open Positions ABET Accreditation Academics Academics Prospective Students Current Students Undergraduate Programs Master's Programs M.S./MBA Dual Degree Programs Doctoral Programs Courses Research Research Faculty Research Areas Labs and Groups SMU Artificial Intelligence Laboratory Darwin Deason Institute for Cyber Security Undergraduate Research Opportunities People News & Events ☰ Computer Science Computer Science Academics Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Programs It is an incredibly exciting time to study Computer Science at Lyle. With the support of world-class faculty, the latest technology tools, and cutting-edge research, we encourage students to tap their intellectual abilities to approach difficult problems and create new solutions. The Department of Computer Science offers three undergraduate degree plans and one minor. Majors B.S. in Computer Science The B.S. in Computer Science degree option provides not only a thorough education in core Computer Science subjects, such as programming languages, data science, algorithms and computer networks, but also offers students several tracks and electives to choose from. More Info B.A. in Computer Science The B.A. in Computer Science degree provides students with a great deal of flexibility to double (or even triple) major with any available degree programs across campus. It provides a solid foundation in Computer Science and allows students the opportunity to pursue a track option, as in the B.S. degree plan. More Info B.S. in Computer Science (Premedical Specialization) The B.S. in Computer Science with Premedical Specialization provides a solid foundation in Computer Science and allows students to simultaneously take necessary biological and physical science courses to prepare for medical, dental or veterinary schools. More Info Minor Computer Science Minor The Computer Science Minor Lyle is designed to provide basic proficiency in Computer Science. Requirements focus on the principles of Computer Science, programming concepts, data and discrete computational structures. More Info Joint Degree Program Undergraduates can enroll in interdisciplinary joint degree programs with the Meadow School of Arts, including a B.A. in Computer Science with a B.A. in Creative Computing, or a B.A. in Computer Science with a B.A. in Music. Other combined majors can be arranged in consultation with an advisor. Interested students should contact the Department for additional details. Accelerated Pathways Master's Degree Program The Accelerated Pathways program allows students to complete both B.S. and M.S. degrees in five years. Up to nine total credit hours of graduate courses may be applied toward fulfilling the student's undergraduate program requirements in the final year of their bachelor’s degree. For additional information, students should contact the undergraduate program director. Teaching Certification Computer Science majors interested in earning a teaching certificate should contact the Simmons School of Education for information on requirements for additional course and student teaching. Academics Prospective Students Current Students Undergraduate Programs Master's Programs M.S./MBA Dual Degree Programs Doctoral Programs Courses School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube search-plus