Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory ADVANCE at Brown Faculty Development Work-Life Balance ADVANCE at Brown Work-Life Balance Much of the work to implement policies and support for work-life balance began prior to and in tandem with the awarding of the ADVANCE grant. In 2006, Brown University became a founding member of the New England Higher Education Recruitment Consortium (NE-HERC), a free database of job openings at member institutions. In 2008, the Office of the Dean of the Faculty launched the Family-Friendly Policies and Programs for Brown Faculty website, which outlines University policies, procedures, and dependent care resources available to faculty. Among the policies included is the opt-out tenure-clock extension for parents of a new child and the Dependent Care Travel Fund, which provides support for dependent care expenses incurred in association with professional travel. In addition, University Human Resources implemented a Backup Care Program at Brown to assist with caring for dependents. The Mt. Hope Childcare center opened an infant room with priority placement for Brown faculty and staff in Fall 2009. ADVANCE at Brown promotes these policies as well as supplemental information including extensive local employment information and resources for academic leadership and policy makers. ADVANCE Wiki Find here an extensive list of resources for faculty, chairs, and administrators on issues related to work-life balance. Family caregiving and dual career resources are included as well as information about Rhode Island for potential job candidates. Includes information from department chair workshops sponsored by ADVANCE at Brown. Privacy Rooms for Nursing Mothers Resources include a list of privacy room locations on campus for use by Brown University faculty, staff, and students. Information on Brown's policy for support of nursing mothers in the workplace as well as the business case for breastfeeding support are also available. About People Leadership Program Faculty Development 2012-2013 Seminar Series 2011-12 Science Seminar Series FONE One-to-One Faculty Mentoring Program Peer-Mentoring Groups Sponsored Project Support Work-Life Balance Transforming Departments Visiting Scholars Resources News Print this Page Share this Page Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory