Skip to Main Content Brown University Graduate Programs Search Menu Graduate Programs Cybersecurity Sc.M. department Computer Science Inquire Apply All Graduate Programs Navigate This Page Navigate This Page About the Program Admission Information Financial Aid Completion Requirements Leadership Contact and Location The Master of Science in Cybersecurity is a fully online degree program — a one-of-a-kind Ivy League graduate program offered by Brown University’s Department of Computer Science. Brown is a longtime cybersecurity innovator, and the program’s curriculum is rooted in an interdisciplinary approach that provides students with sophisticated technical skills and a comprehensive understanding of cybersecurity technology and policy at the local, national and global levels. Our program offers two tracks: the Computer Science Track and the Policy Track, offered in collaboration with the Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs. Graduate students will benefit from online courses taught by world-class faculty and industry experts that will prepare them with real-world solutions for a career that's in demand. When our students examine cybersecurity events such as the SolarWinds incident, they explore politics and history alongside the technical elements of cyber threats. Through your coursework, you'll: Gain intellectual and scientific frameworks for approaching novel cybersecurity challenges Assess security and privacy implications of emerging technologies to identify vulnerabilities and create solutions Develop methods for understanding and describing threat intelligence through demonstrations of vulnerabilities, attacks and defenses Examine the technological, economic, human, legal, organizational, socio-political and policy challenges in this field Additional Information Time Commitments, Planning and What to Expect As an online graduate student, you will attend many of the same classes as other Brown students, but remotely. This means that while some class sessions will be held live and in person for on-campus students, you'll have the ability to fully participate by viewing recorded sessions and engaging online with all other class activities. Attendance at a set class time will not be mandatory and you won't be penalized for missing live sessions. Many courses (and all required courses) will allow online attendance to live sessions, and you will have the ability to join them if your schedule allows. You can complete the entire program asynchronously — you'll view lectures when your schedule permits during each week of classes. The program is not self-paced, so you'll need to stay on schedule with the same assignment deadlines and readings as your in-person classmates. Admission Information Inquire Apply Admission Requirements GRE Subject: Not required GRE General: Not required TOEFL/IELTS: If your native language is not English, the TOEFL or IELTS is required. International applicants: a minimum score of 105 on your TOEFL is a prerequisite for admission to the program. The TOEFL iBT Special Home Edition and the IELTS Indicator exam are accepted. Students from mainland China may submit the TOEFL ITP Plus exam. Official Transcripts: Please submit transcripts for all programs, both undergraduate and graduate, for which you were awarded a degree. Please note that unofficial transcripts may be uploaded to the online application, but official transcripts will be required before enrolling if you are admitted to the program. Letters of Recommendations: Two (2) recommendations required. If you graduated from a degree program in the last 5 years or if you are currently enrolled in a degree program: One recommendation from a current or previous professor is required and one recommendation from either an academic or a professional reference. All other applicants: One recommendation from a professional reference is required and one recommendation from either an academic or a professional reference. Personal Statement: Please write and upload a personal statement on why you are pursuing a master’s degree in cybersecurity. The statement should specify which track you are applying to, why you selected that track, and your professional goals for pursuing this degree. If relevant, include content that describes your previous professional work in cybersecurity and academic research. Your statement must be double spaced and in Times New Roman font. The statement should not exceed 800 words. Resume/CV: Required Additional Requirements: Computer Science Track To apply to the Computer Science Track, you must have successfully completed: An undergraduate degree in a STEM or social sciences discipline Undergraduate-level coursework in (1) mathematics that covers calculus, discrete mathematics, and probability or statistics, and (2) introductory computer science that covers computer programming and data structures and algorithms Policy Track For the Policy Track, you will be reviewed on the totality of your application, with an emphasis on coursework or other experience that demonstrates the writing and analytical skills relevant to the study of cybersecurity policy. You also must have completed an undergraduate degree in any subject. We strongly encourage you to submit an additional statement that summarizes any relevant academic, professional or volunteer experience in policy and cybersecurity. You also may include information about coursework that involves significant writing. Information about coursework should be listed with descriptions and grades earned. Restrictions and Licensing Requirements To comply with OFAC restrictions and licensing requirements, Brown University currently does not offer online programs to individuals physically located in the following areas: Cuba, Iran, North Korea, Syria, and the Crimea, Donetsk and Luhansk regions of Ukraine. Please note that this limitation is location based, as well as applies to all citizens of these countries, regardless of location, who are ordinarily resident in these countries. View more information pertaining to embargoed country regulations for online courses. If you have any questions regarding the application process for this program, please email masters_admissions@brown.edu. Application Deadlines Spring 2023: TBA Fall 2022: February 15th, 2022 for priority review. Regular deadline April 4th, 2022. For more information about Fall and Spring admissions deadlines, please visit our Cybersecurity Admissions webpage Dates/Deadlines Admission Deadline April 4, 2022 Early Admission Deadline February 15, 2022 5th Year Deadline May 1, 2022 Financial Aid The Master of Science in Cybersecurity program offers two types of scholarships: one covers 50% of the cost of tuition; the other covers 25% of the cost of tuition. Scholarship funds only apply to courses that are required for graduation from the program. You're automatically considered for scholarships; there is no separate scholarship application. If you're not awarded one, there's unfortunately no opportunity for reconsideration. Our scholarships are limited at this time, and you should explore a variety of funding options. Note that if you are interested in our limited scholarships, we encourage you to apply at the earliest date possible. The advantage of applying by our Priority Deadlines is that you will be among the first considered for scholarships. Find out more about graduate financial aid. Completion Requirements In addition to meeting the course requirements listed on the Curriculum and Tracks page, regardless of which track you're in you must: Complete all courses with a grade of A or B Enroll in courses at the 1000 level or higher only Complete at least two 2000-level courses Ensure that all courses are approved by your academic advisor and the director of graduate studies for your track Leadership Department Chair Ugur Cetintemel ugur_cetintemel@brown.edu Director of Graduate Studies (Computer Science Track) Bernardo Palazzi bernardo_palazzi@brown.edu Director of Graduate Studies (Policy Track) Timothy Edgar timothy_edgar@brown.edu Deputy Director of Graduate Studies (Computer Science and Policy Tracks) Ernesto Zaldivar ernesto_zaldivar@brown.edu Contact and Location Department of Computer Science Mailing Address Brown University Box 1910 401-863-7600 Visit the Department of Computer Science Resources Program Faculty Program Handbook Program Format Program FAQs Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Graduate School School of Engineering School of Professional Studies School of Public Health Warren Alpert Medical School This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Cybersecurity Open details for Cybersecurity Bookmark this Page