Skip to main content Search About Student Opportunities Contact Us Projects Automatic Record Clearance Ban-the-Box Court-Ordered Pretrial Electronic Monitoring Pretrial Detention Prosecuting Nonviolent Misdemeanor Offenses People News & Events News Events Past Events Reimagining Community Safety Speaker Series Voir Dire Podcast Research & Publications Roundtable on Racial Disparities in Massachusetts Criminal Courts Policy Topics Publications Executive Sessions Research Archive Search About Student Opportunities Contact Us Projects Automatic Record Clearance Ban-the-Box Court-Ordered Pretrial Electronic Monitoring Pretrial Detention Prosecuting Nonviolent Misdemeanor Offenses People News & Events News Events Past Events Reimagining Community Safety Speaker Series Voir Dire Podcast Research & Publications Roundtable on Racial Disparities in Massachusetts Criminal Courts Policy Topics Publications Executive Sessions Research Archive Search Search The Program in Criminal Justice Policy and Management Founded in 1980, PCJ has sought from the beginning to promote sound policy and effective management in the administration of safety and justice. You are here Home Malcolm Wiener Center for Social Policy Programs & Initiatives The Program in Criminal Justice Policy and Management News and Commentary It’s time for Massachusetts to eliminate cash bail—Commentary by Isabella Jorgensen and Sandra Susan Smith What happens when jurors are disproportionately white? Not justice. — Op-ed by Geraldine S. Hines, Sandra Susan Smith, and Nina Chernoff Professor Sandra Susan Smith named faculty director of the Malcolm Wiener Center for Social Policy at Harvard Kennedy School Experts argue that more work is needed to remove the stigma of a criminal record on job applications News Archive Events The Social Costs of Pretrial Detention (5/11/22) Rethinking Street Safety: Can Removing Policing and Prosecution of Traffic Violations Make Us Safer? (4/13/22) A Perspective on Policing from Across the Pond: The Promise of Minimalism in British Policing (4/7/22) Reimagining Community Safety: Reducing Racial Disparities by Removing Police from Traffic Enforcement with Sarah Seo (11/17/21) More Past Events Research Presumptive Declination and Diversion in Suffolk County, MA — New research by Felix Owusu Companies Can Expand Their Talent Pool By Giving Ex-Convicts a Second Chance—New working paper by Will Dobbie The Limits of Ban-the-Box Legislation — New research by Christopher Herring and Sandra Susan Smith The Current State of Bail Reform in the United States: Results of a Landscape Analysis of Bail Reforms Across All 50 States — New paper by Sandra Susan Smith and Isabella Jorgensen Policy Topics Current Projects Reducing Racial Disparities through Decriminalization in Massachusetts In this new policy brief, the Decriminalization and Policing Working Group of the Roundtable on Racial Disparities in Massachusetts Criminal Courts looks at four approaches to decriminalization and why some of these approaches might not reduce racial disparities. The policy brief then highlights some promising paths forward for decriminalization that also lead to reductions in racial disparities and how more and better data is needed to enable policymakers to evaluate these policy interventions. 2022 Doctoral Research Grant Awards Winners We are excited to announce the 2022 recipients of Program in Criminal Justice Graduate Student Research Grants. The award process was open to PhD candidates from any of the units on Harvard’s campus conducting research to address questions related to the criminal legal system. The grantees are Nicolette Bardele, DeAnza Cook and Chika Okafor. Felix Owusu joins Program in Criminal Justice as Post-Doctoral Research Fellow Owusu recently completed his PhD in Public Policy at Harvard University. Trained as an economist, his research blends data science, experimental and quasi-experimental research designs, and deep substantive knowledge to understand the application of law and bureaucratic processes in law enforcement agencies and their impacts across race and class. He was the lead researcher on the 2020 report on Racial Disparities in the Massachusetts Criminal System. Roundtable on Racial Disparities in Massachusetts Criminal Courts The Roundtable brings together leaders from across the Commonwealth, including community organizers, social/racial justice organizers, academics/researchers, policymakers, criminal legal system agency heads, and judges. The overall goal of the Roundtable is to profoundly influence future policies, practices, and procedures in Massachusetts that will help to eradicate sources of racial inequities and resulting disparities in the courts. Harvard University Crime, Punishment, and Violence Course Guide: 2021-2022 Looking for a Harvard course on crime and punishment? The Program in Criminal Justice Policy and Management compiles an annual course guide as an introduction to the wide variety of Harvard courses that may be relevant to students interested in criminal justice policy. Voir Dire Podcast Joins PCJ PCJ is excited to announce that it has adopted Voir Dire, a podcast formerly housed at the HLS Criminal Justice Policy Program. You can expect to hear in-depth conversations with folks on the front lines of reforming the criminal legal system. Some episodes will feature republication of conversations hosted by PCJ and some will present new interviews by the podcast's host, Schuyler Daum. You can find an archive as well as our most recent conversation here. Join Our Mailing List Sign up for our mailing list to receive updates on research and events. Join Our Mailing List Student Opportunities Learn about courses, student research funding, the Criminal Justice PIC and other student opportunities. Link to Student Opportunities Malcolm Wiener Center for Social Policy Harvard Kennedy School of Government 79 JFK Street Cambridge, MA 02138 People About Us Projects Student Opportunities News & Events Current Research Publications Executive Sessions Contact Us Privacy Web Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. https://www.facebook.com/HKSCriminalJustice https://twitter.com/HKS_PCJ https://www.linkedin.com/company/program-in-criminal-justice-policy-and-managem… https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCUtV3gKT05ZUMP27CD8XjqA