Skip to Main Content apply now ☰ Students Parents Alumni People WyoWeb Virtual Tour Give Events A-Z Directory Admissions UW Admissions First Year Transfer International Graduate Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Scholarships Academics Explore Colleges Academic Affairs Catalog/Schedules Degree Plans Graduate Education Honors College Majors/Degrees UW at a Distance Art Museum UW Libraries Athletics NCAA Athletics Athletics Traditions Cowboy Joe Club Athletics Tickets Campus Recreation Club Sports Rodeo Intramural Sports NOLS Research Research & Econ Dev Wyoming INBRE Neuroscience Ctr Tech Business Ctr Nat Parks Service Research Prod Ctr Supercomputing Water Research WY EPSCoR/IDeA Amer Heritage Ctr UW Life Campus Safety Campus Maps Transit & Parking Res Life & Dining Diversity Student Orgs Cultural Prgms Fine Arts Campus Activities University Store UW Pride About UW Points of Pride Alumni Association Geological Museum Foundation Cowboy Parents UWyo Mag Brand Center Visit Campus Download Viewbook Give to UW UW Home Family Weekend Home Menu About Cowboy Parents Cowboy Parents Council Giving to Cowboy Parents Programs and Activities Contact Us Office of Student Success & Graduation 214 South 14th Street Laramie, WY 82070 Phone: 307-766-4858 Email: ssgraduation@uwyo.edu Family Weekend September 17-19, 2021 What is Family Weekend? Each year Family Weekend offers families an opportunity to share in the UW experience and spend time with their own special student. Parents, grandparents, siblings, and other family members of currently enrolled UW students are invited to visit the UW-Laramie campus for an event-packed, memory-making weekend! Family Weekend is hosted by the UW Division of Student Affairs. UPDATE: As of Sept. 14, 2021, we are at full capacity! Thanks for your interest. FAMILY WEEKEND EVENTS 2021 This schedule only contains confirmed events. Expect additional events to be added as they are confirmed throughout the summer. Parents may dine with students at Washakie Center Friday and Saturday at a discounted rate. 17th FRI Social Sign-in 1:30-5 p.m. University of Wyoming Art Museum Join us for a social hour with snacks and beverages and as we welcome you to UW. Enjoy guided tours through the art exhibits while here. Parking available for free in Art Museum lot. 17th FRI Laramie Farmer’s Market 3–7 p.m. Farmers Market Parking lot north of Depot Park on S. 1st Street Come check out downtown Laramie and enjoy some local music. The Farmers Market has fresh produce, handmade goods, seasonal cocktails, live music, and local art. 17th FRI Friday Night Movie Series 7-9 p.m. Family Room, Wyoming Union Get your popcorn ready and check out a showing of the movie "Cruella" with all family attendees. 18th SAT Registration/Check-in 8-9 a.m. University of Wyoming Alumni House Come register or check-in for Family weekend. Parking available for free in the Cooper Lot (across street from Alumni House). Call the student affairs office directly if you are unable to make it to one of our registration times. (307) 766-5123 18th SAT Family Fun Run/Walk/Roll 9:30-11 a.m. University of Wyoming Recreation Fields Join us for a free 5K to start off your Saturday. Check in from 9 a.m. until start of race. Parking available at Recreation Fields across from Indoor Tennis Complex. Route map available soon. 18th SAT Tailgate 11:30 a.m.-2 p.m. Come enjoy some lunch and games! Entry will be granted to those registered for Family Weekend only. Tailgate activities take place on the grass area north of the Ivinson Home For Ladies and south of War Memorial Gate 3. Parking will be available in the Brown Lot. See our map for more details. 18th SAT Ball State vs. Wyoming 2 p.m. War Memorial Stadium The Cowboys take on the Ball State Cardinals at 2 p.m. on Saturday. 18th SAT Vedauwoo Hike - Turtle Rock Trail 2 p.m. Forest Rd 720, Buford, WY 82052 Requires pre-registration, limited to first 20 participants. An alternative for families that may not want to attend our football game, you will meet the UW staff up at the trailhead and join us on a fantastic hike. You are responsible for your own transportation to the Turtle Rock Trailhead, and we will meet families at the Turtle Rock Entrance Station (corner of US Forest Service Rd 700K and Vedauwoo Glen Road.) 19th SUN Family Weekend Brunch 9-11 a.m. Marian H. Rochelle Gateway Center directions Head on over to the Gateway Center and enjoy a delicious brunch to wrap up Family Weekend. Parking available for free in War Memorial Stadium Ford lot. 19th SUN Vedauwoo Hike - Turtle Rock Trail 11:30 AM Forest Rd 720, Buford, WY 82052 Requires pre-registration, limited to first 20 participants. One last chance for fun before the weekend ends! You will meet the UW staff up at the trailhead and join us on a fantastic hike. You are responsible for your own transportation to the Turtle Rock Trailhead, and we will meet families at the Turtle Rock Entrance Station (corner of US Forest Service Rd 700K and Vedauwoo Glen Road). All weekend Half Acre Gym Pass Check out our fantastic recreation center. You will receive passes at registration allowing you access to Half Acre Gym. What's Included in the Cost of Registration? Cost to register is $70 for adults and $35 for children 12 and under. UW students get in free. Family Weekend is a self-funded event so your registration fee includes: the Family Weekend Tailgate Lunch on Saturday, President Brunch on Saturday, and Half acre gym access all weekend . It also covers the cost of overhead expenses including publications, registration materials, staff, building and room rentals, equipment rentals, and non-ticketed events and activities offered throughout the weekend. Event fees are kept to a minimum; the weekend is designed to break even by just covering its expenses. Please see our event schedule for more information How to Register Registration will be available by mid-July. If you have any questions about registration please contact us at studentaffairs@uwyo.edu. Canceling your registration Family Weekend is September 17 - 19, 2021. All cancellations will be assessed a $20 handling fee per person registered and must be received no later than September 6, 2021. NO refunds will be made following September 6, 2021. Family Weekend Registrations are non-transferable. If you are unable to attend Family Weekend, please email studentaffairs@uwyo.edu to cancel your registration. Contact Us Office of Student Success & Graduation 214 South 14th Street Laramie, WY 82070 Phone: 307-766-4858 Email: ssgraduation@uwyo.edu 1000 E. University Ave. Laramie, WY 82071 UW Operators (307) 766-1121 | Contact Us | Download Adobe Reader Accreditation | Virtual Tour | Emergency Preparedness | Employment at UW | Privacy Policy | Harassment & Discrimination | Accessibility