Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Federal Compliance & Student Consumer Information Menu Baylor>HEOA Compliance Federal Compliance & Student Consumer Information For more information about Baylor's reporting under HEOA guidelines, please contact: University Compliance & Risk Services Zoe Nagle Senior Director of Compliance Zoe_Nagle@baylor.edu Required Disclosures and Consumer Information Disclosures This webpage provides a single collecting point for links to information about Baylor University on a variety of subjects which may be helpful to prospective students, their families, high school counselors and coaches, as well as prospective employees, current students and current employees. This information is presented to comply with the Higher Education Opportunity Act of 2008, which requires institutions of higher education to disclose information and reports on various aspects of the institution's policies, procedures, operations and costs. Non-Loan Related Disclosure Requirements Availability of Institutional and Financial Aid Information (1) Notice of Availability of Institutional and Financial Aid Information. A Student Notification is emailed to each enrolled student annually. A link to Financial Aid information is also mailed to each enrolled student with the first term bill. Paper copies available upon request. (2) Contact Information for Assistance in Obtaining Institutional or Financial Aid Information Student Financial Assistance (3) Student Financial Aid Information: Prospective Students / Current Students (4) Notice of Federal Student Financial Aid Penalties for Drug Law Violations. This information is emailed to students upon enrollment. General Institutional Information (5) Privacy of Student Records - Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) (For additional information on FERPA, visit the U.S. Department of Education website) (6) Consumer Information on College Navigator Website (7) Facilities and Services Available to Students with Disabilities (8) Student Body Diversity (9) Cost of Attendance (10) Net Price Calculator (11) Refund Policy, Requirements for Withdrawal and for the Return of Title IV, HEA Financial Aid (12) Textbook Information (13) Academic Program (Educational Programs, Instructional Facilities, and Faculty) Undergraduate Catalog; Graduate Catalog; Seminary Catalog; Law Curriculum (14) Transfer of Credit Policies - Current Students | Prospective Students and Articulation Agreements (15) Institutional and Program Accreditation, Approval, or Licensure. List of Accredited Programs. For more information, contact the Office of the Provost. (16) Copyright Infringement Policies and Sanctions (Including Computer Use and File Sharing) Teacher Preparation Program (17) Teacher Preparation Program Report Health and Safety (18) Drug and Alcohol Abuse Prevention Program. A Student Notification is emailed to each enrolled student each semester. (19) Vaccinations Policies (20) Security Report (Including: Emergency Response and Evacuation Procedures), Timely Warnings, and Crime Log. A Student Notification is emailed to each enrolled student annually. Paper copies are available upon request (21) Security Report Missing Person Notification Policy This notice is emailed directly to students and employees. (22) Fire Safety Report and Fire Log (23) Information for Crime Victims About Disciplinary Hearings Student Outcomes (24) Retention Rate (25) Completion/Graduation and Transfer-out Rates (Including Disaggregated Completion/Graduation Rates) (26) Completion/Graduation and Transfer-out Rates for Students Receiving Athletically Related Student Aid (Including Disaggregated Completion/Graduation Rates) (27) Placement in Employment Rates (28) Job Placement Rates (29) Types of Graduate and Professional Education In Which the Institution's Graduates Enroll Title IX Information Intercollegiate Athletic Program (30) Intercollegiate Athletic Program Participation Rates and Financial Support Data Paper copies available upon request. Voter Registration (31) Voter Registration Forms A Voter Registration email is sent to all enrolled students annually. Disclosure Requirements Relating to Education Loans (L-1) State Grant Assistance (L-2) Student Loan Information Published by Dept of Education (L-3) National Student Loan Data System (L-4) Entrance Counseling for Student Borrowers (L-5) Exit Counseling for Student Borrowers (L-6) Private Education Loan Disclosures (Including Self-Certification Form) (L-7) Code of Conduct for Education Loans (L-8) Preferred Lender Lists (L-9) Preferred Lender Arrangements A copy of the semester notification may be viewed by visiting Federal Compliance and Student Consumer Notification Baylor University is fully committed to compliance with the applicable regulations and to providing candid, honest and reliable disclosure and student consumer information. Students or other persons with questions about the disclosures or consumer information posted on this page may contact Zoe Nagle, Senior Director of Compliance at Zoe_Nagle@baylor.edu and students or prospective students or who wish to report a complaint or misrepresentation, may contact the Ombuds to Students. HEOA Compliance Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678