Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Classics Home About People Faculty Affiliated Faculty Visiting Scholars & Fellows Graduate Students Staff Emeriti Faculty Office Hours Academics Diversity & Inclusion News Events Alumnae/i Graduate Alumnae/i Graduate Placement The Occasional Classicist Recent Graduates Site Navigation Home About Office Hours Contact Information Faculty Bookshelf The Couch Library Stay Connected [email protected] Intranet People Faculty Affiliated Faculty Visiting Scholars & Fellows Graduate Students Staff Emeriti Faculty Office Hours Academics Undergraduate Program Study Abroad Research & Travel Funding Academic Prizes Departmental Undergraduate Group Brown Classical Journal History Submission Guidelines Graduate Program PhD Programs Classics Sanskrit Track Ancient History Reading List MA in Classics Graduate Student Symposia Graduate Alumnae/i Graduate Placement Courses Classics Greek Latin Modern Greek Sanskrit Diversity & Inclusion Diversity Statements News The Occasional Classicist Stay Connected Events Annual Lectures & Events Latin Carol Celebration Past Classics Events Alumnae/i Graduate Alumnae/i Graduate Placement The Occasional Classicist Past Volumes Recent Graduates Class of 2020 Class of 2021 Visiting Faculty, Scholars, & Postdoctoral Fellows Vangelis Calotychos Visiting Associate Professor of Classics [email protected] Vangelis Calotychos was born and bred in London, U.K. He received his PhD in Comparative Literature from Harvard University, and has taught at Harvard, NYU, and Columbia. Currently Visiting Associate Professor in the Department of Classics at Brown, he teaches courses in comparative literature, cultural studies, and reception studies. In the 1990s, his concern for reconciliation after ethnic conflict led him to edit two interdisciplinary and intercommunal volumes about Cyprus. This enduring interest in culture and politics in the Eastern Mediterranean and the Balkans informs his later work, as in Manolis Anagnostakis: Poetry & Politics, Silence & Agency in Post-War Greece (Fairleigh Dickinson University Press, 2012). He has published two monographs: Modern Greece: A Cultural Poetics (2004) discusses the terms of modernity and “self-colonization” in Greece from just before the founding of the nation state down to the present; and The Balkan Prospect: Identity, Culture, and Politics in Greece After 1989 (2013) offers an interdisciplinary analysis of Greece's position within and without the Balkans and Europe after the Cold War. It was awarded the Edmund Keeley Book Prize. Contributions on the Greek Weird Wave & Beyond for a co-edited special issue of The Journal of Greek Media and Culture (2:2, 2016) grow out of more recent research on resistance in Greek film. He was founder and longtime chair of The Modern Greek Seminar at Columbia (2005-14) and, since 2019, he serves as the Executive Director of the Modern Greek Studies Association (MGSA). Susan Heuck Allen Visiting Scholar [email protected] Susan Heuck Allen is Visiting Scholar in the Department of Classics at Brown University. She received her Ph.D. in Classics and Classical Archaeology from Brown University, after earning degrees from the University of Cincinnati and Smith College. Her areas of expertise – Troy and the history of archaeology – were combined in her book, Finding the Walls of Troy: Frank Calvert and Heinrich Schliemann at Hisarlik (University of California Press — Berkley, 1999). She is also the author of Excavating Our Past: Perspectives on the History of the Archaeological Institute of America, which is a part of the 2002 AIA Monograph Series, and recently published Classical Spies: American Archaeologists with the OSS in World War II Greece (University of Michigan Press, 2011). Dr. Allen has held positions at Smith College, and Clark and Yale Universities, and has done fieldwork in Cyprus, Israel, and Knossos. She was named a Mellon Fellow in 2008, and has held a number of other fellowships. Byron MacDougall Visiting Scholar [email protected] Byron MacDougall earned his PhD in Classics from Brown in 2015 with a dissertation entitled "Gregory of Nazianzus and Christian Festival Rhetoric." His research interests focus on Classical rhetoric and philosophy in Late Antique and Byzantine literature. Before returning to Brown, he held research fellowships at Dumbarton Oaks, the University of Vienna, and Princeton. A former secondary school Classics teacher, his publications cover topics including the Cappadocian Fathers, the Ancient Greek and Latin novels, and the reception of Plato from the Second Sophistic to Byzantium. People Faculty Affiliated Faculty Visiting Scholars & Fellows Graduate Students Staff Emeriti Faculty Office Hours Department of Classics Department of Classics Brown University Box 1856 48 College Street Providence, RI 02912-1856 Phone: 401-863-1267 Fax: 401-863-7484 Email [email protected] Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top