Skip to main content Operating Status Face coverings are optional in offices, conference rooms, research labs, housing, and public spaces in buildings. Face coverings are still required in all teaching spaces, teaching labs, computer labs, buses, libraries, clinical facilities, and student-staff and student-faculty meetings spaces. More COVID-19 information Close Search Enter a Search Term Search Rutgers Search Search this site Search all Rutgers Search People Rutgers Logo New Brunswick Newark Camden RBHS/Health Info For: Prospective Students and Parents Current Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Donors Partners Job Seekers News Rutgers Today Rutgers Magazine Events Giving Gcse block (invisible) Open Search Rutgers Logo About Rutgers About the University President Jonathan Holloway Serving New Jersey and the World An Economic Engine A Partner in Research and Innovation United Against COVID-19 Rutgers Excellence Rutgers, By the Numbers Rutgers Rankings Budget Facts Our Structure Governance and Leadership Office of the President Administrative Council Our Revolutionary Roots Rutgers Traditional Songs The Rutgers Experience Discover Rutgers Rutgers–New Brunswick Rutgers–Newark Rutgers–Camden Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences (RBHS) Show Your Rutgers Pride Rutgers Athletics Uniquely New Jersey Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Academics Explore Undergraduate Programs Graduate and Professional Studies Explore Graduate & Professional Programs Top Graduate Programs Schools and Colleges Continuing Education Online Degree Programs Catalogs Libraries Faculty Excellence Global Learning Rutgers at Your Community College Student Support Research Research at Rutgers A Partner in Research and Innovation Health & Patient Care Advancing Treatment and Wellness Admissions & Tuition About Applying Path to Rutgers Tuition and Financial Aid Visits and Tours Getting Here Open Search Open Search Open Menu Close About Rutgers About the University President Jonathan Holloway Serving New Jersey and the World An Economic Engine A Partner in Research and Innovation United Against COVID-19 Rutgers Excellence Rutgers, By the Numbers Rutgers Rankings Budget Facts Our Structure Governance and Leadership Office of the President Administrative Council Our Revolutionary Roots Rutgers Traditional Songs The Rutgers Experience Discover Rutgers Rutgers–New Brunswick Rutgers–Newark Rutgers–Camden Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences (RBHS) Show Your Rutgers Pride Rutgers Athletics Uniquely New Jersey Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Academics Explore Undergraduate Programs Graduate and Professional Studies Explore Graduate & Professional Programs Top Graduate Programs Schools and Colleges Continuing Education Online Degree Programs Catalogs Libraries Faculty Excellence Global Learning Rutgers at Your Community College Student Support Research Research at Rutgers A Partner in Research and Innovation Health & Patient Care Admissions & Tuition About Applying Path to Rutgers Tuition and Financial Aid Visits and Tours Getting Here Utility Mobile Info For: Prospective Students and Parents Current Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Donors Partners Job Seekers News Rutgers Today Rutgers Magazine Events Giving New Brunswick Newark Camden RBHS/Health About Rutgers Our Structure Governance and Leadership Governance and Leadership Rutgers’ distinctive history as a colonial college, a land-grant institution, and the state university helped shape its current governance structure. Governing Boards Rutgers University is overseen by the Board of Governors and the Board of Trustees. The Board of Governors, created by state law in 1956, is the chief governing body of the university. The Board of Trustees, a governing body since the university’s founding in 1766, acts in an advisory capacity to the Board of Governors and has certain fiduciary responsibilities. Governing Boards President Jonathan Holloway Jonathan Holloway, the 21st president of Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey, is an eminent historian and an elected member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. He began his presidency on July 1, 2020. He previously served as provost of Northwestern University and dean of Yale College. The university president is the chief executive officer of the Association of American Universities (AAU) unit of Rutgers—comprised of Rutgers University–New Brunswick and Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences (RBHS)—with the chancellors of Rutgers–New Brunswick and RBHS serving as the two chief operations officers of the AAU unit. The chancellors of Rutgers University–Newark and Rutgers University–Camden are the chief executive officers of their respective areas. The president appoints an administrative council comprised of academic deans, chancellors, vice presidents, and other senior administrators who aid in guiding and implementing university priorities and initiatives Office of the President Administrative Council Meet the Chancellors The four Rutgers chancellors report to the university president and implement strategic plans for each of their divisions. Nancy Cantor Chancellor, Rutgers University–Newark Nancy Cantor is chancellor of Rutgers University–Newark. A distinguished leader in higher education, she is recognized nationally and internationally as an advocate for leveraging diversity in all its dimensions and reemphasizing the public mission of colleges and universities as engines of discovery, innovation, and social mobility. Brian Strom Chancellor, Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences Brian L. Strom is the inaugural chancellor of Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences. He is widely recognized as a founder of the field of pharmacoepidemiology—the study of the uses and effects of drugs among large groups of people. Francine Conway Chancellor-Provost, Rutgers University–New Brunswick Francine Conway is chancellor-provost of Rutgers University–New Brunswick. Conway, an internationally recognized child psychologist, was previously provost of Rutgers–New Brunswick and dean of the Graduate School of Applied and Professional Psychology. Antonio Tillis Chancellor, Rutgers University–Camden Antonio D. Tillis is chancellor of Rutgers University–Camden. Prior to becoming chancellor in July 2021, Tillis was interim president of the University of Houston–Downtown. Also at the University of Houston, he served as dean of the College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences, the largest of the 15 academic and professional colleges at the university. Faculty’s Role in Governance Rutgers faculty and other members of the university play a major role in guiding university policy and procedures through shared governance with the administration. University Senate New Brunswick Faculty Council Newark Faculty Council Camden Faculty of Arts and Sciences Senate Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences Faculty Council Leadership and Policy Information Policy Resources General Counsel Secretary of the University University Policy Library Open Public Records Act Requests (OPRA) Leadership Rutgers University Board of Directors New Jersey Agricultural Experiment Station Board of Managers Site Footer Rutgers University New Brunswick Newark Camden RBHS/Health Connect Campus Safety Contact Us Continuing Education Giving to Rutgers Graduate Admissions Undergraduate Admissions University Maps Universitywide Offices Work at Rutgers Find a Health Care Provider Rutgers Magazine University Events Academic Academic Calendars Course Catalogs University Libraries myRutgers Portal Notices April 27, 2022: Open Hearing on the University’s Tuition, Fees, and Housing and Dining Charges for 2022–2023 Commencement Information University Operating Status Accessibility Resources Budget Facts Consumer Information Disclosures Follow Us Subscribe to Rutgers News Rutgers is an equal access/equal opportunity institution. Individuals with disabilities are encouraged to direct suggestions, comments, or complaints concerning any accessibility issues with Rutgers websites to accessibility@rutgers.edu or complete the Report Accessibility Barrier / Provide Feedback form. Copyright ©2022, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey. All rights reserved. Contact webmaster