Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation About About Georgia Tech History & Traditions Rankings Mission & Vision Our Values Ethics Visitor Information Institute Leadership Office and Department Directory Student, Staff, and Faculty Directory Careers at Tech Academics Academic Environment Majors and Degrees Colleges and Schools Continuing and Professional Education Georgia Tech Online Academic Calendar Admissions Prospective Students Admissions Overview Campus Tours Tuition and Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Digital Swag Campus Life Explore the Main Campus Student Activities Athletics Georgia Tech Yellow Jackets Tickets Ramblin Wreck Store Research Research Areas Research News News & Events News Center Experts Guide Feature Stories Campus Calendar Media Contacts Apply Give Search Search form Enter your keywords Get the latest Covid-19 health information, operational status updates, and campus guidelines. You are here: GT Home Bachelor of Science in Neuroscience Undergraduate Neuroscience Degree Overview In addition to its technology-focused curriculum and state-of-the-art laboratories, Georgia Tech’s B.S. in Neuroscience degree offers several key advantages: Interdisciplinary training. Immersive experiences across multiple fields such as psychology, biology, biochemistry, physics, mathematics, computer science, and engineering. Flexible degree options. Customized degrees to fit specific interests and career goals. Research opportunities with world-renowned neuroscience researchers. Atlanta location. Atlanta, Georgia is one of the most tech-savvy cities in the U.S. and home to some of the world’s biggest companies. As a Neuroscience major, you will develop a basic competence and knowledge of behavioral and cognitive, molecular, cellular, and systems neuroscience. You will develop a strong understanding of the structure and function of the brain and nervous system, and a familiarity with the methods, applied solutions, and technologies that enable new discoveries and support their translation into diagnoses and treatments of brain disorders. Neuroscience Degree Concentrations and Options Concentrations Add a specialization in one of these areas to your degree: Biochemistry Biology Chemistry Computer Science Engineering Health and Medical Sciences Mathematics Physics Physiology Psychology Learn more about the Breadth Electives required for these specializations. Options Increase your competitiveness for jobs and graduate school by adding a designation to your degree. Prepare for medical school. Learn more about the Pre-Health Option. Pursue an in-depth, long-term research experience. Learn more about the Research Option. Build a business perspective into your degree without adding the hours required for a minor. See the course requirements for the Business Option. B.S. Neuroscience Degree Requirements The Bachelor’s in Neuroscience degree program contains the following: general core classes; technical courses that provide a strong background in mathematics; technical electives to explore areas in greater depth; courses involving undergraduate research, and free electives. View sample eight-term plans. Course Highlights Methods in Neuroscience Within your first year, engage in hands-on experience with traditional and cutting-edge techniques to understand neural function in cells, animals, and humans. Additional coursework provides critical methodological examination of multiple techniques. Data Analysis and Critical Thinking Skills Exploration of neuroscientific concepts utilizing a data-driven approach, providing skills in forming hypotheses and drawing conclusions based on quantitative data and proposed neural models. Research and internship opportunities Students in the B.S. in Neuroscience program are strongly encouraged to participate in undergraduate research with one of over 60 professors on campus conducting neuroscience-related studies. View all of the B.S. in Neuroscience course requirements Rankings and Awards Georgia Tech’s Neuroscience faculty members are frequently recognized for their outstanding contributions to their fields. Some examples include: Tim Cope Secures NIH Support to Study Neurobiology of Cancer Therapy Audrey Duarte Named Editor in Chief of the Journal of Aging, Neuropsychology, and Cognition Bilal Haider Named Sloan Fellow Liang Han Receives NIH Support to Study Neurobiology of Itch Eric Schumacher Selected for Director of Center for Advanced Brain Imaging (CABI) Simon Sponberg Wins Major Funding to Study Insect Brains Garrett Stanley Wins Third BRAIN Award What Can You Do with a Degree in Neuroscience? The B.S. in Neuroscience is solid preparation for a wide variety of careers, graduate schools, professional training programs, and industry positions such as: Pharmacist. Physician’s assistant. Neurosurgeon/Neurologist. Research scientist. Neuropsychologist Public health advisor. Medical technician. Forensic science technician. Business consultant. Neuromarketing and other neuro-related startup positions. Explore more career options in Neuroscience What Are Georgia Tech Graduates Doing Now? Medical school. Dental school. Graduate school. Common Job Titles and Average Salaries Pharmacist: $124,170 Biomedical Engineer: $92,970 Speech-Language Pathologist: $76,610 Source: U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics Neuroscience Research Opportunities Students in the B.S. in Neuroscience program are strongly encouraged to participate in undergraduate research with one of over 60 professors on campus conducting neuroscience-related studies. Explore the undergraduate research opportunities. Beyond the Classroom Apply to reside in Living Learning Community as a first-year neuroscience student: Science, Health, and Related Professions (SHaRP) Living Learning Community or the Science and Mathematics Research Training (SMART) Living Learning Community. Gain employment experience and benefit from real-world experience in your field. Learn more about the Co-op Program and internships. Join our Neuroscience Club to learn more about the field and its applications. Find out more: Undergraduate Student Activities. Learn more about study abroad opportunities led by College of Sciences faculty. Stories about Neuroscience at Tech An Oasis Inside a Living Learning Community Podcast: When People Age and Memory Fails Cosmos in the Cranium The Force is Strong: Amputee Controls Individual Prosthetic Fingers Related Degrees BS in Biology BS in Biomedical Engineering BS in Psychology Related Websites College of Sciences Georgia Tech Neuro Petit Institute for Bioengineering and Bioscience Center for Advanced Brain Imaging Next Steps Subscribe to the Prospective Student e-newsletter Register for the "It's All About Science & Math" information session Learn How to Apply Apply Now Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Google Plus Instagram Flickr Pinterest RSS Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites & Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Savannah Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student & Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Resources Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Student Life Scholarships & Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, & Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising & Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources Office of the Provost TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Government & Community Partners Professional Education Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login