Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Student Center and Activities Student Organizations Student Organizations Guidelines and Funding Options Student Organization Resources Hughes-Trigg Student Center Hughes-Trigg Student Center Welcome Desk HTSC Renovations Event Information Event Information HTSC Event Calendar Reservation Rates Room Features HTSC Procedures About Us ☰ Hughes-Trigg Student Center Welcome Desk Student Center and Activities Hughes-Trigg Student Center Welcome Desk Welcome to the Hughes-Trigg Student Center! Our Welcome Desk is staffed by dynamic Student Workers who are happy to assist you with any questions you have about our building, teach you how to make reservations, give you a tour, and more. Are you trying to find a certain room, office, or amenity? We've got you covered. If HTSC is open, we are here to help. Stop on by and say hello- we are your Student Center experts! Visit Us The Welcome Desk is located in the Atrium on Level 1 of HTSC 3140 Dyer St. Dallas, Texas 75205 Building Hours Monday-Friday: 7:30am - 10:00pm Saturday & Sunday: 9:00am - 6:00pm Hours will vary on University holidays. Summer & Winter Hours Monday-Friday: 8:00am - 6:00pm Saturday & Sunday: Closed Need Help? Contact the Welcome Desk and a staff member will be able to assist. Phone: 214-768-4400 Email: HTSC@smu.edu Lost and Found If you have lost an item in the Student Center, check with the Welcome Desk to see if it has been found. Every Friday, any items found throughout the week will be turned in to SMU PD. Campus and Parking Maps Click here to find maps of the SMU campus and more information about parking. Building Tour Want a tour of the new facility? The Welcome Desk staff would be happy to show you around! Visit us in person or contact us to schedule your tour today. Looking to host an event in Hughes-Trigg? Learn more about events in HTSC Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share