skip to main content University of Nevada, Reno Homepage Apply Visit News Give Search www.unr.edu Search www.unr.edu Search Search www.unr.edu Search www.unr.edu Quicklinks Expand or Collapse to view popular links for this site Alumni Faculty & Staff Parents Students Academic Calendar Campus Catalog Directory Email Access Library Maps MyNevada WebCampus Workday Zoom Login Website Navigation Menu Expand or Collapse to view links grouped by top level headings About About the University Campus safety Diversity initiatives Employment & careers Giving EO & Title IX Degrees & programs Majors Minors Online programs Graduate programs Colleges & schools Admissions Freshman admissions International admissions Transfer admissions Graduate admissions Financial aid & scholarships Tuition & fees Campus Life Campus experience Housing Dining First-year student guide Fitness & recreation Student engagement Events calendar Research & Innovation University research Graduate research Undergraduate research Innovation hub Research hub Athletics NevadaWolfpack.com Buy tickets Events schedule Support athletics TV & radio Menu Expand or Collapse to view links grouped by top level headings Quicklinks Alumni Faculty & Staff Parents Students Academic Calendar Campus Catalog Directory Email Access Library Maps MyNevada WebCampus Workday Zoom Login About About the University Campus safety Diversity initiatives Employment & careers Giving EO & Title IX Degrees & programs Majors Minors Online programs Graduate programs Colleges & schools Admissions Freshman admissions International admissions Transfer admissions Graduate admissions Financial aid & scholarships Tuition & fees Campus Life Campus experience Housing Dining First-year student guide Fitness & recreation Student engagement Events calendar Research & Innovation University research Graduate research Undergraduate research Innovation hub Research hub Athletics NevadaWolfpack.com Buy tickets Events schedule Support athletics TV & radio Apply Visit News Give Research & Innovation The University of Nevada, Reno is a Carnegie® R1 research university committed to the pursuit of knowledge that addresses the important issues of our time, promotes innovation and drives Nevada's economic prosperity. Addressing grand challenges Over the past decade, the research enterprise at the University of Nevada, Reno has grown substantially thanks to our commitment to building an inclusive, diverse and collaborative research environment. Research & Innovation is focused on providing faculty, staff, student and industry support that enables the University’s vision of producing impactful discoveries and fostering innovation and commercialization. – Mridul Gautam, Vice President for Research & Innovation Faculty Research Hub Find tools, support services and information for conducting research, scholarly and creative activities. Working with the University Find resources and assistance for industry and startups looking to utilize equipment, expertise or incubation space. Transformational global impact The University of Nevada, Reno is making a difference in Reno-Tahoe, across Nevada and beyond. Our faculty's research is helping reshape what we know about everything from anthropology to dryland agriculture, water resources and robotics. Research suggests some trees have the potential for immortality Studying ancient trees Autoregulation of cerebral blood flow to treat dementia and other conditions Breakthrough discoveries Climate change and drought affects on forests and rangelands Taking aim at wildfires Titanium and UV light powerfully combine against SARS-CoV-2 Developing virus disinfectants Meet our researchers who go where knowledge leads Dmitri Atapine, DMA, is a professor of music (cello) whose art takes him around the globe, experiencing the magic and the power of music to move people in a shared feeling, yet affect each person in a uniquely individual way. Read more about our world changing researchers Powered by numbers The University of Nevada, Reno is leveraging research and entrepreneurial activities to prepare skilled workers, develop the next generation of technology leaders and expand economic growth statewide. As a Carnegie® R1 institution, the University is classified among America’s top 137 comprehensive, doctoral research universities. R&D expenditures $175 million in fiscal year 2021 contributing research-based advancements, generating jobs and infrastructure for Nevada. Highly productive faculty Ranked 71st among public institutions with $264,000 in R&D expenditures per faculty member. Investment in facilities More than $850 million invested in advanced labs, residence halls and facilities since 2009. An asset to Nevada The University has a statewide economic impact of more than $1.34 billion annually. World-class research facilities & infrastructure The University is home to dozens of state-of-the-art laboratories and facilities and more than 60 research centers that anchor our pioneering work in areas ranging from engineering research to sustainability in Lake Tahoe and the Great Basin region. Learn more about how our industry-leading infrastructure supports our research. Earthquake engineering The largest, most versatile large-scale structures earthquake/seismic engineering facility in the U.S. Cyberinfrastructure High-performance computing contributes to deeper discovery across a range of disciplines. Institute for Neuroscience Multi-disciplinary research that drives collaborative approaches to understanding the brain. Innevation Center Collaborative space in downtown Reno empowering Nevada’s next generation of leaders. Shared centers and cores Shared resources offer faculty, scientists, students and industry access to services, training and high-end instrumentation. Museums and collections Diverse museums, galleries and attractions are dedicated to furthering the cultural education of Northern Nevada. ScholarWorks Digital repository that collects, preserves and distributes intellectual output for preservation and scholarly communication. Agricultural station Addressing environmental and natural resource concerns and supporting agricultural industry through research. University Libraries Offering a breadth of resources and learning environments with some of the most technologically advanced library facilities in the country. Whittell Forest & Wildlife Area A living lab of forested mountain land in the Sierra Nevada, dedicated for research, instruction and community outreach. Zebra Pulsed Power Lab Unique capabilities, found nowhere else in the nation, to study matter under extreme conditions similar to star interiors. Nevada Bureau of Mines and Geology Addressing needs for geologic information such as earthquake hazards, mapping and mineral resources. Student-driven discovery & innovation Students are critical to our research enterprise. Through collaboration and opportunities, students are exploring and engaging, and helping to foster innovation and drive meaningful discoveries. Find out how we're creating a research-focused, experiential learning environment at the University of Nevada, Reno. Beyond the classroom walls Experiential learning is a central theme of education at the University of Nevada, Reno. There are many opportunities for students of all disciplines to expand their college experience and gain an edge in their career field or in the pursuit of a graduate degree. Funded opportunities range from international travel experiences to community-based projects that contribute to solutions for local issues. Around 150 students participate in the Nevada Undergraduate Research Symposium every spring to showcase their work. Get involved in undergraduate student research Graduate education redefining exploration With a full breadth of master's and Ph.D. opportunities and acclaimed faculty and facilities, students will find room to pursue educational and research pursuits in an accommodating environment that places a premium on academic excellence. The Graduate School prepares students for bright futures with support, training and professional development resources. The Graduate School Graduate research Three-minute thesis competition Graduate degree programs GradFIT Reimagining the Innovation Ecosystem In today’s globally connected, knowledge-based economy, a key driver of prosperity is the pace of innovation. We are capitalizing on this insight with our Innovation Ecosystem to facilitate commercialization, regional collaboration and faculty competitiveness in a unique way. It’s connecting the University with industry and entrepreneurs, tangibly contributing to economic development and the creation of jobs, and supporting the creation of student and faculty startup businesses. $136+ million raised by Innovation Ecosystem startups 190+ companies engaged in the Innovation Ecosystem 535+ jobs created through the Innovation Ecosystem 35+ companies with University-based operations A legacy of discovery Our groundbreaking research and impact on society. Washoe the Chimp In a revolutionary experiment raising chimpanzees, Washoe was the first chimp to learn American Sign Language. Psychotherapy development Relational Frame Theory, an extension to the popular Acceptance and Commitment Therapy, is helping people worldwide deal with life-limiting conditions. Measuring water content in snow An invention from over a century ago greatly advanced the development of snow science and continues to be impactful today. Essential for the World Health Organization Rapid diagnostics are saving lives from infectious diseases in third-world countries. Contact Research & Innovation Phone: (775) 327-2363 Location: Ross Hall, room 201 Address: 1664 N. Virginia Street, Reno, NV 89557-0403 Visit the Research & Innovation contact page Division Contact Information Location: Ross Hall Room Number: 201 Mailstop: 0403 Mailing Address: 1664 N. Virginia Street, Reno, NV 89557 Phone: (775) 327-2363 Directory: Visit the Research & Innovation contact page Follow the University University Twitter University Facebook University YouTube University Vimeo University Flickr University Instagram University LinkedIn University of Nevada, Reno 1664 N. Virginia Street, Reno, NV 89557 (775) 784-1110 Employment & Careers Non-Discrimination Statement Privacy Website Help Commitment to Diversity Commitment to Accessibility Contact the University Equal Opportunity and Title IX