Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Residence Life & Student Housing (RLSH) About Apply for Housing Apply for Housing SMU Housing Portal Rate and Fees Living On Campus Living On Campus Residential Commons Upper-Division Housing Apartments Policies Get Involved Get Involved Dallas Community Departments Faculty Graduate Students Staff Undergraduate Students Make A Request ☰ RLSH Apply for Housing SMU Housing Portal Housing Portal The SMU Housing Portal is your one-stop destination for all things SMU on-campus housing. SMU Housing Portal Services in the SMU Housing Portal Apply for housing for the first time Renewing your housing license agreement Finding/selecting a roommate (optional) Scheduling check-in/check-out appointments Requesting a loft Completing the Room Condition Report Submitting housing exemption requests Submitting early-arrival requests And more! How to use the portal Go to the SMU Housing Portal. Click SMU Login. Use your SMU ID and password. Follow the on-screen instructions. Common issues with SMU Housing Portal Problems navigating the SMU Housing Portal? Please contact us in the Residence Life & Student Housing (RLSH) office. Problems with your password? You may need to set or unlock your password. Visit smu.edu/password for assistance. Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share