Skip to main content Resources for: Parents Faculty/Staff Alumni Request Info One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search University of Oregon Sites Search Site Navigation Academics Research Admissions & Financial Aid Duck Life About Spring 2022 Academic Initiatives Update Resources for: Parents Faculty/Staff Alumni Request Info Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University of Oregon Main navigation Academics Research Admissions & Financial Aid Duck Life About Spring 2022 Academic Initiatives Update Spring 2022 Academic Initiatives Update 2019-22 have been periods of consultation, brainstorming, and stakeholder building. Initiative leads Amos, Cresko (starting 2017), Nelson, Pittard and Schreck worked tirelessly, through the pandemic, to consult widely on campus to take initial ideas and move them towards concrete action. Across Initiatives, consultation brought in new ideas and perspectives and led to the evolution of plans. This rich, diverse, democratic way of bringing people on board is how we work at UO, and it naturally means the Initiatives in June 2022 are different, have evolved since their original inception. Environment & Sport & Wellness Initiatives: Faculty in Environment and Sport & Wellness have recommended to the Provost that the university create new institutes of “Climate Solutions and the Environment” and "Sport and Wellness,” respectively. These Institutes will combine educational, research and outreach missions (just as we do across the university). Faculty committees in each area will begin to meet this summer to map out the particulars of the new Institutes, including the design of new degrees at both the graduate and undergraduate levels. This parallels the work that is now being done in the Ballmer Institute, which also combines educational, research and outreach missions and plans to enroll undergrads in a new Childhood Behavioral and Mental Health degree in Fall 2023. [[maybe add this]]. The Sports Product Management graduate degree program will move into the new Sport and Wellness Institute by Fall 202x. Data Science Initiative: Launched in 2017 as the Presidential Initiative in Data Science, this effort has already: Facilitated XX new hires of data science colleagues, across yy units. Created a new undergraduate major with xxx currently enrolled, yyy incoming in class of Fall 2022, 8 graduating this June. Major plays to UO’s strengths, with core curriculum and domain areas, chosen by student’s to apply data science skills to real-world topics of interest to them, from genomics to journalism, data security to business analytics, and more. Building, with OHSU, a Biomedical Data Science Institute, helping to bridge the Knight Campus and the Knight Cancer Institute, among other roles. Creating a template for graduate degrees across campus, which will share common curriculum whenever possible. Starting in June 2022, a faculty committee will explore the creation of a possible School of Computer and Data Science, to be housed in CAS, to house the undergraduate degree, support the development of graduate degrees, and provide an intellectual home for data scientists across campus. Diversity Initiative: Engaged faculty from IRES and across campus who work on race, identity and diversity to consider best ways to invest new resources to advance research on these issues, support existing faculty and students, and recruit and retain top scholars and students. Based on these consultations, the Provost and President have committed: $8 million over xx years to restore lines in IRES and expand faculty who work on race, identity and diversity issues. Invest in existing programs and initiatives such as CLLAS, Black Studies, Latinx Studies, Native American Studies, the exploration of UO becoming a Hispanic Serving Institution). These ongoing programs and efforts rightly consume the time and effort of campus leaders, and require support. For now, this means holding off on any plans for a new center on race and diversity, which might distract from existing programs and efforts. Hire, from the ranks of UO tenure-line faculty with expertise on race and diversity issues, a new, half-time Assistant/Associate Vice Provost for Diversity in the Office of the Provost, to help with efforts on recruitment and retention of diversity faculty and imbuing diversity and racial justice across the curriculum. Innovation Initiative: Since its launch in 2019, this initiative has – Launched new entrepreneurship minor: currently >180 students from >40 majors Launched new graduate specialization launching Fall 2022 Designed and launched new Technology Ventures course (BIOE 610) Developed new and enhanced pitch competitions, including Provost’s Innovation Challenge Offered new and expanded seed funding (e.g., OVPRI translational grants and mini grants) Piloting mentor network coordinator Established relationships with numerous early-stage tech VCs Established Knight Campus entrepreneurship speaker series Ongoing work will include – Development of plans for a spinoff/startup incubator function, ideally to serve UO and the state, to be developed in coordination with OVPRI, especially Innovation Partnerships Services Ongoing efforts to widen IPS services and align Sponsored Project Services to maximize support for innovation and entrepreneurship Three searches for faculty positions in LCB-Management related to innovation CAMPUS News Events Maps Directions A–Z Index Find People Report a Concern TOOLS Webmail UOmail Canvas Duckweb RESOURCES Class Schedule Academic Calendar UO Libraries For Journalists University of Oregon 1585 E 13th Ave. Eugene, OR 97403 P: 541-346-1000 Contact Us Visit us on Facebook Visit us on Twitter Visit us on Youtube Visit us on Vimeo Visit us on Instagram Visit us on LinkedIn Accessibility Report a Concern Careers Privacy Policy About Find People © University of Oregon. All Rights Reserved. UO prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, sex, national or ethnic origin, age, religion, marital status, disability, veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity, and gender expression in all programs, activities and employment practices as required by Title IX, other applicable laws, and policies. Retaliation is prohibited by UO policy. Questions may be referred to the Title IX Coordinator, Office of Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity, or to the Office for Civil Rights. Contact information, related policies, and complaint procedures are listed on the statement of non-discrimination.