Skip to main content Indiana University Menu Academics Toggle Academics navigation Degrees and Majors Choosing a Major Career Prep Academic Advising and Support Admissions Toggle Admissions navigation Admission Standards How to Apply Transfer to IU After You've Been Admitted Visit a Campus Cost and Financial Aid Toggle Cost and Financial Aid navigation Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Scholarships and Awards Life at IU Toggle Life at IU navigation Bloomington IUPUI IUPUC East Fort Wayne Kokomo Northwest South Bend Southeast IU Online Make an Impact Toggle Make an Impact navigation Research Opportunities Global Impact Service Alumni About Toggle About navigation IU Leadership IU at a Glance Committed to health Pioneers in Business IU Locations Contact IU Search Search Search Become the best version of yourself at IU Develop the skills you need for a rewarding career, and follow in the footsteps of more than 729,000 IU alumni who are leading organizations, innovating the future, and making an impact on their communities and the world. Find your calling IU offers more than 2,300 different programs of study. Not sure what to focus on? No problem. Browse by interest area to find options you'd enjoy pursuing. Browse degrees and majors 9 campuses 930+ academic programs 92,500+ students 120+ countries represented 729,000+ alumni * Statistics are current as of 2020. This is a place where they can really help me grow toward my goals. Isabelle Daellenbach, Environmental Management Student IU Bloomington Pursue your passion or explore the possibilities From nursing to criminal justice, epidemiology to environmental science, social work to cybersecurity, and more than 900 academic programs in between, IU gives you the power to study whatever sparks your interest, with the support of world-class professors and faculty who care about your success. Explore IU academics Find your ideal campus life at IU Each of our nine campuses offers a welcoming, inclusive environment that feels like home, whatever your background, interests, or goals. Whether you want a Big Ten college experience, the dynamic pace of an urban research university, the community feeling of a regional campus close to home, or the flexibility of a fully online degree program, you’ll find it at IU. Explore life at IU Be part of a university that makes a global impact IU is on the front lines of important, life-changing issues and global developments. Our international partnerships reach nearly every region of the world, making it easy to pursue your passions at home or abroad. With an eye on the future, IU faculty, scientists, and researchers are making Indiana—and the world—a better place through their research on groundbreaking projects. Explore IU's global impact I have developed leadership skills, learned how to become an advocate for myself and others, and grown into more of the type of person I have always wanted to be. Undergraduate student IUPUC Featured story School of Nursing expands enrollment The IU School of Nursing is demonstrating its commitment to helping solve the state's nursing shortage by further expanding enrollment across the school's three core campuses. The expansion will focus on graduating more bachelor's-prepared nurses. Learn about the plans IU news and events Stay up to date with the latest announcements, news and information, or find out what’s happening around campus at each IU location and online. All news stories View IU events Pulitzer-winning alumni reflect on insurrection coverage, career preparation at IU May 25, 2022 Little 500 student sportscasters graduate with dream jobs lined up May 12, 2022 From 19 to 79, IUPUI grads look ahead to the future May 11, 2022 Explore IU IU Admissions Ready to find out more about the university or get started on your IU application? IU Admissions would love to talk with you about finding the right IU experience. Explore cost, financial aid, and scholarships Find IU tuition and fees and explore financial aid and scholarship options. Download the IU Mobile app The improved IU Mobile app puts more of the tools you need in one place, no matter where you are. Stay updated on COVID-19 and other important university info, get easy access to IU learning resources, view your class schedule, and more. Start using the IU Mobile app today. IU Mobile on the Apple App Store IU Mobile on Google Play Social media Facebook for IU Linkedin for IU Twitter for IU Instagram for IU Youtube for IU Additional resources Indiana University Contact us Give now Have a question? AskIU Services Canvas One.IU Email Exchange About Email at IU Find People Directory Jobs at IU Non-discrimination Notice Library IUCAT OneSearch@IU Resources Diversity IT Services Knowledge Base Protect IU Accessibility Privacy Notice Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of Indiana University