Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School Living & Resources Food and Related Resources for Graduate Students Graduate School Skip to Navigation Food and Related Resources for Graduate Students Please also visit GSC Food Resources for additional information. Brown Resources Emergency Funding (including Meal Gap). Students experiencing acute food need can apply for support through the Graduate School’s E-Gap applications. For students in residence in Providence, credits for on-campus meals through the Meal Gap program (meal points) may be provided for short-term, immediate needs. This form of support, the number of meals, and the period of time over which they will be provided will be determined on an individual basis after discussion between the student and Associate Dean. Because each student’s situation is different, there is no standard for when or how many meal points are provided. Emergency funding applications can be found in UFunds under ‘Graduate Student E-Gap Funds’. Students can expect to receive a response to their application within 2-3 business days. Funding is limited, but is open through the semester. GSC-Sponsored Brown Market Shares Produce. The GSC partners with Brown Market Shares Program and the Graduate School to assist students facing food insecurity. Brown Market Shares Program connects the Brown and neighboring communities with weekly shares of local, sustainably-grown food. Brown Meal Plan. Students can add a meal plan at any point in the semester. Dining Services offers a number of meal plans. Plans are also available during breaks. Please consult the Dining Services website for current information and FAQs. Blue Room Grab & Go. Order food through the GET mobile app or portal. You must use Bear Bucks to pay. You can add funds to your Bear Bucks accounts with most major credit cards. Brown Food Pantry. Chaplain’s Office, 4th Floor Page-Robinson Hall. BrownU App. Opt-In Channel on Free Food: a daily message listing free food events at Brown. Local Options Brown Market Shares and Produce in the Park by BMSP. Seasonal. Brown Market Shares, which has also partnered with Partnership for Providence Parks, runs market shares programs for fresh local produce distributed weekly, with full-cost shares and subsidized shares by application. Find more information on Facebook or [email protected] Project Hand Up. This program helps working people and those who receive a monthly check to shop for groceries, toiletries, and over-the-counter medication. During COVID-19, they are doing curbside pick-up of 3 bags of pre packaged groceries for $6 (1 bag of non perishable food, bread & pastry, 1 bag of fruits & veggies, & 1 bag of frozen, dairy & meat if they have it). Located in West Warwick, open 2:30-5:30 pm on: Tuesdays for last names beginning with A-K, Wednesdays for 55 and older, and Thursdays for last names beginning with L-Z. Please visit their Facebook page for updates. Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Programs (SNAP). Students who may be eligible include parents and non-stipended students who are also working for pay at least 20 hours per week and are under the income limits. Many other graduate students are likely not eligible, as students enrolled at least half-time at an institution of higher education are ineligible for SNAP, unless they meet one of the exceptions. Some helpful links here on How to Apply. Local Food Pantries & Community Food Resources All active food pantries: rifoodbank.org/find-food/ or Find a Food Pantry near you (Rhode Island Food Bank). Check during COVID-19 for more information. Pantries on the East Side, Providence include: Camp Street Ministries Pantry. 190 1/2 Camp Street, Providence, RI 02906. (401) 302-3973. Providence residents; Guests can visit weekly; Handicapped Accessible First Unitarian Church Pantry. 1 Benevolent Street , Providence RI 02906. (401) 457-7149 Handicapped Accessible. Our Lady of the Rosary Pantry. 17 Traverse Street, Providence, RI 02903 (401) 453-0174. Serves guests monthly. JCS-Louis and Goldie Chester Full Plate Kosher Pantry. 1165 North Main Street, 1st Floor. Providence, RI 02904. (401) 621-5374. Pantry is for guests who require kosher diets; guests can visit 2x/month; street parking; Handicapped Accessible Refri-PVD: Refri is a community resource for anyone facing food insecurity. It is filled by local farmers, food organizations, and individuals. It is located at 705 Westminster Street, Providence, RI, outside of New Urban Arts. Accessing Affordable Food Options On Call Shuttle: The On-Call Shuttle will do pick-ups and drop-offs at a number of food and grocery stores, including East Side Marketplace, Stop & Shop, and Walmart. See coverage map. RIPTA: RIPTA buses are free to all Brown ID card holders. 92 Bus: East Side Marketplace (165 Pittman St, East Side, Providence) 58 Bus: Stop & Shop (33 W River St, Providence) 57 Bus: Aldi (539 Smith St, Providence) 92 Bus: PriceRite (325 Valley Street, Providence) 31, 18, 19, and 17 Buses: Urban Greens Co-Op Food Market (93 Cranston St, West Side, Providence) 35 Bus: Market Basket (1200 Newport Ave, East Providence/Attleboro) 20, and R Bus: 8-10 minute walk to Good Fortune Asian Supermarket (101 Cadillac Dr, Providence) 72 Bus: Walmart (51 Silver Spring, Providence) 92 Bus and Little Rhody Bus: 5 minute walk to Farm Fresh RI Farmer’s Market, including winter market (10 Sims Ave, Providence). Discounts: East Side Marketplace (Fox Point, Pitman St, Providence), affiliated with Stop & Shop: Students receive a 5% discount everyday. Financial Options Emergency Funding. Students experiencing urgent financial need can apply for support through the Graduate School’s E-Gap Funds. Applications can be found in UFunds, under ‘Graduate Student E-Gap Funds’. Short-Term Loan. Brown University Short-Term Loan Program is a zero interest loan of $500 made available to students to assist in emergencies. Eligible students may complete the Short Term Loan Request Form and setup an eRefund Profile at payment.brown.edu in order to receive the funds electronically. Additional information. Financial Aid. Master’s students (non-MFA) can find information about additional types of aid (e.g. loans) through the Office of Financial Aid. Additional Resources The Graduate Student’s Guide to Personal Finance Webinar (11/19/20) Financial Planning and Budgeting for Graduate Students. The recording and slides are accessible using a Brown username and password. (10/17/19) Brown Graduate Community Fellows Cooking Classes Homemade Pasta (Zoom login required) | Ingredients List Burrito Bowls 8 Health foods for less Eating out and cooking on a budget How Much Should You Spend On Groceries? Grocery shopping hacks Tips for planning meals Rich in flavor, not in cost: 10 easy recipes to try Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Providence & RI Housing Offices & Resources Campus Facilities Family Resources International Students Crisis Support Food and Related Resources for Graduate Students Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants