Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Undergraduate Admission Student Affairs About News Athletics Events Calendar Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Boldly Shaping Tomorrow Goals Leaders Gifts Ways to give Menu Search Empower outstanding students With your support, we will transform the lives of high-achieving students, enabling them to attend SMU regardless of financial means and apply what they gain on the Hilltop as they change the world. Learn more Enrich teaching and research This is our moment to join the highest rank of universities – to accelerate knowledge and tackle grand challenges. Learn more Enhance campus and community By continuing to strengthen our community engagement, nationally competitive athletics and diverse public programming, we will make a positive difference in Dallas and in communities far beyond the Hilltop. Learn more Previous Next pause play hide show SMU SMU Ignited Goals Fueling our strengths Goals Empower outstanding students Enhance campus and community Enrich teaching and research With your support, SMU’s future is limitless. We can continue to be pioneers in the field of education, drive research that meets head-on the challenges of a rapidly changing era, and improve the quality of life for those on the Hilltop, in Dallas and beyond. Our leadership has dared us to be ambitious, creative and purposeful as we plan to fuel the next generation of world changers. SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow has an overall financial goal of $1.5 billion to shape the future in three significant ways: Empower outstanding students $450M+ Undergraduate scholarships and graduate fellowships addressing merit and need. Programs supporting the recruitment, retention and graduation of diverse student populations. Internships, stipends and international study support. Learn More Enrich teaching and research 650M+ Support for faculty research and the achievement of the highest research designation. New and renovated academic facilities. Support for current and new academic programs, centers and institutes. New endowed faculty and academic positions. Technology and other academic resources. Learn more Enhance campus and community 450M+ Support for a competitive Division I athletics program. Community engagement programs. Student services and resources. Campuswide facility and technology achievements. Learn more Let’s stay in touch To sign up to receive updates about SMU Ignited, enter your email address below and hit “submit.” This form needs Javascript to display, which your browser doesn't support. Sign up here instead Ways to giveGive now Back to top Schools and areas Scholarships Endowed faculty positions Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Athletics Libraries Student Affairs Cox School renovation and expansion Hughes-Trigg renovation Owen Arts Center transformation Weber End Zone Complex Ways to Give Endowment giving Current-use giving Capital giving Planned giving University-wide initiatives School and unit giving Contact Us Office of the Vice President for Development and External Affairs Principal and Major Gifts School and Project Development Athletics © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Give now Contact us Goals Empower outstanding students Enhance campus and community Enrich teaching and research Leaders Message from the President Message from Campaign Leadership Council News Gifts Campaign updates Events and programs Campaign toolkit Ways to give Scholarships Endowed faculty positions Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Athletics Libraries Student Affairs Cox School renovation and expansion Hughes-Trigg renovation Owen Arts Center transformation Weber End Zone Complex Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Current Students Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Faculty & Staff Majors & Minors Alumni COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Did you know? SMU's singular approach to integrating rigorous learning with hands-on experience will prepare you to achieve your educational goals and expand your world in ways you never imagined. Ours is a community of people forging their own paths. We'd like to help you shape yours. Plan your visit Menu Search