Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About U-SoA Philosophy and Mission Statement History of the School Community Outreach Accreditation Give to U-SoA Roadmap Initiative Contact Us News and Events U-SoA Now Newsletter Events Golf 2021 All News Calendar People Academic Leadership Students Faculty Alumni Staff Academics Undergraduate Graduate Design Build Travel Programs U-SoA Rome Summer Programs for High School Students Research Certificates Resources Careers Academic Services Libraries Facilities Labs and Centers Student Affairs International Affairs C.U.C.D. Admissions Admission Requirements Visit U-SoA Financial Aid and Scholarships Registration Tuition and Fees Graduate Assistantships About U-SoA News and Events People Academics Resources Admissions Search Design Build Undergraduate Graduate U-SoA in Rome Travel Programs Summer Programs for High School Students Certificates Research About U-SoA Philosophy and Mission Statement History of the School Community Outreach Accreditation Give to U-SoA Roadmap Initiative Contact Us News and Events U-SoA Now Newsletter Events Golf 2021 All News Calendar People Academic Leadership Students Faculty Alumni Staff Academics Undergraduate Graduate Design Build Travel Programs U-SoA Rome Summer Programs for High School Students Research Certificates Resources Careers Academic Services Libraries Facilities Labs and Centers Student Affairs International Affairs C.U.C.D. Admissions Admission Requirements Visit U-SoA Financial Aid and Scholarships Registration Tuition and Fees Graduate Assistantships Design Build Undergraduate Graduate U-SoA in Rome Travel Programs Summer Programs for High School Students Certificates Research Home Academics Summer Programs for High School Students AAA Summer Programs for High School Students Design Build Undergraduate Graduate U-SoA in Rome Travel Programs Summer Programs for High School Students Certificates Research GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply Are you interested in design and architecture? Have you always enjoyed drawing and are intrigued by the arts? If so, Explorations is for you! The Summer Scholars, Explorations in Architecture and Design program at the U-SoA is a pre-college course designed for students who are interested in architecture and design. Explorations builds familiarity with design processes while detailing the exciting role that architects and designers play in shaping and building society. This program also allows high school students to earn six (6) college credits. U-SoA's curriculum will serve as the model with specially-designed courses to include Design, Graphics and Theory, with a focused theme for each session. Interrelated aspects of architecture, including design, landscape architecture, historic preservation and urban planning, will assist the student in combining learned information with actual hands-on experience. In the studio, students will explore and gain familiarity with the techniques and concerns of designers by drawing, model-making, and proposing designs for several projects. School of Architecture resources will include drafting supplies and equipment, computer-aided design programming, and photographic equipment. Studio courses will encourage intuitive action and rapid visual analysis. At the close of the program, a school-wide exhibition will display the students’ work. The intensive three-week course couples “laboratory” experiences in the design studio with lectures by distinguished faculty and guest professionals. These “laboratory” experiences will be enhanced via local excursions to the significant landmarks of architectural and urban design; offering architectural styles including Mediterranean, Art Deco, MiMo, Bahamian, Cape Dutch, Mission, Neo-Classical and much more. Special guest experts will guide these “urban classroom” tours. For example, an Art Deco historian will guide the students through the Miami Beach Art Deco District, a landscape architecture scholar will explain the Renaissance gardens of Vizcaya, and architects will conduct tours of their recent award-winning houses and high-rise buildings. Students will have ongoing feedback on an individual basis from the Instructors and Director as their work proceeds. At the close of each short project, every student’s design solutions will be discussed (in a presentation format) with the entire group. A final review, in which faculty will react informally to the students' progress, will accompany the exhibition of students' works at the close of the program. Tuition and Fees Deadline Applications are accepted on a rolling basis and are reviewed when ALL required documents have been received at the SSP office. Submit your application documents as soon as possible for early consideration. An admission decision will be sent via email (allow 7-10 business days for a response). If you have questions, contact us at (305) 284-5078 or via email at ssp@miami.edu. Early Action application deadline: December 1 Priority application deadline: March 1 Scholarship application deadline: March 1 Final application deadline: April 25 Apply Check out these testimonials! “..I miss UM and all of you..” “…I just wanted to thank you for the opportunity of attending the Summer program. I had no idea what it was going to be like and while it was overwhelming at times, it was definitely worth it. It helped me to realize that Architecture is what I want to study and that I want to study it at UM.” This is a translated quote from a parent: “…Thank you for the wonderful opportunity my daughter had in participating in your Summer program. She was very happy with all that she learned from the professors and the University. We hope she can be part of the incoming Fall 2016 U-SoA class…” “…wanted to reach out to say thank you again for such an excellent three weeks at the University. The program was such a success for me, and I am very glad I was able to be a part of it. I really enjoyed your class and feel that I learned a lot.” University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 School of Architecture 1223 Dickinson Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 (305) 284 3731 (305) 284 3731 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices