Skip to content Cornell University Search toggle menu close About Cornell About Cornell Overview University Facts Maps & Directions Mission & Vision Core Values Locations Ithaca New York City Related Links Diversity Indigenous Engagement Economic Impact Sustainability Global Cornell Leadership Admissions Overview Undergraduate Apply Admissions Dates and Deadlines Costs and Aid Graduate Admissions Fields of Study Financial Support Continuing Education & Summer Sessions Summer Sessions Winter Sessions Part-time Study Academics Academics Overview Fields of Study Colleges & Schools Departments Library Continuing Education Related Links Office of the Provost Academic Calendar Course Catalog Global Learning Learning Goals Research Overview Explore Cornell Research Extreme Talent. Radical Collaboration. Results That Matter. Related Links Vice President for Research and Innovation Centers & Institutes Technology Licensing (CTL) Graduate Research Undergraduate Research OVPRI Research Publications Public Engagement Overview Featured CCE helps Buffalo get school food truck rolling Related Links Cornell Cooperative Extension Engaged Cornell Hub Land Grant to New York State New York State Impact Life at Cornell Life at Cornell Overview Athletics & Recreation Arts & Culture Health & Safety Live, Work, Travel Student Life Related Links Find Your Networks Center for First-Year Students Clubs & Student Groups More Toggle navigation Apply Undergraduate Graduate Visit Give Students Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Search Search Overview University Facts Mission & Vision Core Values Locations Ithaca New York City Maps & Directions Upstate. Downstate. One Big Red. With deep roots in Ithaca and a rapidly expanding footprint in New York City, no other institution connects upstate and downstate New York quite like Cornell. Cornellians have more opportunities for learning, discovery and engagement than ever before. Planning travel to Ithaca or New York City? Find resources to make a single visit or regular trips easier and more effective. Transportation Lodging Reserving Space Technology Library Resources Traveling between Ithaca and New York City has never been more convenient. Below are a range of options for getting around either location. Intercampus Travel Cornell’s Campus-to-Campus Bus Service – Exceptional, express service between Cornell’s Ithaca and NYC campuses, seven days a week. Rental Vehicles and Charters – Cornell-approved options for renting or chartering vehicles for faculty and staff travel. Personal Vehicle Use – Requirements for driving personal vehicles for university business. Ithaca Tompkins Regional Airport – Offering one-stop connectivity to most major U.S. cities, including NYC. Airlines – Access to Cornell-negotiated air travel discounts for flights on Delta and American Airlines. Local Transportation Ithaca Ithaca Carshare – Providing 24/7 access to vehicles on an hourly basis. Tompkins Consolidated Area Transit (TCAT) – Local bus service connecting campus, Ithaca and the surrounding area. Faculty and staff ride for free with their Cornell ID. New York City Metropolitan Transit Authority (MTA) – Bus, subway and commuter rail options serving the NYC metro area. NJ TRANSIT – Bus, train and light rail service between New Jersey and NYC. NYC Ferry – Offering service to the Cornell Tech campus on Roosevelt Island as well as parts of Manhattan, Queens and Brooklyn. Roosevelt Island Tramway – Fast, convenient service between Roosevelt Island and Manhattan. Whether staying overnight or for an extended trip, there are a variety of accommodations close by our campuses. View a list of Ithaca- and NYC-area hotels with direct billing options for Cornell faculty and staff traveling on university business. Ithaca The Statler Hotel – Located in the heart of Cornell’s campus, the Statler is an innovative leader in hospitality. Off-Campus Rental Listing – Searchable database of available off-campus rentals. Temporary Housing Options – On-campus housing options for qualifying visiting faculty members and Cornell affiliates. Live in Ithaca – Website from Tomkins Chamber highlighting the careers, community and quality of life in the Ithaca area. New York City The Cornell Club-New York – Located in Midtown Manhattan, the club accepts memberships from faculty and staff of Cornell and affiliate schools. The House at Cornell Tech – Short-term living accommodations for qualifying Cornell faculty, students and staff. WCM Short-Term Housing – Resources on finding sublets and furnished apartments in NYC. Helmsley Medical Tower Guest Suites – Lodging options for NewYork-Presbyterian affiliates. Off-Campus Student Housing – Resources for students seeking accommodations when studying off campus, including NYC-based housing options (PDF) offered by other universities and partners. Cornell provides a host of spaces for meetings, events or simply a quiet place to work when visiting Ithaca and NYC. For full details, review the space reservation and use policies. Ithaca Event Scheduling Tool – Access the 25Live tool to reserve space for events. Allow at least five business days for approval. Event Planning at Cornell – Everything you need to know about requirements, processes, procedures and appropriate use of spaces at Cornell. New York City 570 Lexington Avenue – Cornell’s Midtown hub for faculty research, student learning and public engagement activities. ILR NYC Conference Center – Located at 570 Lexington Avenue, this multipurpose space is available for meetings, conferences and more. Contact NYCConferenceCTR@cornell.edu. Cornell Tech – The Tata Innovation Center and Emma Georgina Bloomberg Center may be reserved for events and activities. Contact events@tech.cornell.edu. Cornell SC Johnson College of Business – Event and meeting space at 45 W. 57th Street, 5th floor. Contact Andrea Rose, arose@cornell.edu. AAP NYC – Event and meeting space in Lower Manhattan at 26 Broadway, 20th floor. Contact Bob Balder, rwb43@cornell.edu. Tools to stay connected and resources to support your work when traveling off campus. Video Conferencing Zoom – Free access to online meetings and webinars from your computer or mobile device. Open to Cornell faculty, staff and students with a NetID or Weill Cornell Medicine CWID. Video Conferencing – A service to support faculty and staff with securing space and arranging video conferences. Data Management Box – A free service for convenient file storage and sharing. Log in with NetID or Weill Cornell Medicine CWID. Cornell DropBox – A secure method for sending and receiving files, open to anyone with a NetID. CU VPN – Use Cornell’s virtual private network (VPN) to connect to campus resources that would otherwise be unavailable from distant networks, such as file servers and print services. Wireless Network Access Wi-Fi – All Cornell campuses in Ithaca and NYC offer the eduroam secure Wi-Fi network, allowing registered faculty, staff, students and affiliates to access Cornell’s wireless network with the same credentials used on your home campus. These privileges extend to all eduroam-connected institutions. Others may register to use the Cornell-Visitor network when visiting Ithaca or Cornell Tech and the WCMCGuest network when visiting Weill Cornell Medicine. Technical Support For help with technical issues, contact IT@Cornell in Ithaca, Cornell Tech IT or Weill Cornell Medicine ITS. Cornell University Library (CUL) provides a variety of resources to meet faculty, student and staff needs away from home. Travel Resources Off-Campus Access – Learn how to connect round-the-clock to CUL databases and other resources from your computer or mobile device. Visitor Privileges – Cornell’s libraries are open to all. Contact the Library Public Services Office for more details. Library Services – Everything you need to know about borrowing materials, accessing equipment and services, visiting online or in person and more. Ithaca Eighteen libraries are available in Ithaca to support your research, learning and practice. View the full list of libraries, hours, contact information and more. New York City Weill Cornell Medicine Samuel J. Wood Library – Cornell faculty, staff and students enjoy borrowing privileges and librarian support with a current Cornell ID. Cornell Tech Library Services – A guide to accessing library services while visiting Cornell Tech. Contact cutech-library@cornell.edu. Columbia Library Borrowing Privileges (2CUL) – A reciprocal borrowing program for current students, faculty and staff of Cornell and Columbia. New York Public Library – 92 locations available to those who live, work, attend school or pay property taxes in New York State. Helpful Links expand menu Academic Calendar Leadership Careers Events News Title IX Emergency Preparedness Visiting Cornell expand menu Campus Tours Maps & Directions Ithaca-NYC Travel Johnson Museum Botanic Gardens Ithaca Ithaca Today expand menu Live View Weather 79°F / 26°C Ithaca, New York University Privacy Web Accessibility Assistance Copyright Site Information Contact Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube