Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search About Us Our Team Constituency Board What is Autism Spectrum Disorder? What are Related Disabilities? Early Signs FAQ's Support & Services Why Become a Client? Parents & Caregivers Educators & Providers Request Assistance Adult Services Why Become a Client? Groups & Activities Support for Employment Adult, Family, and Community Trainings Autism Friendly Community Outreach Autism Multicultural Collective Events Calendar Weekly Newsletter Sign-up Giving Resources YouTube Channel Archived Newsletters LinkTree Contact Us Become a Client Media Inquiries Weekly Newsletter Sign-up About Us Support & Services Adult Services Autism Friendly Community Outreach Giving Resources Contact Us Search About Us Our Team Constituency Board What is Autism Spectrum Disorder? What are Related Disabilities? Early Signs FAQ's Support & Services Why Become a Client? Parents & Caregivers Educators & Providers Request Assistance Adult Services Why Become a Client? Groups & Activities Support for Employment Adult, Family, and Community Trainings Autism Friendly Community Outreach Autism Multicultural Collective Events Calendar Weekly Newsletter Sign-up Giving Resources YouTube Channel Archived Newsletters LinkTree Contact Us Become a Client Media Inquiries Weekly Newsletter Sign-up Become a Client Click here to receive UM-NSU CARD Services UM-NSU CARD At-A-Glance: UM-NSU CARD Calendar Find any scheduled event or program offered by our centers across Miami-Dade, Broward, and Monroe Counties. Full Calendar Weekly Newsletter Sign-up today to receive our weekly Newsletter and stay informed. What's happening at UM-NSU CARD this week: Newsletter Page Featured Program "Autism Friendly" is providing a welcoming, compassionate and nonjudgmental environment for individuals with ASD and related disabilities. Learn More Support UM-NSU CARD Your support will help fund the many UM-NSU CARD programs and services that are all provided to our South Florida community all at no cost to families. Learn More EVENTS Annual Reports 2020-2021 Annual Reports 2020-2021 UM-NSU CARD ON: UM-NSU CARD Funding Partners: The Taft Foundation The Taft Foundation was established in 2004 by Don Taft, a businessman and philanthropic leader in Broward County, Florida. The Taft Foundation seeks to continue Don Taft’s legacy by helping to measurably and significantly improve the lives of children and adults with intellectual and developmental disabilities, as well as children with serious medical conditions, primarily in Florida and New York. The Taft Foundation aspires to utilize a creative, strategic, and disciplined grantmaking approach and to invest in organizations that promote social innovation. The Children's Trust The Children's Trust is a dedicated source of revenue derived from property taxes, established by voter referendum in 2002. Our mission is to partner with the community to plan, advocate for and fund strategic investments that improve the lives of all children and families in Miami-Dade County. We envision a community that works together to provide the essential foundations to enable every child to achieve their full potential The Daniel Jordan Fiddle Foundation The Daniel Jordan Fiddle Foundation (DJFF) is a national non-profit organization established in 2002 to focus on developing, funding and advocating for suitable and sustainable programs, resources, support systems and services that address the lifespan needs of adults living with autism. Canon Solutions America Canon Solutions America, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Canon U.S.A., Inc., supplies industry leading enterprise, production, and large format printing solutions, supported by exceptional professional service offerings. Please ensure Javascript is enabled for purposes of website accessibility University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Center for Autism & Related Disabilities 5665 Ponce De Leon Blvd. Flipse Bldg., 2nd Floor Coral Gables, FL 33146 Main Office 1-800-9-AUTISM Ex. 1 Main Office 1-800-9-AUTISM Ex. 1 Fax: 305-284-6555 Email card@miami.edu Social Media Resources social-facebook social-instagram social-twitter social-youtube Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices