Covid-19: Get the latest updates here Apply to JTS Contact Campus Life Alumni Get Email Updates Donate Now Search About Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund Leadership History JTS and Israel Conservative Judaism Offices & Resources Policies Accreditation Visit JTS Admissions List College Admissions Davidson School Admissions Rabbinical School Admissions Gershon Kekst Graduate School Admissions H. L. Miller Cantorial School Admissions Take a Virtual Tour Academics Academics School List College The William Davidson School The Rabbinical School The Gershon Kekst Graduate School H. L. Miller Cantorial School Faculty & Scholars Faculty & Scholars Center & Institutes Center for Pastoral Education Block / Kolker Center for Spiritual Arts The Hendel Center for Ethics and Justice Milstein Center for Interreligious Dialogue Louis Finkelstein Institute for Religious & Social Studies Research Institutes Summer Programs Nishma Summer Sessions Summer Hebrew Language Courses Professional Training Professional Training CONTINUING EDUCATION FOR CLERGY The Rabbinic Training Institute (RTI) Summer Rabbinic Learning Conference Online Learning for Rabbis and Cantors FOR JEWISH EDUCATORS Day School Leadership Training Institute (DSLTI) Jewish Early Childhood Education Leadership Institute (JECELI) Ivriyon: Hebrew Immersion Institute for Day School Educators Jewish Day School Standards and Benchmarks FOR OTHER PROFESSIONALS NAASE Week of Study Community Learning Community Learning ONLINE Live Online Classes JTS Torah Online BEYOND THE CAMPUS JTS Learning in Your Community Courses and Curricula LEARNING EVENTS Public Lectures and Events FOR 8TH-12TH GRADERS Prozdor Teen Learning Library About The Library Letter from the Librarian Library Services The New JTS Library Library Programs and Events Library Online Exhibits Special Collections JTS Library Membership Email a Librarian News & Events News Events Academic Calendar The Rabbinic Training Institute (RTI) Professional Training The Rabbinic Training Institute About RTI JTS’s Rabbinic Training Institute is the premier continuing education program for Conservative rabbis in the field, bringing participants together for five days of intellectual, professional, personal, and spiritual growth. RTI is open to all Conservative rabbis. RTI will be held from Sunday, January 9 to Thursday, January 13, 2022. Covid Safety: All RTI participants and faculty must be vaccinated (barring medical exemptions) and we will observe any and all additional Covid safety measures recommended by public health experts at the time of the Institute, erring on the side of caution. More information about Covid safety measures for RTI 2022 can be found on the registration page. REGISTER FOR RTI 2022 Five Days of Learning A deeply stimulating and nurturing experience, RTI prepares participants to return to their communities rejuvenated in mind, heart, and spirit, and with new skills to serve as even more thoughtful and capable leaders. Meeting at an offsite retreat center from Sunday to Thursday, RTI participants engage in text study and professional skill building with a faculty of world-renowned scholars and consultants, while also reflecting with peers on individual and shared experiences. The program offers: Torah lishmah Professional skills courses Facilitated groups for personal and spiritual reflection Meaningful davening and divrei Torah Yoga, meditation, and private massage (optional) Supportive and fun hevreschaft Expert Faculty The teachers and consultants who guide participants come from JTS and from diverse institutions around the world. The faculty for RTI 2022 are: Mary Jo Barrett, MSW, Executive Director, Center for Contextual Change Rabbi Jordan Bendat-Appell, Jewish Mindfulness Expert and Director of Camp Ramah in Canada Dr. Elizabeth Bloch-Smith, Adjunct Professor of Bible, Princeton Theological Seminary, and Field Archaeologist Rabbi Eliezer Diamond, PhD, Rabbi Judah Nadich Associate Professor of Talmud and Rabbinics, JTS Marsha Jacobson, MBA, Management Consultant to Nonprofits and Leadership Coach Dr. David Kraemer, Joseph J. and Dora Abbell Librarian and Professor of Talmud and Rabbinics, JTS Rabbi Vanessa Ochs, PhD, Professor in the Department of Religious Studies, University of Virginia Dr. Jeffrey Rubenstein, Skirball Professor of Jewish Thought and Literature, New York University Dr. Linda Stone Fish, MSW, Falk Family Endowed Professor of Marriage and Family Therapy, Syracuse University Faun Zarge, MA, Burnout and Resilience Expert, Trainer, and Coach Fees and Registration Location: The Pearlstone Center, Reisterstown, Maryland. The base price for RTI is $900. This covers tuition, all study materials, room and board, and round-trip transportation via group shuttle from BWI airport and train station to the Pearlstone Center. Our priority is to ensure the safety of all RTI attendees. This year’s pricing therefore includes a surcharge of $100 to partially offset the costs of Covid safety measures, for a total price of $1,000 for RTI 2022. The actual cost to JTS is approximately $1,800 per RTI participant. The registration form will allow you to register at a higher ticket price to help JTS offset some of these losses If you are able. Discounts and Scholarships First-time participants receive a 25 percent discount. Rabbis within five years of ordination (ordained in 2017 or later) receive a 50 percent discount. Generous need-based scholarships for female colleagues are available. Limited additional scholarship funds are available for rabbis not in the above categories who cannot afford the full cost of RTI. We are able to offer these subsidies thanks to the generosity of Michelle Kravtin Gary and Marc Gary, executive vice chancellor emeritus of JTS. What People Are Saying “RTI is the best professional development I do all year. It nourishes my body, mind, and soul. It provides me with tools to serve my congregation and the Jewish people better. An amazing time of learning, living, and being.” “As rabbis we teach and preach about the need to create sacred space for our congregants, yet overlook that need for ourselves. RTI fulfills that need, and I return each year from RTI spiritually and emotionally rejuvenated and invigorated.” “RTI is an invaluable opportunity to personally connect with colleagues as they are, with all of our rabbinic masks taken off. We cut straight to the tachlis, the practicality, and strive to help one another in whatever stage we are at in our careers and in our mindset or emotional state.” Contact Us For more information and/or to apply for a scholarship, please contact Rabbi Julia Andelman at rabbinicresources@jtsa.edu. Register for RTI 2022 SHARE THIS PAGE REGISTER FOR RTI 2022 RESOURCES Current Students Faculty & Scholars CONNECT WITH US Get Email Updates Visit Give Social Media © The Jewish Theological Seminary All Rights Reserved | בית המדרש ללימודי יהדות 3080 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 Privacy Policy x Share This Page From Name(Required) From Email(Required) To Email(Required) Message