Skip to site alert. Skip to content Columbia School of Nursing Students Alumni Faculty Contact Us Search Make a Gift About Us About Us Message From the Dean Leadership Faculty Our Culture News Events Facts and Figures Accreditation Make a Gift Contact Us Our Culture Diversity and Cultural Affairs Civility Statement Social Justice and Health Equity and Anti-Racism Commitment Sustainability Our History Jonas Partnership Join Our Team Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Learn about our commitment to social justice and health equality and anti-racism. View Our Progress Academics Academics A Columbia Nursing Education Admissions at a Glance Academic Programs Courses Financial Aid Continuing Nursing Education Helene Fuld Health Trust Simulation Center Academic Programs Doctor of Nursing Practice Doctor of Nursing Practice in Nurse Anesthesia Doctor of Philosophy Masters Direct Entry Program For Non-Nurses Masters in Advanced Clinical Management and Leadership Online Prerequisites for Entry to Nursing Transgender Non-Binary (Trans NB) Health Care for Advance Practice Nurses and PAs Palliative Care Throughout the Lifespan for Advanced Practice Registered Nurses (APRNs) Admissions at a Glance Learn more about Admissions at Columbia Nursing, including important dates and deadlines, and how to apply to all of our programs. Learn More About Admissions Research Research Research Faculty and Postdoctoral Fellows Research Areas of Focus Research Centers and Programs Training Programs Research Resources Research Centers and Programs Center for Health Policy Center for Improving Palliative Care for Vulnerable Adults with MCC Precision in Symptom Self-Management Center Center for Healthcare Delivery Research and Innovations Center for Research on People of Color Center for Sexual and Gender Minority Health Research Linking to Improve Nursing Knowledge Research Areas of Focus Explore the research areas of focus conducted by our faculty, postdocs, and students. View Our Focus Areas Patient Care Global Health Global Health Global Opportunities for Students Global Research International Visitors WHO Collaborating Center Contact Global Opportunities for Students Global opportunities for clinical practicum and research may be available for MDE and doctoral students at Columbia Nursing. Get More Information You are here Home > Research > Research Centers and Programs > Linking to Improve Nursing Knowledge Linking to Improve Nursing Knowledge LINK Team LINK Publications Contact Linking to Improve Nursing Knowledge Linking to Improve Nursing Knowledge (LINK) integrates and unifies scholarly efforts across academia and practice to facilitate nurses’ contributions to the advancement of patient care and outcomes. LINK is characterized by PhD-prepared nurse scientists jointly appointed across academia and practice, i.e. LINK Faculty. LINK faculty hold tenure or non-tenure track faculty appointments at Columbia Nursing and devote a portion of their total effort to research and scholarship in partnering healthcare systems. To date, LINK spans across Columbia Nursing and four partnering healthcare systems. Developed in 2014 under the leadership of Elaine L. Larson, PhD, RN, LINK directly addresses the American Association of Colleges of Nursing report, “Advancing Healthcare Transformation: A New Era for Academic Nursing,” which highlights the need for the integration of nursing research and scholarship across schools of nursing and academic health centers. LINK Team Meet the members of Columbia Nursing's Linking to Improve Nursing Knowledge team. LINK Team LINK Publications View featured publications on work products and evaluations of Columbia Nursing's Linking to Improve Nursing Knowledge (LINK) program. LINK Publications Contact Us Contact the Link Team Contact the Link Team Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Academics Research Patient Care Global Health Contact Us Students Alumni Intranet Careers Columbia University School of Nursing 560 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Back to top