Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Risk Management and Insurance Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Risk Management and Insurance Major Apply Visit Request More Info Risk Management and Insurance Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Business Administration in Risk Management and Insurance Develop the technical expertise and strategic vision necessary to control, identify and manage risk with a Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) in Risk Management and Insurance in Temple University’s Fox School of Business. The program exposes students to issues in managing property-liability risk, human capital risk and international risk. Students also gain deeper expertise in retirement planning, risk financing, health and welfare employee benefits and enterprise risk management. This 124-credit undergraduate degree will prepare students to examine and find solutions to the risks that affect the bottom line of major corporations and companies in a multinational setting. Through innovative coursework and real-world experience, you’ll gain the skills necessary to mitigate risk through insurance and other mechanisms of risk transfer. You will also learn to respond to numerous uncertainties around property liability exposures and employee benefits programs. Temple offers three tracks within the Risk Management and Insurance BBA, depending on your desired course of study. Employee Benefits Healthcare Risk Property Liability and Corporate Risk Graduates of Temple’s Risk Management and Insurance BBA program have found success in the employee benefit consulting, underwriting, and risk management departments of major corporations, including All Risks Ltd., Assured Partners, Brown and Brown, Chubb Insurance, CNA, Great American, Lockton, Munich RE, Pennsylvania Lumbermans Mutual, Reliance Standard and Trion. Students will also have the opportunity to get involved with Gamma Iota Sigma, the national award-winning professional student Risk Management and Actuarial Science organization at Temple. By joining, you will benefit from real-world knowledge shared by guest speakers currently leading the industry. You will also work alongside graduate students, faculty and staff and have access to a host of career development seminars. Employee Benefits Concentration for Human Resource Majors The Department of Risk, Insurance and Healthcare Management offers Risk Management and Insurance courses that complement the Department of Human Resource Management's courses for students interested in a career in employee benefits and/or human resource management. These courses allow students to broaden their career options by taking advantage of the cross-training offered by these departments. These courses include Managing Human Capital Risk and Retirement Plans. For more information on joint Human Resource Management/Risk Management and Insurance courses, contact R.B. Drennan Phone: 215-204-8894 Email: rdrennan@temple.edu Path to CPCU or CEBS Designations Knowledge and experience gained from the Risk Management and Insurance BBA major prepares students for a number of post-graduate exams, including the Chartered Property Casualty Underwriter (CPCU) exams and the Certified Employee Benefit Specialist (CEBS) exams. Such designations demonstrate specialized expertise around complex subject matter, including employee benefit planning, healthcare management, retirement planning, property-casualty insurance and risk management. Earning a CPCU or CEBS designation gives you a competitive advantage in the job market. Distinguished Faculty The diverse faculty in the Department of Risk, Insurance and Healthcare Management brings extensive real-world knowledge to this degree program, with some professors holding more than 25 years of high-level industry experience in risk management and insurance economics. Professors have published in an array of relevant periodicals, including the Journal of Risk and Insurance, Journal of Risk and Uncertainty, Risk Management and Insurance Review, the North American Actuarial Review, the Journal of Banking and Finance, and the Journal of Law and Economics. Among the many accolades faculty members have earned over the years are the Shin Research Excellence Award, the Adam Smith Leadership Award for Academic Excellence and Educational Leadership, and Temple University's Great Teacher Award. Faculty are also active in the field and hold leadership positions within risk management and insurance professional societies, as well as the American Risk and Insurance Association, Southern Risk and Insurance Association and the Western Risk and Insurance Association. Classes & Curriculum Core courses vary across the three tracks of study within the Risk Management and Insurance Major program. Learn more about required courses in the Risk Management and Insurance Major curriculum. Related Graduate Degrees Actuarial Science MS Business Administration MBA Business Administration PhD Human Resource Management MS Related Graduate Certificates Human Resource Management Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Business Administration offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $21,144.00 per year Out-of-state: $38,544.00 per year Our Academic Advisors The Center for Undergraduate Advising in the Fox School of Business is dedicated to helping students navigate their academics and make informed decisions about their career paths. See a full list of undergraduate academic advisors. Peer Advising The Center for Undergraduate Advising also offers peer advising at the Main Campus location. Undergraduate peer advisors offer the perspective of an upper-level student and assist by sharing their knowledge and personal tips for academic success. Program Contacts For more information about your degree program, contact the faculty below. Kate Markowitz is the director of enrollment management for undergraduate students. Phone: 215-204-4892 Email: kmrick@temple.edu Tom Carney is the assistant director of undergraduate enrollment. Phone: 215-204-5424 Email: tom.carney@temple.edu Claudia Bereshnyi is the assistant director of transfer, veteran and online BBA recruitment and the contact for both incoming transfer students and those interested in an online BBA. Phone: 215-204-4100 Email: claudia@temple.edu Drew Hashimura is the coordinator of enrollment management. Phone: 215-204-2070 Email: ahashimura@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Joining student clubs and organizations is a great way to meet like-minded students; connect with local, national and international businesses; and build the skills you’ll need in your professional career. Enhance your academic experience by participating in a club related to your major or interests. The following clubs and organizations are available to risk management and insurance students in the Fox School of Business. The goal of Gamma Iota Sigma is to create a sense of community among majors and help members build toward successful professional careers in risk management, insurance and actuarial science. Members benefit from résumé help, interview skills training, guest speaker presentations, industry networking opportunities, and career receptions dedicated to Risk Management and Insurance. Temple University Health Leadership Organization was created for students interested in health sector management and related professions. Their mission is to provide health-related education, leadership development and connections with alumni and people within the healthcare industry. Explore the full list of Fox student clubs and organizations. Global Immersions Broaden your understanding of global economies and business practices by taking advantage of the various study abroad options and opportunities for learning beyond Temple’s Main Campus in Philadelphia through Global Immersion Programs. Temple administers several programs around the world, including campus sites in Rome, Japan and Spain, faculty-led summer programs and exchange programs in Europe and Asia. Interested students may also participate in approved programs organized by study abroad organizations or other U.S. universities, or apply directly to an accredited institution overseas. Temple’s Education Abroad office provides information on approved programs, and advisors can work with you to determine which program might provide the best fit. Learn more about study away options. Temple Exchange Programs Through reciprocal exchange agreements with the following universities, Temple students can exchange places with students for a semester or academic year. Some programs require sufficient proficiency in the host country language to participate. China: Hong Kong Baptist University Korea: Ewha Womans University, Yonsei University, Sogang University Taiwan: National Taiwan University Learn more about Temple exchange programs (PDF). Accreditation The Fox School of Business is accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB). The school has maintained AACSB accreditation since 1934. BU-RMI-BBA Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Risk Management and Insurance Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info