Your browser does not support iframes. Skip to main content Menu Scheller College of Business Request More Information Attend an Info Session Contact Us Directory Apply Now Search Why Scheller? Programs Executive Education Academics Centers & Initiatives News & Events Overview & History Dean's Message and Report Meet Ernest Scheller Jr. Advisory Board Accreditation Strategic Plan Business at Tech Graduates Get Hired Return on Investment Faculty and Advisors Global Perspective A Good Fit Corporate Engagement Trading Floor Georgia Tech Community Student Life Making Connections and Learning Opportunities Diversity Diversity News Career and Recruiter Services Career Services for Students Hire Our Students Giving to the College Meeting the Challenge Priorities and Needs Faculty Support Student Support Program Enrichment Unrestricted Endowment The Impact of Your Gift How to Make a Gift FAQs Scheller MBA Annual Fund Alumni Network Alumni News Alumni Resources Update Contact Information Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Full-time MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQsEvening MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Advancement Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQs Executive MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Student & Alumni Profiles FAQsMBA Programs Which Georgia Tech MBA is Right for Me? Commitment to Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Dual Degree Options Experiential Learning For Engineers For Military Community MD/MBA Option MBA Early Admission for Undergrads Rankings The Intersection Podcast Earn Your MBA in Atlanta Graduate Certificate Business Analytics Certificate Undergraduate Admissions Curriculum Career Services Student Services Student Life Scholarships & Awards Rankings & Stats Connect With Us The Intersection Podcast, Undergrad PhD Concentrations Program Milestones Faculty and Staff Funding Admissions FAQs Recruiting Events Student Bios Program News Request Program Information Interdisciplinary M.S. M.S. in Quantitative & Computational Finance (QCF) Master of Science in Analytics at Georgia Tech Lean Six Sigma Certification Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Certification Lean Six Sigma Black Belt Certification FAQs Custom Programs FAQs Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Engineering Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship International Management Management of Technology Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results Academic Speaker Series Guest Speakers in Accounting Guest Speakers in Finance Guest Speakers in Marketing Current Faculty Opportunities Business Analytics Center Engage with Us Executive Council News Research Education People Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics About Cecil B. Day The Cecil B. Day Prize Speakers and Events Faculty Support Net Impact Center for International Business Education and Research Projects Research Events Books People at CIBER Inside CIBER News and Events Archives International Management Certificate Sign Up for Future CIBER News Financial Analysis Lab Subscribe to Reports Institute for Leadership and Social Impact About Us Programs News Impact Speaker Series Leadership for Social Good Study Abroad Program Social Impact Fellows Ideas to Serve (I2S) Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Servant Leadership Programs Minor in Leadership Studies Excel Alumni Other ILSI Programs Partnerships Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business About Us Sustainable Business Insights Research Briefs Sustainable Business Events Sustainable Business News Blog Research & Thought Leadership Empowering Students Industry Engagement Newsletter Participating in the Drawdown Georgia Compact Drawdown Georgia Business Compact Meet the Team Alumni Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program Director's Message About Steven A. Denning T&M Curriculum Program Faculty & Staff Admissions T&M Corporate Affiliates Denning T&M Program News TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta Program Network TI:GER MBA & PhD FAQs News Apply Inquire Resources in Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller See all news Scheller News Home » News & Events » articles Scheller Executive MBA students in Lisbon, Portugal’s Old Town Published on: 05-20-2022 Culture, Community, and Business Abroad: Georgia Tech Scheller Executive MBAs Travel to Portugal and Spain Georgia Tech Scheller Executive MBAs bring a lot to the table. Their business credentials and years of experience give them a competitive edge wherever they go. But when it came to their class trip to Portugal and Spain, they also exhibited a deep desire to look outward. Some came unsure about their roommate assignments or navigating the language differences, but their uncertainty was matched with an eagerness to learn more about Portugal and Spain’s local cultures and companies, unique business challenges of the region, and themselves. Jabrille Williams Executive MBA - Management of Technology ’22 Chief Operating Officer, JT Asphalt “Our class journey to Portugal and Spain has been a life-changing experience where we witnessed history literally around every corner. We were able to use all our senses to become one with each city we visited. From our authentic Portuguese cooking classes to our amazing business trips each day to see the innovative prowess of companies like Ferrovial and Telefónica, this was truly a one-of-a-kind experience. Where else could you witness the exquisite detail of the Toledo Cathedral, the genius architecture of the Roman Aqueduct in Segovia, and the beautiful walls of Avila all in one weekend? Our class made memories to last a lifetime and we now have friendships to match. On our journey, we truly understood what it means to be a part of the Georgia Tech Family!” Chris Staufer Executive MBA - Global Business ‘22 Senior Information Technology Project Manager, CRH Americas “My father once said it’s always valuable to consider the international audience when growing a business.  By meeting with local business owners, we got to see some of the shared and unique challenges they face in each market.  Learning how they approached those challenges, and adapted, is always useful knowledge.  This coupled with our coursework studying the local cultures and companies should pay dividends in our current careers and in future positions. Both Portugal and Spain were amazing to visit, and it was interesting to see how walkable the two cities were. The locals were incredibly friendly and hospitable, and language was rarely a concern. We were fortunate to get connected with the culture and the locals, thanks to Georgia Tech’s travel partners, who offered guided tours and side trips to nearby cities such as Toledo, Avila, and Segovia. Great times were had all around. It’s easy to focus exclusively on local markets to drive business value but looking abroad can create much greater opportunities. Programs like the International Residency at Georgia Tech lets students experience international markets and cultures firsthand.” Jehan Haddadin Executive MBA - Management of Technology ’22 Account Management Director, Mastercard “The International Residency trip was a major highlight of my EMBA experience. While Georgia Tech provided us with an itinerary prior to our departure, I honestly had no idea what to expect. What would the company visits be like?  What would I do in my free time? Would I get along with my randomly assigned roommate for 12 days straight? This trip surprised me in more ways than I could have anticipated. We spent our week meeting with various businesses around Lisbon, including global corporations like PwC and IKEA, as well as local startups. It was eye-opening to learn about some of the different challenges global corporations have found operating in the region, as well as the number of opportunities that so many entrepreneurs have discovered in Portugal. Most of all, I enjoyed the time we spent meeting with local startups, learning about their founder stories, hearing about their development strategies, and understanding more about the various challenges faced in each stage of the process. We also had an incredible experience visiting Sport Lisboa e Benfica stadium, taking a private tour of the facilities and learning about the strategy behind managing a world-renowned soccer organization. After almost a week in Portugal, we made our way to Madrid, one of my favorite European destinations. While we were there, we learned about the local tech market in one of Europe’s emerging startup hubs and also met with global companies like Telefonica and Ferrovial. It was particularly interesting to learn about the global success of Ferrovial, an international corporation with reach as far as Atlanta, where they’re supporting some of our local infrastructure projects. During our free time, we ventured out to explore ancient Spanish cities like Toledo, Avila, and Segovia, watched Flamenco dancers in centuries old taverns, and ate our weight in tapas (give me all the jamón)! We made memories and bonds to last a lifetime in the Iberian Peninsula. I’m so incredibly thankful to the staff at Georgia Tech for all the work they put into planning such a great trip. I’m especially thankful to my fellow EMBA classmates for making it an experience of a lifetime. Gracias and obrigado! And if you’re wondering what happened with the roommate situation… we decided to make some post-graduation travel plans together. Destination: TBD.” TwitterFacebookLinkedIn CONTACTS News News Contact Profile, Scheller College of Business Home Why Scheller? Overview & History Business at Tech Georgia Tech Community Career and Recruiter Services Giving to the College Alumni Network Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Programs MBA Undergraduate PhD Interdisciplinary M.S. Executive Education Lean Six Sigma Certification Custom Programs Academics Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Academic Speaker Series Current Faculty Opportunities Centers & Initiatives Business Analytics Center Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics Center for International Business Education and Research Financial Analysis Lab Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta News & Events Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller LinkedIn Instagram Facebook Twitter Youtube Flickr Georgia Institute of Technology Scheller College of Business 800 W. Peachtree St. NW Atlanta, GA 30308 404.894.2600 © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology Intranet Emergency Information Contact the College Privacy & Legal Notice Accountability Web Accessibility Resources for People with Disabilities Plugins Youtube Usage Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures