Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Climate School Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home The School Education Research News Events People Giving Shop Leadership Careers COVID-19 Resources Privacy Policy Explore All Programs MA Climate + Society Non-Degree Programs Educator Training Pre-College Programs Professional Learning Undergraduate Research Experiences Office of Research Pre-Award Unit Research Partners Research Projects Columbia Climate School You are here: Home Education MA Climate + Society MA Climate + Society MA Climate + Society Graduates from the MA in Climate and Society work at the nexus of social science, climate science and public policy VISIT MAIN WEBSITE An InterDisciplinary Approach to Studying Climate Program The MA in Climate and Society is a 12-month interdisciplinary graduate program that trains professionals and academics to understand and address the impacts of climate variability and climate change on society and the environment. Through classes and research, students gain knowledge in both climate and social sciences as they relate to climate. The MA in Climate and Society is designed to help young professionals and academics understand the science of climate change and variability and how to use it to help humanity thrive in the 21st century. The program prepares students to translate complex scientific information and understand the risks a shifting climate poses as well as how to take advantage of the predictable aspects of natural climate variability. Curriculum The program offers a curriculum designed to give students the flexibility to pursue their specific interests while gaining strong fundamentals in climate science and policy. A set of five core courses provide a scientific basis for inquiry and interdisciplinary problem-solving. In addition to the core courses, Climate and Society students take a minimum of four electives at any of Columbia’s graduate schools. During the final semester, students gain practical skills and experience through the completion of an internship or capstone project. Post-Graduation Careers Climate and Society alumni carry a deep understanding of the climate system and societal impacts that can be translated to professional experiences across the public, private and NGO sectors. Together, our alumni network is at the forefront of helping society addressing the climate crisis in a just and equitable way. Upcoming Information Sessions How to Apply and Deadlines Alumni Spotlight: TV Meteorologist Jeff Berardelli VISIT MAIN WEBSITE Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close