Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Master of Science in Accounting (MSA) Become a Seasoned Accountant Through Specialized Skills and Knowledge Request Info Program at a Glance Program Master College(s) College of Business Department(s) Accounting 2-3 Years In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $369.65 per credit hour $1,194.05 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Take the Next Step in Your Accounting Career The Master of Science in Accounting (MSA) prepares you to enhance your skills and competencies that will support you professionally throughout your career. The MSA degree, along with the appropriate undergraduate prerequisite work, also satisﬁes the education requirements to become a licensed CPA in the state of Florida. If your career plans include pursuing state-regulated professional licensure or certification in your chosen field, it is important to know the credentialing requirements of the state in which you hope to practice. Within this program, you’ll have the opportunity to choose from 3 tracks available — an opportunity to align both your passion and career trajectory. Throughout your studies, learn from renowned faculty who provide you with hands-on experience through cases and research projects that involve independent work outside of the classroom. The results of independent research activity are presented in either a written report or case analysis or oral presentation. Our approach to ensuring a successful classroom environment helps encourage students, like you, toward life-long learning. Upon graduating, you’ll be ready to advance your current career or start a new path as a professional accountant or consultant in the public accounting industry, ﬁnancial institutions, government, and nonproﬁt organizations. Assurance Track The MSA Assurance Track is a great fit if you’re looking for an auditing career in public accounting, internal audit or other attestation roles. Taxation Track The MSA Taxation Track prepares you for a career path as a tax professional and tax consultant in a wide variety of organizations. Management Track The MSA Management Track covers a wide range of accounting careers that utilize accounting data for decision making, evaluating internal controls and designing compensation systems. Request Information Highlights Both the Dixon School of Accounting and the College of Business Administration are among an elite group of programs that are independently accredited by the AACSB. The job outlook for accountants and auditors is projected to grow 4 percent through 2029. The median annual salary for accountants and auditors is $73K. Application Deadlines Fall July 1 Spring December 1 Summer April 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Course Overview Ethics and Professionalism in Accounting and Auditing This course focuses on why and how theories of the professions and theories of individual ethical decision-making are applicable to the practice of accounting. Accounting Theory An examination of the evolution of contemporary accounting theory with emphasis on current and future developments. Advanced Accounting Information Systems Evaluation of the overall risk to critical accounting and business processes posed by information technology. Accounting Skills You'll Learn Focus on developing leadership skills needed to succeed within the accounting field Ability to explain data and results to clients and other departments across the organization Use critical-thinking skills to solve business problems in an ethical manner Qualify to take the CPA exam Career Opportunities Senior Accountant Financial Controller Accounting Manager Senior Financial Analyst Tax Accountant Auditor Admission Requirements The accounting master’s degree at UCF accepts applications three times throughout the year: fall, spring and summer. You must apply online and submit all requested materials by the established deadline. Please note that there are business and accounting core requirements; however, these can be completed after a student has gained admission into the program, but must be satisfied before graduate MSA coursework can be undertaken. Applicants with a recent undergraduate accounting degree will likely have completed most, if not all, of the foundation prerequisite courses. Before taking any foundation courses, please have your undergraduate transcripts reviewed by the MSA program advisor. Request Information To apply, submit the general graduate admissions requirements, as well as the following items by the deadline: One official transcript (in a sealed envelope) from each college/university attended 3.0 GPA in upper-division accounting and tax courses Official, competitive GMAT score taken within the last five years Résumé Goal Statement Request Information College of Business News Check out more stories Business & Economy Wriggle Brew ‘Worm Tea’ Fertilizer Wins at UCF’s 2022 Joust New Venture Competition Economics student Samuel Baker won for his concept, which also doubles as a pesticide. Business & Economy Metro Forecast: Florida Economy Must Weather ‘Monetary Policy Hurricane’ to Avoid Recession With the Federal Reserve making its first interest rate hike in three years in March, UCF’s Institute for Economic Forecasting predicts the 0.25% increase will… Colleges & Campus 2022 UCF Founders’ Day Honorees The annual celebration honors the academic achievements of our faculty members and students. Student Life Student Research Week: The Greater Good Ahead of Selfish Interests is Focus of Marketing Study Ph.D. student looks at how self-compassion creates longer lasting positive effects for donors in addition to fostering high prosocial behavior. Degree Search College of Business programs Masters Accounting (MSA) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management Request Information × Enter your information below to receive more information about the Accounting (MSA) program offered at UCF. Loading... University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida