Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Marketing, BSBA Formulate Marketing Strategies That Play a Vital Role in Achieving Business Success Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Business Department(s) Marketing 4 Years In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Reach Consumers Through Various Channels, Driving Sales and Revenue As a marketing major at UCF, you’ll gain hands-on experience with conducting market research, gathering information on consumers and competitors, deploying campaigns, increasing the bottom line and analyzing various metrics. Learn what it takes to succeed in this face-paced industry and succeed in positions ranging from global companies to local businesses. Align your personal and professional goals with your coursework by choosing from two tracks: marketing management and professional selling. Each provides you with the hands-on training and knowledge needed to succeed in the industry. Marketing Management Track Gain the knowledge and skills necessary to excel in entry-level positions in marketing management, product/brand management, or positions in retail, sales, market research or promotion. Professional Selling Track Prepare for a position in business-to-business selling, with the potential to advance into either sales management or marketing management. Upon graduation you’ll have the opportunity to break into a variety of interesting and challenging career paths such as marketing and product management, professional selling, retailing, advertising, e-business, marketing research, sport marketing, procurement, distribution and logistics, and public relations. Continuing your education through a Master’s in Business Administration can also open more doors to career advancement and help you stand out from the competition. Please note, the marketing degree is not eligible for a double degree with another College of Business Administration major. Related Programs: Business Analytics, BSBA Business Economics, BSBA Finance, BSBA Integrated Business, BSBA Management, BSBA Highlights UCF was ranked as one of the Best Undergraduate Business Programs by U.S. News & World Report in 2021. The marketing program at UCF is accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB). Marketing professionals are in-demand across the nation, especially in California, New York, Florida, Texas and Illinois. The median annual pay for market research analysts and marketing specialists is $66,000. Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Start Your Application Today Ready to get started? Take the next step to save your spot at UCF. 1 Check out your application requirements. See what freshmen and transfer students need to apply. 2 Short on time? You can start your application today and come back later to finish. Apply Today Course Overview Marketing Strategy Explore marketing issues with emphasis on strategy formulation and integrative marketing decision making. Digital Media Marketing Learn about how to apply various contemporary digital media technologies in the marketing decision-making process. Strategic Management Assume a strategic view of organizations and integrate and apply material learned in your business courses to modern organizational problems and opportunities. View All Marketing Courses You'll Take Marketing Skills You'll Learn Create and manage communications information about a product or service to a specified target audience. Build interpersonal communication skills in order to more effectively and efficiently work with various teams in an organization. Gain an understanding of consumer research to ensure success within competitive marketplaces. Boost consumer engagement and strengthen brand loyalty through traditional and digital strategies. Increase the bottom line by researching, planning and developing solutions that gain a competitive edge. Career Opportunities Account Coordinator Brand Specialist Content Marketer Marketing Specialist Market Research Analyst Production Coordinator SEO Specialist Social Media Coordinator College of Business News Check out more stories Business & Economy Wriggle Brew ‘Worm Tea’ Fertilizer Wins at UCF’s 2022 Joust New Venture Competition Economics student Samuel Baker won for his concept, which also doubles as a pesticide. Business & Economy Metro Forecast: Florida Economy Must Weather ‘Monetary Policy Hurricane’ to Avoid Recession With the Federal Reserve making its first interest rate hike in three years in March, UCF’s Institute for Economic Forecasting predicts the 0.25% increase will… Colleges & Campus 2022 UCF Founders’ Day Honorees The annual celebration honors the academic achievements of our faculty members and students. Student Life Student Research Week: The Greater Good Ahead of Selfish Interests is Focus of Marketing Study Ph.D. student looks at how self-compassion creates longer lasting positive effects for donors in addition to fostering high prosocial behavior. Degree Search College of Business programs Bachelors Marketing (BSBA) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management × Students interested in majoring in marketing have two options: the marketing management track or the professional selling track. The marketing management track provides students with the knowledge and skills necessary to excel in entry-level positions in marketing management, product/brand management, or positions in retail, sales, market research, or promotion. The professional selling track prepares students for positions in B-B selling, with the potential to advance into either sales management or marketing management. Not eligible for a double degree with another College of Business Administration major. Degree Requirements Students who change degree programs and select this major must adopt the most current catalog. Students wanting to major in Marketing must meet admission requirements for the major. Any student receiving a business degree must complete a minimum of 30 of the 60 upper level business credit hours for their degree program in the UCF College of Business Administration. Additionally, 12 of the 30 credit hours completed at UCF must be from the department or school in which the student majors. For students seeking a double major within the College of Business, a maximum of 6 hours of Required Courses for the Major or Restricted Electives may count towards another business major. A maximum of 6 hours of Core Requirements or Restricted Electives may count towards another degree program or minor. Students in the Marketing major must maintain a 2.75 or higher cumulative Grade Point Average in all 3000 level or higher Marketing courses and a 2.0 or higher cumulative GPA in all College of Business courses taken at UCF. Failure to maintain the required GPAs will result in the student being placed on Lack of Progress in the major and/or College. If a student on Lack of Progress fails to achieve the minimum required GPA in the subsequent term, the student will be dropped as a Marketing major and/or College of Business student. A student who is dropped may seek re-admittance into the College or major by submitting a letter indicating the reasons for academic difficulties and positive plans for achieving the required GPA. Readmission is not automatic or guaranteed and as an exception to College policy is rarely granted. Students must earn a "B" or higher in MAR 3023. In addition, only grades of "C" or higher transfer into the program and students must earn a minimum of "C" or higher in all business courses. This includes all courses under requirements Common Program Prerequisites (CPP), Core Requirements: Advanced Level (Primary Core, Secondary Core and Required Courses for Major), Restricted Electives and Capstone Requirements below. Degree Requirements Core Requirements: Advanced Level 0 Total Credits Complete all of the following Primary Core Complete the following: Grand Total Credits: 0 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida