Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Events Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Schedule a Visit SMU Tour Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Twitter Follow Us YouTube Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Religious Studies Why Study Here? Why Study Here? What Do Religious Studies Majors Do After Graduation? Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Programs Major Minor Courses Departmental Distinction What Can I Do with a Religious Studies Degree? Contact an Advisor Graduate Programs Graduate Programs Learn More Graduate School Resources Apply Letter from Director M.A. Degree Requirements Ph.D. Degree Requirements Faculty Research Current Students GPRS Student Organization Frequently Asked Questions Forms, Schedules, and Policies Admissions Information GPRS Alumni Contact Student Research and Conference Presentations People About About Contact Lecture Series In the Media Alumni Connection Give ☰ SMU Department of Religious Studies Departments Religious Studies Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Programs The B.A. degree in religious studies is appropriate for a general liberal arts education and for preprofessional training leading to graduate degrees in religious studies, theology, or other areas of the humanities. Departmental courses are offered in four areas: philosophical studies of religious ideas and values, historical studies of religious movements and institutions, scientific studies of religious beliefs and behavior, and textual studies of religious traditions and scriptures. A well-balanced program of undergraduate study includes courses from each of these four areas. Students planning to undertake graduate studies are strongly encouraged to take the major with departmental distinction and to complete 12 term hours in either French or German and other relevant foreign language preparation as early as possible. The requirements for religious studies majors and minors who enter SMU in the Fall 2011 and subsequent semesters will be slightly different from the requirements familiar to students already enrolled at SMU. Major Minor Undergraduate Programs Major Minor Courses Departmental Distinction What Can I Do with a Religious Studies Degree? Contact an Advisor Apply Visit Academics Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Minors and Programs Research Centers and Institutes Connect Administrative Directory Department Directory Alumni Make a Gift Dedman College of Humanities & Sciences P.O. Box 750235 | Dallas, Texas | 75275-0233 214-768-2440 © Southern Methodist University Legal Disclosures facebook twitter youtube