Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School Financing & Support Health and Dental Insurance Graduate School Skip to Navigation Health and Dental Insurance All Brown students are required to show proof of health insurance while enrolled at the University. All registered students are automatically enrolled in the University's Student Health Insurance Plan (SHIP). Plan Details: Information on accessing plan benefits, medical services, and prescriptions can be found on the Insurance Office website The plan has an annual premium of $4,204 for the 2021-2022 academic year for continuing students or those who matriculate in the fall of 2021. The plan offers a spring-semester only premium of $2,602, for students who matriculate in the spring semester of 2022. The deadline for waiving SHIP for the 2021-22 academic year is July 30, 2021. Academic-year coverage is effective from August 15, 2021 to August 14, 2022. The deadline for waiving for the spring semester is January 10, 2022. Spring-semester coverage is effective from January 1, 2022 to August 14, 2022. Doctoral and MFA Students As part of the five-year support guarantee, doctoral and MFA students receive health and dental insurance subsidies, including a spouse and child dependent subsidy. Students may waive SHIP coverage by presenting proof of adequate outside coverage to the University Office of Insurance & Purchasing Services. Dependents Health Insurance Coverage Dependents of graduate students may be enrolled in SHIP at an additional cost. Eligible dependents include a legal spouse or domestic partner, children up to the age of 26, or a child born while the graduate student is covered by SHIP. A spouse or partner is generally expected to be living with the covered student in order to be eligible for coverage. Doctoral and MFA students who receive health coverage through their financial support packages from the University are eligible to receive a 75% subsidy on the annual premium cost of enrolling a dependent. Enrollment is available directly through the Gallagher website. Once logged in through the portal, you will be able to add your dependents. After the dependents are added, you will receive a payment link to make the payment. Your coverage will be added upon processing the payment. The first payment is for 3 months of the subsidized premium, followed by 9 monthly payments. If you have any questions, please email [email protected]. Costs for the 2021-2022 academic year: Annual (Coverage period 8/15/21 - 8/14/22) Spouse $4174 One Child $4174 Two or More Children $8348 All Dependents $8348 Spring (Coverage period 1/1/22 - 8/14/22) Spouse $2584 One Child $2584 Two or More Children $5168 All Dependents $5168 Summer (Coverage period 6/1/22 - 8/14/22) Spouse $858 One Child $858 Two or More Children $1716 All Dependents $1716 Health Insurance Waiver/Buyout Graduate students who are covered by another comparable health insurance plan may elect to waive the University plan. Students waive the University plan and who are eligible for the subsidy, will receive a buyout of $400 ($200 for spring-semester coverage). This buyout will be distributed through the student account system. If students have a credit balance on their student account at the time the buyout is disbursed, they will be able to request a refund from the Bursar's Office. If they do not have a credit balance at this time, the $400/$200 will be applied to their student account. Students who choose coverage through both the University's health insurance plan and an alternate plan should be aware that the University plan includes a "Coordination of Benefits" provision. Students should contact their other insurance company to inquire about a similar provision in that plan. "Double coverage" may affect the timely processing of claims between the two plans. Dental Insurance Brown University offers a Student Dental Insurance Plan through Delta Dental of Rhode Island. To view the rates and benefits of the plan, and to enroll online, please visit the Delta Dental website. The plan has an annual premium of $261.36 for the 2019-2020 academic year for continuing students or those who matriculate in the fall of 2019. Further information on accessing plan benefits can be found on the Insurance Office website. Students who receive dental coverage through their financial support packages from the University are eligible to receive a 75% subsidy on the annual premium cost of enrolling a dependent. All students enrolled in the Student Health Insurance program have the option of using the Dental Savings Program, which provides pre-negotiated discounts on services provided by participating area dentists. See the Insurance Office site for additional information, including the policy on Voluntary Student Dental Insurance. Dental Insurance Coverage for Dependents Dependents of graduate students may be enrolled in Delta Dental coverage at an additional cost. Eligible dependents include a legal spouse or domestic partner, children up to the age of 26, or a child born while the graduate student is covered by the Delta Dental plan. A spouse or partner is generally expected to be living with the covered student in order to be eligible for coverage. Students who receive dental coverage through their financial support packages from the University are eligible to receive a 75% subsidy on the annual premium cost of enrolling a dependent. The deadline for Fall enrollment is September 8, 2021. To enroll a dependent, please fill out the Delta Dental Dependent Enrollment Form and email it to g[email protected] by September 8, 2021. Related Files 2021-22 Delta Dependent.pdf Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Financing & Support Tuition & Fees Health and Dental Insurance Financial Considerations Master's Funding Ph.D. Funding Internal Funding & Appointments Student Loans Student Employment Student Payroll Procedures Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Related Items Insurance Office Health Services Bursar's Office Brown Health & Dental Insurance Guidance for Postdocs How to Access Plan Benefits Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants