Skip to main content Menu Discover Majors and Careers Admissions and Aid Campus Life Spirit and Traditions Athletics Raleigh, N.C. Apply Visit Give About NC State 101 Chancellor Rankings and Facts Think and Do Education Undergraduate Graduate Online Colleges and Departments Innovation Research Partnerships Centennial Campus Entrepreneurship Community Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Global Engagement Outreach and Extension Philanthropy and Giving Apply Visit Give Information For: Students Faculty and Staff Parents and Families Alumni NC State Resources Howling Cow It's NC State's very own ice cream — and it's the coolest. Developed in our lab, made on campus, loved by all. You’re in for a Treat It’s only natural for a university with a 329-acre dairy farm and a nationally recognized food science program to make ridiculously delicious ice cream. Our students and programs reap the benefits — and the statewide cult following is just a sweet bonus. True to its tasty roots, Howling Cow® ice cream is still made on campus in the Feldmeier Dairy Processing Lab, part of the Department of Food, Bioprocessing and Nutrition Sciences. The milk and cream come directly from over 300 NC State cows on our farm in Raleigh, North Carolina. The Inside Scoop Like most great ideas at NC State, Howling Cow started in a lab. In the 1940s, scientists here kicked off a creamy, dreamy research project that would become the stuff of legends. At first, their results could only be found in the cafeteria. In the 1970s, the ice cream made its debut at the North Carolina State Fair and quickly became the event’s crown jewel. And in 1980, a small cafe in D.H. Hill Library began slinging cones, too. The price? Just 30 cents per scoop. Fast forward to 2008: a branding project finally gave Howling Cow its name. And now, at long last, North Carolinians can find the beloved treat at locations across campus and at Harris Teeter stores statewide. 70+ Years making the sweet stuff 300 Cows on our campus 1,000 Gallons of ice cream made weekly Our Homemade Flavors Our flavors are dreamed up and tested (over and over) in our lab. The ice cream we make on campus comes from milk right across the field. You can’t get it any fresher. Banana Pudding Banana-flavored ice cream with vanilla wafers and a marshmallow ripple. Butter Almond Sweet, buttery ice cream mixed with salty, roasted almonds. Campfire Delight™ Graham-cracker-flavored ice cream with a marshmallow ripple and chocolate chunks. Cherry Brick Road™ Dark chocolate ice cream with cherries, chocolate chunks and a marshmallow ripple. Cherry Vanilla Sweet red cherries swirled in classic vanilla ice cream. Chocolate Rich, creamy chocolate-flavored ice cream. Chocolate Chip Mint Mint-flavored ice cream blended with chocolate chips. Coco Choco Cafe (Provost’s Pick™) Coffee ice cream with coconut flakes, chocolate chunks and a caramel swirl. Cookie Dough2™ Cookie-dough-flavored ice cream swirled with chocolate chips and cookie dough pieces. Cookies and Cream Vanilla ice cream blended with chocolate cookie pieces. Java Bean Creamy cappuccino-flavored ice cream. Lemon Wafer Tart lemon ice cream mixed with pieces of sweet vanilla wafer. Peanut Butter Spin Chocolate ice cream swirled with salty peanut butter. Strawberry There’s nothing better than North Carolina strawberries, churned to perfection. Vanilla Our dairy milk’s quality is unparalleled, and it shines through in this classic vanilla. Wolf Tracks (Chancellor’s Choice™) Vanilla- and fudge-swirled ice cream mixed with miniature peanut butter cups. More to Explore Milk, eggnog and other dairy delights. Check out more Howling Cow products. Previous Image1 of 17 Next Image <b>Banana Pudding</b></br> Banana-flavored ice cream with vanilla wafers and a marshmallow ripple. Which Howling Cow Flavor Are You? You’ve always wondered. We’ve got answers. Take the quiz Play Video Inside the world of NC State ice cream: Ever wonder how our famous Howling Cow ice cream goes from farm to spoon? Get a behind-the-scenes look. Howling Cow Dairy Education Center and Creamery A destination on Lake Wheeler Road teaches families about agriculture through experiential learning — and tasting. Plan your visit Join The Pack See Yourself Here We’re a university like no other. Discover what you’ll think and do with us. Apply to NC State Ready to run with the Wolfpack? Browse degree paths and deadlines. Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Campus Map Academic Calendar Accessibility Apply Contact Copyright COVID-19 Updates Directory Emergency Information Free Speech Jobs Libraries MyPack Portal Policies Privacy Statement Resources Strategic Plan Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.