Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Search Type Faculty & Staff Event Featured Profile News Opportunity Resource Student Research Project Videos Search Menu Info for… [Select an Audience] [Select An Audience] Admitted Graduate Students Current Graduate Students Employers Departments» Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics Biomedical Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering and Engineering Mechanics Computer Science Earth and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering Industrial Engineering and Operations Research Mechanical Engineering Admissions» Application Requirements Apply Admissions Events Campus Tours Frequently Asked Questions Graduate Funding Opportunities Tuition and Financial Aid Visit Us Brochures Graduate Student Life» Professional Development & Leadership Housing New Student Checklist Student Organizations Campus Resources Graduate Career Placement Graduation Class Day 2022 events for Graduate Students Fellowships & Opportunities The Graduate Student Affairs Team Graduate Students Resources Events & Activities Diversity and Community Engagement» Events Student Life Bridge to PhD Program Graduate Enrollment Services» Registration Requests Change of Status Change of Status Forms Learning Online Resources List» Columbia Engineering COVID-19 Emergency Fund for Doctoral Students Virtual Event Opportunities» Welcome New Students!» New Student Checklist Admitted Student Webinars Applying for a Visa Campus Resources Connect Engineering Welcome Day & Orientation Housing Information International Student Panel Frequently Asked Questions Program Kick-Off Schedule Apply Now News Bulletin Graduate Engineering Home > Graduate Student Life Graduation Professional Development & Leadership Housing New Student Checklist Engineering Community Standards Student Organizations Campus Resources Graduate Career Placement Graduation Fellowships & Opportunities The Graduate Student Affairs Team Graduate Students Resources Engineering Class Day is a celebration of the accomplishments of all bachelor’s, master’s and doctoral degree candidates of the Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Sciences. Graduating students will be individually recognized, and addresses are given by the president, dean, a keynote speaker, and other individuals. Date: May 16, 2022 Location: South Lawns of Campus University Commencement will take place on Wednesday, May 18, 2022, at 10:30 a.m. (EDT). Graduation Ceremonies & Receptions We will be having Class Day on May 16 in order to honor this year's graduates. Class Day *Please print and/or distribute e-tickets to your guests in advance of the event! Guests will be required to present their electronic ticket to staff to scan upon entry into the tented seating areas. Any guests that arrive without a ticket will not be admitted.* Check-in Roone Arledge Auditorium, Lerner Hall, 10:45-11:45 a.m. Arrive with your CUID, proof of Green Pass, and wearing academic regalia. You will be given a name card, which has been pre-filled with your information. Keep this card with you so that your name can be announced during the ceremony. If you lose it, you will have to get a new one and go to the back of the line as well as sit in the back of student seating. Upon check-in, if there is no name card on file for you, please visit the walk-in table to obtain a blank card to fill in your information. You will then need to go to the back of the line as well as sit in the back of student seating. Your name card acts as your graduate ticket, so please do not lose it as only those with name cards will be permitted in the graduate seating on Butler Lawn. Dress for the weather. South Lawn will be tented, and the ceremony will take place rain or shine! Limit or leave at home any additional items; there will not be storage or security for your belongings. Procession After you check in, line up on the ramps of Lerner Hall by 12:00 p.m., when the bells ring to signal the start of the procession. There will be two separate lines, one for undergraduate students and the other for graduate students. To sit next to someone during the ceremony, you must process directly in front of or behind this person. The procession will be led by staff and the senior marshals. You will process in two single-file lines to Butler Lawn and remain standing until after the faculty and stage party are seated. Please remember to be courteous of your classmates and their families by remaining in your seats and being attentive throughout the ceremony. Graduates are not permitted to leave the ceremony until the conclusion of the recession. Staff will be on hand throughout the ceremony to help guide you and respond to your questions. The ceremony can also be enjoyed via our live webcast: https://commencement.columbia.edu/content/webcast. Guest Arrival | Guest Map Please view the Class Day Guest Map for information on entrances, water stations and restrooms. Seating will begin at 11:30 a.m. Guests should line up on 114th street and enter through the Carman and John Jay gates. Seating is first-come, first-served. Encourage your guests to arrive early to find seats. Seats cannot be saved. Guests with disabilities should enter campus at 116th Street and Amsterdam and will queue just inside the gates on College Walk. Seating in the disability section will begin at 7:30 a.m. Because of a ceremony occurring immediately prior to the Engineering ceremony, guests of Engineering students will be prohibited from entering the tents until the official gates open at 11:30 a.m. Guests should plan to queue on 114th Street at the Carman Gate, between Carman Hall and Butler Library, for entry to South Lawn. Any guests who access the seating area before 11:30 will have to vacate the tents and be directed to queue at the end of the line on 114th St. Guests of undergraduate students should be encouraged to sit on the east lawn. All guests will be required to present their electronic ticket to staff to scan upon entry into the tented seating areas. Any guests that arrive without a ticket will not be admitted. Tickets have a unique QR code that allows only one entry to the event after it has been scanned. The selling or buying of tickets is strictly prohibited. Columbia University is committed to protecting the health and safety of its community. To attend any Commencement activity or event on Columbia campuses, all graduates, visiting alumni, and guests must meet the University requirement of full vaccination status and provide full proof of COVID-19 vaccination. Anyone who is unable to be vaccinated will be required to provide proof of a negative COVID-19 test. Unvaccinated guests over the age of two must wear a mask during all events. Event health and safety policies are dependent on the status of the University's COVID-19 Monitoring Plan and are subject to change. Please click here for the most current information. Events outside of Columbia campuses may have different requirements for in-person attendance. Recession Immediately following the ceremony, all graduates will recess behind the faculty and stage party back to Pupin Plaza outside of Mudd Building. We invite all graduates and their guests to enjoy light refreshments and take celebratory photos before you head off campus to continue your celebrations. University-Wide Commencement The big day is almost here–University Commencement is Wednesday, May 18. This following information outlines the critical details you and your guests need to know to participate in one of Columbia’s most exciting and longstanding traditions. *Please print and/or distribute e-tickets to your guests in advance of the event! Guests will be required to present their electronic ticket to staff to scan upon entry into the tented seating areas. Any guests that arrive without a ticket will not be admitted.* Graduates Start to assemble at 7:45 a.m. with your school on upper campus, using one of the designated entrances for graduates (see the green arrows in the “Assembly for Candidates” map). Earl Hall Gate at 117th Street and Broadway Northwest Corner Building at 120th Street and Broadway 120th Street Gate between Broadway and Amsterdam Wien Courtyard on 116th Street between Amsterdam and Morningside Do not attempt to use a lower campus entry point. All school line-up areas will have Grad Images photo stations and colored balloons with your abbreviated school name. Plenty of event volunteers will be present to help direct you. The candidate procession will begin promptly at 9:00 a.m. Wear your cap and gown and carry your University ID along with your Green Pass. If you no longer hold a University ID, bring a photo ID and your Commencement registration confirmation or a letter from your school on University stationery. All graduates must also present their electronic graduate ticket ordered through AudienceView in order to gain admittance to the line-up location. Staff will be on hand to scan tickets and only graduates with a ticket will be allowed to line-up and participate Please bring water and dress appropriately for the weather, the ceremony is held rain or shine. Guests of Graduates General Admission seating begins at 8:30 a.m. Outdoor seating: Line forms on 115th and Broadway. Guests with disabilities or limited mobility, the elderly needing assistance, or those needing sign language interpretations: Line forms on 116th and Amsterdam Avenue. Indoor seating in Levien Gymnasium: Line forms at the entrance of the Northwest Corner Building on 120th Street, east of Broadway. Please view the Commencement Entrance map for visual descriptions of where to enter campus. Guests must have tickets to access campus. Please print and/or distribute e-tickets to your guests in advance of the event. Tickets have a unique QR code that allows only one entry to the event after it has been scanned. The selling or buying of tickets is strictly prohibited. Seating is first-come, first-served. Encourage your guests to arrive early to find seats. Seats cannot be saved. Exit is final; there is no re-entry. Please tell your guests to bring water and dress appropriately for the weather as the ceremony takes place rain or shine. Water stations will be available throughout campus. The proceedings can also be enjoyed via our live webcast: https://commencement.columbia.edu/content/webcast. Be Prepared Campus is very busy during University Commencement. Do not leave anything until the morning of: Get your regalia in advance. Know where to line up with your school (view “Assembly of Candidates Map”) on Upper Campus starting at 7:45 a.m. Give your guests their printed tickets in advance. Make a plan of how you will meet up with your guests following the Ceremony. The Ceremony will be held outdoors, rain or shine: Please dress accordingly and bring water. Indoor seating will be available for guests. Bags are discouraged. Any bags or packages brought to University Commencement will be subject to search. Now, celebrate! On the night of University Commencement, from dusk until after midnight, the top of New York’s iconic Empire State Building will be lit in blue and white in honor of the Columbia University Class of 2022. Congratulations on your remarkable achievements. Graduation 2022 Events for Graduate Students We look forward to celebrating the Columbia Engineering Class of 2022! Engineering's Class Day ceremony will take place on Monday, May 16th, followed by the University Commencement on Wednesday, May 18th. Columbia Engineering Class Day A celebration of the accomplishments of all graduates of the Fu Foundations School of Engineering and Applied Sciences. Monday, May 16th at 12:15pm South Lawns, Morningside Campus No capacity restrictions expected but tickets will be required. MORE Doctoral Students Please read about submitting your diploma application Information for Students & Guests International Guests All Guests Map, Directions, & Parking Info Accomodations Disability Services Life After Graduation Stay connected to Columbia Engineering after Graduation! Alumni Resources Submit Your Alumni Information DISABILITY SERVICES The Columbia University Office of Disability Services serves students within all Columbia University schools and departments. The ODS works with each engineering student and Graduate Student Affairs to address specific needs. Monday–Friday, 9:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. 212-854-2388 212-854-2378 (tdd) 212-854-3448 (fax) [email protected] Register With Disability Services HAVE AN EMERGENCY? Call Public Safety at (212) 854-5555 Public Safety Resources Public Safety Lion Safe App Office of Graduate Student Affairs 500 W. 120th Street New York, NY 10027 Admissions (212) 854-4688 | [email protected] Academics and Student Affairs (212) 854-6438 | [email protected] Apply Now Plan a Visit Directory Columbia Engineering Columbia University