Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Search Type Faculty & Staff Event Featured Profile News Opportunity Resource Student Research Project Videos Search Menu Info for… [Select an Audience] [Select An Audience] Admitted Graduate Students Current Graduate Students Employers Departments» Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics Biomedical Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering and Engineering Mechanics Computer Science Earth and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering Industrial Engineering and Operations Research Mechanical Engineering Admissions» Application Requirements Apply Admissions Events Campus Tours Frequently Asked Questions Graduate Funding Opportunities Tuition and Financial Aid Visit Us Brochures Graduate Student Life» Professional Development & Leadership Housing New Student Checklist Student Organizations Campus Resources Graduate Career Placement Graduation Class Day 2022 events for Graduate Students Fellowships & Opportunities The Graduate Student Affairs Team Graduate Students Resources Events & Activities Diversity and Community Engagement» Events Student Life Bridge to PhD Program Graduate Enrollment Services» Registration Requests Change of Status Change of Status Forms Learning Online Resources List» Columbia Engineering COVID-19 Emergency Fund for Doctoral Students Virtual Event Opportunities» Welcome New Students!» New Student Checklist Admitted Student Webinars Applying for a Visa Campus Resources Connect Engineering Welcome Day & Orientation Housing Information International Student Panel Frequently Asked Questions Program Kick-Off Schedule Apply Now News Bulletin Graduate Engineering Home > Graduate Student Life > Graduation Graduation 2022 Events for Graduate Students We look forward to celebrating the Columbia Engineering Class of 2022! Engineering's Class Day ceremony will take place on Monday, May 16th, followed by the University Commencement on Wednesday, May 18th. Columbia Engineering Class Day A celebration of the accomplishments of all graduates of the Fu Foundations School of Engineering and Applied Sciences. Monday, May 16th at 12:15pm South Lawns, Morningside Campus No capacity restrictions expected but tickets will be required. Columbia University Commencement Ceremony A University-wide ceremony for all eligible May 2022 degree candidates as well as February 2022 and October 2021 graduates from all schools and colleges affiliated with Columbia University, as well as family and friends. Wednesday, May 18th, 2022 at 10:30 am. Morningside Campus 2 tickets per graduate student. Celebration for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 A ceremony to honor and commemorate all 2020 and 2021 graduates. Thursday, May 19, 2022 (rain or shine) from 9:00-10:30am (gates open at 8:00am) Morningside Campus Registration required and will open in April. Petition to Walk Information Students who would like to petition to walk in the May 2022 ceremony must submit the Petition to Walk form here by Wednesday, April 20th, 2022. Applications will be reviewed by the Office of Graduate Student Affairs and students will be informed the week of April 25th, 2022. Because of limited capacity, no late petitions will be considered. If your plans change, it is your responsiblity to inform Graduate Student Affairs as this may affect your permission. We also reserve the right to amend any decisions and deny your petition if we discover via an audit that you are no longer eligible to participate. Permission will be granted based on capacity and the following order of priority: PhDs finishing by end of Summer MS finishing by end of Summer PhDs finishing by end of Fall term MS finishing by end of the Fall term GSAS Convocation If any Doctor of Philosophy students would like to attend the GSAS Convocation, you can find out more information here. Office of Graduate Student Affairs 500 W. 120th Street New York, NY 10027 Admissions (212) 854-4688 | [email protected] Academics and Student Affairs (212) 854-6438 | [email protected] Apply Now Plan a Visit Directory Columbia Engineering Columbia University