Skip to main content Skip to main content SMU Home Giving Giving Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Simmons About Dean's Message Programs, Degrees, and Certifications Faculty and Staff Directory Simmons Governance Simmons School History Executive Board Simmons Luminary Award XPRIZE Honor Code Simmons Resources Travel-Study Programs Simmons Lecture Series AERA 2022 Graduation Ceremony May 2022 Paving the Way to Inclusion Conference Simmons Graduate Council Faculty and Administrative Position Openings Simmons Blogs and Social Media Hub Annette Caldwell Simmons Hall Harold Clark Simmons Hall Photo Tour Contact Us Academic Departments & Areas of Study Applied Physiology & Wellness B.S. | Applied Physiology & Sport Mgmt. Undergraduate Specializations Applied Physiology and Health Management Sport Management Sport Performance Leadership M.S. | Health Promotion Management M.S. | Sport Management Non-Degree | Wellness Dispute Resolution & Counseling M.S. | Counseling Specialties Clinical Mental Health Marriage, Couple and Family School Counseling M.A. | Dispute Resolution Non-Degree | Dispute Resolution Specialties Executive Coaching Education Policy & Leadership M.Ed. | PK-12 School Leadership M.Ed. | Higher Education Ed.D. | PK-12 School Leadership Ed.D. | Higher Education Graduate Liberal Studies MLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities DLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities Non-Degree | Science, Arts, & Humanities Ph.D. in Education Teaching & Learning B.S. | M.Ed | MBE | Ph.D. Graduate Specializations Bilingual Special Ed ESL Gifted Literacy Math STEM Urban Education Research Research A comprehensive list of Simmons research projects Faculty Research Publications & Presentations Recent research publications and presentations Center on Research & Evaluation (CORE) Offers comprehensive program evaluation services, largely in the non-profit sector, and performs education research Research in Mathematics Education Conducts research in mathematics education and disseminates findings Integrative Physiology Laboratory Investigates autonomic function and thermoregulation in healthy and clinical populations Locomotor Performance Laboratory Studies terrestrial locomotion and the relationship of muscle function to metabolic energy expenditure and performance Center for VR Learning Innovation Investigates the use of virtual, augmented and mixed reality for education and human development Youth Sports Impact Partnership SMU and the Children’s Health Andrews Institute have launched a collaboration dedicated to improving the health, activity levels, and well-being of kids. Research Resources for Simmons Faculty and Staff Technology and Education Cluster Our Faculty Community Engagement Advanced Placement Summer Institute Summer Institute for AP and Pre-AP Teachers The Budd Center Partners with community agencies to offer educational opportunities for disadvantaged children Center for Family Counseling Counseling services in Plano for individuals and families College Access Programs Programs and workshops that help students advance academically Institute for Leadership Impact Leaders in education, health and social enterprise enhance skills to lead organizations and solve real-world problems Project Connect A repository of ideas, activities and videos for educators interested in improving instruction for English Language Learners West Dallas STEM-Focused School Preparing students for the next generation of STEM jobs Alumni Search Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Simmons About Simmons About Simmons Graduation Ceremony May 2022 Simmons COVID-19 Information Fall 2021 Important Student Information Dean's Message Faculty and Staff Directory Academic Integrity and Code of Conduct History: from 1920 Executive Board Simmons News Catalogs Giving Academic Services Simmons Strategic Plan Simmons Resources Travel-Study Programs Simmons Lecture Series AERA 2022 Simmons Luminary Award Paving the Way to Inclusion Simmons Graduate Council Faculty and Administrative Openings Simmons Governance Simmons Newsletters Simmons Blogs and Social Media XPRIZE Alumni Contact Us Academics Academics Applied Physiology and Sports Management Dispute Resolution Counseling Education Policy and Leadership Graduate Liberal Studies Ph.D. Teacher Education Programs & Degrees Fall 2021 Graduate Student Orientation Our Faculty Our Faculty Faculty Research Publications & Presentations Research Research Research Projects Archive 2020-21: Research Snapshot Research Resources Virtual Reality Surgery Simulator (VRSS) Integrative Physiology Laboratory CORE Locomotor Performance Laboratory Research in Mathematics Education Center for VR Learning Innovation Youth Sports Impact Partnership Faculty Research Publications and Presentations Dallas Noyce: A Community-Focused Mathematics Teacher Pipeline Technology and Education Cluster Community Engagement Community Engagement Advanced Placement Summer Institute College Access Programs The Budd Center: Involving Communities in Education Institute for Leadership Impact Center for Family Counseling Project Connect West Dallas STEM-Focused School Alumni ☰ College Access Programs Simmons Community Engagement College Access Programs Interested in joining? Find what program is best for you. Our staff is committed to providing a nurturing and caring environment to help disadvantaged students overcome academic and financial barriers in higher education. Program Features Program Outcomes SMU College Access Programs have assisted low-income and first-generation students prepare for college since 1966 when SMU was awarded its first Upward Bound grant from the U.S. Department of Education, TRIO Programs. SMU College Access Programs has grown over the years with Education Talent Search being added in 2011 and then Upward Bound Math Science and Ronald E. McNair Post-Baccalaureate Achievement Program being added in 2012. The College Knowledge Program that serves Dallas ISD Title I schools was added in 2016. For over 50 years, SMU College Access Programs have helped low-income, potential first generation college students, and underrepresented students prepare for college success. College Access TRIO Programs served 1,375 students in 2017-2018 through Upward Bound, Upward Bound Math Science, Talent Search, and McNair Scholars. The College Knowledge Program supported 1,699 students in 2017-2018. College Access Highlights SMU College Access student Kaitlyn Contreras' journey from high school to Southern Methodist University as a first generation student. Also check out these two articles to read more about her story: - Finding Your Place - Kaitlyn Contreras '20 College Knowledge Program Spruce at the Mane Event Preview Day at Texas A&M Commerce Forty-eight Spruce seniors with the College Knowledge Program were able to attend the Mane Event Preview Day at Texas A&M Commerce. This preview day allowed students to attend admissions, financial aid, campus student life, and major specific sessions throughout the day. Students were also able to take campus and dorm tours as well as eat in the university dining hall in order to get a taste of what campus life would be like at Texas A&M Commerce. Spruce at UT Austin Twelve Spruce seniors traveled to the University of Texas at Austin with the College Knowledge Program. These top 6% seniors were able to take part in an admissions and financial aid presentation as well as a campus tour. The best part of the trip was the chance to meet up with Spruce Alumni from the Class of 2019 and hear them share with our current seniors the realities of being a college student the UT – Austin. The SMU College Knowledge Program provides services in selected Dallas Independent School District high schools to assist students with the college transition process. McNair Scholars Program SMU McNair Scholars Visit Northern California Participation in the SMU McNair Scholars program provides students with the opportunity to travel across the country to visit potential graduate schools. During January 2020, the McNair Scholars Program traveled to Northern California to visit Stanford University and the University of California, Berkeley. During these tours, students met faculty and current students, toured the campus and research facilities, and received information regarding funding and the application processes. In addition to visiting college campuses, students are given the opportunity to explore the local community. We believe that it is important for students not only to enjoy the graduate program, but to be able to see themselves living in the area during the time it would take to earn their degree. Students are pictured during the tour of Stanford’s campus. Stanford’s campus is made up of 8,180 acres – making it the size of 96 Disneyland Parks and one of the largest college campuses in the United States. The Ronald E. McNair Post-baccalaureate Achievement Program at Southern Methodist University combines faculty mentoring, undergraduate research, and academic support services to prepare and engage SMU students academically and encourage them to purse postgraduate studies. Upward Bound/Upward Bound Math Science Toyota's Manufacturing Day Selected Upward Bound and Upward Bound Math Science scholars participated in Toyota’s Manufacturing Day at the Plano Location to learn about the various STEM and Business careers available. Toyota selects only 6 groups each year to participate. Our scholars had to write an essay to explain why they should be chosen to go on the trip since each group was only allowed a certain amount of spots. Upward Bound serves high school students from low-income families, or families in which neither parent has earned a bachelor’s degree. Program participants must meet eligibility requirements and will be selected through an application and interview process. Educational Talent Search 2020 went out in a very memorable way! We are so proud of all our students for continuing to strive for greatness despite the many obstacles they faced, especially our graduating seniors. As they close this chapter in their life, a new one opens... COLLEGE! Look out UT, Texas State, UTA, TWU, PV, Texas Tech, UTD, A&M, and many others, here comes the ETS class of 2020 Educational Talent Search provides academic, career and financial counseling to students as they graduate from high school, transition to college and pursue their degrees. College Access Programs College Knowledge Educational Talent Search McNair Scholars Program Upward Bound Upward Bound Math-Science Partners and Resources About Us Upcoming Events Contact College Access Programs Contact Us 214-768-2364 CollegeAccess@smu.edu Visit Us 6116 N. Central Expressway, Suite 303 Dallas, Texas 75275 Connect with Us Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 facebook twitter