Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Innovation Management and Entrepreneurship MS You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Innovation Management and Entrepreneurship MS Apply Events Request More Info Innovation Management and Entrepreneurship MS Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Science in Innovation Management and Entrepreneurship Design and deliver pioneering products and services with the Master of Science in Innovation Management and Entrepreneurship in Temple University’s Fox School of Business. Entrepreneurs; junior- to mid-level professionals; graduates from engineering, science and technology degree programs; and more can learn to drive innovation within established or startup organizations. Students use creative problem-solving to overcome the strategic and tactical challenges that accompany visionary change. Nurture your innovative ideas and grow them to success with the Innovation Management and Entrepreneurship MS. This master’s program teaches you to harness creativity and big-picture thinking to foster organizational growth and usher cutting-edge products and new ideas from conception to marketplace, providing better solutions to new or existing business requirements. Students are positioned for professional success by learning to develop a critical eye for recognizing new ventures; generate rule-breaking business models; identify underserved or uncontested market spaces; and rework internal processes to create competitive advantage. World-class faculty and hands-on projects characterize this degree program. Graduate students benefit from active collaboration with classmates and faculty for an enriched educational experience. Request Information Learn more about the Innovation Management and Entrepreneurship MS program. Apply Now Ready to apply? Submit your graduate application. Learn More Explore all of the specialized master's programs at Fox. Request Information Apply Learn More Delivery Method Headquartered at Temple University’s Center City campus, classes for this master’s degree are offered in person, online or through a hybrid of the two. Flexible scheduling allows you to customize your education, with in-person classes available on evenings and weekends. Full-time study typically allows students to complete the master’s degree in one year. Part-time study can be spread out over two years. Who might be interested? This program has great value for a wide variety of students, recent graduates and working professionals, including entrepreneurs aiming to create high-growth, technology-focused companies or social-impact organizations; junior, mid-level and top-tier leadership within companies interested in prioritizing innovation or pursuing new management paradigms; design, architecture and art students interested in the business side of creativity; and graduates or faculty in science and technology, engineering, medical, dental, or pharmaceutical programs seeking to gain complementary perspectives. Coursework also prepares students to take the New Product Development Professional certification exam offered by the Product Development Management Association. Additionally, students may pursue certification as a Lean Six Sigma Green Belt from the International Association for Six Sigma Certification. The Green Belt certification demonstrates understanding of the advanced elements of Lean Six Sigma, a methodology designed to improve business success and efficiency. Innovation and Entrepreneurship Institute Fox’s Innovation and Entrepreneurship Institute emphasizes integrated, applied and hands-on learning, bringing together alumni, business advisors, entrepreneurs, faculty, staff and students from diverse backgrounds to collaborate on real-time projects and new ventures through classes, conferences and workshops. Learn more about the Innovation and Entrepreneurship Institute. Todor Raykov Venture Services Manager, NextFab "To say that the [Innovation Management & Entrepreneurship] program opened many doors to me would be an understatement, because I wouldn't be where I am right now if it weren't for it and for the Innovation and Entrepreneurship Institute (IEI) at Temple. Thanks to a presentation hosted by IEI, I was able to connect with my current employer and embark on my journey from a small-scale entrepreneur to an accelerator manager and advisor to high-tech startups that have now raised millions of dollars and created opportunities for others." Concentrations Innovation Management and Entrepreneurship MS students have the option of choosing one of three specialized tracks during their studies. These concentrations are designed for maximum flexibility, allowing students to focus nine to 12 credits on their particular area of interest while gaining knowledge from core courses. Entrepreneurship Gain the skills and knowledge necessary to recognize entrepreneurial opportunities. Learn to evaluate, launch and manage new ventures in this flexible master's program. View Concentration Details Innovative Strategy Develop strategic perspectives and the skills needed to design, build and manage innovation-focused organizations. View Concentration Details Technology and Innovation Management Study strategy and tactics to understand and manage research and design or innovation processes, projects and teams. This track is offered in conjunction with the College of Engineering. View Concentration Details Classes & Curriculum The Innovation Management and Entrepreneurship MS is a 30-credit program that can be completed over the course of three years. The program's location at Temple's Center City campus in Philadelphia provides students with access to the benefits of city life and connections to leading organizations. Courses offered in this program include Business Model Innovation; Entrepreneurial Thinking and New Venture Creation; Global Innovation Strategy: Creating Agile, Innovative, Globally-Competitive Organizations; Management of Technology and Innovation; and Plan, Pitch, and Fund an Entrepreneurial Start-Up. See the full list of courses across all three concentrations. Related Graduate Certificates Entrepreneurship and Technology Commercialization Healthcare Innovation Management Innovation Strategy Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Science offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,142.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,142.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. See additional fees and costs associated with the Innovation Management and Entrepreneurship MS program. Program Contact For more information about the Innovation Management and Entrepreneurship MS degree program, contact the following faculty member. Miljenka Sakic is the assistant director of graduate enrollment. Phone: 215-204-3581 Email: tud14112@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Joining student clubs and organizations is a great way to meet like-minded students; connect with local, national and international businesses; and enhance the skills you use in your professional career. The Fox School of Business offers more than 30 student professional organizations. Enhance your academic experience by participating in a club related to your major or interests. The following clubs and organizations are available to students in the Innovation Management and Entrepreneurship MS program. Those with dreams of starting their own business may be interested in the Entrepreneurial Students Association, which aims to support, inspire and encourage students to pursue their entrepreneurial goals. The association is open to students of all majors. The Innovate and Create LLC is an entrepreneurial lab where students share ideas, offer feedback and collaborate to improve these ideas. The League for Entrepreneurial Women is an advocacy group addressing the challenges and interests of entrepreneurial women in the Philadelphia area. The league holds an annual conference that is co-hosted by the Innovation and Entrepreneurial Institute at the Fox School of Business. The following clubs and organizations are available to all students in the Fox School of Business. The Fox Graduate Student Association connects students and alumni with the greater Fox community, providing professional development, networking and volunteer opportunities for graduate students. The mission of Fox Net Impact is to grow and strengthen a network of leaders who use the power of business to make a positive economic, environmental and social impact. It brings together students seeking to network and to use the power of business to create a better world. The International Business Association brings together students from all over the world to learn about foreign business and the global economy, and offers an array of professional development opportunities. Toastmasters, or the Fox Professional Speakers organization, invites students to practice their communication, presentation and leadership skills in a supportive and positive environment. See a full list of students clubs and organizations. Global Immersions Fox graduate students can participate in Global Immersions. They are destination-focused learning experiences that allow graduate students to engage with a different country's culture, language and business practices. Global Immersions expose students to comparative business environments, global business in emerging markets, global companies working to solve crucial problems, intensive and diverse learning experiences, and international innovation and entrepreneurship. Previous destinations include China, India, Latin America and South Africa. Recent participating companies include Black and Decker, BMW, Deloitte, Microsoft and SanDisk. Learn more about Global Immersion Programs. Temple also offers interested students a variety of options for pursuing internship, teaching and volunteer opportunities abroad through the Center for International Business and Research. Learn more about your options for studying or working abroad. Accreditation The Fox School of Business is accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB). The school has maintained AACSB accreditation since 1934. BU-IME-MS Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Innovation Management and Entrepreneurship MS Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Events Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Events Request More Info