Jump to main content User menu Directory News Events Contact Us Search form Search × Civil and Environmental Engineering Main menu About Message from the Chair Employment Opportunities Advisory Council History of the Department Undergraduate Undergraduate Studies Objectives and Outcomes Paths to Graduation Student Projects Student Groups Graduate Graduate Studies Programs Degrees Offered How to Apply Faculty Research Sustainable, Resilient Cities and Infrastructure Systems Water, Climate and Energy Mechanics, Materials and Structures Hydrology and the Atmospheric Environment Chemistry, Biology and Technology Architecture, Arts and Archaeology Architecture and Engineering Home › Research Main menu: sub-menu items Sustainable, Resilient Cities and Infrastructure Systems Water, Climate and Energy Mechanics, Materials and Structures Hydrology and the Atmospheric Environment Chemistry, Biology and Technology Architecture, Arts and Archaeology Research Sustainable, Resilient Cities and Infrastructure Systems Sustainable, Resilient Cities and Infrastructure Systems Unprecedented urbanization is impacting people and the planet from local to global scales. Multi-infrastructure systems-thinking and design innovations led by civil and environmental engineers are central to developing resilient, sustainable, healthy, livable and equitable urban futures. Water, Climate and Energy Water, Climate and Energy Water resources lie at the center of this century’s most urgent environmental challenges. At the same time, energy production and supply will continue to drive anthropogenic climate change, exacerbating the risks of water shortages, floods, vector-borne diseases and disrupted food production. Mechanics, Materials and Structures Mechanics, Materials and Structures Civil engineers lead design innovations for buildings, bridges and roads, which are critical elements of human settlements. Research discoveries in mechanics, materials and structures lay the foundations for innovation in infrastructure and the built environment. Hydrology and the Atmospheric Environment Hydrology and the Atmospheric Environment A water molecule can travel long distances in its hydrologic cycle, from the top of the stratosphere to the depths of the oceans. Understanding how hydrologic and atmospheric processes interact to shape our environment remains a core challenge for environmental engineers. Chemistry, Biology and Technology Chemistry, Biology and Technology Chemical and biological processes govern the transformation of molecular matter in the environment, controlling the cycling of carbon, nitrogen and oxygen, as well as hazardous metals and pollutants. All of these processes in the context of a changing climate increase the vulnerability of biodiversity, food security, human health and water quality. Architecture, Arts and Archaeology Architecture, Arts and Archaeology In both engineering and the arts, one creates something new. Engineers push the boundaries using theory, computation and experimentation. Artists push the boundaries using provocation, challenge, reframing and revelation. Together they find new ways to improve our world and the human condition. The Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering E209A Engineering Quadrangle Princeton, New Jersey 08544 USA Telephone: (609) 258-4600 Email: cee@princeton.edu Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University