Skip to main content Main navigation Academics Faculty & Research News & Events Offices & Services About Us Information For Alumni Industry Partners & Recruiters Prospective Students Shortcuts Employment & Jobs Visit Us Make a Gift Search Read the latest updates on coronavirus from Harvard University. For SEAS specific-updates, please visit SEAS & FAS Division of Science: Coronavirus FAQs SearchMenu Academics Environmental Science & Engineering Graduate Program Harvard School of Engineering offers a Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D) degree in Engineering Sciences - Environmental Science & Engineering, conferred through the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. Confronting the many ways that human activities are affecting our planet is a fundamental challenge for society. The Environmental Science and Engineering (ESE) area is focused on this challenge, providing an extraordinary opportunity for students who wish to pursue graduate studies to address some of our most pressing environmental issues. The ESE area features a highly accomplished faculty, state-of-the art laboratories, instrumentation and computation facilities, and a friendly, collaborative culture supports the education and training of our graduate students. Whether you are engaged in laboratory work, field observations, developing new instrumentation, theoretical studies, or modeling, you will find people in ESE who share your research interests and can further your intellectual development. We have a very close association with the Ph.D. program in Earth and Planetary Sciences (EPS) (eps.harvard.edu), as most of our faculty are jointly appointed with EPS. Students from both programs share a wide variety of activities, both social and academic. Our graduate students come to Harvard with diverse undergraduate preparations. Some have studied environmental fields such as meteorology oceanography, atmospheric chemistry, or biogeochemistry. Many others have little prior training in environmental science, but enter with backgrounds in applied math, biology, chemistry, engineering or physics. We encourage you to take the time to become familiar with our area. Please review our faculty members’ research pages to learn about specific opportunities and how they match with your interests. Please note that faculty members listed as “Affiliates" can serve on advisory committees, and can co-advise a Ph.D. student with another ESE faculty member, but cannot serve as the primary research advisor. Main navigation Information For In Environmental Science & Engineering Undergraduate Program First-Year Exploration Undergraduate Engineering at Harvard Concentration Information Concentration Requirements How to Declare Who are my Advisors? Sophomore Forum ABET Information Research Opportunities Senior Thesis Research for Course Credit (ES 91R) AB/SM Information Peer Concentration Advisors (PCA) Program Graduate Program How to Apply PhD Timeline PhD Overview and Requirements PhD Model Program (Course Guidelines) Qualifying Exam Committee Meetings Committee on Higher Degrees Guidelines for Advisor-Student Discussions AB/SM Information Faculty & Research People Courses Clubs & Organizations Centers & Initiatives Alumni Stories Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences 150 Western Ave, Allston, MA 02134 29 Oxford Street, Cambridge, MA 02138 Footer - Social Media Links Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Footer Diversity Mission Trademark Notice Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy