Skip to main content Skip to main navigation School of Education Center for Gifted Education and Talent Development Menu About Us Faculty and Staff Information Request Programs/Services Educators Educators GT Conference Parents Parent Conference Students Super Saturdays University for Young People Baylor TIP Resources Research Make a Gift Request Info Baylor>Center for Gifted Education and Talent Development>Programs/Services>Students>University for Young People University for Young People (UYP) Update 5/30/2022: Registration is now closed. Please note: Students who register after May 23 are not guaranteed a t-shirt. We will do our best to accommodate those who register after that date; however, we cannot guarantee this. Thank you for understanding. Primary UYP 2022 (Grades 1–3) Students entering Grades 1–3 in the 2022–2023 school year may attend one or both one-week Primary UYP sessions held in June. Students need not be formally identified as gifted to attend and do not need to apply to participate in the program. If a student signs up for both weeks, he or she will be given a $50 discount. Session 1: June 6–10 Time: 8:30 a.m.–2 p.m. Instructor: Dr. Bianca Ochoa Location: Cashion Room 501, Baylor University, 1401 S. 4th Street, Waco, TX 76798 Cost: $250 (please pack your child a lunch each day) Creative Problem Solving: Archeology Participants will use creative problem solving as they explore the remains of a vanished culture in a simulation of an archaeology dig. Expert groups will employ the disciplines of anthropology, museum studies, history, art, science, and journalism to unravel the mysteries of a long-forgotten people and communicate their discoveries to others. The week culminates in a showcase of activities and skills, discoveries, and products explored and developed by the children. Session 2: June 13–17 Time: 8:30 a.m.–2 p.m. Instructors: Tammy Johnston and Madison Parrish Location: Cashion Room 501, Baylor University, 1401 S. 4th Street, Waco, TX 76798 Cost: $250 (please pack your child a lunch each day) Creative Problem Solving: Rocket Into Space In this weeklong camp, students will learn and use creative problem solving skills to investigate a “mess” related to families and children living in a space station. Discoveries will be made by teams of students in areas such as training, life support, recreation, nutrition, communication, and transportation and how these might affect those in the space station. Students will share their innovative solutions in an open-house showcase on the last day of camp. UYP 2022 (Grades 4–12) The Center for Gifted Education and Talent Development’s UYP program for students identified as gifted and talented has been offered every June for almost 40 years. Classes for students entering Grades 4–12 in the 2022–2023 school year are held on the Baylor campus. Students may choose three courses per day in STEM, humanities, social sciences/business, and the arts, with each lasting one week. The all-day schedule includes lunch and a short break time between the classes. Students in Grades 4–12 must apply for the program. If your child attended UYP prior to 2019, there is no need to reapply. An e-mail will be sent out to all former attendees when registration opens. Students can attend one or both sessions. Session 1: June 6–10 Time: 8:45 a.m.–4:15 p.m. Location: Baylor University Cost: $350 (includes lunch) Session 2: June 13–17 Time: 8:45 a.m.–4:15 p.m. Location: Baylor University Cost: $350 (includes lunch) The course catalog is available for viewing. Classes include the following, among others: Innovation and Tinkering With STEM From Antarctica to Mars: The Science of Ice and Space Writing for the Screen Engineering Design Exploring Your World Through Photography Introduction to Drawing Altered Art Painting Start to Finish! Mathematics for Olympiads Introduction to the Brain Complex Numbers Linear Algebra Introduction to Sociology Across Many Modes: Writing a Children’s Story ¡Vamos! The Spanish-Speaking World Introduction to Digital Art and Graphic Design Who’s Right? Analyzing Bias in the Media Finding Your Voice: Slam Poetry and Spoken Word as Extensions of Personal Identity Programs/Services Educators Educators GT Conference Parents Parent Conference Students Super Saturdays University for Young People Baylor TIP Center for Gifted Education and Talent Development School of Education Marrs McLean Science Building #312 Waco, TX 76798-7301 (254) 710-2171 gifted@baylor.edu Request Information Submit School of EducationMake a Gift General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Us Faculty and Staff Information Request Programs/Services Educators Educators GT Conference Parents Parent Conference Students Super Saturdays University for Young People Baylor TIP Resources Research Make a Gift Request Info