David Winton Bell Gallery Home Exhibitions Current Upcoming Past Virtual Bell Events Upcoming Past Collection Quick Search Advanced Search Drawings Highlights Overview View All Paintings Highlights Overview View All Prints Highlights Overview View All Photography Highlights Overview View All Public Art Sculpture Highlights Overview View All Publications 2010 - present 2000s 1990s 1980s 1970s About The Gallery Hours Contact Us Directions Mailing List Terms of Use Follow Re: Bell Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Past Exhibitions Read More Arrows of Desire: Harry Gould Harvey IV and Faith Wilding September 9, 2021 - November 28, 2021 Friends, collaborators, and intergenerational activists whose practices both enrich and reflect one another in this exhibition, Harry Gould Harvey IV and Faith Wilding have emerged from the pandemic in a state of mutual reverence. Hinged by their shared devotion to William Blake (1757-1827), a gravitational force that has been overt throughout both careers, Wilding and Harvey embrace the apocalyptic language and imagery of the Romantic writer and artist, whose illustrated poem Milton (1804-1811) titles the show. Location BELL GALLERY Read More Champion Trees: Barbara Bosworth September 9, 2021 - November 28, 2021 Barbara Bosworth consistently documents the variety of ways humans move through and around the natural world. Using a large-format 8x10 camera, she captures moments that range from fleeting to enduring, encounters with people banding migratory birds to scenic views from the New England Trail. On view in the List Lobby are four works from her “Champion Trees” series, black-and-white prints in triptych and diptych form that mark the largest examples of native tree specimens in the United States according to the National Register of Champion Trees (a list created and updated by the conservation organization American Forests, founded in 1875). This grouping of four works from the series—American Elm, Kansas, 1990 (1990); Longbeak Eucalyptus, Arizona, 2001 (2001); Singleleaf Ash, Colorado, 2001 (2001); and Sugarberry, South Carolina, 1994 (1994)—is presented adjacent to the Bell exhibition Arrows of Desire: Harry Gould Harvey IV and Faith Wilding, artists whose practices are similarly devoted to the natural world with a love of native trees and plants. Location LIST LOBBY Read More Savannah Knoop: Soothing the Seams April 21, 2021 - July 18, 2021 Savannah Knoop’s practice consistently centers itself within questions of intimacy. Whether through performance—where they draw on both art historical models and their decades-long training in jiu jitsu—or the sculptural work on view in this exhibition, Knoop deploys improvisation and proximity as strategies in the making and activation of their work. Curator: Kate Kraczon Image: Savannah Knoop, Free Weaving the News (November 2019), 2020 Location BELL GALLERY Read More Spectrums: Gender in the Bell Collection April 21, 2021 - July 18, 2021 Dating from the beginning of the twentieth century through the present day, Spectrums: Gender in the Bell Collection contains myriad interpretations of gender that are not “concretised” or reified, but rather embodied and performed in unexpected ways. Veering into the ghostly, the uncanny, and the defiant, the images in this exhibition reveal variance and creativity in the presentation of gender throughout the decades. Featuring works by Berenice Abbott, Aubrey Beardsley, Harry Callahan, Martine Gutierrez, Graciela Iturbide, Deana Lawson, Danny Lyon, Helmut Newton, Andy Warhol, and John Willis. Curator: Deborah Krieger, Curatorial Fellow Image: Martine Gutierrez, Demons, Chin 'Demon of Lust,' p93 from Indigenous Woman, 2018 Location LIST LOBBY Read More Raymond Hood and the American Skyscraper September 11, 2020 - December 18, 2020 Raymond Hood and the American Skyscraper brings together examples of Hood’s most compelling, uniquely American experimentations with the skyscraper form. The exhibition employs Hood’s skyscrapers as a lens through which to examine architectural education and genesis as well as architectural technology and illumination. It will include approximately 75 architectural drawings, photographs, models, videos, and books that explore a selection of Hood’s built and unbuilt skyscrapers including: Tribune Tower, Chicago, 1922; American Radiator Building, New York, 1924; Tower City, unbuilt, 1927; Daily News Building, New York, 1930; McGraw-Hill Building, New York, 1931; and Rockefeller Center, New York, 1930–39. Curated by: Dietrich Neumann and Jonathan Duval Image: Donald Douglas, McGraw-Hill Building under construction, ca. 1930. Raymond Mathewson Hood papers, Archives of American Art, Smithsonian Institution. Read More Luscious: Paintings and Drawings by Wendy Edwards November 16, 2019 - March 15, 2020 Wendy Edwards’ paintings combine luscious colors and exuberant gestures in compositions that respond to the artist’s life and vary from landscapes and still lifes to pure abstraction. This forty-year retrospective includes works created since 1980, when Edwards joined Brown’s faculty. Curated by: Jo-Ann Conklin Image: Wendy Edwards, Pink Thrill, 1998 Location Bell Gallery Read More Fertile Ground: María Berrio, Zoë Charlton, Joiri Minaya August 31, 2019 - November 3, 2019 María Berrio, Zoë Charlton, and Joiri Minaya create multimedia collages that depict bodies enveloped by nature, often juxtaposing the garden and the wild. Fertile Ground brings their aesthetically and conceptually layered works together to explore the relationship between body and land and challenge romantic tropes with powerful personal, cultural, and political narratives. While each artist has a different reason for choosing her imagery, all engage with issues of race, class, power, ownership, and freedom. Curated by: Heather Bhandari Image: Zoë Charlton, The Country a Wilderness Unsubdued, 2018 Location Bell Gallery Read More Recent Acquisition: Facing the Camera August 31, 2019 - November 3, 2019 The third in a series of installations highlighting recent additions to the photography collection, Facing the Camera surveys the uses of contemporary portraiture, both personal and political, in the works of Christopher Churchill, Kyle Meyer, Vik Muniz, Lucas Samaras, Mickalene Thomas, S.B. Walker, Jay Wolke. image: Vik Muniz, George Stinney Jr., 2015 Location List Lobby Read More Toby Sisson | Nacirema June 8, 2019 - July 7, 2019 In the artist’s words, Toby Sisson’s artworks explore “the breadth of metaphoric meaning that can be derived from non-objective abstraction, especially psychological and social content.” Concerned with issues of race, reflecting her biracial experience, Sisson here interrogates the word “American” or “Nacirema” referencing Nacirema Clubs (social clubs for African Americans) that were popular in the Midwest during her youth. Curated by: Jo-Ann Conklin Image: Toby Sisson, detail of Deconstructed American, 2019 Location List Lobby Read More Snæbjörnsdóttir/Wilson: The Only Show in Town April 6, 2019 - July 7, 2019 Snæbjörnsdóttir/Wilson’s socially-engaged projects explore contemporary relationships between human and non-human animals in the contexts of history, culture and the environment. Based on their work alongside avian researchers at Jacob’s Point, RI, The Only Show in Town will comprise artworks made in response to the plight of the saltmarsh sparrow, resident in the world only along a narrow and depleted margin of the east coast of North America and marked for extinction by the year 2050. The exhibition is supported, in part, by the Brown Arts Initiative. Curated by: Jo-Ann Conklin Image: Snæbjörnsdóttir/Wilson, Escape/Release #4, 2019 Location Bell Gallery Read More Recent Acquisitions: Photography and Abstraction January 19, 2019 - May 26, 2019 This is the second in a series of exhibitions featuring recent additions to the photography collection. Focusing on abstract images made with the "inherently" documentary medium, the exhibition will include works by Berenice Abbott, Tom Baril, Marilyn Bridges, Edward Burtynsky, Christiane Feser, Jed Fielding, Bill Jacobson, Lauren Henkin, Dorothy Norman, Gabriel Martinez, Aaron Siskind, and Hiroshi Sugimoto. Image: Edward Burtynsky, Greenhouses, Almira Peninsula, Spain, 2010 Read More Danny Lyon | The Only Thing I Saw Worth Leaving November 2, 2018 - March 17, 2019 Danny Lyon once described the writer James Agee as, “a romantic who adored reality,” an epithet equally apt to describe him. Lyon made a name for himself in the 1960s with an embedded style of reportage, capturing a compelling beauty in the people and places he befriended across the country, from student leaders of the civil rights movement to convicts in Texas prisons. Drawn primarily from the Bell Gallery collection, The Only Thing I Saw Worth Leaving presents photographs from some of Lyon’s most significant series along with films and other work, organized around five principles that he refers to time and again: empathy, freedom, history, destruction, and narrative. Curated by Allison Pappas Image: Danny Lyon, Arrest of Eddie Brown, Albany, Georgia, 1962. Copyright Danny Lyon/Magmun Photos Location Bell Gallery << first < previous | 1 – 12 of 351 | next > last >> © Copyright 2011 David Winton Bell GalleryBrown UniversityTerms of UseDesign by Malcolm Grear Designers David Winton Bell Gallery, List Art Building, Brown University. 64 College Street, Providence, RI 02912