Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Cognitive, Linguistic & Psychological Sciences Home About People Diversity Research Academics Events CLPS Colloquium Series Cognition Seminar Developmental Brown Bag Speaker Series Ling Lang Lunch Perception Action Seminar Social Cognitive Science Seminar Speaker Series: "The Linguistic Expression of Racial and Ethnic Identity" Faculty Activities Visit Us Site Navigation Home About Internal Website People Regular Faculty Teaching Faculty Research Faculty Postdocs Emeritus Faculty Graduate Students Administrative Staff Diversity Statement on anti-racism Related Research DIAP Committee Research Focus Areas Centers & Initiatives Academics Undergraduates Behavioral Decision Sciences Cognitive Science Cognitive Neuroscience Linguistics Psychology DUGs Honors Requirements Resources Prospective Graduate Students Scholarships & Aid Graduate Students CLPS Graduate Handbook Events CLPS Colloquium Series Cognition Seminar Developmental Brown Bag Speaker Series Ling Lang Lunch Perception Action Seminar Social Cognitive Science Seminar Speaker Series: "The Linguistic Expression of Racial and Ethnic Identity" Faculty Activities Authors Journal Editors Presidents International Awards Visit Us Ling Lang Lunch The Ling Lang Lunch covers topics relevant to linguistics and language that are investigated using a wide range of formal and experimental methods. Members of the Brown community can subscribe to the Ling Lang Lunch email list to be informed of upcoming talks. The talks are open to all members of the Brown community. Dates and abstracts are available on the Ling Lang Lunch page on the Linguistics and Language at Brown website. Spring 2022 Ailis Cournane, NYU: (Mar. 2) Dedicated markers for the hardest thoughts: learning epistemics and counterfactuals the "easy" way Youtao Lu, Brown University: (Mar. 9) Exhaustive Access of Homophonous Words in Spoken Word Recognition: a Cross-Linguistic Comparison between English and Japanese Lorna Quandt, Gallaudet University: (Apr. 6) Sign Language and Embodied Cognition: Bringing Together EEG, Behavior, and Emerging Technology Jooyoung Lee & Gershon Pevnick, Brown University: (Apr. 13) A’ingae multifunctional marker khen and its interaction with quotatives Yanwan Zhu & Annika McDermott-Hinman, Brown University: (Apr. 27) TBA Natalie Weber, Yale University: (May 4) Late vocabulary insertion and even later metrification in Blackfoot Bruno Ferenc Segedin, Brown University: (May 11) Do languages overrepresent words with vowel harmony? Fall 2021 Rowena Garcia, Max Planck Institute for Psychololinguistics: (Sept. 15) Children's aquisition of a symmetrical voice language: Evidence from Tagalog Mieke Slim, Ghent University: (Oct. 6) Mental representations of compositional semantic structure: Evidence from priming Amalia Skilton, Cornell University: (Oct. 20) Learning speaker- and addressee-centered demonstratives in Ticuna Tyler Knowlton, University of Pennsylvania: (Nov. 17) The psycho-logic of each and every Rachel Dudley, Central European University: (Dec. 1) Pragmatic effects in the evaluation of false belief reports Guilluame Thomas, University of Toronto: (Dec. 8) Switch-reference, discourse coherence and centering Spring 2021 Nicole Holliday, UPenn: (Jan. 27) Kamala Harris and the Construction of Complex Ethnolinguistic Political Identity Yoolim Kim, Max Planck Institute for the Science of Human History: (Feb. 3) Is the mental representation of a bi-scriptal language enriched by multiple orthographic inputs? Jed Pizarro-Guevara, UMass Amherst: (Feb. 10) Processing (a)symmetries in relative clauses: Tagalog as a case study Kathleen Hall, University of British Columbia: (Feb. 17) Testing “Message-Oriented” Phonology in the Signed Modality Judith Degen, Stanford: (Feb. 24) Towards a unifying computational account of reference production and comprehension Meredith Tamminga, UPenn: (Mar. 3) Interspeaker covariation in sound changes: A hierarchical clustering approach Nikole Giovannone, UConn: (Mar. 24) Individual differences in acoustic-phonetic and lexical contributions to speech perception Jeremy Kuhn, Institut Jean Nicod (CNRS), Ecole Normale Supérieure: (Mar. 31) Negative concord in spoken and sign language Lauren Franklin, Brown University: (Apr. 7) Toddlers show adult-like sensitivity to consonants and vowels in early word representations Youtao Lu, Brown University: (Apr. 14) Bear the bare bear: is there a difference between homophones and homonyms in spoken word recognition? Fall 2020 Kate Lindsey, Boston University: (Sept.16) Deriving the Pahoturi River vowel space using diachronic and synchronic methods Lelia Glass, Georgia Tech: (Sept. 23) The lexical and compositional semantics of distributivity Shiying Yang, Brown University: (Sept. 30) Too Much Information: How the Structure of the Lexicon Avoids Information Overload Christina Schonberg, UW Madison: (Oct. 7) Language as an agent of cognitive change Emily Morgan, UC Davis: (Oct. 14) Psycholinguistics of Programming Languages Rachel Elizabeth Weissler, UMich Ann Arbor: (Oct. 21) Depending on Speaker Identity: Sociophonetic Evidence & EEG Correlates Reflect Linguistic Expectations On Behalf of Speaker & Listener Athulya Aravind, MIT: (Oct. 28) Presupposition and accommodation in child language Andrés Buxó-Lugo, University of Maryland: (Nov. 11) That was a question?: Encoding and decoding meaning through structured variability in intonational speech prosody Misha Oraa Ali, Brown University: (Dec. 2) (When) do children learn the distributivity of “each”? Spring 2019 Speaker Schedule Date Speaker Title 1/23/2019 – First day of classes 1/31/2019 2/7/2019 Ellie Pavlick (Brown) Why should NLP care about linguistics? 2/14/2019 2/21/2019 2/28/2019 Chelsea Sanker (Brown) Secondary cues to coda voicing and vowel duration 3/7/2019 3/15/2019 Suzi Lima (Toronto) A typology of the count/mass distinction in Brazil and its relevance for count/mass theories. 3/21/2019 Jason Shaw (Yale) Phonological control of time 3/28/2019 – Spring Recess 4/4/2019 Jessi Grieser (The University of Tennessee Knoxville) Talking Place, Speaking Race 4/11/2019 Roger Levy (MIT) 4/18/2019 4/25/2019 Lynnette Arnold (Brown) TBD 5/2/2019 Reading Period Past Speakers 2018 Speakers Mirjam Fried, Charles University in Prague: (Sept. 9) When main clauses go AWOL: a constructional account of polarity shifts in insubordination Kyuwon Moon: (Oct. 24) TBA Scott Seyfarth, Ohio State University: (Nov. 7) TBA Steven Frankland, Princeton University: (Nov. 28) TBA 2015-2016 Robert Henderson, University of Arizona: Pluractional ideophones in Tseltal and Upper Necaxa Totonac Eiling Yee, University of Connecticut: Putting Concepts in Context Matt Barros, Yale University: Sluicing and Ellipsis Identity Emily Myers, University of Connecticu: Non-Native Speech Sound Learning: Studies of Sleep, Brain, and Behavior Peter Klecha, University of Connecticut: Regulating Loose Talk through Implicature Wilson Silva, Rochester Institute of Technoology: The Desano Language Documentation Project: Fieldwork, Theory and Language Revitalization Polly Jacobson, Brown University: You think there's Silent Linguistic Material, but I don't: Neg Raising meets Ellipsis Stephen Emet, Brown University: "I'm sorry I ever went to that talk:" NPIs in Affective Contexts Matthew Hall, University of Connecticut: Using Non-Language to Understand Language 2014-2015 Philip Hofmeister, Brown University: Expectations and linguistic acceptability judgments Stefanie Tellex, Brown University: Natural Language and Robotics Scott AnderBois, Brown University: The discourse particle wal in Yucatec Maya: a decompositional approach Chigusa Kurumada, University of Rochester: Expectation-adaptation in the incremental interpretation of English contrastive prosody Sophia Malamud, Brandeis University: Utterance modifiers and the emergence of illocutionary force Masako Fidler, Brown University: Mining reader receptions of text with keyword analysis Sara Guediche, Brown University: Flexible and adaptive processes in speech perception Events CLPS Colloquium Series Cognition Seminar Developmental Brown Bag Speaker Series Ling Lang Lunch Perception Action Seminar Social Cognitive Science Seminar Speaker Series: "The Linguistic Expression of Racial and Ethnic Identity" Cognitive, Linguistic & Psychological Sciences Cognitive, Linguistic & Psychological Sciences Brown University Box 1821 Metcalf Research Building 190 Thayer Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2727 Fax: 401-863-2255 Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top