Skip to main content Faculty Directory Cornell Engineering Apply Visit Give to Engineering Industry Partners Home Academics Undergraduate Program Graduate Programs Research Graduate Students Research Areas People Faculty by Type Research and Academic Professionals Administrative Staff Advisory Council CBE Industry Council Facilities Cornell Energy Systems Institute (CESI) Olin Hall Machine Shop Unit Operations Lab Alumni Olin Hall News Alumni Spotlights Robert F. Smith '85 Class Photos Giving Events and Initiatives Job Openings Distinguished Lectures Diversity and Inclusion Program Graduate Alumni Reunion Robert Frederick Smith Gift: Impact and Initiatives Open the search panel Menu Search Close Pursuing excellence in research, teaching, and service. Apply to CBE Give to CBE Visit CBE Cutting-edge Research Innovative Faculty Community Mission Happening Now News Robert F. Smith gift expands STEM access for underrepresented students May 23, 2022 As he accepted his Distinguished Alumni Award from Cornell Engineering on May 13, Robert F. Smith ’85, founder and CEO of Vista Equity Partners, announced a new gift of $15 million for engineering student aid, with a focus on assisting undergraduate students who come to Cornell from urban high schools, and graduate students who attended historically Black colleges and universities (HBCUs). Read more about Robert F. Smith gift expands STEM access for underrepresented studentsMore News Event Saturday, June 11, 2022 8:30am to 1:00pm Reunion 2022 8:30 - 10:00 am: Smith School Alumni Reunion Breakfast 128 Olin Hall Join CBE for a chance to engage with members of the department and fellow alumni. 12:00 - 1:00 pm: State of the College with Dean... Read more about Reunion 2022More Events Spotlight Using math to model complex chemical processes Luis Nieves-Rosado is interested in how things come together. Those things could be colloidal particles in a suspension; block copolymers in the process of self-assembly; or the staff, students, and... Read more about Using math to model complex chemical processesMore Spotlights Facilities and Collaboration Unit Operations Laboratory Cornell Energy Systems Institute Robert Frederick Smith '85 Gift: Impact and Initiatives Robert Smith's Dedication Speech Research Opportunities Biomolecular Engineering Complex Fluids and Polymers Computational Science and Engineering Nanoscale Electronics, Photonics and Materials Processing Sustainable Energy Systems Academic Programs in CBE About News Events Spotlights Contact Us Intranet Admissions: 607 255-8656 DEPT Address: 120 Olin Hall Ithaca, NY 14853 Connect with us Facebook Twitter Youtube LinkedIn Copyright © 2022 Cornell University All rights reserved. Web Accessibility Assistance