Penn Home | Home Annual Symposium Graduate Conference Lectures & Events Associated Programs Publications Associated Scholars About / Contact © 2007–2020 Center for Ancient Studies University of Pennsylvania E-mail address protected by JavaScript. Please enable JavaScript for e-mail address. More... The University of Pennsylvania has long been acclaimed for its extraordinary resources in the study and teaching of the ancient world. The School of Arts and Sciences is home to an unusual number of distinguished scholars who specialize in various aspects of the ancient Old and New worlds – their languages, history, archaeology, anthropology, art history, philosophy, economy, politics, and sciences, to name only a few – and the Penn Museum houses a renowned collection of artifacts from the Americas, Asia, Polynesia, China, Africa, Egypt, the Ancient Near East, and the Greek, Roman, and Etruscan Worlds. The Center for Ancient Studies at the University of Pennsylvania strives to bring together students and faculty, as well as members of the greater Philadelphia community, who share a passion for the ancient world, through the promotion and support of events pertaining to pre-modern societies. In addition, we compile a weekly e-newsletter of events of interest at Penn, in Philadelphia, and across the region. If you would like to subscribe to this digest, please send a message to: cas.upenn@gmail.com with the word Subscribe as the subject of the email and include your full name and affiliation in the body of the message. Unless otherwise requested, the email address from which you sent the message will be added to our list. For daily updates on events at Penn and elsewhere, follow us on Twitter @CAS_Penn or like our Facebook page. Advisory Committee (2020-2021) Megan Kassabaum (Director; ANTH) Deven Patel (Executive Board; SAST) Holly Pittman (Executive Board; ARTH) Ralph Rosen (CLST) Adam Smith (EALC) Thomas Tartaron (CLST) Josef Wegner (NELC) Steven Weitzman (RELS) Julia Wilker (CLST) Graduate Assistant: Kyle West (ANCH)