Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Accessibility Network Accessibility Network right arrow down arrow Getting Started right arrow down arrow About us Accessibility Commitment and Policy EIT Accessibility Plan FAQ's Accessibility 101 right arrow down arrow Accessibility Definitions Documents right arrow down arrow Microsoft Excel Accessibility right arrow down arrow Guides Checklist Tutorials Microsoft PowerPoint right arrow down arrow Checklist Tutorials Microsoft Word right arrow down arrow Guides Checklist Tutorials PDF Documents right arrow down arrow Guides Checklist Tutorials Websites right arrow down arrow Headers Links Alt Text Color and Contrast Tables Forms Checklists Video & Media right arrow down arrow Ordering & Editing Auto Captions Ordering Professional Captions YouTube Studio Captioning Checklist Purchasing right arrow down arrow Procurement Policy Accessibility Review VPAT Software and Applications Checklist Canvas right arrow down arrow Ally for Canvas Course Syllabus Create an Accessible Canvas Course Checklist Training right arrow down arrow Digital Inclusion Day right arrow down arrow Call for Proposals Schedule of Events Registration Accessibility Compliance Training right arrow down arrow Request Enrollment - Accessibility Compliance Training Home » About UC » Electronic Accessibility » Training » DID » Schedule of Events Set Navigation title in component Digital Inclusion Day Call for Proposals Schedule of Events Registration Accessibility Compliance Training Request Enrollment - Accessibility Compliance Training Schedule of Events Day One - August 2, 2021 9:00 AM EST - 10:30 AM: Opening Plenary Creating Accessible Social Media Alexa Heinrich Alexa Heinrich is the Social Media Manager for St. Petersburg College (SPC) in Florida where she oversees the college’s numerous social media accounts and blogs. She is a passionate advocate for creating accessible and inclusive content for social media and has presented educational webinars on the subject to several different organizations including Harvard University, John Deere, GoFundMe, and the Great Lakes ADA Center. Find out more about Alexa on her website. Join Creating Accessible Social Media Zoom Session August 2, 2021 Day One Schedule Time Session Type (Session Number) Session Title Presenter(s) Join Session 9:00 AM - 10:30 AM Keynote (A101): Creating Accessible Social Media Alexa Heinrich Join Zoom Session (A101) 10:30 AM - 11:15 AM Training (A102): Electronic Accessibility 101 Heidi Pettyjohn & Amanda Calvert Join Zoom Session (A102) 11:15 AM - 12:00 PM Roundtable (A103): Improving Accessibility in Your Daily Communications Whitney White Join Zoom Session (A103) 12:00 PM - 12:45 PM Lunch & Learn / Demonstration (A104): Understanding Forms and Accessibility Mitch Jones, Katie Lane & Jermaine Fields Join Zoom Session (A104) 12:45 PM - 1:30 PM Training (A105): What to Expect with an Accessibility Review During the Procurement Process Amanda Calvert & Nakia Keathley Join Zoom Session (A105) 1:30 PM - 2:15 PM Best Practices (A106): Equal Access for d/Deaf Students: When Video Captions Are Not Enough Katheryn Lane & Amy Adkins Join Zoom Session (A106) 2:15 PM - 3:00 PM Training (A107): Equidox: PDF Workflow and Techniques Mitch Jones & Sam Riegler Join Zoom Session (A107) 3:00 PM - 3:45 PM Training (A108): Build a Bigger Toolkit: Advanced O365 Accessibility Features Amanda Calvert & Nakia Keathley Join Zoom Session (A108) Day Two - August 3, 2021 August 3, 2021 Day Two Schedule Time Session Type (Session Number) Session Title Presenter(s) Join Session 9:30 AM - 10:00 AM Demonstration (B101): Social Media Alexa Heinrich Join Zoom Session (B101) 10:00 AM - 10:45 AM Best Practices (B102): Accessibility for Visual Art Courses! Yes We Can! Kelly Frigard Join Zoom Session (B102) 10:45 AM - 11:30 AM Roundtable (B103): Creating Your Own Adventure in the EIT Training Portal Megan Wuebker, Kimber Andrews & Mike Suit Join Zoom Session (B103) 11:30 AM - 12:15 PM Demonstration (B104): EquatIO: Math Made Easy Mitch Jones Join Zoom Session (B104) 12:15 PM - 1:00 PM Lunch & Learn / Demonstration (B105): Website Accessibility: The Eye Test Katie Lane Join Zoom Session (B105) 1:00 PM - 1:45 PM Training (B106): Accessibility Course Coordinator Training Jessica Guess Join Zoom Session (B106) 1:45 PM - 2:30 PM Roundtable (B107): Managing Web Accessibility Sarah Mullins, Beth Vleaminck and Cathy Barnes Join Zoom Session (B107) 2:30 PM - 3:15 PM Training (B108): Data Geeks Tackle the Beast of Canvas Accessibility Jessica Guess & Sighle Denier Join Zoom Session (B108) 3:15 PM - 4:00 PM Best Practices (B109): How Can We Help You? UC Libraries Accessibility Services and Resources for Faculty and Students Debbie Tenofsky Join Zoom Session (B109) Event Topics (A101): Alexa Heinrich - Keynote Creating Accessible Social Media Join Zoom Session (A101) Download Presentation: Accessibility on Social Media Watch: Keynote - Creating Accessible Social Media (A102): Electronic Accessibility 101 Learn the “why & how” to increase access for individuals with disabilities in the electronic environment, including an overview of relevant laws and UC policy, the foundational elements of EIT accessibility, and what it means to move from compliance to a culture of inclusion and equity. Join Zoom Session (A102) Download Presentation: Electronic Accessibility 101 Watch: Electronic Accessibility 101 (A103): Improving Accessibility in Your Daily Communications In this roundtable discussion, attendees will gather to share their strategies, experiences, and challenges in creating accessible communications in the workplace. The presenter/facilitator will kickoff the session by sharing successes from the Division of Student Affairs relevant to websites, newsletters, emails, videos, live meetings, social media, and more. Attendees are all invited to share their strategies, successes, and challenges with the group for discussion. Join Zoom Session (A103) Download Presentation: Improving Digital Accessibility in Your Daily Communications Watch: Improving Accessibility in Your Daily Communications (A104): Understanding Forms and Accessibility Forms pose a formidable barrier for accessibility, both for the users completing them and those developing them. Form accessibility goes beyond providing a form: we have to be aware of the process of delivering, completing, returning, and banking the data collected in your forms. In this demonstration we'll discuss the following: How to create a form process that allows for access to disabled and Accessible technology users; How to access accessible Forms Solutions available to the UC community; and an overview of creating an accessible Form in Adobe PDF. Join Zoom Session (A104) Download Presentation: Understanding Forms and Accessibility Watch: Understanding Forms and Accessibility (A105): What to Expect with an Accessibility Review During the Procurement Process You submitted a request for an accessibility review… now what? In this presentation you will quickly learn what is behind the hidden curtain, all of the details of what, who, when, and how. We will answer your biggest burning questions around the process and give you tips and tricks to purchasing accessible technology. Join Zoom Session (A105) Download Presentation: What to Expect with an Accessibility Review During the Procurement Process Watch: What to Expect with an Accessibility Review During the Procurement Process (A106): Equal Access for d/Deaf Students: When Video Captions Are Not Enough The COVID-19 pivot to remote learning and realignments in higher education have amplified challenges to accessibility in online instruction. This presentation is intended as an introduction to the unique challenges faced by d/Deaf students in hybrid and online courses. The presenters will showcase collaborative application of sign language interpretation of pre-recorded media services from the perspectives of student disability services, faculty development, and instructional design. They will share lessons learned and experiences in implementation, along with resources and discussion. Join Zoom Session (A106) Download Presentation: Equal Access for Deaf Students - When Captions Are Not Enough Watch: Equal Access for Deaf Students - When Captions Are Not Enough (A107): Equidox: PDF Workflow and Techniques Equidox is as fast and intuitive solution for PDF accessibility, but it may be intimidating to the novice user! This training will both introduce you to Equidox PDF remediation, and provide you with a thorough and efficient workflow for creating an accessible PDF. You'll learn to use Equidox's tools to remediate a PDF from top to bottom. PDF may not be the best solution when it comes to accessibility, but when the job is best done with PDF, the PDF must be accessible! This is one workflow to get you through the PDF remediation process quickly and efficiently. Join Zoom Session (A107) Download Presentation: Equidox: PDF Workflow and Techniques Watch: Equidox: PDF Workflow and Techniques (A108): Build a Bigger Toolkit: Advanced 365 Accessibility Features Many of us are familiar with the basic accessibility features of Office 365, like how to the accessibility checker; how to make descriptive links; and how to include alternative text descriptions of images. But did you know that 365 also supports access with live captions for PowerPoint presentations? Do you know how 365 can help you and your students with focus, concentration, and organization? Join us to add these "advanced" 365 accessibility tools (and others) to your accessibility toolkit Join Zoom Session (A108) Download Presentation: Advanced 365 Accessibility Features Watch: Build a Bigger Toolkit Advanced 365 Accessibility Features (B101): Social Media Creating accessible social media. Join Zoom Session (B101) Download Presentation: Social Media Watch: Social Media with Alexa Heinrich (B102): Accessibility for Visual Art Courses! Yes We Can! My presentation will focus on how I learned to make my visual art and art history courses over ninety percent accessible while using hundreds of visual images, diagrams, drawings, and video lectures. My course content is all built from the ground up, including the use of a freely sourced textbook. I have learned so much in this process and this journey has helped strengthen the quality of my courses for all students. I will be sharing ways to make this journey smoother and less burdensome as you learn techniques you can use! Join Zoom Session (B102) Download Presentation: Accessibility for Visual Art Courses Watch: Accessibility for Visual Arts Courses! Yes We Can! (B103): Creating Your Own Adventure in the EIT Training Portal Get an introduction to the new EIT training portal, which allows you to choose trainings that best meet your individual needs to meet compliance requirements. Ask questions, learn how to request new trainings, and get a preview of upcoming training options. Join Zoom Session (B103) Watch: Creating Your Own Adventure in the EIT Training Portal (B104): EquatIO: Math Made Easy EquatIO is a new tool offered by Accessibility Resources and the Accessibility Network at UC. Acquired to provide accessible math to students registered with Accessibility Resources, we would like to offer the software to all faculty, staff, and students interested in creating accessible math. This demonstration will offer a glimpse at the features and results of EquatIO and how you can leverage this tool in your classrooms or offices. Join Zoom Session (B104) Download Presentation: EquatIO - Math Made Easy WatchL EquatIO - Math Made Easy (B105): Website Accessibility: The Eye Test Join us for a non-technical accessibility testing session. Learn how to evaluate the basic accessibility of your webpage by simply using your keyboard and other built-in elements. We will also review a few free tools that provide another layer of accessibility information. Join Zoom Session (B105) Session Presentation: Web Accessibility: The Eye Test Watch: Website Accessibility-The Eye Test (B106): Accessibility Course Coordinator Training This training is specifically for our EIT Accessibility course coordinators to explain the role, expectations, and responsibilities of course coordinators for our compliance and tracking needs. The session will begin with a demonstration of what a course coordinator can do, where they can complete their required training, and outline what they will need to reach out for help with. The last portion of the training will be question and answer. This training recording will be shared with any course coordinators unable to attend. Join Zoom Session (B106) Download Presentation: Accessibility Course Coordinator Training Watch: Accessibility Course Coordinator Training (B107): Managing Web Accessibility We’ll chat with three of our web Apex users on how they manage page content, authors and accessibility within their college or unit website. We’ll review some of the most common accessibility issues they come across and how they engage University resources for support. Join Zoom Session (B107) Download Presentation: Managing Web Accessibility Watch: Managing Web Accessibility (B108): Data Geeks Tackle the Beast of Canvas Accessibility Come learn how two data geeks stumbled across the Ally Institutional Report. The first half of the session will be a demo showing how Canvas admins can access it and what information is available in the report. In the second half of the session, join us in a conversation about using this report to improve scores, target issues, prioritize work, highlight successes, and enhance information shared for accessibility. Join Zoom Session (B108) Download Presentation: Data Geeks Tackle the Beast of Canvas Accessibility Download Document: Ally Institutional Report Admin Instructions Download Document: Canvas Ally Course Report Fields Watch: Data Geeks Tackle the Beast of Canvas Accessibility (B109): How Can We Help You? UC Libraries Accessibility Services and Resources for Faculty and Students The UC Libraries is the information hub for the UC community. Learn how you can partner with the UC Libraries to support the faculty and students with their accessibility needs and accommodations. This session will focus on enhancing the faculty and students’ academic experiences using the library's vast and diverse services and resources, including purchasing online books and streaming videos, researching online articles, suggesting open access books, and working with vendors to make their content accessible. There will be an opportunity for a conversation to discuss how we can collaborate and connect the faculty and students to the accessibility services. Join Zoom Session (B109) Download Presentation: UC Libraries Accessibility Services and Resources for Faculty and Students Watch: How Can We Help You UC Libraries Accessibility Services and Resources for Faculty and Students University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top