Skip to main content SCE Cornell SCE Youth Programs Precollege Studies Courses for Credit Professional Studies Education Vacations Lifelong Learners Cornell Faculty & Staff Cornell in Washington Menu Search Courses & Programs Tuition & Aid Dates & Deadlines Student Services About Register Search Summer Session Take regular Cornell classes this summer with university faculty. Choose from hundreds of Cornell classes on campus, online, and abroad. Earn credits, catch up, or get ahead during 3-, 6- & 8-week sessions Cornell University Summer Session offers hundreds of regular Cornell courses taught by outstanding university faculty members. Enrollment is open to all—from undergrads to high school students*, professionals, alumni, and any interested adult. Summer Session 2022 will feature In-person, on-campus courses Courses in NYC and Washington, DC International study abroad programs Online classes With choices of 3-, 6-, or 8-week sessions, most classes leave time for travel or a summer job. During any of the summer sessions, you can benefit from small classes, really get to know your professors, and meet interesting people from around the world. If you choose to stay on campus, summer in Ithaca is the perfect time to take advantage of the area's stunningly beautiful gorges, waterfalls, lakes, and parks. Hike, swim, sail, picnic, enjoy a sunset concert on the Arts Quad, and check off #31 on the list of "161 Things Every Cornellian Should Do": Spend a summer here! *High school students: Read about precollege study options. Housing Dining Health Summer Session Classes offered May–August See the academic calendar Open admissions See registration Earn credits & an official Cornell transcript $1,620/credit hour See tuition & aid Contact us Register now Search courses Top 5 reasons to take a Summer Session course Fulfill requirements and lighten your course load Possibly accelerate your degree Study with Cornell faculty Immerse yourself in a single subject Enjoy the same great Cornell education as during the other semesters, but with more sun! Faculty During Cornell’s Summer Session, you’ll enjoy the same great education that’s offered during our fall and spring semesters. Our Summer Session, unlike those at many other universities, features regular, full-time faculty members and provide an unparalleled opportunity to get to know these outstanding professors, many of whom are leaders in their fields. Student experiences "I loved the summer experience. I made life-long friends and not only learned a lot from my class, but I also grew a lot as a person." Matan Auerbach "I had an amazing time at Cornell University Summer Session and made some really close friends. Although the workload was intense, I learned so much in three weeks." Jade Lewin You might also be interested in... International Study Abroad Programs Online Learning Winter Session See all programs & courses Search courses Courses for Credit is part of the About SCEGive to SCEContact us SCE Policies Privacy Notice Copyright Land Acknowledgment Web Accessibility Help: web-accessibility@cornell.edu Website feedback Back to Top