<form runat="server"></form>
<WebPartPages:SPWebPartManager runat="server"/>
 Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions MBA FAQ Introduce Yourself Blog Visit Apply Academic Experience Entrepreneurship Student Life Career Path Admissions Financial Aid …→ Harvard Business School→ MBA→ Student Life Student Life Activities, Government & Clubs Campus People Community Values The First-Year Experience The Second Year Experience The HBS Community → People→ Portrait Project Portrait Project Laura Ucros Tellez MBA 2022 “Tell me, what is it you plan to do with your one wild and precious life?” My first week at HBS, I felt the weight of the world on my shoulders. The pandemic was at its peak, my personal life had been upended, and I had not found a vocation in my professional career. Throughout my life, whenever I struggled, I didn’t allow myself time for second-guessing. This was true when after a 16-year professional tennis career I tore a tendon in my knee beyond repair. The day my doctor broke the news, I went on autopilot mode and built a new identity and a new life. I did not take a minute to look back or grieve the dreams I was leaving behind. I focused on academics and excelled in college. I built a successful career in the business world. I didn’t allow myself to recognize I was struggling, because I forced my mind into not thinking about the difficult time I was going through. But during my time at HBS, my mind was more strong-willed. I tried to ignore the internal battle I was fighting, but for the first time ever, I was losing control. I tried pretending I was fine, and I probably looked okay to those around me. Eventually my mental health deteriorated to a point where I couldn’t keep hiding it from myself and my loved ones. I thought acknowledging what was happening and asking for help would mean I was weak. Now I know it was the bravest thing I have ever done. It saved my life. This experience has brought me even closer to my family, has made me more resilient, and has given me purpose. I want to live a happy life surrounded by people I love. I want to help others find joy in their own lives. I want to inspire those who are struggling to keep fighting. — Laura Ucros Tellez The Portrait Project Each year we ask our classmates a straightforward, simple question taken from the lines of a poem by Pulitzer Prize-winning author, Mary Oliver. We share with you intimate and candid responses to this question, "Tell me, what is it you plan to do with your one wild and precious life?" Concept and photography: Tony Deifell, MBA '02 More Portrait Project ǁ MBA Admissions Harvard Business School Spangler Welcome Center (Spangler 107) Boston, MA 02163 Phone: 1.617.495.6128 Email: admissions@hbs.edu →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College