Utah State University sites use cookies. By continuing to use this site you accept our privacy and cookie policy. I agree Skip to content Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries QUICK LINKS MyUSU SEARCH University Honors Program Close search Search Utah State University: I want to search All USU sites People Search terms Submit search University Honors ProgramOpen main menu Close Open search About Honors Close About Honors The Value of Honors Meet Our Staff Mission & Vision Strategic Plan Overview of Requirements Considering Honors Close Considering Honors Why Join the Honors Community? Questions? Ask a Student Meet with an Honors Advisor Apply to Honors Overview of Requirements New to Honors Close New to Honors Honors Aggie Orientation Schedule an Advising Appointment Overview of Requirements Departmental Honors Advisors (DHA) Honors Courses Book Labs USU Connections Honors House Current Students Close Current Students Information & Advising The Honors Canvas Course Meet with an Academic or Peer Advisor Departmental Honors Advisors (DHA) Notification of Leave Honors Curriculum Overview of Requirements Honors in Practice Mentoring Agreements (Contracts) Book Labs Alumni Mentoring Ask an Honors Alum Capstone Honors Capstone Courses Honors Courses Engagement Honors Last Lecture Graduation Medallion Ceremony Transcript Designations Funding and Scholarships Honors Research and Study Abroad Funding Honors & USU Scholarships National Scholarships & Fellowships Leadership Opportunities Honors Last Lecture Committee Honors Leadership Academy Honors Undergraduate Teaching Fellow Other USU Student Leadership Roles Faculty/Staff Close Faculty/Staff Honors Courses Course Proposals Think Tanks Introductory Courses Honors Section Proposal Form Honors Mentoring Departmental Honors Advisors Overview of Requirements Honors in Practice Honors Capstones Current Book Labs Propose a Book Lab Engage With Honors Share News with Honors Subscribe to Honors Email Support Honors Other Resources Honors Last Lecture Request P&T Report Honors Aggies Forever Close Honors Aggies Forever Support Honors Connect: Honors Alumni Mentoring Engage: Share Good News or Ideas Honors Last Lecture Join Our Communication Lists Resources/Partners Close Resources/Partners Office of Research Center for Community Engagement Office of Global Engagement USU Libraries USU Inclusion Center Aggie Wellness Latinx Cultural Center NEHMA Center for Intersectional Gender Studies & Research IOGP Career Services USU Events Calendar Quick Links Close Quick Links Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries MyUSU University Honors Program Honors is Inclusive The University Honors Program's mission is to empower a diverse community of tomorrow’s leaders, and our goal is to recognize and develop the potential of all students to become true agents of change. Honors gives students the opportunity to practice respectful civil discourse in our discussion-oriented classes and reading groups, which focus on a variety of topics including those related to diversity, inclusion, equity, access, and other challenges of our time. Students put learning into practice by working one-on-one with faculty on research and creative projects, with alumni and internship supervisors on professional engagement, and with community mentors on local and global humanitarian projects. Honors emphasizes mindset over grades, and we look for students who clearly demonstrate resilience, open-mindedness, passionate curiosity, and community engagement. Honors has served 679 such students in the past year, 10% of whom identify as first-generation, 7% as belonging to a marginalized group, and 61% as female or non-binary. To increase access and improve retention for all, the program has committed to establishing both mentoring support and dedicated scholarships for students from underrepresented groups. The launch of a USU Statewide Honors pilot this year also extends the Honors Aggie community across our great state of Utah. USU Honors is proud to welcome and support all past, present, and future Aggies who embrace the poet Horace's ancient challenge: "Sapere aude"– or “Dare to Know.” Access and inclusion are key strategic goals of the University Honors Program. 2021-2024 USU Honors Strategic Plan question mark What is Honors? Learn what the University Honors Program can offer you pencil Apply Now Applications for first-year or current/transfer students address book Honors Advising Schedule an appointment with one of our advisors user Ask a Student Get answers to your questions from students in your discipline Honors News & Events Read Story November 9, 2020 The Honors Passion Project: Costuming for Charity with Erica Hawvermale The Honors Passion Project is a series of virtual lunchtime discussions with Honors alumni and friends about their passions, pastimes, or pursuits beyond work and academics. The second event in the series took place on Wednesday, October 14, with Honors a... Read Story October 28, 2020 Honors Last Lecture 2020 Honors Outstanding Professor, Dr. Seth Archer (History), delivered the 45th Annual Honors Last Lecture, entitled "After the Vaccine: The United States Discovers Public Health," on October 21 at 3:30 p.m. Read Story October 28, 2020 The Honors Passion Project: LEGO-Building with Grant Holyoak The Honors Passion Project is a series of virtual lunchtime discussions with Honors alumni and friends about their passions, pastimes, or pursuits beyond work and academics. The series began on Tuesday, September 8, with Honors alumnus Grant Holyoak’s pre... Read More News Stories Honors Facebook Feed Support Honors Students with funding for scholarships, research and creative work, study abroad, and other enrichment opportunities. Give a Gift University Honors Program Contact Honors USU Honors Facebook USU Honors Twitter USU Honors LinkedIn LLC Building A Room 112 Logan, UT 84322 (435) 797-2715 honors@usu.edu Subscribe to Email List Maps & Directions Search USU Campus Safety Jobs Contact Terms of Use Copyright Privacy Accessibility Non-Discrimination Admin Back to top of the page