SMU Cox Display Navigation and Site Search SMU Cox School of Business SMU Cox Utility Navigation Students Companies Alumni Apply Contact Us smu.edu Display Navigation Display Search Search SMU SMU Cox Main Navigation At SMU Cox Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu An exceptional school in the heart of a vibrant, global, business-friendly city. Collins Center Cox News Cox Events Graduate Outcomes CoxToday Magazine Academic Departments Career Growth Global Programs Degrees & Programs Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Rigorous programs within a truly customized academic experience. Master of Science MS in Accounting MS in Business Analytics MS in Finance MS in Management MS Health Promotion Management MS in Sport Management MBA Full-Time Two-Year MBA Full-Time One-Year MBA MBA Direct Professional MBA Online MBA Executive MBA Joint Degrees JD/MBA MA / MBA MS Engineering / MBA Undergraduate Bachelor of Business Administration Non-Degree Executive Education Summer Business Institute Diversity & Inclusion Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Shaping Leaders for a Changing World. Diversity at Cox Latino Leadership Initiative I Am Latino in America Subiendo Academy at SMU Cox School Dean’s Message Executive Education Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Meet your career challenges head-on by mining the expertise of the nation's top business leaders. Programs for Individuals Custom Solutions Latino Leadership Initiative HR Roundtable Graduate Certificates Collins Center Learning Culture Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu An innovative learning culture influences the way the world does business. Centers and Institutes Academic Departments Research Business Library NextGen Cox Curriculum People & Community Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu A community where professors know students by name and help them create powerful networks. Students Alumni Faculty Companies Cox Executive Board Cox100 Press Releases Display Search Utility Navigation Students Companies Alumni Apply Contact Us smu.edu Executive MBA Executive MBA Overview Curriculum Experiential Learning Career Development Admissions Overview Curriculum Experiential Learning Career Development Admissions A Future Built Among Peers The Cox Executive MBA program is structured to build on your management experience by capitalizing on the power of collaboration that comes from a diverse business network. Join a group of business leaders like yourself — top minds from a range of industries and disciplines — and hone your management expertise in our modern academic environment. • 21 months, 5 semesters. • About two weekends per month Fridays and Saturdays, with some half-days • 9-10 day Global Consulting trip in the second year • Rolling Admission with new cohorts starting every August. • MBA degree is accredited by the AACSB. Take the first step: Schedule a 1:1 EMBA Admissions Meeting with a member of the EMBA Admissions Committee. Have your candidacy pre-screened and ask your admission questions. Start Your Application Request More Information Meet 1:1 with EMBA Admissions Admissions Events Business Partnerships are found here EMBA Alumni Chris and Noah Martin (no relation!) met as classmates in the Executive MBA Program. Discovering eachother’s business skillsets, and a mutual passion to start their own venture, Direct Access Capital was born. Chris and Noah are continuing to grow the business and have hired other SMU EMBAs and Cox students. Play Video > Play Video An Experience That's Built for Success You have responsibilities at work and at home. And as a candidate for the powerhouse Cox EMBA degree, you'll have academic responsibilities to yourself and your peers. Everything about your experience as an Executive MBA student at SMU Cox will help you push your limits in the classroom while you forge ahead in your career. Networking events with other Cox School MBA students. A tight community of peers and faculty. A class schedule that's easy on work and personal life. Video-recorded classes that give you flexibility and a reference for study review. Access to SMU's campus-wide entertainment and fitness facilities. A strong support system for you and your family. The Collins Center: Your Hub for Advancement You'll be spending the bulk of your time on campus at the James M. Collins Executive Education Center, which was built in 2005 to serve as the academic and social hub for the EMBA program — an invigorating setting for learning and collaboration. The center has everything you'll need right at hand, from high-tech classrooms and a business center to a dining room and rooftop terrace. The Collins Executive Education Center in the Cox School of Business was built specifically to serve area professionals. See more about the Collins Center The Cox Advantage Renowned faculty who blend industry insights with academic research NextGen Curriculum Join a Cohort of Diverse & Driven Peers Career Support for Life Connect with 40,000+ global alumni to accelerate your career Global Classroom After Cox: Success Stories Jason Cochran, EMBA 2018 VP Operations, Chipotle Mexican Grill Jason Cochran brought his expertise in business operations and national retail management into the Executive MBA classroom, leveraging his experience from a successful career at GameStop. After graduation, Jason took on a new role as the Vice President at Chipotle Mexican Grill. Added bonus: Jason was also named Best EMBA by Poets & Quants. Bethany Evans, EMBA 2018 Senior Director of Marketing at The North Face Bethany Evans took all of her experience in brand management and social media marketing at both JCPenney and Southwest Airlines to the Cox Executive MBA Program. As a busy professional, wife and mother – Bethany challenged herself in the program and found time to grow her career. She is now the Senior Director of Marketing at The North Face. Academic Secret Weapon: Marketing Strategy. Sabari Raja, EMBA 2011 Co-Founder & CEO at Nepris Inc With an undergraduate degree in Electrical Engineering from India and a Master’s in Computer Science, Sabrina Raja joined the educational arm of Texas Instruments as a software developer. Over more than a decade there, her focus shifted to the business side of EdTech, and eventually she decided to enroll at Cox. Today, she presides over Nepris, the innovative multi-award-winning company she co-founded to create virtual connections between classrooms and industry. Next Steps Have a question? Join us for an upcoming event to learn more about our MBA programs. ADMISSIONS EVENTS Contact Us SMU Cox Footer Utility Nav Give Contact Us Apply © Cox School of Business Southern Methodist University PO Box 750333 Dallas, Texas 75275-0333 214-768-2000 SMU Cox Legal Home SMU Cox on Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter