Skip to Content Menu Audiences Clemson.edu Clemson Cooperative Extension Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift 4-H Get Involved Events Give to 4-H About COVID-19 Resources Previous Slide◀︎Next Slide▶︎ 4-H Pinckney Leadership Program: Empower students to serve with compassion, lead with humility, and inspire others through integrity. The 4-H Gardening Project incorporates all types of gardens and teaches youth the basics of botany, the gist of gardening, the essentials of ecology, and much more. Top News More News SC 4-H Horse Program continues to shine on national stage Soledad O’Brien, Vanessa Wyche bring national prestige to Clemson’s first Women’s Roundtable event Pinckney’s legacy continues to grow with National 4-H Hall of Fame induction SC 4-H’ers take top honors at National WHEP Contest South Carolina 4-H Clemson University Cooperative Extension 4-H Youth Development uses a learn-by-doing approach to help youth gain the knowledge and skills to be responsible, productive and contributing members of society. This mission is accomplished by creating safe and inclusive learning environments, the involvement of caring adults, and utilizing the expertise and resources of Clemson University and the nationwide land-grant university system. South Carolina 4-H and Coronavirus (COVID-19) Update August 1, 2021 Dear 4-H Families, Summer has arrived and 4-H is growing in South Carolina! Since September 2020, South Carolina 4-H has reached over 30,000 youth through a variety of delivery modes, relying heavily on distance-learning strategies. Starting February 2021, in-person programming with groups through Clemson Extension resumed based on local disease incidence and other public health data provided by the South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control. Since April 2021, 4-H volunteers were able to lead clubs in-person on a county-by-county basis. Since June 2021, in-person 4-H programming became available statewide. (To learn more about your programming options locally, contact your local 4-H agent.) In-person programming is ramping up in counties throughout the state and at the state level. Regardless of whether we see your smiling face from across the way, behind a mask, or through a digital screen, we love to see YOU. Distance-learning opportunities remain strong with the innovative and engaging efforts of our 4-H staff. Given the many barriers and limitations, we are extremely proud of the connections 4-H agents made with youth and volunteers throughout this past year. You all have transformed camps, clubs, school enrichment, and short-term special interest programs into distance-learning programs which families and youth could accomplish together. Thank you for your support and continued grace as we all work to “make the best better”. Dr. Pam Ardern retired from 4-H on June 1 and to learn more about her life-long connection to 4-H, visit our most recent 4-H Spotlight. Dr. Ashley Burns, Assistant 4-H Director, is serving in the interim State 4-H Leader role and can be reached at taberp@clemson.edu. Continue Learning at Home Resources Are you looking for ideas to help your youth to continue to learn while at home? Check out the Activities to Do at Home page. 4-H Annual Report South Carolina's 4-H Annual Report - 2021. To find out more of what 4-H is doing in South Carolina, click on the picture of the report. Find my County Give to 4-H Shop 4-H 4-H Facebook 4-H Instagram 4-H Calendar Programs & Activities Agriculture & Animals Civic Engagement & Leadership Healthy Lifestyles Natural Resources Science, Engineering, & Technology 4-H Pinckney Leadership 4-H Alumni Military Kids Shooting Sports 4-H Club Camp Upcoming 4-H Events Clemson University Cooperative Extension Service offers its programs to people of all ages, regardless of race, color, gender, religion, national origin, disability, political beliefs, sexual orientation, gender identity, marital or family status and is an equal opportunity employer. Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson Cooperative Extension Clemson, SC Contact Us Emergency Preparedness Web Accessibility For Employees Page Update Request