Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering The Harriet W. Sheridan Center for Teaching and Learning Home About Programs & Services Assessment Certificates Consultations Departmental Support English Language Support Fellowships & Awards Grant Support Institutes & Retreats Orientations Tutoring Workshops & Roundtables Writing [email protected] Writing Center People Consultations FAQ Opportunities Writing Fellows Teaching & Learning Resources Learning Collaborative News & Events Site Navigation Home About Staff Proctors and Head Teaching Consultants Teaching Consultants Sheridan Center Advisory Groups Departmental Liaisons Visit Staff Jobs at the Center Student Jobs at the Center Programs & Services Assessment Departmental Assessment Plans Campus Assessment Projects Assessing and Researching your Teaching Certificates Sheridan Teaching Seminar Course Design Seminar Teaching Consultant Program Head Teaching Consultants Invited Speaker Program Consultations Course Consultations Grant Consultations Teaching Observations Goals and Contexts Early Student Feedback Departmental Support Departmental Assessment Plans Learning Outcomes and Mapping English Language Support English Language Workshops Individual Support Conversation Partners Program English Language Program Fellowships & Awards Provost’s Faculty Teaching Fellows Graduate Student Proctorship in Academic Administration Graduate and Postdoc Teaching Fellows Junior Faculty Teaching Fellows University Awards Grant Support Institutes & Retreats Launch Anchor Problem Solving Course Design Institute Data Science Course Design Institute Seminar for Transformation Around Anti-Racist Teaching Orientations Tutoring Tutoring Supported Courses Summer 2022 Language Courses Apply to be a Tutor People Workshops & Roundtables Teaching Essentials for Graduate TAs Teaching Statements & Portfolios Sheridan-RISD Museum Collaborative Workshop Series Writing [email protected] Past [email protected] Programming Writing Center People Consultations FAQ Opportunities Writing Fellows People Courses English 1190M Outreach Apply Teaching & Learning Resources Teaching Resources Teaching in Times of Disruption Course Design Creating a Syllabus Resources for New Instructors Interpreting Your Course Feedback Evidence-based Practices Establishing Learning Goals Classroom Assessment Entrance and Exit Tickets Sample Exit Tickets Mid-Semester Feedback Guidelines for Assessing Student Learning Grading Criteria & Rubrics Creating Grading Criteria Designing Grading Rubrics Rubrics Criteria Rubrics Scales Enhancing Student Learning with Technology Promoting Study Skills Classroom Practices Learning Contexts First Day(s) of Class Lectures & Large Classes Discussions & Seminars Labs Active Learning Critical Reading Contemplative Pedagogy Promoting Metacognition Teaching with Podcasts Classroom Communication Tips Effective Multimedia Lecture Slides Teaching Problem Solving Writing to Learn Digital Teaching & Learning Working with TAs Teaching Writing Writing Fellows Courses Teaching a WRIT Course A Guide to the Writing Support (WSUP) Flag for Faculty Teaching Statements & Portfolios Mentoring Resources Effective Mentoring Practices Inclusive Teaching Anti-Racist Teaching Definitions Diversity & Inclusion Inclusive Mentoring Learning Collaborative Problem Solving Problem Solving Course Design Institute Problem Solving Fellows Research Writing Writing Across the Curriculum Seminar WAC Participants Writing Fellows People Courses English 1190M Apply Data Science Data Science Course Design Institute Data Science Fellows News & Events Upcoming Events Past Events Newsletter Frequently Asked Questions How can I make an appointment? Do you accept walk-in appointments? Use the appointment app. You’ll be asked to log-in with your Brown username and password. From there, you can identify your availability, provide information on the writing assignment for which you’d like support—the length of the paper, the subject and genre of writing—as well as what you’d like to focus on with the Writing Center associate. After you submit a request, you’ll receive an email letting you the status of your appointment. Unfortunately, we do not accept walk-in appointments. What kinds of writing can I bring to the Writing Center? Our Writing Center associates can work with you on a number of different subjects and genres of writing: short response papers for courses in the humanities, STEM papers, senior theses, even application materials like cover letters, resumes, and CVs. If you are uncertain about whether or not a particular kind of writing is suitable for the Writing Center, please feel free to email us. However, the length of your paper is something to consider when making an appointment. For a paper over 15 pages, consider booking a two-hour appointment. Depending on availability, you may be scheduled for an hour-long appointment, even if it’s a longer paper. In that case, your associate will work with you to identify the most important sections of the paper to focus on during the appointment. Can the Writing Center provide feedback on writing in languages other than English? Yes. As of Fall 2021, the Writing Center is able to offer feedback on writing in French, Korean, Portuguese, Punjabi, and Urdu. Several language departments at Brown also offer support on writing in other languages, including German Studies, Hispanic Studies, and Portuguese and Brazilian Studies. Does the Writing Center support Englishes other than Standardized Edited Academic English (SEAE)? Yes. In addition to providing feedback on papers written in Standardized Edited Academic English (SEAE), Writing Center staff are trained to support writing in other varieties of English such as African-American Vernacular English (AAVE). Will I be paired with a Writing Center associate in my discipline? Can I request to work with a particular Writing Center associate? We will always try to pair you with an associate in your discipline. However, pairings depend on availability; we can’t guarantee that you will always meet with an associate in your discipline. Rest assured that all of our associates are trained to work with students across the disciplines and will be able to help you with any kind of writing assignment. You can request to work with a particular associate—to do so, simply indicate whom you would like to work with in the comment box when you make your request and we will do what we can to pair you as soon as possible. How far in advance should I make my appointment? We recommend that you make an appointment at least five days in advance. It’s best to look ahead, consider the deadline for your assignment, and determine how much time you’ll need accordingly. We will try to get your appointment scheduled as soon as possible. Please note that we are very busy during midterms and finals; during these times, make sure to request an appointment as early as possible, and at least two weeks in advance. Do I need to bring a printed copy of my paper to my appointment? Can we work on the paper on my computer? We ask that all students bring a printed copy of the paper to their appointment. It’s easier for our associates to work on a physical copy and not on a computer; if needed, the associate may make a photocopy of the paper or print an extra copy. What if I’m late to my appointment? It’s important to be on time for your appointment. Please plan to arrive at least five minutes prior to your scheduled time. If you’re more than ten minutes late, we’ll need to give your time slot to someone on the waitlist. Do let us know if you’re running late! You can contact us via email or by phone (401-863-3524). Do I need to have a complete draft of my paper before I make an appointment? What about if I just have an outline? No problem! It’s okay to bring an outline to your appointment. At the Writing Center, we recognize that writing is a process and are prepared to work with your writing at any stage, whether it’s still in brainstorming and outlining stages, or it’s a complete, polished draft. Even if you’re just starting to develop your ideas and write out notes—and especially if you’re experiencing writer’s block—bring what you have and we’ll work from there. If we finish working on my paper during the appointment, can we work on another paper? Our associates can only work on one writing assignment per appointment. If you’d like to work on another paper, we recommend that you book a second appointment. Remember that you can only book one one-hour appointment in a day, and a maximum of two one-hour appointments a week. I’ve been waitlisted for an appointment. How long until I receive an appointment? Don’t worry! We will contact you via email or by phone as soon as an appointment becomes available. Make sure to regularly check your email for updates on the status of your appointment. I thought I could make my appointment, but it turns out I have a scheduling conflict. How do I cancel my appointment? We understand that scheduling conflicts come up. It’s easy to cancel an appointment: just log in to the Writing Center appointment app and cancel your appointment or email us. We ask that you notify us of a cancellation at least 24 hours prior to your scheduled appointment. Programs & Services Writing Writing Center People Consultations FAQ Opportunities [email protected] Writing Fellows Assessment Certificates Consultations Departmental Support English Language Support Fellowships & Awards Grant Support Institutes & Retreats Orientations Tutoring Workshops & Roundtables The Sheridan Center The Sheridan Center Brown University Box 1912 Sciences Library 201 Thayer Street, 7th Floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-1219 Fax: 401-863-6976 Email [email protected] Facebook Facebook Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top