Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Academic Recovery SUCCESS MATTERS REBOOT Clemson University developed the Success Matters initiative in recognition success is not always achieved in a predictable pathway. This initiative, also known as the academic recovery program, aims to guide students on academic probation in their pursuit of good academic standing by: Facilitating awareness of available resources (staff, programs, and services). Encouraging engagement in these resources throughout the term. Providing opportunities to assess their academic situations with designated departmental advisors. While this initiative is coordinated through the Academic Success Center, Success Matters involves extensive collaboration among academic and student services departments to provide students with targeted and timely consultation as they pursue a Clemson degree. Success Matters advisors conduct outreach to students with cumulative GPR under 2.0. The aim of this targeted outreach is two-fold: To provide individualized opportunities for students to assess their academic situations. To refer students to campus resources relevant to their academic situations and concerns. Enrolled students with less than a 2.0 cumulative GPA are expected to complete the Success Matters online modules no later than the first day of classes. Access to these modules will be provided 3-4 weeks in advance of each semester. Questions about Success Matters may be directed to Jessica Owens at: dean4@clemson.edu. Resources Academic Calendar Academic Eligibility Overview Academic Eligibility Criteria GPA Calculator Home Resources Related Links Academics at Clemson Academic Success Center Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram