Careers Skip to content Skip to primary navigation Skip to search box Skip to admissions quick links Skip to secondary navigation Skip to breadcrumb TC Menu Search for people, news & websites Go Resource Links Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Columbia Library myTC Directory Apply Now Request Info Search Bar Primary Navigation About Academics Admission & Aid Faculty & Research News Give to TC Human Resources Ask HR Return to Campus Secondary Navigation Main Home Welcome Welcome Before You Arrive Your First Day Your First Week Your First Month Employee Accommodations FAQs Contacts Return to Campus Careers Benefits Benefits Full-Time Professional Staff & Faculty Benefits Part-Time Professional Staff Benefits 2110 Union Benefits 707 Union Benefits 32BJ Union Benefits Paid Staff Holidays Workers Compensation Leaves of Absence Employee Discounts FAQs Policies & Union Contracts Policies & Union Contracts Policies Union Contracts Notices FAQs Workplace Resources Workplace Resources Manager's Toolkit Employee Resources Professional Staff Annual Review Process Professional Development Programs Announcements Long-Term Employee Recognition Return to Campus Forms Contact Us Contact Us Directory Department Representatives Ask HR TC Human Resources Careers Careers at Teachers College What makes Teachers College unique? A leading stand-alone graduate and professional school, TC is at the forefront of educational research, discovering how people of all ages learn and transforming our findings into hands-on, real-world applications. Our expertise in education psychology, public policy, technology development, nutrition education, nursing, neuroscience, and early childhood development is unparalleled. But we don’t rest on our past accomplishments. We’re always looking to move in new directions, whether it’s launching a bilingual-bicultural training program in mental health or harnessing technology for state-of-the-art collaborative learning. Our location in New York City, one of the world’s most diverse cities, creates unique educational and social opportunities. As an institution that promotes social justice and the breaking down of socio-economic barriers, TC is committed to attracting and retaining a diverse workforce. What Are Some of the Benefits of Working at Teachers College? Carousel Teachers College Building Retirement Options TC provides eligible employees with either a defined benefit pension plan or a defined contribution savings plan. Unlike some plans at other organizations, these plans do not require employee contributions to begin College contributions in the plan. In addition, the College provides employees to invest current salary in a tax-deferred savings plan for their retirement. New Graduates Education Programs Eligible employees, spouses and children can receive tuition benefits for graduate programs at the College. In addition, children of eligible dependents may receive College scholarships toward other schools throughout the country. A view of the NYC skyline from Central Park Time Off Eligible employees receive: Vacation Days Sick Days Personal Days Paid Holidays Bereavement and Jury Duty leave Health Insurance To help protect both your physical, mental and financial health, Teachers College offers full-time employees a competitive benefits package, including medical, dental, vision, life insurance and disability insurance. Eligible employees may also participate in flexible spending account programs, long term disability, supplemental short-term disability and employee assistance programs. Jobs and Careers at Teachers College At Teachers College, Columbia University, we collaborate … we innovate … we change the world. That’s what makes TC—the nation’s first and foremost graduate school of education—an exciting place to be. A trailblazer for over 125 years, TC prepares the next generation of leaders in education, health, and psychology. Our interdisciplinary approach leads to new fields of inquiry, all with the goal of creating equity and opportunities here in New York City and beyond. At TC, we’re building on our great legacy and striving for an even greater future. Our dedicated and dynamic employees are essential to fulfilling this mission. Jobs & Careers at Teachers College Job Postings Search for Student Employment Student Employment Discover Our Community Outdoor2 What Happens at Teachers College? A hub of exploration and discovery, TC has 10 academic departments, 20 faculty labs, 38 research centers and institutes, and a range of administrative and support services all working together to provide a quality education to our graduate students. But the learning goes both ways. Our employees are part of an intellectually vital, culturally stimulating community where there’s always something going on, including lectures, musical performances, social justice initiatives, and more. If you’re a life-long learner who’s constantly in pursuit of excellence, TC is a place that offers both personal and career growth. TC sky Where Is Teachers College? TC is located in Morningside Heights, an urban oasis away from the hustle and bustle of Midtown. Known as the Acropolis of Manhattan, the neighborhood is home to a number of beautiful college campuses, stunning Gothic churches, and elegant residential buildings. Our employees enjoy exploring this vibrant neighborhood filled with cafés, bookstores, boutiques and restaurants featuring international cuisines. Getting to Teachers College Subway By Bus By Car By Subway: Take the No. 1 local to 116th Street. Please note the No. 2 and No. 3 lines run express and do not stop at 116th Street. When taking the No. 2 or the No. 3, transfer to the No. 1 at 96th Street. Take the M4 or the M104 to the 120th Street stop on Broadway. Take the M5 to Riverside Drive and 119th Street. Take the M11 to Amsterdam Avenue and 118th Street. Take the Henry Hudson Parkway (West Side Highway). From both the north and the south, exit at 96th Street. Go two blocks east to Broadway. Make a left turn on Broadway and drive to 120th Street There is limited street parking available in the neighborhood. Contact Us Human Resources Address: 120 Whittier Hall Box: 149 * Phone: 212-678-3175 * Email: hr@tc.columbia.edu Disability-related Accommodations To request disability-related accommodations contact OASID at oasid@tc.edu, (212) 678-3689, (646) 755-3144 video phone, as early as possible. Contact Us Teachers College, Columbia University 525 West 120th Street New York, NY 10027 Tel: +1 (212) 678-3000 Map & Directions Directory Ask a Question Resources Admission & Aid Student Life Courses Academic Calendar Office of the Registrar Office of Teacher Education TC NEXT Employment Legal Consumer Information / Student Right to Know Legal Notices Policy Library Non-Discrimination Title IX Compliance Ethics Reporting Public Safety GDPR Notice Make a Gift to TC Diversity Work at TC TC Facebook TC Twitter TC Instagram TC Youtube TC LinkedIn © 2022, Teachers College, Columbia University, New York, NY 10027. Back to skip to quick links