Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Herff College of Engineering About Future Students Students Programs Research Alumni News | Events Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact About Faculty & Staff Facts at a Glance Accreditation Program Rankings Strategic Plan Herff Advisory Council Faculty Resources Take Action Visit Herff Apply to UofM Orientation 2022 Contact Us Follow Us Online FacebooktwitterLinkedIn Home Herff College of Engineering About About the Herff College of Engineering Welcome to the Herff College of Engineering (HCOE), a place where we can help you achieve your dreams! Imagine a college that impacts the quality of life around the world. That is what we do at the Herff College of Engineering. We impact our region, our country and our world in a wealth of ways including healthcare improvements, clean drinking water, medical devices, electricity generation/ smart grid technologies, earthquake-safe structures, transportation and logistics, additive manufacturing, and even tissue regeneration. In addition to improving lives around the globe, we also impact the individual lives of our students by preparing them for successful and rewarding careers. If you are looking for a place to get an exceptional education to prepare you for a lifetime of work that makes a difference, look no further than HCOE. See what we have to offer by surfing our website or touring our top-notch facilities. During your online and in person visit, you will learn about our nearly 20 degree programs and the many exciting activities and services that will enrich or smooth the path on the way to your engineering degree. Mission • We will provide quality education, research, and service that responds to the needs and challenges of this region and nation. • We will promote the knowledge, skills, ethics, creativity, and critical thinking necessary for professional competence and lifelong learning, including an international perspective and a social awareness. • We will conduct quality scholarship and research across the College, and world-class research in selected areas. Vision We will be the College of choice for engineering students in this region. Guiding Principles • The success of our students will be the primary measure of our success. • We will provide a diverse and vibrant atmosphere that encourages all students, faculty, and staff to attain their maximum potential. • We will instill a spirit of pride, cooperation, and accountability in everything we do. • We believe that instruction, research, scholarship, service, and outreach are mutually supportive activities. Contact Us Herff College of Engineering 201 Engineering Administration Building University of Memphis Memphis, Tennessee 38152 engineering@memphis.edu P: 901.678.2171 F: 901.678.4180 Faculty & Staff Directory > Herff College of Engineering Committees > Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/20/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.