Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music About Us Admissions Academics Ensembles Faculty Support Events Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Take Action Apply Now Alumni Support Us Scheidt Family Music Center Contact Us Follow the School of Music Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedInVimeo Home Music Alumni Recent Alumni Success Connect with us and with your fellow alumni to make the most of your Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music education. We value our alumni and are dedicated to enhancing opportunities for fellowship and networking among the school’s graduates. Keep in touch! We're currently exploring the creation of a Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music Alumni Chapter. Please share your contact information and let us know what you'd like to see in your alumni chapter. Share your info! > Blue Note Stories UofM Students Produce Debut Album Students and Faculty Celebrate Hispanic Heritage Month 55th Annual Bandmaster Championship UofM Honors Legendary Band Director Joe Sills Jonathan Schallert Excited to Bring Community and School of Music Even Closer Previous Next Share your story with us Be sure to keep us informed of your professional accomplishments from recent performances to album releases to new careers. We love hearing from our Tiger alumni family and are always looking for alumni stories to share in our official blog The Blue Note. Submit your accomplishments using the online form below. We want to know where your journey has taken you since you received your degree! Submit your story! > When I reflect on the impactful time that I spent at the University I remember the many wonderful teachers that went out of their way to support me. Justin Johnson (B.M. Music Education, 2008) Looking for a way to connect? Find us on social media. We encourage our alumni to follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram. Want to network with peers? Find us on our LinkedIn page. The Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music offers many professional recitals and performances of all types. Want to catch a concert? We'd love to see you in person, but if you live far away, you can watch online! Events calendar > Live Stream > I’m so happy that I chose the University of Memphis for my masters degree because it was the perfect balance of naturing and challenging. Sky Macklay (M.M. Composition and Oboe, 2012) Join the alumni association The best way to stay in touch with us is to submit your information to our alumni association. Fill out the form below to make sure we have the most update information. Don't miss out on receiving important information about the University of Memphis! Update my info > Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/27/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.