Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Search Type Faculty & Staff Event Featured Profile News Opportunity Resource Student Research Project Videos Search Menu Info for… [Select an Audience] [Select An Audience] Admitted Graduate Students Current Graduate Students Employers Departments» Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics Biomedical Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering and Engineering Mechanics Computer Science Earth and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering Industrial Engineering and Operations Research Mechanical Engineering Admissions» Application Requirements Apply Admissions Events Campus Tours Frequently Asked Questions Graduate Funding Opportunities Tuition and Financial Aid Visit Us Brochures Graduate Student Life» Professional Development & Leadership Housing New Student Checklist Student Organizations Campus Resources Graduate Career Placement Graduation Class Day 2022 events for Graduate Students Fellowships & Opportunities The Graduate Student Affairs Team Graduate Students Resources Events & Activities Diversity and Community Engagement» Events Student Life Bridge to PhD Program Graduate Enrollment Services» Registration Requests Change of Status Change of Status Forms Learning Online Resources List» Columbia Engineering COVID-19 Emergency Fund for Doctoral Students Virtual Event Opportunities» Welcome New Students!» New Student Checklist Admitted Student Webinars Applying for a Visa Campus Resources Connect Engineering Welcome Day & Orientation Housing Information International Student Panel Frequently Asked Questions Program Kick-Off Schedule Apply Now News Bulletin Graduate Engineering Home > Diversity and Community Engagement Diversity Events Events Student Life Bridge to PhD Program The Graduate Admissions team is committed to recruiting talented and promising students from all backgrounds. Each year, the Graduate Student Affairs Office attends multiple conferences and events to increase the number of graduate students from historically underrepresented groups in engineering and applied science disciplines. Please visit our Admissions Events page for more information. The Graduate Student Affairs office also sponsors annual diversity recruitment events including Engineering Achievers in Graduate Education (EngAGE) and the Women in Science and Engineering (WISE) conference. EngAGE 2021 Every spring, we invite bright, young engineers and applied scientists interested in pursuing a PhD in engineering or applied science disciplines to attend the Columbia Engineering Achievers in Graduate Education program (EngAGE). We would like to invite you to attend! REGISTER NOW EngAGE is designed to help prepare you for a future at Columbia Engineering by introducing you to our distinguished faculty and students. In addition, we'll provide a (virtual) tour of our facilities and historical campus. We will also review successful strategies from our graduate admissions professionals to help you submit a competitive graduate school application. This year, EngAGE will be held virtually. Sessions will include student panels, faculty panels, an admissions information session, and a virtual campus tour. The full schedule will be shared following registration. You do not need to attend every event. EngAGE 2022 We are looking for the brightest young engineers and applied scientists interested in pursuing a PhD in engineering or applied science disciplines to attend an all-expense paid weekend in New York City for the Columbia Engineering EngAGE program. EngAGE is designed to help prepare you for your future at Columbia Engineering by introducing you to our faculty and students as well as our world-class facilities and renowned campus in one of the most exciting cities in the world. We will also provide information and successful strategies from our graduate admissions professionals to help you prepare a competitive graduate school application. Who is Eligible? Priority will be given to college juniors from historically underrepresented groups. Columbia University is committed to creating and supporting a community diverse in every way: race, ethnicity, geography, religion, academic and extracurricular interest, family circumstance, sexual orientation, socioeconomic background and more. New York is one of the most diverse cities in the world and, no matter your background, you will find an academic home here with us. The mission of Columbia Engineering is to educate socially responsible engineering and applied science leaders whose work results in the betterment of the human condition, locally, nationally, and globally. To achieve our mission, we are recruiting the brightest and most motivated undergraduates interested in pursuing doctoral studies through our MS-PhD Track Program, which offers the opportunity to earn the master’s degree while on the path to the doctoral degree. When is the event? 2022 In-Person: TBD The annual EngAGE weekend is held through a Thursday to Saturday format to provide you with the unique opportunity to experience Columbia Engineering campus life. What’s included? In addition to an all-expense paid weekend in New York City, you will meet with our admissions staff and learn how to prepare a competitive graduate school application. You will also meet faculty with similar research interests to your own and spend time with current graduate students to gain their perspective on the benefits of being a Columbia University graduate student. How do I apply? Application Requirements: Complete and submit the Columbia Engineering EngAGE application. -Transcripts, Statement of Purpose, & Resume should be uploaded to the online application. -1 Letter of Recommendation should be emailed directly to [email protected] by the recommendation provider. The recommendation should come from faculty. For more information about EngAGE, please contact Bianca Matthew. Application Applications for the 2022 EngAGE program will open Fall 2021. To apply to the 2020 EngAGE program, please complete the online application. Application Timeline Dec. 13: Application portal will open and be available to all. January 13: Priority dealine. Janauary 22: Final application deadline. January 31: Admission decisions will be released. *Please note that faculty recommendation letters are due by Sunday, January 26. WISE Conference The WISE Conference is designed to educate and inspire women from all backgrounds to prepare for and pursue graduate degrees and careers in the fields of science and engineering. Conference attendees will learn about the challenges, opportunities, and the rewards of being a woman engineer or scientist. Join us for a day of programming to celebrate and promote women in science and engineering! Conference Sessions: Columbia Engineering Faculty Speakers Columbia Engineering Alumni Speakers Columbia Graduate Student Panelists Admissions & Financial Aid Advice Exclusive Lab Tours Free Continental Lunch 2019 Agenda: Columbia Engineering Faculty and Alumni Speakers Graduate Admissions Information Session Funding Your Graduate Education Workshop Career Possibilities in STEM Workshop Overcoming the Imposter Syndrome Workshop Graduate Student Panel Faculty Panel Lab Tours EngAGE We are recruiting the brightest and most motivated undergraduates interested in pursuing doctoral studies through our MS-PhD Track Program, which offers the opportunity to earn the master’s degree while on the path to the doctoral degree. Apply Today WISE Conference For more information on the annual conference, please visit our website. WISE Page Office of Graduate Student Affairs 500 W. 120th Street New York, NY 10027 Admissions (212) 854-4688 | [email protected] Academics and Student Affairs (212) 854-6438 | [email protected] Apply Now Plan a Visit Directory Columbia Engineering Columbia University