Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Counseling, Educational Psychology & Research Counseling Counseling Psychology Educational Psychology & Research Faculty and Staff Research Clinical Services Grants & Contracts Alumni & Friends Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Counseling Faculty and Research Degree Programs Clinical Mental Health (Post-Master's Certificate)College and Career Counseling (Post-Baccalaureate Certificate)Disability Studies (Post-Baccalaureate Certificate)Disability Support Services (Post-Baccalaureate Certificate)School Counseling (Post-Master's Certificate)Addiction Counseling (MS)Clinical Mental Health Counseling (MS)Clinical Rehabilitation Counseling (MS)Marriage, Couple, and Family Counseling (MS)School Counseling (MS)Vocational Rehabilitation Counseling (MS)Counselor Education and Supervision (PhD) Mission Statement Current Students Practicum & InternshipLinks to Counseling ResourcesGeneral Campus ContactsStudent Wellbeing and Evaluation Take Action Apply Now! Student Organizations in CEPR Department News Contact Us Home Counseling, Educational Psychology & Research Counseling Faculty and Research Counseling Faculty Michelle Brasfield, Ed.D., Assistant Professor, University of Memphis (2015). Burnout and vicarious traumatization, wellness intervention, college and career readiness, and creative counseling for youth. Dr. Brasfield is Coordinator of the School Counseling Program. Brenna Breshears, Ph.D., Assistant Professor, Michigan State University (2021). Melanie Burgess, Ph.D., Assistant Professor, Old Dominion University (2019). School counselor preparation and clinical supervision, evidence-based practices in PK-12 settings, and assessment. Dr. Burgess is Co-coordinator of the Ph.D. program in Counselor Education and Supervision. Pamela A. Cogdal, Ph.D., Clinical Professor, Southern Illinois University, Carbondale (1989). Career and work-life balance, practice outcomes, assessment, suicide prevention, and couples/relationship issues. Dr. Cogdal is the Counseling Division Director, and Coordinator of Internship and Practicum for all Counseling programs. Frances Ellmo, Ph.D., Assistant Professor, University of Memphis (2020). Taneshia Greenidge, Ph.D., Assistant Professor, University of Florida (2019). Chi Li, Ph.D., Assistant Professor, Old Dominion University (2019). Primary research interest is counselor education and supervision, especially around supervisee disclosure in supervision, deliberate practice in counseling, supervision and research training. Additional research interests include measurement development in counseling and supervision and integrated behavioral healthcare. Patrick D. Murphy, Ph.D., Assistant Professor, Auburn University (2018). Counselor training and supervision, especially around multicultural competencies with a focus on intersections of identities. Additional research interests include engaging with veterans/military personnel with counseling and crisis intervention. Eraina Schauss, Ph.D., Associate Professor, George Washington University (2011). Child cognitive, behavioral, emotional and neurodevelopment, family systems therapy, career development and coaching. The Brain Lab Steven L. West, Ph.D., Professor, Texas Tech University (2000). Access to care, substance misuse and addiction, military and veteran health, moral injuries, and disability science. Dr. West is Co-coordinator of the Ph.D. program in Counselor Education and Supervision, Coordinator of the Clinical Rehabilitation Counseling, Marriage, Couple and Family Counseling, and Vocational Rehabilitation Counseling programs, and Coordinator of the Disability Support Services certificate program. West Lab Stephen Zanskas, Ph.D., Associate Professor, Michigan State University (2007). Development of consultation skills in graduate rehabilitation counseling education programs, psychosocial aspects of disability, and professional issues. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/3/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.