Skip to main content Columbia College | Columbia University in the City of New York Columbia College Today Main menu Current Issue Past Issues Contact Us Winter 2021–22 Online Exclusive Greek Myths: Where Are They Now? Homer never saw TikTok coming. By Eli Grober ’13 | Illustrations by Lars Kenseth Odysseus is stuck on a cruise ship and has been trying to get home for months. Medusa started a cannabis company, so now all those who look upon her get stoned. Hercules has a YouTube channel where he explains how to become an “Alpha Male” in 12 easy labors. Pandora created an app based on her box and called it TikTok. Narcissus can’t stop posting selfies on Instagram. Orpheus had a Covid-19 exposure and was told to isolate for two weeks before seeing Eurydice. He broke quarantine one day early. Sisyphus became a doctor and is stuck forever trying to explain how vaccines work to people who don’t believe him. Cassandra became a climate activist, but nobody will listen to her. Poseidon is filing a complaint with the ocean’s HOA because the water temperature is rising. Persephone wrote a best-selling true-crime series based on her abduction. Oedipus has been cancelled. King Midas returned in the form of Jeff Bezos, and now everything he touches turns to worker exploitation. Prometheus introduced humans to the concept of unions. He was punished by being forced to watch corporate policy videos for all eternity. Jason and the Argonauts are having a tough time getting through customs. Achilles is selling a heel moisturizer that’s clearly an MLM. Icarus started an electric car company that turned into a private space flight company, and eventually flew a car directly into the sun. To this day, no one knows why. Eli Grober ’13 writes the weekly humor newsletter Here’s Something. He is a former staff writer for The Tonight Show and his work appears regularly in The New Yorker and on McSweeney’s Internet Tendency. Issue Contents Online Exclusive Greek Myths: Where Are They Now? New York Stilled Life Carlos Cortés ’09 Is Bringing Caribbean Chocolate Culture to the Bronx Cover Story Twice the Talent Features What’s New, Art Hum? The 2021 Lion’s Pride Honors Departments Message from the Dean The Big Picture Letters to the Editor Around the Quads News Briefs Did You Know? Faculty Lounge In Memoriam Look Who’s Talking Roar, Lion, Roar Roar, Lion, Roar In Memoriam Columbia Forum Alumni News Message from the CCAA President Lions Publisher Namrata Tripathi ’01 Is Helping Young Readers Make Sense of the World A Meeting with Picasso Changed This Photographer’s Life Dion Macellari ’83 Makes Art for Hollywood Characters Bookshelf Class Notes Just Married! Obituaries Obituaries Peter L. Zimroth ’63, New York Attorney Dedicated to Public Service Phil Schaap ’73, Noted Jazz Historian, Programmer and Educator Richard M. Froehlich ’85, LAW’88, Affordable Housing Advocate Other Deaths Reported Read it Online Published three times a year by Columbia College for alumni, students, faculty, parents and friends. Columbia Alumni Center 622 W. 113th St., MC 4530, 4th Fl. New York, NY 10025 212-851-7852 cct@columbia.edu CCAA on Facebook CCAA on LinkedIn CCAA on Twitter CCAA YouTube Channel CCAA on Instagram Manage Your Subscription Support CCT Columbia Alumni Center 622 W. 113th St., MC 4530, 4th Fl. New York, NY 10025 212-851-7488 ccalumni@columbia.edu © 2022 Columbia University | Terms of Use | Accessibility | Notice of Non-Discrimination | University Home Page