Georgetown University Open Search Form Who We Are The Whole Person Our Catholic & Jesuit Heritage Our History Student Stories Faculty Stories Alumni Stories Campus & City Living in DC Opportunities Getting Around Service & Action Campus Life Housing On-Campus Dining Clubs & Organizations Arts & Culture Community & Diversity Student Life Blog Wellness & Safety Sports & Fitness Health Center Safety & Emergency Preparedness Athletics External Link Academic Life Restless Inquiry Our Schools Areas of Study Study Abroad Research Centers and Programs Global Initiatives External Link Library System Admissions & Aid Undergraduate Admissions External Link Graduate Admissions Financial Aid External Link Commitment to Access News Events Giving Alumni Info For Students Faculty Staff/AAP Alumni Parents Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Content Skip to Footer News Events Giving Alumni Info For Students Faculty Staff/AAP Alumni Parents Georgetown University Who We Are The Whole Person Our Catholic & Jesuit Heritage Our History Student Stories Faculty Stories Alumni Stories Campus & City Living in DC Opportunities Getting Around Service & Action Campus Life Housing On-Campus Dining Clubs & Organizations Arts & Culture Community & Diversity Student Life Blog Wellness & Safety Sports & Fitness Health Center Safety & Emergency Preparedness Athletics External Link Academic Life Restless Inquiry Our Schools Areas of Study Study Abroad Research Centers and Programs Global Initiatives External Link Library System Admissions & Aid Undergraduate Admissions External Link Graduate Admissions Financial Aid External Link Commitment to Access Open Search Form Georgetown University Home Campus & City Living in DC Opportunities Opportunities Surrounded by changemakers and innovators, grab a seat at the table and take advantage of the deep connections that we have built over our 200+ year history in this city. You’ll find Hoyas at every turn who can introduce you to opportunities that will unlock your future. Play Youtube Video Intern While You Study Our location in DC opens the door for students to intern for a number of notable companies, applying concepts from the classroom to make a real impact. Intern in DC 1 of 1 Previous Slide Next Slide Live and Work Downtown For those seeking an immersive internship experience, The Capitol Applied Learning Lab (The CALL) can help you navigate your chosen career path, live downtown and take courses that will enrich your professional skillset. The CALL Play Youtube Video Incubate Your Next Big Idea Are you an entrepreneur? The McDonough School of Business’ Georgetown Entrepreneurship Initiative launched a Venture Lab just blocks from the White House. Here you’ll meet mentors, network with alumni and participate in social and professional events. Venture Lab 1 of 1 Previous Slide Next Slide The Beeck Center Be a part of the solution at the Beeck Center for Social Impact and Innovation. The experiential hub equips our future leaders with the tools needed to further the common good. Partner with thought leaders on the cutting edge to bring data, design thinking and other tools to bear on real-world problems. Join the Beeck Center 1 of 6 Previous Slide Next Slide VIP Access Beyond access to local events throughout the city, our location in DC means we convene global leaders to share their incredible experiences with our student, staff and faculty body. You’ll have unparalleled access to business leaders, heads of state, cabinet members, filmmakers, actors and artists as they visit Georgetown to share their stories. Attend an Event Contact Us Directory Visit Maps About Academic Calendar Careers Media Resources FacebookFacebook TwitterTwitter InstagramInstagram LinkedInLinkedIn YouTubeYouTube Georgetown University 37th and O Streets, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20057 P. 202-687-0100 Georgetown University Privacy Policy Copyright Web Accessibility Notice of Non-Discrimination © 2022 Georgetown University Search Georgetown Search Close the Search Dialog