Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information Cancer Topics Campus News Research Medical School Public Health Cancer Mental Health Infectious Diseases Neurology Neuroscience Education Heart Health Pediatrics View All Topics Search All News Keywords News Subtopics: Brain Cancer Breast Cancer Cervical Cancer Colon Cancer Immunotherapy Prostate Cancer Radiation Skin Cancer Top Stories Lung Cancer Screening Program Launches at Columbia and NewYork-Presbyterian The program brings together physicians and nurse practitioners from multiple disciplines to provide care for smokers and ex-smokers who are at high risk for lung cancer and other complications. Topic Campus News Let’s Talk About Sex… and Cancer Sexual dysfunction is common among female cancer patients but infrequently addressed. Columbia oncologist Christine Chin is working to change that. Wendy Chung on Genetics and Cancer Columbia geneticist Wendy Chung reflects on the progress made in cancer genetics and discusses the next frontier of using genetic information to design personalized cancer prevention strategies. Clinical Trial Finds Combination Therapy Has Promise for Gastric Adenocarcinoma Columbia cancer researchers estimate that 60% of patients in a phase 2 clinical trial will have no sign of their cancer two years after treatment with combination therapy. Latest News A New Way to Prevent Nerve Damage Caused by Chemotherapy? February 18, 2021 New research may lead to the development of drugs to prevent the nerve damage and pain many cancer patients experience during chemotherapy. Topic Neurology Psycho-Oncology Techniques Help Patients Cope with Cancer February 10, 2021 Specialized psychosocial interventions—including meaning-centered psychotherapy—can greatly improve a cancer patient's quality of life and reduce suffering. Topic Mental Health Cancer Patients on Chemotherapy Have No Increased Risk of Developing COVID February 5, 2021 Cancer patients on active treatment are 35% less likely to develop COVID-19 than patients not receiving treatment, though those who did test positive for SARS-CoV-2 experienced higher death rates. Topic Infectious Diseases Glitch in Genome Architecture May Cause B-cell Malignancies February 1, 2021 Restoring an enzyme that maintains the way chromosomes are packed inside cells may lead to new therapies for some blood cancers, according to a new study by Columbia researchers. Topic Campus News Spreading Cancer Prevention Awareness, One Text At a Time January 29, 2021 The HPV vaccine has great potential to reduce the rate of cervical cancer in Africa, where Columbia researchers are trying to increase vaccination rates with texts. Topic Global Health Cancer and the COVID Vaccine—Q&A with Oncologist Gary Schwartz January 11, 2021 Cancer patients are especially vulnerable to COVID and would benefit from the protection the vaccine offers, says Gary Schwartz, MD, deputy director of the Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center. Topic Infectious Diseases Big Data Analysis Finds Cancer’s Key Vulnerabilities January 11, 2021 A new analysis of almost 10,000 patients found that tumors could be stratified into 112 subtypes regardless of the cancer’s origin. Topic Personalized Medicine One in Five Brain Cancers Fueled by Overactive Mitochondria January 11, 2021 A new study has found that up to 20% of aggressive brain cancers are fueled by overactive mitochondria and new drugs in development may be able to starve the cancers. Topic Brain Cancer The Promise of CAR-T Therapy: Q&A with Ran Reshef December 23, 2020 A new study conducted at Columbia and other centers found that 80% of patients with a type of slow-growing lymphoma achieved a complete remission with a single infusion of CAR T-cell immunotherapy. Topic Immunotherapy Study Suggests New Way to Treat Multiple Myeloma December 9, 2020 For multiple myeloma patients with RAS mutations, inhibiting an enzyme involved in cell proliferation may help patients resistant to current therapies, a new Columbia study has found. Pages first previous … 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 … next last Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top