Skip to main content West Virginia University A-Z IndexCalendarsDirectoryMapsShop Search Would you like to search all WVU websites, or just this site specifically? Search WVU Search this site Open Menu Academics Undergraduate Majors Listing Undergraduate Minors Listing Online Programs Listing Graduate Programs Listing All Programs Listing Careers Colleges and Schools Admissions and Aid Life at WVU Info For Attending WVU Parents and Families Visitors Current Students Faculty and Staff Employers and Business Leaders Policymakers Alumni Donors Media Research and Innovation Community Inclusive Campus Initiatives Programs and Certificates Inclusive Campus Resources International About WVU Mission Vision WVU Facts Leadership WVU System Rankings Achievements West Virginia University Hello, Summer Summer (term) is officially here! It’s time to soak in the gorgeous weather, hit the rail trail and pick up some extra credits with summer classes. Are you a future Mountaineer? Schedule a visit to experience campus and Morgantown in the summer sun. Visit WVU Summer Term Apply as an undergraduate | Apply to grad school Apply to WVU Visit WVU Scholarship Chart Programs and Majors Confirm Admission New Student Orientation Let us be your guide We're here to help every step of the way. Future Students Whether you're just researching or you're ready to apply, you can start here to learn more. Visit the Future Student Resources website Admitted Students Already admitted to WVU? No matter where you are, you can explore campus, get your questions answered and immerse yourself in our one-of-a-kind community. Visit the Admitted Student Resources website For Families If your student's been admitted to WVU, we know you have questions, too. Learn about next steps, student services and how to connect with other parents and families. Visit the Family Resources website Graduate School Explore our 220 graduate programs, estimate costs, review application procedures and apply online. Want to learn even more? You can take a virtual tour to explore our facilities. Graduate Admissions Quicklinks Apply for Housing Apply to WVU Billing / Pay Tuition WVU Bookstore Calendar (Academic) Calendar (Main) Campus Tours Course Schedule Courses Dining Menus Directory eCampus Get Your Refund Graduate Programs Information Technology Services Libraries Majors: WVU Morgantown Mental Health Resources Mounty Bounty Deposits MyAccess Office 365 Login Residence Halls Shop for WVU Gear Talent and Culture Title IX Transcripts WVU Careers WVU Portal WVU Sports WVUToday The WVU Experience “ WVU provides endless opportunities for all students with various interests. Despite studying for an engineering degree, I am still able to continue dancing with the amazing dance program. Callyn Zeigler Computer Engineering major from Charleston, West Virginia Also See: BS in Computer Engineering Student Dance Association Events Full Calendar May 30 12:00 AM Memorial Day Recess; University closed Jun 24 12:00 AM Final Exam for First Six-Week Session News WVU Today | Subscribe via RSS Remembering too much or not enough: NIH funds WVU research into Alzheimer’s disease, PTSD May 24th 2022 WVU alums earn prestigious NSF fellowships to give back to the Mountain State with research May 19th 2022 WVU graduates encouraged to harness the power of hope, relationships for success May 15th 2022 Browse by Colleges and Schools West Virginia University PO Box 6201 Morgantown, West Virginia 26506 (304) 293-0111 web_services@mail.wvu.edu Alumni Apply to WVU Board of Governors Campus Map Campus Tours COVID Information Emergency Information Give to WVU Majors Request Admissions Info Shop for WVU Gear Virtual Tour Visit Us WVU Bookstore WVU Careers Sitemap WVU System Campuses WVU Keyser WVU Beckley Accreditations Web Standards Consumer Info Privacy Notice Questions or Comments? © 2022 West Virginia University. WVU is an EEO/Affirmative Action employer — Minority/Female/Disability/Veteran. Follow WVU on: Facebook Twitter YouTube