Skip to global navigation Skip to page navigation Skip to content Skip to footer For Current Students, Faculty & Staff Close internal resources For current Butler students, faculty, and staff Directory My.Butler Access Email Canvas Resources For Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Library Academic Calendar Event Calendar Maps & Directions Parking BUPD Search Close Site Search Search for pages, PDFs, and contact information Search Butler.edu Search Browse the Directory Menu Close Use the icon on the left to see more links. Close AboutToggle Sub Menu Maps & Directions At a Glance Experiential Learning Student-Centered Education Innovation Graduate Outcomes Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Community & Engagement Office of the President Strategic Direction Mascot Blue IV Give to Butler COVID-19 Information Admission & AidToggle Sub Menu First-Year Transfer International Graduate & Professional Non-Degree Admitted Students Financial Aid & Scholarships Net Price Calculator Tuition & Costs Find Your Admission Counselor Virtual Tour AcademicsToggle Sub Menu Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate & Professional Colleges Three-Year Programs Study Abroad Service-Learning Internships & Careers Academic Services Registration & Records Library Academic Calendar Student LifeToggle Sub Menu Housing & Dining Living in Indy Student Well-Being Recreation Student Involvement Greek Life Campus Safety Volunteering Athletics Arts & Events Esports News & Stories Make a Gift Resources for: Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni & Friends Request Info Schedule a Visit Apply to Butler Resources internal resources For current Butler students, faculty, and staff Directory My.Butler Access Email Canvas Resources For Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Library Academic Calendar Event Calendar Maps & Directions Parking BUPD Search Site Search Search for pages, PDFs, and contact information Search Butler.edu Search Browse the Directory Menu About Maps & DirectionsAt a GlanceExperiential LearningStudent-Centered EducationInnovationGraduate OutcomesDiversity, Equity & InclusionCommunity & EngagementOffice of the PresidentStrategic DirectionMascot Blue IVGive to ButlerCOVID-19 Information Admission & Aid First-YearTransferInternationalGraduate & ProfessionalNon-DegreeAdmitted StudentsFinancial Aid & ScholarshipsNet Price CalculatorTuition & CostsFind Your Admission CounselorVirtual Tour Academics Undergraduate Majors & MinorsGraduate & ProfessionalCollegesThree-Year ProgramsStudy AbroadService-LearningInternships & CareersAcademic ServicesRegistration & RecordsLibraryAcademic Calendar Student Life Housing & DiningLiving in IndyStudent Well-BeingRecreationStudent InvolvementGreek LifeCampus SafetyVolunteering Athletics Arts & Events Esports News & Stories Make a Gift Resources for: Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni & Friends Request Info Schedule a Visit Apply to Butler Home About Butler Butler University Privacy Notice About Butler Menu Maps & Directions At a Glance Graduate Outcomes Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion Community & Engagement Office of the President Strategic Direction Give to Butler Mascot Blue IV Careers Butler University Privacy Notice Privacy Notice Butler University (the University) is committed to safeguarding the privacy of personal data. This Privacy Notice outlines the collection, use, disclosure, and destruction (GDPR) of personal information provided to the University by students, applicants for faculty positions, and research subjects. When information is submitted to the University, or you use the University’s websites and other services, you consent to the collection, use, disclosure, and destruction (GDPR) of that information as described in this Privacy Notice. University Use of Information The University collects and processes Personal Information and Sensitive Personal Information from individuals who are students only as necessary in the exercise of the University’s legitimate interests, functions and responsibilities as a private higher education institution. The University also collects and processes Personal Information and Sensitive Personal Information from individuals who are research subjects in the exercise of scientific, historical research, or statistical purposes. Additionally, the University collects and processes Personal Information from individuals who are applicants for faculty and staff positions in order to enter into or administer a contract for employment with the University. Personal Information is collected from students and shared with internal and external parties to register or enroll persons in the University, provide and administer housing to students, manage a student account, provide academic advising, develop and deliver education programs, track academic progress, analyze and improve education programs, recruitment, regulatory reporting, auditing, maintenance of accreditation, and other related University processes and functions. The University also uses Personal Information and Sensitive Personal Information to conduct general demographic and statistical research to improve University programs. Sensitive Personal Information is collected, processed and shared internally and externally, as necessary, applicable and appropriate, to identify appropriate support services or activities, provide reasonable accommodations, enforce University policies or comply with applicable laws. Finally, Personal Information and Sensitive Personal Information may be shared by the University with third parties who have entered into contracts with the University to perform functions on behalf of the University, subject to the obligation of confidentiality and safeguarding from unauthorized disclosure. For purposes of this Privacy Notice, Sensitive Personal Information is defined as race, ethnic origin, religious or philosophical beliefs, health data, sexual orientation, and criminal convictions. For purposes of this Privacy Notice, Personal Information refers to any other information concerning a natural person that is created by or provided to the University from or concerning students, applicants for faculty employment and research subjects. Third Party Use of Sensitive Information We may disclose your Sensitive Personal Information and other Personal Information as follows: Consent: We may disclose Sensitive Personal Information and other Personal Information if we have your consent to do so. Emergency Circumstances: We may share your Personal Information, and Sensitive Personal Information when necessary to protect your interests and you are physically or legally incapable of providing consent. Employment Necessity: We may share your Sensitive Personal Information when necessary for administering employment or social security benefits in accordance with applicable law or any applicable collective bargaining agreement, subject to the imposition of appropriate safeguards to prevent further unauthorized disclosure. Charitable Organizations: We may share your Personal Information with the Butler University Foundation and other not-for-profit organizations in connection with charitable giving subject to the imposition of appropriate safeguards to prevent further unauthorized disclosure. Public Information: We may share your Personal Information and Sensitive Personal Information if you have manifestly made it public. Archiving: We may share your Personal Information and Sensitive Personal Information for archiving purposes in the public interest, and for historical research, and statistical purposes. Performance of a Contract: We may share your Personal Information when necessary to administer a contract you have with the University. Legal Obligation: We may share your Personal Information when the disclosure is required or permitted by international, federal, and state laws and regulations. Service Providers: We use third parties who have entered into a contract with the University to support the administration of University operations and policies. In such cases, we share your Personal Information with such third parties subject to the imposition of appropriate safeguards to prevent further unauthorized disclosure. University Affiliated Programs: We may share your Personal Information with parties that are affiliated with the University for the purpose of contacting you about goods, services, charitable giving, or experiences that may be of interest to you. De-Identified and Aggregate Information: We may use and disclose Personal Information in de-identified or aggregate form without limitation. Security We implement appropriate technical and organizational security measures to protect your information when you transmit it to us and when we store it on our information technology systems. Retention and Destruction of Your Information Your information will be retained by the University in accordance with applicable state and federal laws. Your information will be destroyed upon your request unless applicable law requires destruction after the expiration of an applicable retention period. The manner of destruction shall be appropriate to preserve and ensure the confidentiality of your information given the level of sensitivity, value, and criticality to the University. Your Rights You have the right to request access to, a copy of, rectification, restriction in the use of, or erasure of your information in accordance with all applicable laws. The erasure of your information shall be subject to the retention periods and in accordance with applicable state and federal laws. If you have provided consent to the use of your information, you have the right to withdraw consent without affecting the lawfulness of the University’s use of the information prior to receipt of your request. Students may exercise these rights by accessing your student account maintained by the University’s information technology systems using their login credentials, or by contacting the University’s Registrar at registrar@butler.edu. Applicants for employment as faculty may exercise these rights by accessing their account created in the University’s information technology systems, or by contacting the Office of the Provost at facultyaffairs@butler.edu. Applicants for employment as staff may exercise these rights by accessing their account created in the University’s information technology systems or by contacting the Butler University Human Resources office at askhr@butler.edu. Information created in the European Union will be transferred out of the European Union to the University. If you feel the University has not complied with applicable foreign laws regulating such information, you have the right to file a complaint with the appropriate supervisory authority in the European Union. Admission Privacy Policy Butler University Office of Admission’s privacy policy is available here. Updates to This Policy We may update or change this policy at any time. Your continued use of the University’s website and third party applications after any such change indicates your acceptance of these changes. Last updated 5/15/2018 4600 Sunset Avenue Indianapolis, IN 46208 800-368-6852 Careers at Butler Legal Consumer Information Website Feedback & Accessibility Sexual Misconduct Resources Incident of Bias Privacy Policy © 2022 Butler University Para ver esta pagina en espanol, véala en el traductor de Google