Your browser does not support iframes. Skip to main content Menu Scheller College of Business Request More Information Attend an Info Session Contact Us Directory Apply Now Search Why Scheller? Programs Executive Education Academics Centers & Initiatives News & Events Overview & History Dean's Message and Report Meet Ernest Scheller Jr. Advisory Board Accreditation Strategic Plan Business at Tech Graduates Get Hired Return on Investment Faculty and Advisors Global Perspective A Good Fit Corporate Engagement Trading Floor Georgia Tech Community Student Life Making Connections and Learning Opportunities Diversity Diversity News Career and Recruiter Services Career Services for Students Hire Our Students Giving to the College Meeting the Challenge Priorities and Needs Faculty Support Student Support Program Enrichment Unrestricted Endowment The Impact of Your Gift How to Make a Gift FAQs Scheller MBA Annual Fund Alumni Network Alumni News Alumni Resources Update Contact Information Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Full-time MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQsEvening MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Advancement Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQs Executive MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Student & Alumni Profiles FAQsMBA Programs Which Georgia Tech MBA is Right for Me? Commitment to Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Dual Degree Options Experiential Learning For Engineers For Military Community MD/MBA Option MBA Early Admission for Undergrads Rankings The Intersection Podcast Earn Your MBA in Atlanta Graduate Certificate Business Analytics Certificate Undergraduate Admissions Curriculum Career Services Student Services Student Life Scholarships & Awards Rankings & Stats Connect With Us The Intersection Podcast, Undergrad PhD Concentrations Program Milestones Faculty and Staff Funding Admissions FAQs Recruiting Events Student Bios Program News Request Program Information Interdisciplinary M.S. M.S. in Quantitative & Computational Finance (QCF) Master of Science in Analytics at Georgia Tech Lean Six Sigma Certification Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Certification Lean Six Sigma Black Belt Certification FAQs Custom Programs FAQs Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Engineering Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship International Management Management of Technology Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results Academic Speaker Series Guest Speakers in Accounting Guest Speakers in Finance Guest Speakers in Marketing Current Faculty Opportunities Business Analytics Center Engage with Us Executive Council News Research Education People Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics About Cecil B. Day The Cecil B. Day Prize Speakers and Events Faculty Support Net Impact Center for International Business Education and Research Projects Research Events Books People at CIBER Inside CIBER News and Events Archives International Management Certificate Sign Up for Future CIBER News Financial Analysis Lab Subscribe to Reports Institute for Leadership and Social Impact About Us Programs News Impact Speaker Series Leadership for Social Good Study Abroad Program Social Impact Fellows Ideas to Serve (I2S) Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Servant Leadership Programs Minor in Leadership Studies Excel Alumni Other ILSI Programs Partnerships Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business About Us Sustainable Business Insights Research Briefs Sustainable Business Events Sustainable Business News Blog Research & Thought Leadership Empowering Students Industry Engagement Newsletter Participating in the Drawdown Georgia Compact Drawdown Georgia Business Compact Meet the Team Alumni Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program Director's Message About Steven A. Denning T&M Curriculum Program Faculty & Staff Admissions T&M Corporate Affiliates Denning T&M Program News TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta Program Network TI:GER MBA & PhD FAQs News Apply Inquire Resources in Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller News & Events Home » Centers & Initiatives » Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program » Denning T&M Program News Menu Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program Director's Message About Steven A. Denning T&M Curriculum Program Faculty & Staff Admissions T&M Corporate Affiliates Denning T&M Program News April 12, 2022 Countdown to Commencement: Meet Conor WalshRead more April 08, 2022 Countdown to Commencement: Meet Nikita DaniRead more 2022 2021 2020 Archives April 12, 2022 Countdown to Commencement: Meet Conor Walsh As part of the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our Undergraduate program. Meet Conor Walsh. Read more April 08, 2022 Countdown to Commencement: Meet Nikita Dani As part of the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our Undergraduate program. Meet Nikita Dani. Read more March 28, 2022 Aboard the USS Abraham Lincoln: Denning T&M and School of Aerospace Engineering Representatives Become Distinguished Visitors of the Navy John Stanford of the Denning T&M program and faculty from the School of Aerospace Engineering get the experience of a lifetime boarding the aircraft carrier USS Abraham Lincoln. Read more March 16, 2022 "A Rising Tide Lifts All Ships”: How Georgia Tech’s Women in Business Clubs Empower Students In honor of Women’s History Month, Scheller shares the stories of two of Georgia Tech women’s-focused clubs: Society of Women in Business for undergraduates and Women in Business for MBA students. Read more February 01, 2022 Meet the Black Founders of Scheller: Aboubacar Barrie and His Fashion Brand Forenaire In honor of Black History Month, the Georgia Tech Scheller College is celebrating our Black student and alumni entrepreneurs. We sat down with undergraduate Aboubacar Barrie to learn about his fashion brand Forenaire and experience as a young entrepreneur. Read more November 17, 2021 Countdown to Commencement: Meet Alex Dunaway As part of the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our Undergraduate program. Meet Alex Dunaway. Read more October 08, 2021 Study Finds Use of Anger in Online Reviews Not Helpful, but Influential for e-Tailers Purchase Decisions Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business faculty Han Zhang and Samuel Bond and colleague Dezhi Yin, Muma College of Business, University of South Florida, discover that “unhelpful” online reviews can be surprisingly influential, and that angry reviews should not be taken lightly. Read more August 19, 2021 Midtown Atlanta’s Tech Square: 20 Years of Impact at the Intersection of Business, Technology, and Innovation Georgia Tech celebrates the 20th anniversary of the Tech Square groundbreaking including its rich history and the future of innovation and collaboration. Read more May 06, 2021 Countdown to Commencement: Meet Undergraduate Anna Katherine Cates As part of Scheller’s Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our Undergraduate program to learn about them. Meet Anna Katherine Cates. Read more May 04, 2021 Countdown to Commencement: Meet Undergraduate Brett Broughton As part of Scheller’s Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our Undergraduate program to learn about them. Meet Brett Broughton. Read more April 29, 2021 Countdown to Commencement: Meet Undergraduate Ally Nastasi As part of Scheller’s Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our Undergraduate program to learn about them. Meet Ally Nastasi. Read more April 09, 2021 13th Annual Honors Day Award Recipients The Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business virtually commemorates its 13th annual Honor’s Day, celebrating students, faculty, and staff for their outstanding achievements and benefactors for their continued generosity. Read more March 29, 2021 Devika Dutt Named Poets&Quants 2021 Best & Brightest Business Major Georgia Tech Scheller Undergraduate Devika Dutt has been selected as a 2021 Poets&Quants Best & Brightest Business Major. Read more February 25, 2021 ISyE's Morgan Knowlton Receives Top Academic Honor from the University System of Georgia Industrial Engineering student, Morgan Knowlton, a Scheller College student in the Denning Technology & Management Program receives top academic honor from the University System of Georgia. Read more December 03, 2020 Countdown to Commencement: Meet Undergraduate Louis Hou As part of Scheller’s Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our Undergraduate program to learn about them. Meet Louis Hou. Read more November 23, 2020 Countdown to Commencement: Meet Undergraduate Ronnie Ludwin As part of Scheller’s Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our Undergraduate program to learn about them. Meet Ronnie Ludwin. Read more November 17, 2020 Countdown to Commencement: Meet Undergraduate Rachel Luckcuck As part of Scheller’s Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our Undergraduate program to learn about them. Meet Rachel Luckcuck. Read more July 17, 2020 Kate Groce: Denning Technology & Management Program Class of 2021 Student of the Year Kate Groce, a rising fourth-year student in Literature, Media, and Communication, has been named Class of 2021 Student of the Year by the Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program in the Scheller College of Business. Read more April 09, 2020 Scheller College Undergraduates Chosen as Poets and Quants “100 Best & Brightest Business Majors of 2020” Poets and Quants for Undergrads announced its “Best and Brightest Business Majors of 2020“ and two of Scheller’s exceptional students, Darby Foster and Jason Quill, have been selected from a national pool of candidates. Read more December 20, 2019 Poets & Quants Ranks Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business’ Undergraduate Program Top 20 in the U.S. Scheller College of Business’ Undergraduate Program has been named #14 Best Undergraduate Business Program in the U.S. and #5 Best Undergraduate Business Program at a public university in the U.S. by Poets and Quants in their just-released 2020 rankings for undergraduate programs. Read more July 11, 2019 Denning Technology and Management Students Participate in Global Leadership Certificate Program in China As part of the Denning Technology & Management (T&M) Program, 38 Denning Scholars participated in the “Global Leadership: Conducting Business in China” certificate program at Shenzhen University’s College of Management in mid-March. Read more April 03, 2019 Ideas to Serve Competition – ‘Know What You Don’t Know’ Applicants for the 2019 Ideas to Serve (I2S) competition are exploring and addressing a number of issues both locally and globally from plastic waste reduction, disaster response in low-income communities, food security, global health, prison reform, education, and more! Read more March 27, 2019 Losing Carbon to Win Big at Chick-fil-A The best sustainability solutions bring cost savings and environmental benefits together. A company’s first responsibility is to keep the lights on. Forward-thinking companies are philanthropic and environmentally conscious, but they can’t be those things effectively without first being a profitable business... Read more March 25, 2019 Countdown to Commencement: Aashal Dave, Undergraduate As part of Scheller’s Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our Undergraduate, MBA and Ph.D. programs to learn about their backgrounds, why they chose Scheller College, and what they plan to do after Spring 2019 commencement. Read more January 22, 2019 Undergrad Corporate Internships - The Intersection Podcast at Scheller On this episode of The Intersection we sat down with Darby Foster, Rachel Luckcuck, and Matt Webster to talk about their internships with some large corporations. All three of our guests worked in the IT space with these companies and are part of the Denning Technology and Management (T&M) Program at Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business. Read more December 06, 2018 Alumni Spotlight: David Hogan David Hogan, a Georgia Tech alumnus who majored in Management and minored in Engineering & Management through the Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program, says he “will always cherish the accessibility and willingness of faculty to teach us how to learn…and how to be accountable for the education we received.” In 2017, he received his MBA from the University of Cambridge Judge Business School. David says his educational journey has led him to some of his strongest connections— a network that has provided him with invaluable business input over the years. Read more November 26, 2018 Countdown to Commencement: Walker Watson Savannah native Walker is completing his undergraduate Business Administration degree with a concentration in Operations & Supply Chain and a minor in Engineering and Business through the Denning Technology & Management (T&M) Program. During his time in the program, he traveled to 20 European countries while studying abroad at Georgia Tech-Lorraine. Read more November 21, 2018 No Such Thing as “Away”: Remanufacturing Consumer Returns in the Circular Economy Companies around the world are placing an increased importance upon improving their reverse supply chain and returns management. The talk with David Hogan provided more insight on this growing platform. Read more October 16, 2018 Scheller College Students Crowned at 2018 Homecoming Scheller College of Business students James Ni (BSMA 2019) and Hannah Todd (BSBA 2018) won big as they were crowned 2018 “Mr. and Ms. Georgia Tech.” Read more August 30, 2018 Carbon Reduction Challenge Awards Top Prize to Chick-fil-A Intern A Georgia Tech undergraduate student teamed up with Chick-fil-A staff over the summer to reduce millions of pounds of heat-trapping greenhouse gases while delivering significant cost savings. Read more May 02, 2018 T&M Student Richard Huckaby Celebrates First-Generation Graduation When Richard Huckaby crosses Georgia Tech’s McCamish Pavilion stage on May 5 with his diploma in computer engineering, it will represent a big first: Richard will be the first in his family to graduate from a four-year university — and with an engineering degree, no less. Richard didn’t stop at an engineering major though; he also completed a minor in engineering & business as part of the Denning Technology & Management (T&M) Program. Read more May 01, 2018 Georgia-Grown Graduate John Foster Adds White and Gold Pride to His Family A year ago, John Foster’s older brother graduated with a degree in finance from Georgia Tech, making him the first in the family to go to Tech. “My mom’s side of the family is composed exclusively of die-hard UGA fans,” said Foster, who earned his Georgia Tech degree in May 2018. “So, it’s a nice little dose of rebellion to graduate from Georgia’s most prestigious college.” Read more April 27, 2018 Countdown to Commencement: William Courrèges-Clercq Meet undergraduate student William Courrèges-Clercq. He describes himself as someone who “strives to love others and live life sincerely and authentically.” As part of our Countdown to Commencement series, we spent some time with a few soon-to-be graduates from our undergraduate and MBA programs to learn about their backgrounds, why they chose Scheller College, and what they plan to do with their degrees after Spring 2018 Commencement. Read more April 27, 2018 Ernest Scheller, Jr. Visits His Namesake College From meeting with Bud Peterson to spending time with students and listening to final presentations, including Denning Technology & Management (T&M) Program, TI:GER, and Full-time MBA strategy capstone, Mr. Ernest Scheller, namesake of Scheller College of Business, spent a day on campus this Spring. Read more April 03, 2018 Two Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Students Selected Poets & Quants Best and Brightest Undergraduate Business Majors for 2018 Undergraduate students, Amir Bouhafs and Evie Owens, were named “Best & Brightest Business Majors” by Poets & Quants for Undergrads. Read more August 18, 2017 Scheller College's Emphasis on Entrepreneurship and Technology is a Good Fit for Marc Frankel As a high-school student, when Marc Frankel started driving, he made a deal with his mother to always check-in. But he would forget to check-in some mornings, and his vigilant mother would text him to make sure he was safe and sound. He began thinking of better ways that would be a win-win for everyone. What happened next is amazing. Read more May 05, 2017 From Yellow Jackets to Worker Bees - D'Andre Waller Fifth-year mechanical engineer D’Andre Waller took advantage of the interdisciplinary opportunities at Georgia Tech through the Denning T&M Program. Read more December 20, 2016 Profile: Rehman Pirani Pirani, who went to high school in Johns Creek, was torn between Georgia Tech and the University of Georgia, but he made up his mind at an event for Dean’s Scholars at the Scheller College of Business. Read more October 07, 2016 Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program Creates the Next Innovative Leader Today’s businesses are looking for the next generation of leaders to spearhead industry growth, and they are looking to Georgia Tech to help create these future leaders. Read more March 30, 2015 Toothbrush Technology for Developmentally Disabled Wins 2015 Ideas to Serve Competition Toothbrush technology that would empower people with intellectual and developmental disabilities to care for their teeth more effectively and independently won the 2015 Ideas to Serve (I2S) Competition March 27 at Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business. Read more March 31, 2014 Undergraduate Profile: Technology & Management Program Preparing Elana Burton for Success Elana Burton of Peachtree City, Georgia, says she was originally “dead set” on attending college out of state. Read more February 24, 2014 Interdisciplinary Team Wins Scheller’s BizTech Case Challenge Team Spectrum won the BizTech Case Challenge at Scheller College of Business, qualifying them to represent Georgia Tech in the annual Competition on Management Information Systems (CoMIS) case competition at the University of Minnesota in early April. Read more January 07, 2014 Alumni Testimonial: Allen Wang Translates between the Technical and Business Worlds "I’m responsible for representing Siemens’ U.S. Sensors and Communications Business Unit in all aspects within the IT space. I spend a great deal of my time working with the business unit to define their IT needs and requirements in a way that is actionable and understandable to the internal IT organization." Read more January 07, 2014 John Stanford: Strengthening the Connection between Denning Scholars and Corporate Affiliates The T&M program team welcomed John Stanford in July 2013 as Corporate Relations Manager. With an MS in Counseling and a background in career services, Stanford’s love of working with students and engaging the corporate world come together perfectly in his new role. Read more January 07, 2014 Student Testimonial: Kari Zimmer, Bachelor of Science in Business Administration with Marketing Concentration "The T&M Program has allowed me the opportunity to challenge myself in a way I never thought possible. Working alongside engineers on projects and delving into high-tech subjects such as microelectronics are things I never imagined doing while pursuing a degree in business, but they are allowing me to gain a cross-functional perspective that is essential to today’s job market." Read more October 28, 2013 Tech Team Wins Bank of America Campus Challenge A team of Georgia Tech undergraduate students recently won the Bank of America’s 2013 Campus Challenge (a business and technology case competition), beating out 11 other participating schools. Read more July 01, 2013 Denning Technology & Management Program Launches International Capstone Project Georgia Tech’s Denning Technology & Management (T&M) Program is preparing undergraduate students for the global workforce through the establishment of a new international capstone project. Read more January 07, 2013 Ravi Subramanian Named Faculty Director of Denning Technology & Management Program Ravi Subramanian, associate professor of operations management, is the new faculty director of the Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program. Read more October 29, 2012 Profile: Keegan Christensen Flying High in Denning Technology & Management Program HOPE was running out for Keegan Christensen before he learned about a new scholarship opportunity for students in the Denning Technology & Management (T&M) Program at Georgia Tech. Read more September 23, 2011 Home Depot Latest Corporate Affiliate of Denning Technology & Management Program The Home Depot recently became the eighth corporate affiliate of Georgia Tech's Denning Technology & Management Program. Read more September 22, 2011 Technology & Management Students Win Electric Vehicle Case Competition Each day, many students cross the Fifth Street Bridge not thinking much of the downtown connector that exhales exhaust below; but a few are working to electrify the cars that pass beneath. Read more July 22, 2011 Boeing Company Becomes Corporate Affiliate of Denning Technology & Management Program The Boeing Company is the latest corporation to become a Corporate Affiliate of Georgia Tech's Denning Technology & Management Program. Read more June 14, 2010 T&M Student and Faculty Awards and Accomplishments Congratulations to the T&M students, alumni and faculty who have been recognized for excellence! Read more May 07, 2009 Technology & Management Outstanding Student Award The 2009 Technology & Management Outstanding Student Award recognizes a student who has had exceptionally high participation, attendance, leadership and team contributions in both classes and activities. Each year, one student will be selected from each class by the T&M faculty and administrators. Read more May 07, 2009 Technology and Management Faculty and Student Accomplishments We are proud of the accomplishments of our students and faculty! Congratulations to: Read more More Scheller College of Business Home Why Scheller? Overview & History Business at Tech Georgia Tech Community Career and Recruiter Services Giving to the College Alumni Network Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Programs MBA Undergraduate PhD Interdisciplinary M.S. Executive Education Lean Six Sigma Certification Custom Programs Academics Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Academic Speaker Series Current Faculty Opportunities Centers & Initiatives Business Analytics Center Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics Center for International Business Education and Research Financial Analysis Lab Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta News & Events Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller LinkedIn Instagram Facebook Twitter Youtube Flickr Georgia Institute of Technology Scheller College of Business 800 W. Peachtree St. NW Atlanta, GA 30308 404.894.2600 © 2021 Georgia Institute of Technology Intranet Emergency Information Contact the College Privacy & Legal Notice Accountability Web Accessibility Resources for People with Disabilities Plugins Youtube Usage Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures