Skip to content Info For Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Family & Visitors DFW Community Resources Galaxy Login Library Directory UTD Today Campus Map Comet Calendar Academic Calendar CourseBook eLearning Help Desk EZPay Office365 Human Resources Accessibility Make a Gift Search About Us Academics Admissions Costs, Scholarships & Aid Campus Life Research Info For Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Family & Visitors DFW Community Resources Galaxy Login Library Directory UTD Today Campus Map Comet Calendar Academic Calendar CourseBook eLearning Help Desk EZPay Office365 Human Resources Accessibility Make a Gift About Us Academics Admissions Costs, Scholarships & Aid Campus Life Research COVID-19 Information COVID-19 Information The University of Texas at Dallas is closely monitoring the outbreak of COVID-19 (coronavirus). COVID-19 Information Breaking Ground A New Era for UTD Arts Edith and Peter O’Donnell Jr. Athenaeum at UT Dallas New Dimensions Campaign Campus Features Explore Our Campus Housing & Campus Life Housing & Campus Life Day or night, UTD is abuzz with energy. Comets attend events at the Plinth, join organizations with new friends and kick back in their residence hall suites. Explore Campus Life Athletics & Recreation Athletics & Recreation Since 2015, the NCAA Division III Comets have won 20 titles, competing in 17 intercollegiate sports. University Recreation offers intramural sports, indoor and outdoor facilities, and fitness classes for the UTD community. Explore Athletics & Recreation International Appeal International Appeal International students make UT Dallas a better place. Every step of the way, we make becoming a Comet a smooth transition for all. Explore Resources & Programs You Are Welcome Here You Are Welcome Here We are home to one of the most diverse student bodies in the country. UTD is a richer community thanks to our students’ varied experiences, cultures, perspectives and values. Our Diverse Campus The University of Texas at Dallas is home to over 29,000 students who choose to learn at a campus known for academic rigor, career focus and social opportunities. Apply Now Visit Us Donate Today UTD Campaign New Dimensions The New Dimensions campaign aims to build upon a half-century of momentum, propelling our University’s growth and success through the next 50 years and beyond. Help UT Dallas create new dimensions of impact around the globe by supporting our efforts to attract the best and brightest students, enhance lives through transformative research and transform the arts at UT Dallas. Give News Audiology Pioneer Completes 50-Year Career at Callier A Night for Comets: Glowing Ceremony Honors Graduates Spirit, Club Sports Groups Up Their Game on National Stage UTD Today Events May 27 - 31 Memorial Day Flag Display June 2 Percipio Learning Platform Introduction June 9 Lessons From Leaders: Dr. Richard Benson June 10 Virtual Veteran Info Session for Incoming Students View More Events My UTD Francisca Li Finance and Information Technology and Systems Sophomore Honors student and clothing company cofounder shares interview tips and a peek into entrepreneurial life at UTD. View My UTD 70% of Students Receive Financial Aid 146 Academic Programs 350+ Campus Organizations Connect with us See What We’re Up To Keep current on what’s going on at our vibrant campus via social media! facebook twitter youtube linkedin instagram 800 W. Campbell Road Richardson, Texas 75080-3021 972-883-2111 COPYRIGHT INFORMATION © The University of Texas at Dallas Questions or comments about this page? STAY CONNECTED WITH UT DALLAS facebook twitter youtube linkedin instagram Resources Emergency Preparedness Forms Campus Carry Campus Police Required Links Tobacco-Free Campus UT System Texas Veterans Portal Work at UT Dallas Parking Nondiscrimination & Title IX Org. Chart A-Z Index Student Achievements HEERF Reporting Counseling/Mental Health Safety Hazing Prevention Public Course and Syllabus Information