Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Vaccination Rates and Active COVID-19 Cases at Temple University You are here Home Life at Temple Health & Wellness COVID-19: Keeping Our Community Safe & Healthy University Communication Vaccination Rates and Active COVID-19 Cases at Temple University At Temple University, the health and safety of our students, faculty and staff is—and always will be—our top priority. We also believe it is of vital importance that we keep our community as informed as possible during these unprecedented and uncertain times. To ensure that all members of the Temple community remain as safe as possible during their return to learning, the university will collect and share information regarding the percentage of people within the campus community verified to be fully vaccinated. The university will also collect and share information about active COVID-19 cases within the university community. The university will be sharing updated information about its vaccination rates at the start of the fall 2022 semester. Vaccination rates will be broken down into four categories. These are employees (including faculty), students—university housing, students (total population) and all. Those who are not verified fully vaccinated but who have received at least one shot of a COVID-19 vaccination are considered to be partially vaccinated. Vaccination rates will also take into account those in the community who have applied for and received either a religious waiver or a medical waiver. The active COVID-19 case count is broken down into the same four categories as vaccination rates. Cases will be removed from this page once they meet the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) criteria for recovered cases. Review definitions for all designations below. Note: This count includes students registered at any of Temple’s campuses in the Philadelphia region only (Main Campus, Ambler Campus, Health Sciences Center, School of Podiatric Medicine and Temple University Center City). Contents Active COVID-19 CasesAdditional Public Health InformationDefinitions Vaccine Information Active COVID-19 Cases This dashboard includes all testing done by Student and Employee Health or on Temple’s campuses under the direction of Student and Employee Health. These totals do not include testing done at non-Temple University locations. The data included in these tables come from multiple sources and from time to time, receipt can be delayed. Data will be updated as it is received. For data prior to January 2021, please see the table at the bottom of this page. Any member of the Temple community who tests positive for COVID-19 will be advised to isolate for five days, in accordance with CDC guidance. You may leave isolation on day six, if you are fever-free with improving symptoms. If you leave isolation on day six, you must continue wearing your mask around others at all times for an additional five days. Johnson Residence Hall will be reserved as isolation and quarantine space for students living in campus housing who test positive and need a place to isolate. Any person or persons who have had close contact with an infected individual will be notified and provided additional information on steps they should take, including self-quarantining. Positivity rate provides important context about overall case trends within a particular community. For those that have been identified as a close contact, please adhere to the following university guidelines. If you are unvaccinated and you test negative for COVID-19 (between days 5–7) and also do not develop symptoms, you can be around others after day 7 of exposure. If you are vaccinated and you test negative for COVID-19 (between days 3–5) and also do not develop symptoms, no quarantine is necessary. Please note that due to the complex nature of Temple University’s population, all active case counts are classified generally to the best of the university’s knowledge. These counts are intended to provide guidance to help the public and university community generally understand patterns of positive cases within the Temple community and not to replace contact tracing efforts by the university and local health departments. Additional Public Health Information If you have had close contact with a person who has tested positive for COVID-19 ... … contact your faculty or supervisor as soon as possible. CDC guidance suggests that you should self-quarantine, closely monitor your health and, if you develop symptoms, contact your healthcare provider or Student or Employee Health Services. If you have had exposure to COVID-19, but you do not have symptoms and/or if you share a household with someone who has tested positive for COVID-19 ... … contact your faculty or supervisor as soon as possible. Please then contact your healthcare provider or Student or Employee Health Services to ensure appropriate monitoring and next steps. If you are a student and believe you may be sick with COVID-19 ... … or if you present any symptoms associated with the virus, such as coughing, shortness of breath or difficulty breathing, fever (oral temperature above 100.4°F), chills or repeated shaking with chills, muscle or body aches, headache, sore throat, new loss of taste or smell, congestion or runny nose, and/or out-of-the-ordinary fatigue, please adhere to the following protocols. Do not come to campus, attend in-person classes or participate in activities in person until you are sure you are not infected. Contact your faculty if you are unable to attend your classes or participate in class activities. See the COVID-19 Class Attendance and Engagement Protocol in TUportal for more information. Take the CDC Self-Checker for additional guidance. Contact Student Health Services (215-204-7500), your healthcare provider or the Temple University Hospital COVID-19 triage hotline (215-707-6999). If needed, seek medical attention. Symptomatic and Close Contact Testing Testing is available for testing those who have COVID-19 symptoms or have been identified by contact tracers as a close contact of someone who tested positive. Students can schedule an appointment by calling 215-204-7500 and selecting prompt 2 or by using the student health portal. If you are an employee and believe you may be sick with COVID-19 ... … or if you present any symptoms associated with the virus, such as coughing, shortness of breath or difficulty breathing, fever (oral temperature above 100.4°F), chills or repeated shaking with chills, muscle pain, headache, sore throat, and/or new loss of taste or smell, please adhere to the following protocols. Do not report to work until you are sure you are not infected. Contact your supervisor per your departmental policies and practice as soon as possible to report your illness or symptoms. Take the CDC Self-Checker for additional guidance. Contact Employee Health Services (215 204-2679), your healthcare provider or the Temple University Hospital COVID-19 triage hotline (215-707-6999). If needed, seek medical attention. Symptomatic and Close Contact Testing Testing is available for those who have COVID-19 symptoms or have been identified by contact tracers as a close contact of someone who tested positive. Employees on campus who are experiencing symptoms should call Employee Health Services at 215-204-2679. If employees are working remotely and develop symptoms or are identified as a close contact, they should contact their primary care provider immediately and should not come to campus. How to report a positive COVID-19 test Contact Student Health Services (215-204-7500) or Employee Health Services (215 204-2679), your healthcare provider, or the Temple University Hospital COVID-19 triage hotline (215-707-6999). The four public health pillars In order to protect our students, faculty, staff and visitors to campus, the following public health practices must become second nature to us all any time we are on campus or outside our homes. Use of face coverings. Masks are optional in most campus spaces, including in common areas, dining halls, meeting rooms, nonclinical office spaces and residence halls. Masking will continue to be required in classrooms, healthcare facilities labs, shuttles, studios or other locations where in-person classes (including examinations) are taking place. Hand hygiene. Practicing good hygiene such as frequent hand-washing is a sound health practice. We’ve installed hand sanitizer stations throughout our campuses, along with reminders to avoid touching your face after touching surfaces. Physical distancing. We continue to recommend maintaining a safe distance and uncrowded conditions whenever possible. Personal health monitoring. Taking your temperature daily, watching for other symptoms and, if warranted, seeking help through your primary care physician or Student and Employee Health Services are important for you and for everyone on campus. Temple Contact Tracing Unit Contact tracing is the process of tracking and alerting individuals who have been exposed to the virus. When someone tests positive for or is likely to have COVID-19, contact tracing is how the people they have come into close contact with—and who might have been exposed to the virus—are identified, monitored and supported. The patient’s identity isn’t discussed with the contacts. Temple’s Contact Tracing Unit, developed by Health Services and in partnership with the Philadelphia Department of Public Health, uses interviews and available data to find out where someone who tested positive has been and what areas are the highest risk spaces. Physical distancing and wearing masks helps lessen the risks for all university spaces. As part of our containment strategy, we have been continually expanding the capacity of our Contact Tracing Unit. If you have tested positive for COVID-19, you must follow the guidelines below. You must isolate for five days; you can leave isolation on day six, if you are fever-free with improving symptoms. If you leave isolation on day six, you must continue wearing your mask while around others for an additional five days. After 10 days, continue wearing your mask in accordance with Temple’s mask guidelines. Temple’s Contact Tracing Certification Temple’s Public Health Contact Tracing Training course teaches individuals of broad skill levels how to track the spread of the COVID-19 virus. With enrollment open to all at no or low cost, hundreds have already enrolled in the training, including Temple students, health professionals and members of the public interested in fulfilling this essential role amid the current pandemic. The training is being run by Temple’s College of Public Health, which also developed the program and created the curriculum. Temple’s program is unique in that it requires participants to conduct a mock contact tracing call and pass a phone certification. Administered online and over the phone, students learn and practice protocols that public health agencies desire, including how to remotely interact with patients with suspected or confirmed infection, gather data, share information about COVID-19, and advise appropriate quarantine and isolation. Find out more about Temple’s groundbreaking new Public Health Contact Tracing Training certification course. Definitions Active COVID-19 cases: The total number of people who actively have the ability to spread COVID-19 as of the most recent reporting date. A case is considered “active” both during the period of time spent in isolation as well as the time it takes for the improvement of symptoms (in cases where the person was symptomatic). All: Sum of employees (total population) and students (total population). Close contact: Defined by the CDC as being closer than six feet, for equal to or greater than 15 minutes, to a person who has tested positive for or presumed to have COVID-19. In some cases, where there is cumulative exposure exceeding 15 minutes at a distance of less than six feet over a 24-hour period, an individual may be deemed to be a close contact. Factors to consider include the precise proximity, duration, symptoms of the infected person and environmental factors. Contact your healthcare provider or Employee Health Services for additional information. Current Philadelphia positivity rate: A seven-day moving average of positive and negative cases within the city of Philadelphia. Data may be delayed. See the most update-to-date testing data for the city of Philadelphia. More information about the data used to calculate Philadelphia’s current positivity rate can be found at opendataphilly.org. Employees (total population): All employees with an active job, excluding student workers (SW), work study (WS) students, graduate assistants (GA), teaching assistants (TA) and research assistants (RA), graduate interns and externs, excluding those who are working entirely remotely. Isolate/isolation: The complete separation of an individual who is positive for COVID-19 from others who are not sick. If you test positive for COVID-19, you must isolate for five days; you can leave isolation on day six, if you are fever-free with improving symptoms. If you leave isolation on day six, you must continue wearing your mask around others at all times for an additional five days. Medical waiver: Those individuals who have an approved waiver, which states an exemption applies to the specific individual submitting the certification because the COVID-19 vaccine is medically contraindicated for the individual. The waiver must include a statement signed by a licensed healthcare provider. Partially vaccinated: Individuals who have received at least one dose of a COVID-19 vaccine but who do not meet the definition of “verified fully vaccinated”. Percent verified fully vaccinated: The percentage of people verified to be fully vaccinated, which means two or more weeks have passed after the receipt of the second dose in a 2-dose vaccine series, or two or more weeks have passed after receipt of one dose of a single-dose vaccine and when the individual has remained asymptomatic since being vaccinated. Positivity rate: The percentage of total COVID-19 tests conducted by Temple University that yielded a positive result. While it provides important context about case trends, positivity rate is not a measure of how prevalent the virus is in the Temple community. Recovered cases: Any individual positive person who has been isolated for a minimum of 10 days and no longer presents any COVID-19 symptoms. CDC guidance suggests that persons with COVID-19 who experienced mild to moderate symptoms may end their isolation after 10 days. Religious waiver: Those individuals who have an approved waiver, including a signed statement in writing that the individual has a sincerely held religious belief that prevents them from receiving the COVID-19 vaccination. Self-quarantine: Defined as separating oneself from others and restricting movement. Individuals who have received their booster shot, or who completed the primary series of Pfizer or Moderna vaccine within the last five months, or completed the primary series of J&J vaccine within the last two months do not need to quarantine. They should wear their mask around others for 10 days and test on day five, if possible. Individuals who have completed the primary series of Pfizer or Moderna vaccine over five months ago and are not boosted, or completed the primary series of J&J over two months ago and are not boosted, or who are unvaccinated should stay home for five days. After that continue to wear a mask around others for five additional days. Students—university housing (total population): Total of students who live in university-owned or controlled student housing (i.e. they have housing licenses with Temple). This population is also included in the “Student Total Population.” Students (total population): All individuals who are registered for at least one credit-bearing course (includes all domestic and international campuses except for Temple University Japan). Employees with active jobs taking credit-bearing courses are excluded from the Student Total Population but are included in the Employee Total Population. Students who have no in-person classes and are classified as “remote-only” are also excluded from the Employee Total Population. Verified fully vaccinated: An individual is considered fully vaccinated when two or more weeks have passed after the receipt of the second dose in a 2-dose vaccine series, or two or more weeks have passed after receipt of one dose of a single-dose vaccine and when the individual has remained asymptomatic since being vaccinated. Back to Main Coronavirus Page Historical COVID-19 Testing by Week Time Frame Total Tested by Week Total Positives by Week Percent (%) Positive Total Positives in Housing by Week 3/10/20-8/9/20 701 35 4.99% -- 8/10/20 281 2 0.71% -- 8/17/20 3267 13 0.40% 6 8/24/20 1691 92 5.44% 6 8/31/20 2085 211 10.12% 15 9/7/20 1019 49 4.81% 16 9/14/20 944 46 4.87% 6 9/21/20 677 39 5.76% 0 9/28/20 1169 46 3.93% 0 10/5/20 1087 38 3.50% 1 10/12/20 1214 34 2.80% 1 10/19/20 1356 71 5.24% 1 10/26/20 1286 35 2.72% 5 11/2/20 1194 40 3.35% 2 11/9/20 1366 46 3.37% 3 11/16/20 4429 108 2.44% 6 11/23/20 580 44 7.59% 0 11/30/20 411 42 10.22% 0 12/7/20 485 25 5.15% 0 12/14/20 413 15 3.63% 1 12/21/20 125 9 7.20% 0 12/28/20* 252 4 1.59% 0 Total 26032 1044 4.01% 69 Updated 1/6/2021 (2:42 p.m.) This table includes all testing done by Student and Employee Health or on Temple’s campuses under the direction of Student and Employee Health. These totals do not include testing done at non-Temple University locations. *Data may be delayed. Go back to Life at TempleMore in University Communication Vaccination Rates and Active COVID-19 Cases at Temple University Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community.