Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Air Force ROTC AFROTC right arrow down arrow Our Detachment right arrow down arrow Detachment 665 Cadre right arrow down arrow Commander Recruiting Officer Operations Flight Commander NCOIC of Personnel NCOIC of Administration Program Director Prospective Cadets right arrow down arrow How to Join Crosstown Schools Program Requirements Returning to school? FAQ Request More Information Contact Us Home » Campus Life » Air Force ROTC » Prospective Cadets » Joining Set Navigation title in component How to Join Crosstown Schools Program Requirements Returning to school? FAQ Request More Information How to Join Are you ready to take on the next challenge in life? Congrats on having the courage to challenge yourself!There are no drawbacks and no hidden commitments; only the benefit of training with like-minded cadets who are seeking to supercharge thier potential in life. Use the sub-menus below to find the right informaiton for you! As always, call/email us if you need more info. Rising High School Seniors right arrow down arrow While you must be a high school graduate to enter the ROTC program, you can apply now for a High School Scholarship. These scholarships are highly competitive and in many cases cover 100% of tuition and fees. To be eligible, you must have at least a 3.0 GPA and an ACT score of 26 or SAT score of 1240. Your scholarship application is online and you'll schedule everything you need via the web, including an interview with an officer at your nearest Air Force ROTC Detachment. Our national headquarters has a dedicated staff to help you if you get stuck in the process. You don't have to earn a scholarship to join the Air Force ROTC program; only about 40% of our current cadets are on scholarship. Cadets also have the opportunity to earn ROTC scholarships in thier first and second year of college. Current High School Seniors and High School Graduates right arrow down arrow Enroll at UC or one of our crosstown schools. Contact us to let us know you're interested in joining the program. Register in the AFROTC Freshman curricullum (AF1001 and AF1020) Current College Freshmen right arrow down arrow You can add our classes (AS1001 and AS1020) any time before the UC drop/add date each semester. If it's the Fall semester and past the drop/add date, you can join our program in the Spring semester by registering for AS1002 and AS1020. Ensure you call or email the detachment to let us know you're interested so we can keep you informed on orientation events. College Sophomores or Above right arrow down arrow Air Force ROTC is designed to be a four year program. However, we have many options to help you complete the program if you're past your freshman year in college. For exceptionally motivated candidates, we can combine the first and second year of Aerospace Science requirements to get you caught up after the first year; many prior-service candidates take this option. Additionally, many students look at their academic schedules and realize that after adding the AFROTC curriculum, they are scheduled for over 15-18 credit hours each semester. By extending their undergraduate timeline by one or two semesters, they are able to reduce their semesterly workload to 12-15 credit hours. This strategy allows cadets to focus on quality over quantity, accomplish a higher GPA, and compete for more AFROTC scholarships and opportunities! To introduce some additional flexibility, AFROTC requires cadets to be full-time students for all but thier very last semester and we often have cadets who are not full-time students in their final semester. Every student's schedule is different and the cadre at Det 665 will gladly make an appointment with you to discuss your professional and academic plan. Call or email the detachment and we'll send you some standard program information and let you know what to bring with you to your appointment. Air Force ROTC Detachment 665 2585 Dennis St Cincinnati OH, 45221 513-556-2237 afrotc@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Air Force ROTC Detachment 665 2585 Dennis St Cincinnati OH, 45221 513-556-2237 afrotc@uc.edu © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top