Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Choral Conducting MM You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Choral Conducting MM Apply Request More Info Choral Conducting MM Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Ensembles & Performance Master's Audition Requirements Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Music in Choral Conducting Form your pathway to conducting choirs with the Master of Music in Choral Conducting in Temple’s Boyer College of Music and Dance. Prepare for professional careers in choral music or pursue doctoral studies. This two-year, 32-credit graduate degree is fully accredited by the National Association of Schools of Music. The Master of Music in Choral Conducting is a rigorous and highly selective course of study. Through experiential seminars, intensive coursework and research, you’ll develop advanced analytical, historical, linguistic, technical, theoretical and vocal skills. Choral Conducting MM students conduct a number of resident ensembles, and they present two recitals with the Graduate Conductors Chorus and Recital Chorus. Graduates have gone on to conduct community, professional, school and university choirs across the country. Explore Boyer Faculty Faculty Discover choral faculty in the Boyer College of Music and Dance. Explore Boyer Faculty See faculty members in Boyer choral degree programs. Classes & Curriculum All students are required to take diagnostic examinations in aural skills, counterpoint, harmony and music history prior to the first term of graduate study. Students who opt not to take any or all exams prior to the first semester of study must complete remedial coursework within the first academic year. Required courses include Choral Conducting Seminar I, II, III and IV; Choral Literature: Early Period, Baroque Period, Classical and Romantic Period, and 20th/21st Centuries; Concert Choir; Research in Music; and Stylistic Analysis. Learn more about Choral Conducting MM courses. Related Graduate Degrees Music Education PhD Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Music offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,095.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,458.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors Faculty advisors can help you navigate your program and discuss research opportunities, teaching assistantships and more. Learn more about Boyer College of Music and Dance faculty. Program Contact Paul Rardin is the graduate program contact for the Vocal Arts Department. Phone: 215-204-4742 Email: rardin@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Participating in student groups provides peer support and future professional contacts. There are more than 200 student organizations at Temple University. American Choral Directors Association provides students opportunities to experience choral conducting through guest lectures and rehearsal practice, and offers opportunities to earn practical experience through various regional and state conferences. National Association for Music Education is a conservatory chapter of the national organization of music educators. Semester activities include creating projects, presenting guest speakers and workshops, attending the PMEA All-State conference, participating in outreach activities, and learning to use various online music education resources. Temple University Theory and Musicology Society (THEMUS) gives students an open forum to discuss and develop scholarly work within the disciplines of music theory and musicology. Each semester, THEMUS hosts guest, faculty and student lectures. THEMUS organizes a regional graduate student conference each year for theory and musicology. Learn more about clubs and organizations. Accreditation The Boyer College of Music and Dance is accredited by the American Music Therapy Association, National Association of Schools of Music, National Association of Schools of Dance and Pennsylvania Department of Education. BC-CHCO-MMUS Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Choral Conducting MM Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Ensembles & Performance Master's Audition Requirements Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info