Skip to main content COVID-19 Update: LPS staff are available online, in person, or by phone at (215) 898-7326. More Info & Resources > Utility Menu for Stand-alone Programs LPS Home School of Arts and Sciences University of Pennsylvania Toggle navigation MENU Apply today » Search Search MBDS navigation mobile Admissions and Eligibility Application Overview Courses and Curriculum Faculty Advisory Board MBDS Industry Affiliates Tuition and Fees Student and Alumni Stories Program Resources Program Contacts Master of Behavioral and Decision Sciences Master of Behavioral and Decision Sciences Master of Behavioral and Decision Sciences Admissions and Eligibility Submatriculation Newly Admitted Students Application Overview Courses and Curriculum Faculty Advisory Board MBDS Industry Affiliates Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student and Alumni Stories Program Resources Program Contacts Learn the theory, apply the tools and make a difference Penn’s Master of Behavioral and Decision Sciences (MBDS) is informed by contemporary theories and research methods of behavioral economics, decision sciences, network analysis, and public policy. Our program equips students with theoretical and practical tools to address a variety of real-life problems, putting you ahead of the curve in a growing field of study. Our interdisciplinary degree prepares you to understand how individuals and groups make decisions, and how to affect those decisions. Our world-renowned faculty and researchers are also leading practitioners in their fields. With their expertise, you are guided to apply what you learn to real-life problems in areas such as social and public policy, law, education, business, and medicine. Housed in the School of Arts and Sciences, the MBDS program is rooted in the social sciences—the skills we teach help you make a positive, sustainable impact in your area of interest. GRE test scores are now required for applicants who have just completed undergraduate studies or who have less than five years of professional experience. For international students, the MBDS program is coded as 30.1701 - Behavioral Sciences, which is STEM eligible. International students should consult with International Student and Scholar Services regarding any implications of completing a STEM eligible master's program. Impact decisions and behaviors in a variety of fields Hear from the MDBS Founding Director, Cristina Bicchieri, about how this unique theoretical and applied master’s degree provides the understanding and tools students need to enact behavioral change in individuals and in organizations. If you are having trouble viewing this video, you can watch it on YouTube. Fast facts Representing students in the 2017-2019 cohorts 49% Percentage of international students, representing 22 countries 50+% Percentage of students matriculating directly from the workforce 15+ Number of undergraduate majors represented 60% Percentage of women enrolled in this STEM graduate program Upcoming application deadlines The priority admission deadline for fall 2023 is December 1, 2022. The regular deadline February 1, 2023. Apply now » MBDS information session Meet our program team and hear more about the MBDS curriculum, application process, faculty, and more. View info session video » Center for Social Norms and Behavioral Dynamics Led by MBDS Founding Director Cristina Bicchieri, this newly formed research center aims to support positive behaviors on a global scale. Learn about the center » Ready to apply to MDBS? Apply now » Have a question about MBDS? Request Information » Contact Us Master of Behavioral and Decision Sciences McNeil Building Rm 438 3718 Locust Walk Philadelphia, PA 19104 Tel: (215) 746-3618 Fax: (215) 573-2231 penn-mbds@sas.upenn.edu Our social media Tweets by @PennMBDS McNeil Building, Rm 438 3718 Locust Walk Philadelphia, PA 19104-3335 (215) 746-3618 penn-mbds@sas.upenn.edu © 2022 College of Liberal and Professional Studies at The University of Pennsylvania Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help