Skip to content About Us Who We Are Newsletter Membership Apply Current Members Board of Directors Past Directors Classes & Training Internal Training EMT Courses CPR/FA Classes D-EMS Provider Resources Event Coverage AED Management Contact Us FAQ Search Toggle search interface Menu Toggle extended navigation ABOUT US WHO WE ARE Dartmouth EMS is a student-run non-transport Basic Life Support (BLS) squad licensed by the state of New Hampshire. We were founded in 1991 by a group of motivated students looking to improve pre-hospital care and education for the community, and it has since expanded to provide a variety of services to Dartmouth College and the surrounding Upper Valley community including campus emergency response, community CPR and First Aid training, maintenance of the Dartmouth public-access AED program, and event standby coverage. Dartmouth EMS members are trained to provide BLS care ranging from simple first-aid to life-saving interventions as licensed EMTs. Dartmouth EMS never charges its patients for any services provided. All funds that are raised through coverage charges, course fees, and donations are used to defray equipment costs and operating expenses. If you are interested in helping us to provide these services, please contact us at dartmouth.ems@dartmouth.edu. If you would like EMS coverage at an event you are holding, please click on the Event Coverage link on the navigation bar. — — CAMPUS COVERAGE Dartmouth EMS provides on-call BLS coverage for the Dartmouth College campus on weekends and some weeknights. Dartmouth EMS is dispatched by and responds with campus Safety and Security. Dartmouth EMS serves as a first response agency to augment the existing response system in Hanover. Dartmouth EMS must be dispatched by Safety and Security in order to respond to a call; please do not contact EMS members directly for an emergency. Dartmouth EMS does not provide ambulance transport to the Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center. EDUCATION & TRAINING Dartmouth EMS is very involved with community education. We teach many American Heart Association CPR/AED and First Aid classes for students, faculty, and employees of Dartmouth College as well as local organizations and community members. Our class schedule is posted on our Training page. We also teach Healthcare Provider (BLS) CPR classes for EMTs, medical students, lifeguards, and others in need of BLS certification. As of 2015, Dartmouth EMS is an AHA Training Site. TwitterFacebookEmail DartmouthEMS 2021. close menu About Us Who We Are Newsletter Membership Apply Current Members Board of Directors Past Directors Classes & Training Internal Training EMT Courses CPR/FA Classes D-EMS Provider Resources Event Coverage AED Management Contact Us FAQ close search Search Search Site