Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search keywords, names, etc... Search within this section Search all sites About Our Campuses Diversity and Inclusion Wellness Suicide Awareness and Prevention Resources Leadership KU Medical Center Fast Facts Events Calendar News Maps & Contact Information Make a Gift Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for kumc.edu Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Academics Academics Prepare for your health care career with top-ranked programs, state-of-the-art facilities and unmatched opportunities for clinical training. Admissions & Aid Degree Programs International Education Clinical Education Interprofessional Education Libraries Student Handbooks Related Links: School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing Research Research Explore world-class research programs that advance the health sciences and attract national recognition. Centers, Institutes and Cores Our Experts Research News Research Administration Human Research Protection Program Scheduling Research Facilities Related Links: Student Research Forum Summer Research Training Program Patient Care Patient Care As an academic medical center, we work with The University of Kansas Health System and other regional partners to provide high-quality, compassionate clinical care. The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Student-Run Clinics Clinical Education University and Faculty Practice Outreach Outreach We build partnerships throughout the state to find new ways to improve the lives of Kansans. Our community-based efforts extend across the country and around the world. Social Impact Rural Education Global Health Career Development Community Programs Outreach News Related Links: Community Engagement Masonic Cancer Alliance Student Life Student Life Our three campus communities offer unique social events and cultural attractions—the perfect backdrop to our world-class education programs. Student Support Activities & Events Diversity and Inclusion Wellness Why Kansas? Related Links: Office of Student Life Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Office of International Programs About About The University of Kansas Medical Center's mission is to improve lives and communities in Kansas and beyond through innovation in education, research and health care. Our Campuses Diversity and Inclusion Wellness Suicide Awareness and Prevention Resources Leadership KU Medical Center Fast Facts Events Calendar News Maps & Contact Information Make a Gift About Wellness We believe in investing in the health and well-being of our campus community members and seek to provide resources for health, harmony and better living. Remember, your health and well-being matters. That's why KU Medical Center offers a variety of wellness services for students, staff and faculty. These services reflect the medical center's commitment to strengthening communities by providing support to members of its own community. Wellness Resources We invite you to check out what's available to help bolster your physical, mental, personal and professional well-being. The Division of Student Affairs provides resources for students through essential support services and programming. Student Affairs Student Resources Counseling and Educational Support Services provides support to students, residents and fellows through psychological and educational services. Support Services Counseling and Educational Support Services KUMC employees are offered competitive benefits that feature wellness programs in support of the community's health and well-being. Human Resources Employee Resources Graduate Medical Education Resources Explore campus- and community-based resources to support your mind, body and spirit. The School of Medicine's GME office provides stress management resources, social and cultural activities and much more. Learn more Thrive Food Pantry The Thrive Food Pantry, located on the Kansas City campus, helps address food insecurity by providing students, faculty and staff access to nutritious food. Providing non-perishable food items will help students meet their basic dietary needs and will ensure no student ever goes hungry. To date the pantry has had more than 50 visits with nearly 30 unique users. LEARN MORE Suicide Awareness and Prevention Explore our hub for resources related to crisis support, counseling services and educational information to help employees, students and friends and family support those in need. Learn More Make a Gift 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.