Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Events Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Schedule a Visit SMU Tour Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Twitter Follow Us YouTube Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Home Academics Academics Departments Undergraduate Majors Undergraduate Minors and Programs Graduate Studies Why Study Here? Why Study Here? The Dedman Edge Heard on The Hilltop Research and Fellowships Research and Fellowships Undergraduate Students Graduate Students National Student Fellowships Institutes and Centers Faculty Dean's Research Council Resources Resources Current Students Faculty and Staff Prospective Students Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate About About Dean's Welcome Administrative Directory Executive Board Department Chairs Department Faculty Directory Dedman Diversity Publications Facilities Connect Connect Make a Gift Contact Us Prospective Student Visit Alumni Connection and Events ☰ Why Study Here? Home Why Study Here? The Dedman Edge The Dedman Edge What Do Employers Want? 1. Graduates with a sound liberal arts education. Competency in critical thinking and problem solving; written and oral communication; research; and interpersonal effectiveness, including the ability to work in teams, with diverse groups of individuals, and to lead others effectively. 2. Technological Skills. Adding one of several kinds of technical skills to your liberal arts major can open up more job opportunities and help you to start your career after graduation more quickly, and at a higher salary. Business, Computer Programing, Data Analysis and Management, Graphic Design, IT Networking and Support, Marketing, Sales and Social Media skills are valued by employers. You can gain these kinds of skills in college in a variety of ways. 3. Internships. Adding at least one, preferably two internships to your resume will help boost employer interest and improve your odds when searching for a job opportunity. With a degree from Dedman College, you have the liberal arts foundation. Add one or more of the following skills and give yourself a competitive edge. Computer Programing Data Analysis and Management General Business Graphic Design IT Networking and Support Marketing Sales Social Media Learn More Here Why Study Here? The Dedman Edge Heard on The Hilltop Apply Visit Academics Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Minors and Programs Research Centers and Institutes Connect Administrative Directory Department Directory Alumni Make a Gift Dedman College of Humanities & Sciences P.O. Box 750235 | Dallas, Texas | 75275-0233 214-768-2440 © Southern Methodist University Legal Disclosures facebook twitter youtube