Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Facilities Management Menu Main Nav Facilities Management Submit a Request Back Back Close About Overview Locations Meet Our Staff Departments & Services Overview Business Service Center Capital Projects Custodial Services Energy & Engineering Landscape Services Locks & Keys Mail Services Maintenance & Repair Moving & Storage Recycling Sustainability Related Links Campus Maps Campus Webcams University Construction Updates Floor Plans News & Updates Submit a Request Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Mail Services Facilities Management Departments & Services Mail Services Departments & Services Business Service Center Capital Projects Custodial Services Energy & Engineering Landscape Services Locks & Keys Mail Services Maintenance & Repair Moving & Storage Recycling Sustainability Boston College Mail Services manages incoming, outgoing, and interoffice mail for the academic and professional staff of Boston College along with incoming packages and mail for residential students. Mail Room Hours of Operation The McElroy Mail Room is the only location open for the summer. Newton, Voute and Walsh locations are closed until the fall semester. Summer Hours (McElroy Mail Room only) Day Hours Monday - Thursday 10 a.m. – 4 p.m. Friday 10 a.m. – 3:30 p.m. Saturday - Sunday Closed Track your package Getting ready to move out of your residence hall for the summer? Request mail forwarding Student Mail Room Locations & Mailing Addresses To ensure efficient mail processing and timely delivery, please be sure to address mail and packages in the correct format. If the student lives in this RESIDENCE HALL They will collect their packages and mail at this MAIL ROOM All mail should be addressed with this MAILING ADDRESS Lower Campus (east side) Greycliff Modulars Reservoir Apts Stayer Thomas More Apts Walsh Walsh Mailroom Walsh Hall - Room 128 617-552-1472 View on Campus Map [First Name] + [Last Name] [Residence Hall] + [Room Number] 150 St. Thomas More Dr Chestnut Hill MA 02467 Lower Campus (west side) 66 Commonwealth Ave 90 St. Thomas More Rd Gabelli Ignacio Rubenstein Vanderslice Voute Voute Mailroom Voute Hall - Room 204 617-552-1478 View on Campus Map [First Name] + [Last Name] [Residence Hall] + [Room Number] 110 Commonwealth Ave Chestnut Hill MA 02467 Newton Campus Cushing Duchesne East & West Hardey Keyes North & South Newton Mailroom Kenny Cottle Library - Room L112 617-552-4426 View on Campus Map [First Name] + [Last Name] [Residence Hall] + [Room Number] 885 Centre St Newton MA 02459 Upper Campus Cheverus Claver Fenwick Fitzpatrick Gonzaga Kostka Loyola Medeiros Roncalli Shaw Welch Williams Xavier McElroy Mailroom McElroy Commons - Room 204 617-552-3523 View on Campus Map [First Name] + [Last Name] [Residence Hall] + [Room Number] 325 Beacon St Chestnut Hill MA 02467 Important notes about proper addressing: Please use the student's name as they are registered at Boston College. Use of a nickname may delay the delivery of their package. There is no need to include "Boston College" in the address, as carriers recognize the street addresses as BC locations. Improper addressing leads to delays in delivery from the carrier and sorting in the BC mail room. Employee Mailing Addresses Employee Mailing Addresses Employee name Building Name + Room Number 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill MA 02467 or Employee name Building Name + Room Number 885 Centre Street Newton Center MA 02459 Mail Services Policies Student Policies General Policies Access your mailbox combination on Agora. Obtain the combination for your mailbox by logging into the Agora Portal and clicking "Mailbox Combination Distribution" under "Other Services." There is one assigned mailbox per room. Please familiarize yourself with the combination and share it with your roommates. It is recommended that you store your combination as a note on your phone. Packages should be picked up in a timely fashion. Students should pick up packages as soon as they are notified that their package is ready for pickup. Students can look up tracking numbers at bc.edu/packages to check whether their package has been delivered to BC and, if it has, to see its current status and location. Mail Services can not accept deliveries of fresh food. Mail Services is unable to accept deliveries of fresh food or other items from sources such as Amazon Fresh, GrubHub, Instacart or any other company that delivers from a restaurant or market. Delivery emails from other companies are misleading Other companies can send notification of delivery while the package is still in transit to BC. Your package is ready for pick up when you receive an email notification from BC Campus Mail. Packages will be released only to the addressee or authorized representative. When packages arrive at Mail Services, an email is sent to the student’s BC email account informing them of the arrival. Packages will be released to the addressee upon the student presenting the email along with photo identification. If the addressee is unable to pick up their own package, the email and a photo of the ID may be forwarded to a fellow student as authorization to pick up. Packages are not accepted during the summer if the student is not living on campus. Due to space constraints, packages received for students not residing on campus during June and July will be returned to the sender. All student packages will be accepted starting the first week of August. Private couriers are not allowed in residence halls. Delivery agents such as UPS, Amazon and FedEx do not deliver directly to residence halls. All package deliveries for resident students will be routed to the appropriate mail room for processing. Never send cash through the mail. Neither Boston College nor any other courier such as the US Postal Service is responsible for cash sent through the mail. Items of value can be insured through the US Postal Service and others, but that insurance is for merchandise only. Proof of value and other documentation would be needed to make claims. Forwarding service is not available. Due to changes in US Postal Service's policy, forwarding service is not available. Please provide mailers with up-to-date address information when you move or change location so that you can receive your mail and packages. Be sure to include full location and room numbers on addresses. Notify outside contacts of proper mailing address format. In order to decrease the volume of insufficiently addressed and misdirected mail on campus, inform outside contacts to update their mailing information using the University’s standard format. The mailroom receives over 100 pieces of mail per week addressed with incomplete mailing information, causing delays and costly inefficiencies. Improperly addressed mail will be returned to sender. All incoming mail and packages should be addressed in the format illustrated in the "Mailing Addresses" section of this page. If you move to a different location, please remember to update your address when you place orders that will be shipped to campus. There are two Amazon lockers on campus. Amazon maintains two pickup lockers on campus for the convenience of the Boston College community. The lockers may be selected as delivery points when placing orders through Amazon. The two locations are: "BENCH" is in the 90 St. Thomas More Dr. residence hall on the first floor "LOPEZ" is across from the Newton mailroom on the lower level of Kenny Cottle Library Mail Services By The Numbers 4 mail rooms on campus 240,000 packages delivered to students during the 2020-21 academic year 10% annual increase in package volume each academic year Back To Top Back To Top Mail Services 617-552-3993 mail.room@bc.edu About Services News & Updates Quick Links 🔒 BIM 360 Ops CRE EagleSpace Facilities Data Hub Facilities Intranet FMApp How To Pages Mobile Contact List PMWeb Shutdown Requests Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College