Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Undergraduate Admission Student Affairs About News Athletics Events Calendar Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Meadows School of the Arts Areas of Study Admissions About Menu Search Film & Media Arts With a curriculum that combines media production and creativity with media history and theory, the Division of Film and Media Arts prepares students for careers in film, television and other media-related fields. Students learn and work in small classes that develop their creative and collaborative skills and enhance their understanding of the art and business of media. Film & Media Arts Undergraduate Studies Classes (See Catalog) Facilities Faculty Summer Film Production Student Opportunities Internships and Collaborations Alumni SMU Meadows Licensed Music Rights Undergraduate Majors/Minors B.A. in Film and Media Arts B.F.A. in Film and Media Arts Meet the Faculty Amber Bemak Assistant Professor Sean Griffin Professor Kevin Heffernan Associate Professor Mark Kerins Professor Derek Kompare Chair and Associate Professor of Film and Media Arts Lorena Padilla Professor of Practice Troy Perkins Associate Professor Ryan Reed Media Equipment Manager David Sedman Associate Professor of Film and Media Arts Associate Dean for Finance and Operations, Meadows School of the Arts Rick Worland Professor alumni Lauren Hadaway (B.F.A. ’11), freelance filmmaker Film and Media Advice for forging your own path into the film industry. Read more News Meadows Student Film Picked Up by Major Distributor Film and Media The Book of Job, the 2017-19 Summer Film Production project of Meadows’ Division of Film and Media Arts, features a teenage boy whose expectations fail to align with reality. Read more Courses FILM 2304 Creativity and Ideation Troy Perkins This hybrid production and studies course on creativity in film and media examines the nature of creativity in different fields and businesses. Includes how creativity in film and media manifests both in finished works themselves and within the production process. Explores different sources of ideas and develops ways to generate a myriad of project pitches, stories and concepts. Students leave the course with multiple ideas for potential projects for future production courses. FILM 2354 Screenwriting 1 Amber Bemak or Lorena Padilla Introduces the language of screenwriting. Topics include the creative process of idea generation and ways to make a story filmable; the creation of memorable and redeemable characters; the arc and transformation of story, including the setup, the question or conflict, the turning point, and the climax or ending; and the details of proper format and presentation. Required of all majors. FLM 3384 Sound 1 Mark Kerins Comprehensive audio course with instruction and work in recording, editing, mixing and design. Topics include microphone selection and placement, Pro Tools, advanced recording techniques, routing in a studio and within software, Foley sound effects, automated dialog replacement, and introduction to audio processors. Also, individual and group sound-design projects. FILM 4353 Philosophy of Film and Media Sean Griffin Provides an overview of major philosophical and theoretical writings on cinema, television and new media (including the work of theorists such as André Bazin, Sergei Eisenstein, Laura Mulvey and Christian Metz) and demonstrates the application of various analytical perspectives to specific texts. View More Courses Student Work 8_AxqZPWGMM Film & Media Arts "VII" Created in Film Directing class, spring 2016. Director: Audrey Billups (B.F.A. Film & Media Arts, 2016) Shot by: Adrian Aguirre (B.A. Film & Media Arts / B.F.A. Dance, 2016) xJ_QF06dOB8 Film & Media Arts "Mobsters" PSA Spec commercial group project produced in TV Ad Concepting & Production class, January 2017. Director: David Fice (B.F.A. Film & Media Arts, 2019) Producer: Schuyler Morris (B.F.A. Film & Media Arts, 2017) DP: Kendall Kramer Design: Tanner Thompson Client rep: Madeline Khare AD: Presley Impson (B.F.A. Film & Media Arts, 2017) Other crew: Al Bouchillon (B.F.A. Film & Media Arts, 2019), Conrad Li, Eric Sedeno uRHJWOkhrQc Film & Media Arts "Grandma knows best" Southern Comfort Egg Nog spec commercial; group project made for TV Ad Concepting & Production class, 2017. Director: Tanner Thompson Producer/editor/colorist: Presley Impson (B.F.A. Film & Media Arts, 2017) DP: David Fice (B.F.A. Film & Media Arts, 2019) Design: Eric Sedeno / Conrad Li Client rep: Schuyler Morris (B.F.A. Film & Media Arts, 2017) Other crew: Al Bouchillon (B.F.A. Film & Media Arts, 2019), Madeline Khare, Kendall Kramer (B.F.A. Film & Media Arts, 2018) Upcoming Film & Media Events Meadows School of the Arts Meadows School of the Arts 6101 Bishop Dallas, Texas 75205 214-768-2000 Mailing Address: P.O. Box 750356 Dallas, Texas 75275-0356 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Apply Now Visit Us Back to top © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Areas of Study Advertising Art Art History Arts Management & Arts Entrepreneurship CCPA Creative Computation Dance Film & Media Arts Journalism Music Theatre Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Scholarships And Financial Aid Internships & Collaborations Visit Meadows Contact Meadows Admission Dual Admission About A Statement of Our Values Mission History Message From The Dean Dean's Executive Council Student Academic Services Academic Affairs Contact SMU Meadows Faculty Directory Faculty/Staff Bio Submission Form Facilities Resources Employment Meadows Graduate Student Council Site Map Report a Web Problem News and Events Art History After Hours Virtual Season Subscribers News Featured Media Our Calendar Performing Arts Season Music Recitals Events Newsletter Meadows Events Parking Directions & Public Transportation Meadows Recognition Ceremony The Movement Mission Ignite Arts Dallas SMU DataArts Meadows Prize Arts Entrepreneurship International Opportunities Interdisciplinary Studies Research and Creativity Alumni Submit Your Information Alumni News Alumni in the Media Alumni on LinkedIn Support Meadows Contact Development The Meadows Scholars Program Meadows Gala Apply NowVisit UsGive Menu Search Search Submit Menu Search