Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Academic Success Center What We are About The Class of 1956 Academic Success Center Building In honor of its fiftieth anniversary, Clemson’s Class of 1956 initiated a fundraising campaign for a new building in which to house academic success programs. The building opened in Spring 2012. Dr. Theodore G. Westmoreland, a member of the Class of 1956, also established at $1.5 million endowment to support undergraduate academic success programs. We are most grateful to Dr. Westmoreland and the dedicated alumni from the Class of 1956 for their support! Located in the heart of Clemson’s campus, the Academic Success Center (ASC) offers a variety of free services for all undergraduate students. Our services are designed to equip you with strategies and resources you can use to: Succeed in foundational courses Become a more confident and independent learner Engage in more productive and effective study and learning behaviors Manage your time more effectively Achieve your goal of earning a Clemson University degree The Academic Success Center staff provide students with the support they need to be confident, independent and lifelong learners. We connect you with professional academic coaches and peer learning leaders who can show you new ways to learn. Center staff can help you define what success looks like for you. Success happens at the Center! We Welcome and Support all Undergraduate Students at the Center ASC Inclusion Statement The Academic Success Center exists to inspire success in every student who participates in our programs and services. Celebrating and honoring the diversity of our students, faculty, and staff is at the core of inspiring success and a sense of belonging. The diversity of our Clemson community comes in many forms, but inclusion comes in only one form – when each member of our community experiences a real sense of belonging. We, the ASC staff, are committed to creating a welcoming and inclusive experience at the Center. We affirm that our goal of creating and delivering welcoming, inclusive, and equitable student learning experiences at the Center requires our active and ongoing commitment to listening and learning through engagement in professional development opportunities and confronting and dismantling inequalities. We acknowledge that this will be an ongoing work in progress and pledge to strive for continuous improvement. Our Goals Increase the representation and retention of professional and student staff from minoritized identity groups Increase the percentage of professional staff who participate in professional development activities around diversity, inclusion and equity topics Incorporate diversity, inclusion and equity topics into staff training programs Create an environment in the Academic Success Center building that is more inclusive of the diverse identities within our Clemson community Vision The students we serve will become independent, confident, and lifelong learners Purpose Inspiring Success: One student. One class. One Clemson. Mission Provide proactive, intentional, and innovative services that equip students with the tools, knowledge, and mindset needed to enhance their learning Goals Enhance student learning and development Create an inclusive and high-quality learning environment Increase engagement and collaboration with undergraduate students, faculty and staff Intended Outcomes Increased academic self-efficacy Increased commitment to academic achievement Increased knowledge of learning strategies Adoption of self-management behaviors Acquisition of transferable skills Adoption of growth mindset, self-management skills, and personal responsibility Positive impact on student success indicators Increased student satisfaction with ASC services Increased participation in ASC services Increased engagement in partnerships and collaborative activities Values Promote a welcoming and supportive learning environment. Appreciate the unique needs of each student by demonstrating unconditional positive regard. Cultivate a culture of integrity in academic and professional pursuits. Develop leadership skills among our student employees through practice and reflection. Pursue continuous evaluation to ensure delivery of high quality services. Collaborate with campus partners for the benefit of students. Home About the Center About the Class of 1956 ASC Awards Academic Advising Success Matters CU 1000 For New Students and Families For Faculty and Staff For Prospective Student Employees Contact Us Related Links Academic Advising Academic Eligibility Policy Academic Forgiveness Policy Center for Career and Professional Development Catalog, Undergraduate Courses Counseling and Psychological Services Libraries Majors Ombuds, Undergraduate Satisfactory Academic Progress Policy Student Accessibility Services Undergraduate Studies Writing Center Downloads ASC Annual Report Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram