Jump to navigation Penn Home Public Safety Contact Us Privacy Policy Search form Search Welcome Welcome Proud Penn Parents! About Our Office Visiting Penn and Philadelphia Penn Parent Experience Class of 2025 Parents Understanding the Transition to College Senior Parents Communications and Publications FAQs FERPA Academic and Student Life About the University of Pennsylvania Wellness and Mental Health Resources at Penn Academic Advising Dining Services Residential Services Off-Campus Services Student Registration and Financial Services Student Health Service Get Involved Parent Volunteers Penn Parents Council The Penn Fund Please Make a Gift About The Penn Fund Benjamin Franklin Society Honor Roll and Donor Appreciation FAQ Penn Family Founders Main menu Welcome Welcome Proud Penn Parents! About Our Office Visiting Penn and Philadelphia Penn Parent Experience Class of 2025 Parents Understanding the Transition to College Senior Parents Communications and Publications FAQs FERPA Academic and Student Life About the University of Pennsylvania Wellness and Mental Health Resources at Penn Academic Advising Dining Services Residential Services Off-Campus Services Student Registration and Financial Services Student Health Service Get Involved Parent Volunteers Penn Parents Council The Penn Fund Please Make a Gift About The Penn Fund Benjamin Franklin Society Honor Roll and Donor Appreciation FAQ Penn Family Founders You are here Home Welcome Proud Penn Parents! Welcome Proud Penn Parents! The Office of Parent Outreach and Development/Penn Parents is the central resource for connecting undergraduate parents and families to the University. Through events, communications, volunteer opportunities and philanthropic engagement, the Penn Parents team is committed to building relationships and creating avenues for parents to feel informed, connected and be uniquely involved in the life of the University. Penn parents are important members of the University community, and our office serves to provide connections and opportunities to help you support your student's success at Penn. We encourage you to get involved and attend Penn events on campus and in your home region to strengthen your relationship with the University and enrich your experience as a Penn parents. Please do not hesitate to contact our team if you have questions. We look forward to connecting with you and meeting you at Penn events. Hurrah! The Penn Parents Team Links University of Pennsylvania Information Brochure English Version Information Brochure Spanish Version Information Brochure Mandarin Version Contact 2929 Walnut Street Suite 300 Philadelphia, PA 19104 ppparent@dev.upenn.edu (215) 746-4646 Penn Home Public Safety Contact Us Privacy Policy The Office of Parent Outreach and Development/Penn Parents 2929 Walnut Street Suite 300 Philadelphia, PA 19104 215-746-4646 // ppparent@dev.upenn.edu © 2022 All Right Reserved.