Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links The Connors Family Learning Center Menu Main Nav The Connors Family Learning Center Book a Tutoring Appointment Back Back Close About Overview Meet Our Staff Student Employment Contact Services Overview Tutoring Writing Support and OWL ADHD & Learning Disability Support Test/Exam Services Forms & Policies Overview Student Grievance Policy PNL Request Form Documentation Guidelines Book a Tutoring Appointment Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close The mission of the Connors Family Learning Center is to enhance the quality of learning at Boston College by offering services to students with learning disabilities and tutoring and skills workshops to all BC students. Office Hours Monday–Friday 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. Tutoring Hours Monday–Thursday 10 a.m.–9 p.m. Friday 10 a.m.–3 p.m. Sunday 12 p.m.–8 p.m. Contact General Inquiries 617–552-8055 Tutoring Inquiries 617-552-0611 Our Services Tutoring & Academic Coaching Learn more Free Peer Tutoring in over 60 courses and skill focused Academic Coaching. Our tutors are undergraduate and graduate students in high academic standing and have been recommended by their professors. ADHD & Learning Disability Support Learn more Connors Family Learning Center assists students with ADHD and learning disabilities, helping to ensure their academic success at Boston College. Writing Support Learn more Is a service that offers Free Peer Tutoring and the Online Writing Lab (OWL). Staffed by graduate and undergraduate tutors trained at responding to their peers' work both critically and constructively. CFLC Calendar Print Back To Top Back To Top Connors Family Learning Center Thomas P. O'Neill Jr. Library, Room 200 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College