Skip to content marquette.edu // Search // Contacts // A-Z Index Marquette UniversityCollege of Education College of Education About About Dean's Welcome Faculty and Staff Directory Mission and Vision Contact Undergraduate Programs Teacher Education Educational Studies Resources Field Experience Student Resources Study Abroad Programs Graduate Counseling Education and Counseling Psychology Master's Degree in Counseling Ph.D. in Counseling Psychology Current Students Educational Policy and Leadership Programs Doctoral Program Master of Arts: Educational Policy and Foundations Master of Ed: Educational Leadership Master of Ed: STEM Teaching Master of Ed: Student Affairs in Higher Education Certification and Licensure Student Resources Licensure Certification and Licensure Post-baccalaureate Teaching Licensure Administrative Licenses Counseling Licensure Research Research Centers and Clinics Behavior Clinic Culture and Well-being Lab Hartman Literacy and Learning Center Latina/o Well-being Research Initiative Alumni Give Driven by purpose. Acting for justice. The College of Education is focused on preparing educators, administrators, mental health and student affairs professionals who are committed to social justice, education and the well-being of all. Learn more about our undergraduate and graduate programs. News and Events Upcoming Events May 1-7: Educator Appreciation Week May 7: CECP GSO Diversity Gala May 11-17: Finals Week May 20: Reception Celebrating Class of 2022 May 22: Commencement May 30: Campus Closed - Memorial Day Observance Let's continue the conversation! The College of Education's blog, The Marquette Educator, features stories from our classrooms and shines a light on the great work done by our faculty, students and alumni. The history of the College of Education is a long and rich one. For over 95 years, the college has helped prepare individuals to work as professionals in public and private school settings. What's New Dr. derria byrd to be honored at Père Marquette dinner with Excellence in Diversity and Inclusion Award Marquette MUSCLES camp for children with autism, July 11-27 U.S. News releases 2023 Best Graduate Schools Rankings - College of Education's programs moved up in rankings 2022 issue of the College of Education Magazine now available online Dr. Lynne Knobloch-Fedders promoted to associate professor with tenure and Dr. Mary Carlson promoted to clinical associate professor emerita. Marquette receives $1.2 million NSF grant to expand mathematics, science and computer science education in K-12 schools Fall 2021 Dean's List Visit our News Page Quick Links College of Education Magazine College calendars Commencement Employment Opportunities Handbooks and Forms for Students Immigration Status-Related Stress and Students Guide Professional Organizations and Resources Wisconsin Educator Preparation Program Annual Reports and Title II Reports Outreach Initiatives Behavior Clinic Hartman Literacy and Learning Center Education Deans of Greater Milwaukee PROBLEM WITH THIS WEBPAGE? Report an accessibility problem. To report another problem, please contact courtney.mcneal@marquette.edu. Stay up to date: college of education social media Tweets by MUEducation Accrediting Bodies Virtual Visits We can't wait to see you in person-- but until then, let's connect online! Education 2020 Onward and Upward. Support the College of Education Consider supporting the college through the Scholarship Fund, research or the many areas you can have an impact. Location Marquette University Schroeder Health and Education Complex Milwaukee, WI 53233 Phone: (800) 222-6544 Key Resources Campus contacts Campus map Contact us Search marquette.edu eMarq CheckMarq D2L MyJob MARQUETTE A to Z ABCDEFGHIJKLM NOPQRSTUVWXYZ Privacy Policy Legal Disclaimer Non-Discrimination Policy Accessible Technology © 2022 Marquette University ©