Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Jun 5 Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share via email Print this page Sunday Worship Service - Summer Schedule Show event image and caption Worship Service - Summer at the Chapel × Special Events, Religious, Featured Event, Worship, Sacred Text Study, Undergraduate Events, Graduate Events SUNDAY WORSHIP SERVICE Sunday, 10am, Princeton University Chapel Join us each Sunday for worship in the University Chapel, led by the dean and the associate dean of religious life and of the chapel, that draws students, faculty, staff, and townspeople together to hear God’s word, to sing God’s praise, to lift up the University in prayer. Each season, marvelous guest preachers are invited to preach in the chapel as well. We hope you can join us! *All persons, including members of the broader community, are welcome to attend this event if they are fully vaccinated against Covid-19 if over age 12. Registration is required for contact tracing purposes. Face coverings are optional in most University spaces, with some exceptions. Details may be found here. Register in advance through this link For those unable to attend in person, this service will be live streamed on the ORL YouTube page available through this link. Summer Preaching Schedule - All services begin at 10am for the Summer Sunday, May 29 - Joey Heath-Mason, United Methodist Campus Minister, American University Sunday, June 5 - Enger Muteteke, Resource Director, Greater NJ Conference, United Methodist Church Sunday, June 12 - Donna Owusu-Ansah, Founder & Creative Director, Inspiring Creativity Ministries Sunday, June 19 - Shannon Daley-Harris, Author, Child Advocate, and Retreat Leader Princeton, NJ Sunday, June 26 - Jimeka Jones Setzer, Pastor, National Community Church, Lincoln Theater Campus, Washington D.C. Sunday, July 3 - Theresa S. Thames, Associate Dean of Religious Life & the Chapel, Princeton University Sunday, July 10 - Kevin VanHook, II, Executive Director for Episcopal Charities of New York Sunday, July 17 - Corrie Berg, Director of Educational Ministries, Nassau Presbyterian Church Sunday, July 24 - Wesley Rowell, 2022 Summer Princeton Chapel Liturgist, M.Div. Candidate, Princeton Theological Seminary Sunday, July 31 - David King, Member of the Episcopal Church, M.Div. Candidate, Princeton Theological Seminary Sunday, August 7 - Kate Mackereth Fulton, (Incoming) Pastor of Trinity United, Methodist Church, Germantown, MD Sunday, August 14 - Catherine E. Williams, Lancaster Theological Seminary, Assistant Professor of Preaching and Worship, Director of Chapel Worship Sunday, August 21 - Phoebe Quaynor, Mt. Nittany United Methodist Church, State College, PA Sunday, August 28 - Otis Byrd, Jr., Office of Religious Life Intern ‘21–’22 M.Div. Candidate, Princeton Theological Seminary Date June 5, 2022 Time 10:00 a.m. Location University Chapel Related Events Mindfulness Meditation - Virtual Event Virtual Event 12:30 p.m. Jun 2 MINDFULNESS MEDITATION Thursdays at 12:30pm A weekly breathing meditation session led by Dean Matt Weiner. Open to all Princeton University ID holders (… Jummah Gathering Murray-Dodge 104 1:00 p.m. Jun 3 JUMMAH PRAYER Fridays at 1pm, Murray-Dodge Hall Join our Jummah Gathering in Murray-Dodge Hall beginning at 1pm Qur’anic Recitation, 1.15pm Call to Prayer (… Weekday Meditation with Dean Matt Weiner - Virtual Event Virtual Event 4:00 p.m. Jun 6 DAILY MEDITATION Weekdays, 4pm, Virtual Event All are welcome to join our ten-minute Weekday (Monday – Friday) Meditation led by Matthew C. Weiner, Ph.D.,… Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice