Skip to main content UCF News | Stories of Impact + Innovation | Orlando, FL Tuesday, May 31, 2022 88ºF Mostly cloudy Sections × UCF News | Stories of Impact + Innovation | Orlando, FL Arts Business Colleges Community Health Opinions Science & Tech Sports Student Life Tuesday, May 31, 2022 88ºF Mostly cloudy College of Optics and Photonics News 5 UCF Scholars to be Inducted into Academy of Science, Engineering and Medicine of Florida The organization’s members are top scholars and researchers from universities, public agencies, and industries statewide who are committed to addressing key issues and challenges impacting Florida. 2022 UCF Founders’ Day Honorees The annual celebration honors the academic achievements of our faculty members and students. UCF Helps World Recognize Glass is Vital to Art and Technology UCF faculty help plan and execute events to mark the U.S. kickoff of the International Year of Glass in the nation’s capital this week. UCF Recognized for Academic Excellence and Advancing Professional Careers in Engineering, Research and Innovation Led by the nation’s No. 3 homeland security program and some of the best engineering and research-innovation programs in the country, U.S. News & World Report ranked more than 30 UCF graduate programs among the best. Student Research Week Kicks off March 28 with a Whole New Look and Feel After decades of following the same format, Research Week has been reimagined to enhance the student experience. Recipients of the 2022 Seed Funding Program Announced The program awarded a total of $1 million to 32 teams. This is the third year the program has been available to UCF faculty and researchers. UCF Researchers Share Their Insights into Innovation and Inspiration Faculty members from across UCF share what it takes to achieve progress: collaboration, perseverance, diversity of perspective, acceptance of diversity, and, through it all, inspiration. UN Opening Ceremonies for the International Year of Glass Feature UCF Professor Optics Professor Kathleen Richardson was part of the group that made the bid to designate 2022 the year of glass. International Optics Leader Opens Application Lab in CREOL, Joins UCF Business Incubation Program A new partnership paves the way for students to take their prototypes from theoretical to literal and opens doors for regional industry growth. UCF Develops the World’s First Optical Oscilloscope The innovation could be a game-changer for communication technologies, such as phones and internet connections. UCF in the News Sea Turtle Nesting Season off to a Strong Start on Florida’s Atlantic Beaches Orlando Sentinel UCF Calls for More Research Spending, Faculty and Fundraising in Latest Strategic Plan Orlando Business Journal Where No Ice Was Seen Before: UCF Team Designs Lunar Satellite Tools to Hunt for Water Orlando Sentinel UCF, Orlando Health Testing Medical Technology That Could Help Detect Blood Clots Faster WOFL Fox 35 View All Stories about UCF Events at UCF May 31 Alcoholics Anonymous 7:00 pm - 8:00 pm Jun 1 Application Deadline: Peer Mentor for Summer Research Academy 12:00 am - 11:45 pm Jun 1 Application Deadline: Summer Research Academy 9:00 am - 10:00 pm View All Events Resources About UCF Today For the Media News Archive Pegasus Magazine Tell Us What You Think Suggest a Story University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida