Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Department of Aerospace Studies About Us Forward Arrow About Us Det 770 Cadre Great Clemson Graduates Air Force History "Flyin' Tigers" Mission Awards Privacy Disclaimer Back Arrow Back Prospective Cadets Forward Arrow Prospective Cadets FAQ Back Arrow Back Orientation Alumni Contact Us Forward Arrow Contact Us Contact an Admissions Advisor Back Arrow Back Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close Department of Aerospace Studies Frequently Asked Questions About Us show submenu for About Us Det 770 Cadre Great Clemson Graduates Air Force History "Flyin' Tigers" Mission Awards Privacy Disclaimer Prospective Cadets show submenu for Prospective Cadets FAQ Orientation Alumni Contact Us show submenu for Contact Us Contact an Admissions Advisor Clemson Home Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business Departments Department of Aerospace Studies Prospective Cadets Current: FAQ Frequently Asked Questions What is Clemson AFROTC like? Clemson AFROTC is a program that builds cadets' leadership skills. The academic class will teach military education, aerospace history, leadership, management and international studies. Leadership labs take place once a week. They are designed to train cadets to react as leaders and to provide an opportunity to gain leadership and management experience in various situations. Experienced cadets are tasked with leadership positions within the cadet corps and are responsible for training new cadets. Freshman and sophomore cadets attend one hour of class per week, two hours of Leadership Lab on Thursdays from 3:30 to 5:30 p.m. and two hours of physical training per week for a total formal commitment of five hours per week. Junior and senior cadets attend the same Leadership Lab and physical training sessions, but their class time increases to two and a half hours per week for a total formal commitment of six and a half hours per week. What is involved in the physical training? Physical training takes place three times a week on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, typically from 6:00 to 7:00 am, but times may vary from semester to semester. Each cadet must attend two of the three offered sessions. The physical training is designed to help you achieve a fitness level that meets Air Force standards and will mainly consist of calisthenics and running. The Air Force tests the number of push-up and sit-ups you can do in one minute as a gauge of strength, but we also perform lunges, jumping jacks, leg raises, etc. to help build overall body strength. We also play team sports such as soccer, ultimate frisbee, basketball, volleyball, etc. as part of our PT program in order to both have fun and stay in shape to meet fitness standards. The Air Force run is one and a half miles, and you receive points based on your time. Do I have to wear a uniform? You are required to wear a uniform all day on the days of your AFROTC classes (except freshman cadets, they wear normal civilian clothes) and on Thursdays during Leadership Lab (all cadets to include freshmen). You will also wear PT gear during PT unless otherwise specified by the Detachment Commander or the Operations Flight Commander. Do I have to live in a military dorm? No. However, we do have an agreement with Clemson University to provide our program with rooms in McCabe dorm for cadets. Our floor is not operated as a military environment. Our dorm is the same as all other dorms except that most students living there will also be members of the Air Force ROTC program. We try to handpick an upper-class cadet to live in the dorm as the Residence Advisor to mentor and provide assistance to our cadets. We highly recommend incoming freshmen live in McCabe dorm. This will help them to build stronger ties within the corps of cadets much sooner and give them the added support of fellow cadets and an upper-class mentor. Do I have to purchase my Air Force ROTC books and uniforms? No. Air Force ROTC provides all materials required for our classes, so books and uniforms will be issued to you. Can I participate in other activities and still do Air Force ROTC at Clemson? Yes! You are a student first and a cadet second, so you can participate in any activity a non-Air Force ROTC student can participate in. In fact, we highly encourage you to do so as that will help you to gain a diverse background. We have had cadets who were members of the Clemson Division I baseball, soccer, swim, cross country and rowing teams. We have had students who were actively involved in club and intramural sports such as rowing, soccer, frisbee, softball, flag football and basketball. We have students who are active in Tiger Band, chorus, and fraternities, sororities and various other organizations. What activities does the AFROTC program participate in? We participate in many activities to expose our cadets to team and leadership opportunities, as well as to expose them to diverse experiences to help them become well-rounded leaders. Some of these activities include: Whitewater rafting trips paintball Clemson University Outdoor Lab Team Ventures Course Clemson University Outdoor Lab High-ropes Course athletic competitions distinguished leaders at all levels as guest speakers joint activities/competitions with the Clemson Army ROTC program flight opportunities with the Civil Air Patrol Our cadets also have opportunities to participate in numerous Professional Development Training activities such as: shadowing active-duty officers incentive flights base visits How do I join AFROTC if I am already in college? The school must offer AFROTC in order for you to join. First, you must meet with a cadre member in the detachment to ensure that you will be able to complete the program and commission within the time frame of your remaining college program. Once this is established and you are enrolled as a full-time student, you will register for Air Force ROTC classes and the Leadership Lab just as you would any other class. Will the Air Force pay for my school? Only cadets who compete for and receive an Air Force scholarship or cadets who have contracted with the Air Force after attending Field Training will receive any funding from the Air Force. AFROTC offers many scholarship opportunities. Prospective AFROTC cadets who are in their senior year of high school can apply for a high school scholarship before entering college. Cadets who receive an Air Force scholarship will start to receive a monthly stipend when their scholarship is activated. Cadets who receive an Air Force scholarship will also receive $900 per year in book funds ($450 per semester). Our detachment currently has an agreement with the Clemson bookstore that allows our scholarship cadets to get their books without paying their full bill until their book allowance is posted to their accounts. Once in college, AFROTC cadets are eligible for an in-college scholarship. This process is competitive at the national level and nominations are handled by the host detachment cadre. Cadets who do not receive an Air Force scholarship, but do participate in the AFROTC program, can receive a monthly stipend starting in their junior year once they have completed Field Training in the summer between their sophomore and junior years. How do I apply for an Air Force scholarship if I am still in high school? Students who are seniors in high school can apply for a scholarship from May 1 to December 1 at http://afrotc.com/scholarships/. These scholarships are very competitive and will require not only an application but also a resume’ and interview with the Air Force ROTC detachment nearest their home. Interviews do not have to take place at the school you wish to attend unless it happens to be the one that is closest to your home. Do I have to attend basic training? Yes. You will attend Field Training for AFROTC cadets, which is four weeks long. This training is held at Maxwell AFB in Montgomery, Alabama, and partially in a field environment just outside of Hattiesburg, Mississippi. You will not attend any other type of basic training such as enlisted basic training. What happens after I graduate college and complete AFROTC? Upon completion of a bachelor's degree and AFROTC, you will be commissioned as a Second Lieutenant in the United States Air Force. What can I do in the Air Force if I am not a pilot? There are more than a hundred careers in the Air Force to choose from. A list of careers can be found at https://www.afrotc.com/life-after-rotc/. Depending on your assigned career field, you will incur an active duty service commitment ranging from four years, for the majority of career fields, to six years for Navigator and Air Battle Manager, and 10 years for pilots upon graduation from undergraduate pilot training. What is the difference between AFROTC and enlisting in the Air Force? Enlisting in the Air Force is done through a local recruiter followed by basic training and prospective technical training. This avenue does not require a college degree. AFROTC is one of three commissioning sources for the United States Air Force: Air Force Academy (USAFA) Air Force ROTC (AFROTC) Officer Training School (OTS) Upon completion of a bachelor's degree and AFROTC, you will be commissioned as an officer, followed by specific training in a career field. Officers are trained to be the leaders and supervisors of enlisted personnel. Rank, pay and career opportunities for officers are commensurate with their elevated level of responsibility. Who is eligible for an ROTC scholarship? You can apply for four-year ROTC scholarships while in high school. In-college scholarships are available once you've started college. The scholarships are based on merit, not need. See http://afrotc.com/scholarships/ for more information. What is the relationship between AFROTC and other students on Clemson's campus? Outstanding! Clemson University started as a military school and has a rich military tradition, so they fully support the military and both the Army and AFROTC programs to the fullest extent. What grades do I have to maintain? Scholarship cadets must maintain a 2.5 GPA, and all cadets must have a 2.0 GPA, to enter the Professional Officer Course (POC - for juniors and seniors). Air Force ROTC Detachment 770 Copyright © Clemson University Air Force ROTC Detachment 770 | 300 Tillman Hall, Clemson, S.C. 29634 864-656-3254 | Email Us | Website Updates intro-arrow Engage With Us Through Facebook Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson