Skip to main content Toggle Tools navigation Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Search University of Cincinnati UC Home Visit UC Support UC Directories UC Tools Canopy & Blackboard Catalyst OneStop Student Email Faculty / Staff Email Shuttle Tracker UCFileSpace UC Flex/ESS IT Help UC VPN Concur Success Factors Enter a search term to search UC pages or the directory. Search String University of Cincinnati About Contact Us Policies Procedures Standards Guidelines Awareness How to Manage Your Social Media Privacy Settings National Cybersecurity Awareness Month End Of Support (EOS) Online Meetings Services Two-Factor Authentication Risk Management Shredding Security Certificates Information Security Review McAfee ePolicy Orchestrator (ePO) Encryption Account & Password Help Notifications of Expiration Password Help (PSS) Setup New Accounts How to Choose a Password Compliance & Law Copyright Infringement Notifications of Expiration Password Help (PSS) Setup New Accounts How to Choose a Password About Policies Awareness Services Account & Password Help Notifications of Expiration Password Help (PSS) Setup New Accounts How to Choose a Password Compliance & Law Copyright Infringement Two-Factor Authentication Free Antivirus Report an Incident Contact Us UCIT Homepage Information Security Review Facebook Twitter Notifications of Expiration Passwords at UC expire on a periodic basis. Some applications do not have the ability to inform you ahead of time when your password is going to expire and you only find out when it asks you to select a new one. It is sometimes inconvenient and difficult to come up with a new password on the spur of the moment like that. Therefore IT@UC has created a system to notify you in advance that your password is about to expire. These notifications will be sent to you via email. Unfortunately, once we begin sending these messages, we can guarantee that some phishing scheme will try to take advantage of it. So, how will you be able to tell that a message is from UC and is not just another phishing attempt? By knowing and being able to recognize the real thing. We recommend that you familiarize yourself with how the real password expiration emails will look and their security features. You should know what to look for, so you can protect yourself. How can I know that the message is from UC and is not a phishing attempt? Legitimate emails from UC about your passwords... ...will address you by your name, not anything generic like "user" If you ever see an email about passwords that begins with, "Dear User," asks you to send a password, gives you a clickable link, or tries to send you to a site not inside of www.uc.edu, just delete the email. It is a phishing attempt and isn't worth your time. University of Cincinnati IT@UC Office of Information Security University Hall 51 Goodman Drive Cincinnati, OH 45221 Phone: 513-558-ISEC (4732) E-mail: infosec@uc.edu Notice of Non-Discrimination Alerts Clery and HEOA Notice Notice of Non-Discrimination eAccessibility Concern Privacy Statement Copyright Information © 2018 University of Cincinnati This website offers many PDF files for download, which require Adobe Reader to view.