Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Research Main navigation About Our Research Welcome What we do Research Enterprise Current Initiatives Research Expertise Commission on Research Next Who we are Leadership EVPR Organizational Chart Organization Team Directory Engage with Georgia Tech Engage with Georgia Tech Research & Development Services Interdisciplinary Research Institutes Partnerships & Co-Locations Commercialization & Tech Transfer Talent Acquisition & Prof Development Tech Startups & Entrepreneurship Industry & Business Services Join Our Research Team National Laboratories GT Community Georgia Tech Community For Researchers Research and Covid-19 Guidance Research Development Funding Opportunities Researcher Resources Resources Index For Students Apply to Georgia Tech Undergraduate Research Graduate Research Find a Mentor Impact Georgia Tech's Impact Economic Impact Creating the Next Research Report News News Federal Appointments Research Podcasts Events Contact Us Contact Us Research Contacts Open Search Search Search HELP Didn’t find what you are looking for? We'd like to help! GT Community Inquiries Contact: Office of EVPR Team All Other Inquiries Contact: Georgia Parmelee, Director of Research Communications Breadcrumb Home Welcome Welcome Research at the Georgia Institute of Technology is about finding connections between diverse ideas and disciplines. Those links are where breakthrough discoveries are possible that will enable humanity to continue growing safer, healthier, and wealthier over time. There is no shortage of these ideas at Georgia Tech. We are a community of more than 9,000 academic faculty, full-time researchers, and staff, serving nearly 44,000 of the brightest students in the world. From basic to translational research, we are in pursuit of both technical and policy solutions to the world’s greatest challenges and studying the ethical implications of such research. From the Georgia Tech Research Institute (GTRI) and 10 interdisciplinary research institutes, to our research centers and the many researchers within the schools and colleges, we are engaging with local, state and federal agencies, industry collaborators, philanthropic organizations, and others to develop and deploy exciting new solutions and bring new products and technologies to the world. We are a community of curious innovators, scholars, and creators, and the commitment to Georgia Tech’s motto of “Progress and Service” is deeply entrenched among us. These traditions harken back to a rich history rooted in interdisciplinary problem-solving, leadership and service as an engine of economic development, and a commitment to educate the next generation of innovators. We stand as one of the top international universities in computing, engineering, design, the sciences, liberal studies, and business. As we look forward, we hope to help shape the future of the national and international research landscape and remain committed to research that’s transformative and lasting for the state of the Georgia, the nation, and the world. Chaouki T. Abdallah Executive Vice President for Research Georgia Institute of Technology Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Accessibility Download PDF Reader Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN