Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Information for Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni Search BC.edu Links Career Center Menu Main Nav Career Center Meet With a Career Coach Back Back Close About Overview Meet Our Team Student Employment Contact and Visit Us Meet with a Career Coach Learning Outcomes Career Clusters Overview Career Exploration Business, Consulting, and Finance Communication, Arts, and Media Education, Nonprofit, and Social Service Government, Law, and Public Policy Healthcare and Nursing Science, Technology, and Engineering Jobs and Internships Overview Be Career Ready Internships Jobs Resumes Cover Letters Online Presence Networking Interviewing Evaluating an Offer and Salary Negotiation Graduate School Overview Applying to Graduate School Law School For Current Graduate Students Events and Programs Overview Event Calendar Careerfest Endeavor Schedule of Events Endeavor Fellows Endeavor Keynote Endeavor FAQs Information for Alumni Envision Designing Your Career Course Alumni Job Shadow Program Career Fairs and Networking Events Campus Recruitment Eagle Intern Fellowship Career Closet Praxis Summer Program Winter Break Challenge Illumination Awards Outcomes Resources Overview Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Handshake Guide Eagle Exchange Guide Meet With a Career Coach Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC Career Center Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Information For Alumni Home Events and Programs Endeavor Information for Alumni Endeavor Schedule of Events Endeavor Fellows Endeavor Keynote Endeavor FAQs Information for Alumni Welcome Alumni Volunteers! We are excited to have you join us for Endeavor, a virtual three-day career exploration program for liberal arts sophomores and juniors. Your participation will help hundreds of Boston College students explore potential career paths and gain the confidence to move forward in their career journeys. Types of Alumni Volunteer Opportunities Participate in an alumni panel in your field of interest Act as a mentor to a small group of students Host a virtual immersive experience at your organization Endeavor 2022 Alumni Schedule To ensure the safety of our community, Endeavor 2022 will take place virtually. Alumni Panel Volunteer Schedule Alumni Mentor Volunteer Schedule Alumni Panel Volunteer Schedule Thursday, January 13, 2022 10:00–10:15 a.m. Opening Endeavor Keynote A prominent liberal arts alum discusses the advantage provided by a liberal arts education. 10:30–11:00 a.m. Prepare for Panels and Networking Time to set up Zoom call and meet other alumni panelists. 11:00 a.m.–7:00 p.m. Alumni Panels and Networking Join other BC alumni to share your career journey with students interested in your industry. The panels are followed by short breakout networking sessions. Healthcare and Nursing: 11:15 a.m.–12:30 p.m. Communication, Arts, and Media: 12:30–1:45 p.m. Education, Nonprofit, and Social Service: 1:45–3:00 p.m. Science, Technology, and Engineering: 3:00–4:15 p.m. Government, Law, and Public Policy: 4:15–5:30 p.m. Business, Consulting, and Finance: 5:30–6:45 p.m. Alumni Mentor Volunteer Schedule Wednesday, January 12, 2022 2:30–3:30 p.m. Alumni Mentor Group Meetings Meet with your group of mentees and discuss career and networking tips. Friday, January 14, 2022 12:00–1:00 p.m. Alumni Mentor Group Meetings Regroup with your group of mentees and debrief the Endeavor experience. Note: Schedule is subject to change Back To Top Back To Top Career Center Southwell Hall 38 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-3430 About Departments & Programs How can we help you? Events Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College