Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Piano Performance/Collaborative Piano and Chamber Music MM You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Piano Performance/Collaborative Piano and Chamber Music MM Apply Request More Info Piano Performance/Collaborative Piano and Chamber Music MM Admissions Information Careers, Internships & Opportunities Ensembles & Performance Master's Audition Requirements Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Music in Piano Performance/Collaborative Piano and Chamber Music Increase your musical achievements and gain proficiency in piano with the Master of Music in Piano Performance/Collaborative Piano and Chamber Music in the Boyer College of Music and Dance at Temple. This interdisciplinary, 48-credit master’s degree program deeply immerses you in music theory and piano performance, enhancing your commercial viability as a collaborative pianist and preparing you to pursue doctoral studies. Fully accredited by the National Association of Schools of Music, this combination master’s program integrates rigorous academics and musical performance to prepare you for professional work in your field. You’ll develop the in-depth knowledge and expertise required to perform as a soloist or part of an ensemble. The Piano Performance/Collaborative Piano and Chamber Music MM appeals to advanced pianists interested in chamber music, coaching, solos and accompaniment. Study focuses on performance of piano as well as the literature of piano. Learning in this program is hands-on, as students join and perform with a host of ensembles and orchestral repertoires. Students are trained to appreciate how text can affect musical performance. develop their pianistic skills in order to meet the demands of advanced chamber and accompanied works. distinguish between the many different kinds of ensemble participation, depending on the media. learn how to conduct rehearsals. listen to the many events occurring simultaneously in ensembles. In addition to required courses, all entering students must take Diagnostic Examinations in aural skills, counterpoint, harmony and music history prior to the first term. Learn more about admissions requirements for the Piano Performance/Collaborative Piano and Chamber Music MM. How to Apply Auditions Classes & Curriculum The 48-credit Master of Music in Piano Performance/Collaborative Piano and Chamber Music can be completed over six semesters. Classes, which are held on Temple’s Main Campus, include the following. Baroque Keyboard Performance Practice Instrumental Ensemble Listening/Learning Skills Piano I Piano Accompanying Chamber Music Piano Pedagogy I Recital Accompanying Research in Music Students are also required to complete a comprehensive final project in the form of an oral presentation or a written document, demonstrating cumulative knowledge and skills gained during the course of study. An hourlong public recital is also required as a culminating event for this master’s program. The recital, which satisfies the three-credit Piano Major-Recital course, must be performed on campus and is adjudicated by three faculty members. Learn more about courses and requirements for the Piano Performance/Collaborative Piano and Chamber Music MM. Related Graduate Degrees Collaborative Piano and Chamber Music MM Collaborative Piano and Opera Coaching MM Music Education PhD Music PhD Music Therapy PhD Related Graduate Certificates Professional Studies Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Music offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,095.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,458.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Explore Boyer Faculty Faculty Discover keyboard studies faculty in the Boyer College of Music and Dance. Explore Boyer Faculty See faculty members in Boyer keyboard studies degree programs. Our Advisors Faculty advisors can help you navigate your program and discuss research opportunities, teaching assistantships and more. Learn more about Boyer College of Music and Dance faculty. Program Contact Charles Abramovic is the chair of the Keyboard Studies Department. Phone: 215-204-8646 Email: abrajac@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Participating in student groups provides peer support and future professional contacts. There are more than 200 student organizations at Temple University. ConTemplum hosts numerous concerts, forums and seminars to foster a community of musicians who are dedicated to exploring contemporary musical ideas and performing new compositions. Music Teachers National Association offers a vast educational network of conferences, continuing education opportunities and small business resources to support the enrichment and professionalism of music teachers. OWLchestra Community Orchestra is a community string orchestra composed of students and community members who want to play music together in a low-stress environment. Learn more about clubs and organizations. Accreditation The Boyer College of Music and Dance is accredited by the American Music Therapy Association, National Association of Schools of Music, National Association of Schools of Dance and Pennsylvania Department of Education. BC-PPPM-MMUS Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Piano Performance/Collaborative Piano and Chamber Music MM Admissions Information Careers, Internships & Opportunities Ensembles & Performance Master's Audition Requirements Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info