Skip to main content AIISP is a CALS-based unit that provides Indigenous-related academic, student support and outreach services to Cornell University. Search Cals Menu Cals Cals Menu Education Research Outreach & Extension Diversity & Inclusion About Quick Links American Indian and Indigenous Studies Program Main navigation About Land Acknowledgment History News Community Partners People Events Academics & Research AIISP Funding Research AIIS Undergraduate Minor AIIS Graduate Minor AIIS Courses Resources Student Life Leadership & Professional Development Student Organizations Caldwell Hall Resources Akwe:kon About Akwe:kon Programming & Events Engagement & Community Outreach House Resources Apply Future Students Undergraduate Students Transfer Students Graduate Students Navigation Main mobile navigation About About Overview Land Acknowledgment History News Community Partners People Events Academics & Research Academics & Research Overview AIISP Funding Research AIIS Undergraduate Minor AIIS Graduate Minor AIIS Courses Resources Student Life Student Life Overview Leadership & Professional Development Student Organizations Caldwell Hall Resources Akwe:kon Akwe:kon Overview About Akwe:kon Programming & Events Engagement & Community Outreach House Resources Apply Future Students Future Students Overview Undergraduate Students Transfer Students Graduate Students Search CALS Search Main navigation Education Research Outreach & Extension Diversity & Inclusion About Quick Links Main navigation Panels Back Education Education Overview Admissions Degrees & Programs CALS Experience Schools & Departments Our Education Impact Back Research Research Overview Research Areas Our Experts Student Research Our Research Impact Back Outreach & Extension Outreach & Extension Overview On Campus & In Your County Our Extension Impact Back Diversity & Inclusion Overview News & Events Resources Mentorship Fieldwork Diversity & Inclusion Committee Department and Unit Efforts Dean’s Inclusive Excellence Seminar Series Back About About Overview College Leadership Our Values & Impact Newsroom Our Locations Contact Us Back Discover CALS See how our current work and research is bringing new thinking and new solutions to some of today's biggest challenges. Agriculture Animals Applied Economics Biology Climate Change Communication Environment Food Global Development Health + Nutrition Plants American Indian & Indigenous Studies Program The American Indian and Indigenous Studies Program (AIISP) provides a unique combination of American Indian and Indigenous Studies (AIIS) courses, student leadership opportunities and an undergraduate residential experience at Akwe:kon, the first Native student residence hall in North America. Land Acknowledgment Cornell University is located on the traditional homelands of the Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' (the Cayuga Nation). The Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' are members of the Haudenosaunee Confederacy, an alliance of six sovereign nations with a historic and contemporary presence on this land. The confederacy precedes the establishment of Cornell University, New York state and the United States of America. We acknowledge the painful history of Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' dispossession, and honor the ongoing connection of Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' people, past and present, to these lands and waters. This land acknowledgment has been reviewed and approved by the traditional Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' leadership. Learn more about land acknowledgments here. In addition to the Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' land acknowledgment but separate from it, the AIISP faculty would like to emphasize: Cornell's founding was enabled in the course of a national genocide by the sale of almost one million acres of stolen Indian land under the Morrill Act of 1862. To date the university has neither officially acknowledged its complicity in this theft nor has it offered any form of restitution to the hundreds of Native communities impacted. For additional information, see the Cornell University and Indigenous Dispossession website here. Cornell University & Indigenous Dispossession Project AIISP launched the Cornell University and Indigenous Dispossession Project in June 2020 to research Cornell's ties to the violent displacement of Indigenous peoples and advocate for redress. The project was prompted by a March 2020 study published in High Country News that exposed the ties between Indigenous dispossession and the United States Land-Grant College system, and Cornell's prominent role in that process. AIISP has produced a blog that contains informative articles, videos, and audio podcasts about these issues. AIISP plans diplomatic outreach to the almost 250 Indigenous Nations affected by Cornell's actions to discuss this history and possible remedies. Read more on our blog. Image Caption Button Photo by the Cornell Chronicle. American Indian and Indigenous Studies Speaker Series Fall 2021 Explore the fall 2021 speaker series Professors Jolene Rickard and Jodi Byrd Recognized on List of Top 35 Influential American Indian Scholars To celebrate Native American Heritage Month 2021, AcademicInfluence.com focuses on 35 scholars from indigenous people groups in North America who have had a profound influence on academia, literature, history, the arts, science, politics, activism, and more: AcademicInfluence.com 2021 Influential American Indian Scholars. Congratulations Professors Jolene Rickard (Ska:rù:rę'/Tuscarora) and Jodi Byrd (Chickasaw Nation of Oklahoma)! Play Canandaigua Treaty Teach-in with Jamie Jacobs (Tonawanda Seneca) Canandaigua Treaty Teach-in with Jamie Jacobs (Tonawanda Seneca). AIISP Events Has taxonomy terms (with depth) Article Type (field_article_type) CALS MagazineReportField NoteFutureCastMultimediaNewsSpotlight Event Type (field_event_type) ClassConferenceExhibitFairFestivalField DayLectureMeetingSeminarWebinarWorkshop Seminar Settler Colonialism, Sovereignty and Apartheid: Palestine and U.S. Settler Colonialism The fourth installment of The Institute for Comparative Modernities' (ICM) year-long series, "Settler Colonialism, Sovereignty, Apartheid," with Eric Cheyfitz and Eman Ghanayem in discussion about Settler Colonialism and the comparative context... American Indian and Indigenous Studies Program Webinar April 28, 2022 Building Allyship Series: land Acknowledgements as Metaphor: Allyship and Land Back Movements Quick View land acknowledgements are frequently given at official Cornell events, but what do they represent? We will dive into the performative aspects of land acknowledgements and how land-grant universities such as Cornell have a responsibility to move... American Indian and Indigenous Studies Program Lecture April 13, 2022 The Name of Ganędagǫ: Hall: What Does it Mean? Why is it Significant? Quick View Join Jessica Martin (Gayogo̱hó:nǫʔ/Cayuga Nation) in a discussion on the importance of “Ganędagǫ:” in the Gayogo̱hó:nǫʔ language, the status of the language, and community-based efforts to promote language learning and revitalization. Martin, as... American Indian and Indigenous Studies Program Explore more events AIISP News Has taxonomy terms (with depth) Article Type (field_article_type) CALS MagazineReportField NoteFutureCastMultimediaNewsSpotlight Event Type (field_event_type) ClassConferenceExhibitFairFestivalField DayLectureMeetingSeminarWebinarWorkshop News January 25, 2022 Quick View Indigenous-Cornell partnership publishes Gayogo̱hó:nǫʔ history The Tompkins County Historical Commission will release a short book written by Cornell Professor Kurt Jordan with the help of Gayogo̱hó:nǫʔ community members, titled “The Gayogo̱hó:nǫʔ People in the Cayuga Lake Region: A Brief History.” American Indian and Indigenous Studies Program Land News November 29, 2021 Quick View Art and exhibits illustrate hope for climate resilience Art, sculpture, photos, and prints bring research on climate adaptation and resiliency to life at Cornell Botanic Gardens' Nevin Welcome Center. The exhibits illustrate the value and impact of a collaborative project with faculty and indigenous farmers, fishers, herders, hunters, and orchardists across the globe. American Indian and Indigenous Studies Program Cornell Botanic Gardens Environment Explore more news & updates Future Indigenous students We recruit qualified Indigenous applicants from all parts of the United States, Canada and across the globe. Learn more about how we can help. Undergraduate students Graduate students Transfer students Explore the American Indian & Indigenous Studies Program About About People Our history Academics Undergraduate minor Graduate minor AIIS courses Campus Life Akwe:kon Student life Financing your studies Stay connected Follow us to get the latest updates on our students, events and programs. Like us on Facebook Follow us on Instagram Sign up for our newsletter Life. Changing. Visit CALS Explore Programs Diversity & Inclusion Support CALS Contact CALSLinks & Resources Information For Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Faculty & Staff CALS Alumni NYS Residents Newsroom Upcoming Events Media Relations CALS Directory Jobs at CALS Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter Youtube Footer menu Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Equal Education & Employment Land Acknowledgment Sustainability Commitment Emergency Information