Pennsylvania Muscle Institute Logo Toggle Menu Members Education & Training Seminars Journal Club Muscle Club News Technology & Facilities Contact The Pennsylvania Muscle Institute The PMI is an interdisciplinary group of research investigators. Our goal is to discover the mechanisms of muscle function, muscle disease and motile biological systems through innovative and cross-disciplinary research, and to apply these discoveries to new therapies. See the Latest Events Jun 01, 2022 @ 12:00PM Cell motility journal club Clinical Research Building - CRB 702 Conference Rm. Speaker: Kyle Barrie Jun 07, 2022 @ 1:00PM Muscle club Clinical Research Building - CRB 702 Conference Rm Speaker: Nora Yucel, Ph.D. Jun 08, 2022 @ 12:00PM Cell motility journal club Clinical Research Building - CRB 702 Conference Rm. Speaker: Fred Fregoso View All Events Arrow Icon Publications May 26, 2022 Epigenetic, genetic and maternal effects enable stable centromere inheritance May 24, 2022 Defects in the proteome and metabolome in human hypertrophic cardiomyopathy May 23, 2022 Centromere innovations with a mouse species View All Publications Arrow Icon News Apr 29, 2022 Congratulations to yale e. goldman for his election to the american academy of arts and sc... Feb 02, 2022 Dr. melike lakadamyali is featured in the nigms/nih "biomedical beat blog." Nov 08, 2021 New paper from quentin mcafee and coworkers in arany lab find ttn mutations that result in... View All News Arrow Icon Cell Motility Journal Club CMJC is a weekly meeting of PMI faculty and lab members where current scientific literature is discussed. Many established scientists can trace their introduction to the analysis of scientific literature to this meeting, as it has a lively history that reaches back to the 1960s. Click to see our Journal Club schedule. Muscle Club Muscle Club is a forum for faculty, fellows, and trainees to present hour-long seminars on their research or results from the current scientific research. This group is focused on muscle biology and muscle disease, and it is a key activity of our NIH-sponsored, T32 training program Click here to see our Muscle Club schedule. Seminars The PMI invites distinguished scientists to give research lectures and to meet with interested Penn scientists. Our popular seminar series is attended by investigators from a broad constituency, and all members of the Penn Community are invited to attend. Click Here to See Our Seminar Program. Previous Slide Next Slide Membership at PMI Get to know our interdisciplinary team of scientists. Find a Member Arrow Icon Pennsylvania Muscle Institute 700A Clinical Research Building Philadelphia, PA 19104 Phone: 215-573-9758 PMI Director, E. Michael Ostap Ph.D., Professor of Physiology pmireply@pennmedicine.upenn.edu Members Events Publications Conf. Room Contact Us Follow Us: Sorry, your browser is out of date The web browser you are using is too old to view this site. Please update your browser or use Internet Explorer 11 or the current version of Microsoft Edge, Firefox, Chrome or Safari. Thank you!