Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Marketing + Communications Marketing + Communications right arrow down arrow Creative + Brand right arrow down arrow Photo + Video right arrow down arrow Photocatalog Brand + Design right arrow down arrow University Brand Guide Brand Guide for Digital Use Brand Resources Digital + User Experience right arrow down arrow Analytics Web (AEM) right arrow down arrow Accessibility Digital Governance right arrow down arrow DNS Requests Web Policy AEM User Guide right arrow down arrow Getting Started in AEM Sites Console Creating Pages Editing Pages Advanced Tips & Tricks News Social right arrow down arrow Social Media Policy Social Media Strategy Social Media Account Request Form Social Media Content Request Form Social Media Feedback Form Social Media Ambassador Program Marketing + Advertising Media + Content right arrow down arrow UC News UC Magazine Media Contacts Resources right arrow down arrow Push Forward Push Forward Toolkit Contact Home » About UC » Marketing + Communications » Digital + User Experience » Web (AEM) » AEM User Guide » Getting Started in AEM Set Navigation title in component Analytics Web (AEM) Accessibility Digital Governance DNS Requests Web Policy AEM User Guide Getting Started in AEM Sites Console Creating Pages Editing Pages Advanced Tips & Tricks News Social Social Media Policy Social Media Strategy Social Media Account Request Form Social Media Content Request Form Social Media Feedback Form Social Media Ambassador Program Getting Started in AEM Access Overview Logging In Access Overview All users with an active UC login have read-only access to AEM. In order to obtain editing access within AEM, you must complete the training. Get started by visiting the AEM training page and submitting a request Roles and Permissions Permissions for AEM are assigned to each individual site. If you need permissions for more than one site, be sure to include that in your initial request. Within each site there are two levels of access: Basic: Basic authors have full access to edit any page within the site they have permissions to. However, they do not have access to publish their changes live to the website. They will need either the apex user or another advanced user to publish their changes for them. Advanced: Advanced authors can make their edits and immediately publish them live on the website. They do not need the assistance of the apex user to push new content live. Definition An Apex User is the main point of contact or liason between departments, units or colleges and the Digital + User Experience team. If you need assistance determining who the apex user for your area is, please submit a ticket. Logging In Users can log into AEM at author.uc.edu. You will need to use DUO Two factor Authentication in order to login. You do not need to connect over the VPN. From the home screen, you will click on "Switch to Touch UI" in order to use the interface used with the new accessible template. Updating your default interface If you were previously an author on an old-template site, you may need to update your default user settings. If your screen is not matching the images in this guide, please try the below steps. Click on the user icon in the top right corner. Click "My Preferences" Ensure "Use Classic Authoring Experience" is unchecked. Click Accept. Next Sites Console - Navigating AEM University of Cincinnati Edwards 2, Suite 3300 Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-3001 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati Edwards 2, Suite 3300 Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-3001 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top