Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Center for Global Engagement Menu About CGE Main Office Dr. Jeffrey Hamilton Lynae Jordan Robert Leis Holly Joyner Jorge Vielledent International Student and Scholar Services Office Dr. Mark Bryant Grace Semple-Paul, JD Leslie Hicks Timothy Johnson Brandon Hoye Delores Melendez Study Abroad Office Bo White, Ed.D. Kodi Henderson Katie Klingstedt Sophia Ferris Global Gateway Program Events News Study Abroad Why Study Abroad Steps to Study Abroad Choosing a Program Academics Study Abroad Advising Appointment Costs and Funding Application Timeline Parent Information Baylor Study Abroad Programs Types of Programs Programs by Location Areas of Study Explore Programs Internships and Research Abroad Health & Safety I'm Accepted..What's Next? Tips Photo Contest Social Media Takeover Study Abroad Fair Program Director Portal Program Director Development Videos Propose a New Program BearsAbroad GlobalProtect VPN International Travel with Duo Global Safety and Security FAQ International Student and Scholar Services International Students New Student Information F-1 Degree-Seeking Students J-1 Exchange Students Paying Taxes International Scholars Visiting Faculty & Researchers Health Services and Insurance - Scholars J-1 Scholar Guidelines Maintaining Status Programs & Activities Spring 2022 Trips & Special Events Global Friendship Program CGE Ambassadors International Organizations International Student & Scholar Workshops Academic and Language Resources International Student Resource Hub Community Support Page Summer Courses in China Faculty and Staff Resource Tool Kit ISSS Programming Framework Global Baylor Certificate Program Enrollment and Benefits Submission Process Global Engagement Courses Testimonials Intercultural Competence Courses Global Calendar & Events First Abroad Fellows Program Connecting to Global Initiatives Quality Enhancement Plan Global Baylor in the News International Education Week Global Gateway Our Program About Us Cornell Menking Meredith Moore Nate Hutcherson Christine Fabiszewski Matthew Piech Tanya Vernon Debra Wainscott Tracey Jones Amber McKinney Visitor Directions to the Global Gateway Program Current Students IY - Undergraduate MIY - Graduate International Student Academic Support STL 1205 - Academic Success Strategies for International Students New Students On-Campus Study Information Frequently Asked Questions GGP Arrival Information On-Campus Housing & Dining Finances Life at Baylor Academics Faculty & Staff Toolkit Toolkit Global Scholars Why Global Scholars Global Scholars Application Process Starting in Dublin Studying in Dublin, Ireland Course Work Cost Residence Hall in Dublin Global Scholars Community Global Scholars Leadership Register Travel Faculty/Staff Only Travel Faculty & Student Group Travel Student Only Travel Give Baylor>Center for Global Engagement>Study Abroad>FAQ FAQ Study Abroad 1. How early should I study abroad? Each program has its own deadline and scholarships have deadlines as well. Refer to your specific program web page in BearsAbroad for details. 2. What types of programs are offered? Baylor offers two different type of programs: Group Study Abroad Programs: Students will travel with other Baylor students and a Baylor professor. Some or all courses are taught by Baylor professors. Group programs can be one semester or one summer session in length. Exchange/Affiliate Programs: Students will travel to a host university independently (note that this does not necessarily mean that the student will be the only Baylor student attending the university for the desired period of time). Courses are taught by the host university's faculty and in English unless noted on the program page. Exchange/affiliate programs can be for a summer sessions, semester, or a full year. Both types of programs are available in the summer and during the semester, some for a full year. It is possible and encouraged to study abroad more than once during a student's Baylor career and students may choose any program that interests them. Each program has a faculty member who oversees the program and will be able to answer any specific questions a student might have (this person being called the "program director"). 3. What is a program fee? What does it cost? The cost structure varies a bit by program and location. For example, an exchange program is often a straight-forward arrangement where tuition is still paid to Baylor, but you attend a different university by institutional agreement. Affiliate programs involve tuition, but also a packaged fee that covers room and board and potentially excursions. These costs vary by location and duration. Summer programs are usually 3 to 6 credit hours and the costs vary by location, credits, and the amount of travel. Each program has a brochure page and an overview of costs are found that outline what you will need to invest to participate in the course. Please visit the Bears Abroad website to find out more. 4. Are there scholarships available? Yes! Please see our Scholarships & Financial Aid website to learn more about the options available to you! 5. Can I use my financial aid while I study abroad? Yes! Students enrolled in a Baylor-approved study abroad program are considered to be attending Baylor University and are eligible for financial aid. We recommend speaking with your Financial Aid counselor for other specific scholarships, loans, etc. that could be applied towards your study abroad experience and to determine if it will be sufficient to cover the program costs. You can contact Financial Aid at baylor.edu/sfs/contactus. 6. Can I study abroad my freshman year? You must have completed 30 credit hours on campus prior to study abroad. This is true whether you bring courses such as advanced placement or transfer credits with you. It is important to develop strong study habits at the collegiate level and to adjust to Baylor systems prior to tackling a new culture or coursework in another country. You can study abroad the summer after your freshman year, though, so come see us early. 7. What should I do once I am accepted before going abroad? 1. Carefully read and save ALL the emails and materials we and our partners provide you. 2. Work directly with our office whenever possible, and resist recruiting or allowing your parents to take care of matters for you; after all, you are the one who is studying abroad, not your parents! 3. Practice pro-active information-seeking. Voice your concerns to program directors well in advance, instead of waiting for us to anticipate all your individual needs and questions. 4. If after having reviewed your program materials and emails you still can't find the answers to your questions, don't hesitate to ask. 5. If you are studying abroad, you must have a valid passport. It can take up to 6 months for a new passport. Please visit the U.S. Department of State website for more information on getting your passport. 8. If I study abroad, will I graduate on time? Research in the past twenty years has shown that most study abroad students have no problem fulfilling the requirements to graduate within four years. However, this does take planning.Talk to a study abroad advisor today! 9. Can I study abroad my final semester? Yes! However, students who participate in a study abroad not taught by Baylor faculty their final semester at Baylor should not expect to graduate at the end of that term because differences in academic calendars between Baylor and foreign universities make it unlikely that official transcripts will reach Baylor in time for graduation certification. For more detailed information, the student should discuss this with their study abroad advisor and contact the appropriate degree plans office. 10. What if I study abroad on a non-Baylor program? If you are planning on studying abroad on a program not offered by Baylor, please click HERE for more information. 11. What do I do once I am back on campus? It is YOUR responsibility to have your transcript from your host university mailed back to Baylor. Some universities will do this for you, but you still need to check with the transcript office to see if they automatically send it or if you need to fill out a transcript request form. Mail all transcripts to: Center for Global Engagement - Baylor University One Bear Place #97381 Waco, TX 76798 12. Does Baylor provide international health insurance? In an effort to ensure that every student is prepared for their time abroad, we require that students be enrolled in our blanket international insurance policy and attend a mandatory meeting where we discuss health and safety issues before they leave the country. You can click HERE for more information regarding international insurance coverage and claim information. 13. Where can I find additional safety information for various countries? Please visit our Health and Safety page for more information. 14. What if I have an emergency while abroad? Students are provided with emergency contact cards which include an emergency number which is monitored 24 hours a day so they can reach our staff at any time during or after office hours and on weekends. We also ask students to leave contact information and intended itineraries with our staff when they travel away from their program sites. This way, in the event of an emergency, our partners or directors know where and how to reach our students. Students, parents/guardians, and study abroad advisors can expect announcements about safety and security from Baylor should conditions warrant such information. If you are a parent, please check with your student to find out if they listed you as an emergency contact on their application. If not, please ask them to contact their study abroad advisor to add you to their file; that way, we can email you in the event that there is a special alert during the program. 15. Tell me more about the Certificate in Global Engagement. Go to the Baylor.edu/globalbaylor page on the CGE website. You will learn more and be able to register for the Certificate. Any undergraduate student is eligible to earn one. 16. COVID19 and Study Abroad Please keep up to date on Baylor decisions related to health, safety, and the impact of the coronavirus on international travel and international programs by reviewing this page HERE At present, international travel is suspended till October 1, 2020, per University policy. We are pressing forward for Spring 2021 and will make final decisions mid to late October for the Spring term. We are also pressing forward to run summer programs in 2021 and we will make any final decisions related to those programs after the first of the year. All deposits are 100% refundable for students. For any further questions, please set up a meeting with a study abroad advisor at the Center for Global Engagement. Baylor is getting regular updates from colleagues at the US Department of State, the CDC, and peer institutions here and abroad in assessing and prioritizing the health and safety of students, faculty, and staff. 17. In light of the announcement that Summer 1 study abroad has been canceled for 2021, will there be summer 2 and Fall programs? Yes, we are still planning on summer 2 and Fall programs. The date to make final decisions on summer 2 programs will be April 1, 2021. We remain vigilant in assessing the travel restrictions and continue to make decisions based on the information available. We also follow guidance from the CDC, the U.S. Department of State, local partners around the world, and peer universities. 18. If my program has been canceled due to COVID-19, can I apply to another program or can I get a refund? Yes. You can apply to go to a later program and all deposits are refundable. Just contact the Center for Global Engagement and we'll help you navigate the next steps. 19. This was my last chance to study abroad before graduating. What are my options? If this is the summer before your senior year, you have three primary options. You may try to go on a summer 2 or Fall program that aligns with your degree plan. You may elect to do an internship that can either be virtual or overseas. The internship, though, will likely not be for credit. Contact study abroad staff at the Center for Global Engagement for details. Thirdly, you may consider the Baylor in Washington DC semester and pursue an internship within an international organization. Details for the Baylor in Washington semester are HERE Remember you can pursue the Certificate in Global Engagement through a variety of activities. This is a transcripted credential that can elevate your resume or CV. 20. I am a faculty member and I want to propose a program for 2022 and beyond. How do I do that? Baylor University offers roughly 40 faculty-led study abroad programs in which one or more Baylor faculty members design, budget, recruit, and lead students through a 3-5 week summer study abroad experience. If you are interested in partnering with the Center for Global Engagement to offer a new study abroad program, contact the Study Abroad Program Coordinator of Faculty-Led Programs. Applications to offer a new program in Summer 2022 are due April 15, 2020. Proposing faculty members can download an application . Study Abroad Why Study Abroad Steps to Study Abroad Choosing a Program Academics Student Role in Academics Abroad Working With Your Academic Adviser Working with my Study Abroad Advisor Study Abroad Advising Appointment Costs and Funding Steps to Funding your Study Abroad Scholarships Billing Application Timeline Parent Information Baylor Study Abroad Programs Types of Programs Programs by Location Africa Asia Australia/Pacific Islands Europe North America South America Areas of Study Baylor Law School College of Arts & Sciences Hankamer School of Business Honors College Louise Herrington School of Nursing Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences Rogers School of Engineering and Computer Science School of Education Explore Programs Internships and Research Abroad Non-Credit Bearing Experiences Health & Safety I'm Accepted..What's Next? Tips Photo Contest Social Media Takeover Study Abroad Fair Program Director Portal Program Director Development Videos Propose a New Program BearsAbroad GlobalProtect VPN International Travel with Duo Global Safety and Security FAQ Center for Global Engagement Hankamer Academic Center, H 160.01 1428 S. 5th St. Waco, TX 76798 One Bear Place #97012 Waco, TX 76798-7012 (254) 710-1461 Global_Baylor@baylor.edu Global_Gateway@baylor.edu ISSS_Support@baylor.edu StudyAbroad@baylor.edu Global BaylorInternational Student and Scholar ServicesRegister Your TravelStudy AbroadGlobal Gateway General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About CGE Main Office Dr. Jeffrey Hamilton Lynae Jordan Robert Leis Holly Joyner Jorge Vielledent International Student and Scholar Services Office Dr. Mark Bryant Grace Semple-Paul, JD Leslie Hicks Timothy Johnson Brandon Hoye Delores Melendez Study Abroad Office Bo White, Ed.D. Kodi Henderson Katie Klingstedt Sophia Ferris Global Gateway Program Events News Study Abroad Why Study Abroad Steps to Study Abroad Choosing a Program Academics Study Abroad Advising Appointment Costs and Funding Application Timeline Parent Information Baylor Study Abroad Programs Types of Programs Programs by Location Areas of Study Explore Programs Internships and Research Abroad Health & Safety I'm Accepted..What's Next? Tips Photo Contest Social Media Takeover Study Abroad Fair Program Director Portal Program Director Development Videos Propose a New Program BearsAbroad GlobalProtect VPN International Travel with Duo Global Safety and Security FAQ International Student and Scholar Services International Students New Student Information F-1 Degree-Seeking Students J-1 Exchange Students Paying Taxes International Scholars Visiting Faculty & Researchers Health Services and Insurance - Scholars J-1 Scholar Guidelines Maintaining Status Programs & Activities Spring 2022 Trips & Special Events Global Friendship Program CGE Ambassadors International Organizations International Student & Scholar Workshops Academic and Language Resources International Student Resource Hub Community Support Page Summer Courses in China Faculty and Staff Resource Tool Kit ISSS Programming Framework Global Baylor Certificate Program Enrollment and Benefits Submission Process Global Engagement Courses Testimonials Intercultural Competence Courses Global Calendar & Events First Abroad Fellows Program Connecting to Global Initiatives Quality Enhancement Plan Global Baylor in the News International Education Week Global Gateway Our Program About Us Cornell Menking Meredith Moore Nate Hutcherson Christine Fabiszewski Matthew Piech Tanya Vernon Debra Wainscott Tracey Jones Amber McKinney Visitor Directions to the Global Gateway Program Current Students IY - Undergraduate MIY - Graduate International Student Academic Support STL 1205 - Academic Success Strategies for International Students New Students On-Campus Study Information Frequently Asked Questions GGP Arrival Information On-Campus Housing & Dining Finances Life at Baylor Academics Faculty & Staff Toolkit Toolkit Global Scholars Why Global Scholars Global Scholars Application Process Starting in Dublin Studying in Dublin, Ireland Course Work Cost Residence Hall in Dublin Global Scholars Community Global Scholars Leadership Register Travel Faculty/Staff Only Travel Faculty & Student Group Travel Student Only Travel Give