Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Rise and Conquer Home of the UCF Knights Champions play at UCF. Knights athletic teams have earned landmark victories on state and national stages — from back-to-back American Athletic Conference titles to BCS bowl wins. But some of our student-athletes’ most important triumphs have been in the classroom, where they’ve achieved an average GPA of 3.0 or higher for 27 consecutive semesters. Though attendance is currently limited, students have access to free admission to sporting events on campus. Being a part of the action is an important part of the UCF experience — because we’re never as strong alone as we are together. For schedules, tickets, stats and more, visit UCFKnights.com. Athletics Teams Baseball Men’s Basketball Women’s Basketball Cheerleading Women’s Cross Country Football Men’s Golf Women’s Golf Women’s Rowing Men’s Soccer Women’s Soccer Softball Men’s Tennis Women’s Tennis Women’s Track & Field Women’s Volleyball UCF Fight Song UCF charge onto the field With our spirit, we’ll never yield Black and Gold Charge right through the line Victory is our cry … V-I-C-T-O-R-Y Tonight our Knights will shine! Game Day Traditions Innovative. Hip. Fun. Nontraditional. Knight Nation is quickly becoming one of the largest fan bases in college sports. Over the last several football seasons, we’ve won six conference championships, three Bowl Championship Series/New Year’s Six titles and were declared national champions following our perfect 13-0 football season in 2017. Along the way, all that success has led to the establishment of more than a few UCF traditions, even if a number remain relatively new. Here’s a closer look at what Knights’ fans have come to know and love about game day: Knight Walk Line up along IOA Plaza and welcome the team, as they head from the bus to the locker room. March to Victory Join Pegasus, Knugget, Knightro, the Marching Knights and the UCF spirit teams near Knights Plaza for the fan march to the stadium. Knight Lights Turn on your cell phone flashlights during kickoff in the Bounce House. #UCFansWear Coordinate your colors with fellow Knights — from anthracite (gray) and gold to black and white. Zombie Nation Bounce when you hear Zombie Nation’s “Kernkraft 400” and cheer on your Knights. Alma Mater Sing the UCF alma mater with the team after each home game, win or lose. Athletic Events Up Next No upcoming events found. Looking Ahead No upcoming events found. We Determine Our Own Destiny. From the first kickoff on a converted cow pasture to buzzer-beater shots, grand slams and championship cheer routines, UCF Knights have been building momentum on the field and the court since our athletic debut. And whether we were underdogs or the overwhelming favorites, you’ve been cheering us on every step of the way. With your continued support, the best is yet to come. Support UCF Athletics Athletics at UCF in recent years has celebrated unprecedented levels of success and achievement in virtually every measurable category on and off the field. The Charge On Fund is your way to provide unrestricted charitable support for UCF Athletics and maintain the significant momentum built over the past years. Help us finish strong by sharing this initiative with others in the UCF community to help us achieve our goals. To Reach the Next Level, UCF Athletics Aims To: Become a perennial top-25 college athletics program. Empower our student-athletes to earn degrees and attain exceptional personal and professional lives. Support UCF in achieving its goals through impactful, positive exposure. Energize all of Knight Nation, including alumni, students and the Central Florida community. “I loved wearing the Black & Gold and representing this great school. I learned a lot since stepping foot on the UCF campus. Each experience taught me something of great value. Thank you to all of the people who support our program and help provide scholarships for student-athletes.” Shaquem Griffin ’16, linebacker for the Miami Dolphins News Check out more stories Colleges & Campus UCF Football Venue to Become FBC Mortgage Stadium Effective July 1 through the 2031 football season, UCF’s stadium will be branded under the Orlando-based, top 20 national mortgage lender. Colleges & Campus UCF Softball Advances to Super Regionals The Knights topped No. 24 Michigan 9-4 in the Orlando Regional final to advance to their first Super Regional in program history. Colleges & Campus Sytia Messer Named UCF Head Women’s Basketball Coach Messer, who most recently served as associate head coach at LSU, has a 22-year coaching career that includes a national title and 11 NCAA Championship appearances. The Facilities World-class facilities have never been more important to attract recruits and win scholarships. Venues Bounce House (football) Addition Financial Arena (men’s and women’s basketball) The Venue (volleyball) John Euliano Park (baseball) Softball Complex Track & Soccer Complex USTA National Campus (men’s and women’s tennis) Wayne Densch Sports Center (multisport) Nicholson Fieldhouse (indoor practice facility) University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida