Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home CEM Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin CEM Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Search Search Search Search Director's Message Expand Programs Expand EM Launch Oil and Gas Rotating Machines Grid Solutions Alternative Fuels Electro-Mechanical Systems Core Capabilities Expand Energy Storage Advanced Materials Power Electronics Control Design Prototype Design Electromagnetics Facilities Expand High-Bay Microgrid Composite Winding Motors Lab Power Electronics Hydrogen Bus Lab Video Library Expand Publications Expand Contact Expand Innovating New Solutions alt="CEM" INNOVATING NEW SOLUTIONS Mission Statement Perform leading edge basic and applied research in electrical and mechanical engineering, with a special emphasis on applied engineering leading to prototype development in electromechanical devices and systems with high specific power, force, and/or energy storage or other unique attributes. Imbedded in this mission is educating and developing students and CEM staff members into engineering leaders of tomorrow. Vision Statement For CEM to be internationally renowned in its mission area. For CEM’s people to be internationally renowned in their areas of expertise. LATEST NEWS Hydrogen energy may be on the cusp. And Texas has potential to lead Researchers at UT-Austin developed a hydrogen refueling station for use in larger projects testing hydrogen energy in vehicles. Story by: Diego Mendoza-Moyers Opinion: Texas has the workforce and leadership to invest in hydrogen. By Bob Hebner The Texas Gulf Coast does not produce great surfing waves, but the state’s culture of innovation makes it possible for us to catch big waves of emerging technology and ride them gracefully to economic growth. Resiliency in a Time of Crisis CEM Engineers, Mike Lewis and Bob Hebner, published an article in the May 2020 special issue of the IEEE Smart Grid eNewsletter entitled, “Pandemic Implications on Power Systems”. UT’s Paraffin Heater Sparks Interest in the US and Canada The US currently operates with over 500,000 oil wells. Among these operating wells, it is common for the annulus between the well tubing and the sucker rod to become clogged by paraffin where oil should flow during production. Conferences and Events No conferences or events at this time capabilities2.jpg Our approach involves participation in a continuum of research projects, each contributing to our knowledge base and core competencies while leveraging the results and experiences gained in previous projects. We intend to always be on the forefront of the new age of electrification by applying our fundamental understanding of the technologies involved to an increasing number of novel application areas. CENTER FOR ELECTROMECHANICS Location: 10100 Burnet Road EME 133 Austin, Texas 78758 Mailing Address: The University of Texas at Austin 1 University Station PRC R7000 Austin, Texas 78712 Phone: 512-471-4496 Fax: 512-471-0781 Website: http://www.cem.utexas.edu/ CEM Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Cockrell School of Engineering CEM Research Sponsors PRC Map Research News UT Directory Give to CEM UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022