Skip to main content Harvard University 1 site notification Latest COVID Information Search Search Quick Links Find a Person A to Z Index Menu Academics Academics Explore all programs Browse all of our undergraduate concentrations, graduate degrees, and professional certificates. Harvard Schools Academics Visit each School for information on admissions and financial aid. Explore more Harvard College Harvard Business School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Harvard Divinity School Harvard Faculty of Arts and Sciences Harvard Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Harvard Graduate School of Design Harvard Graduate School of Education Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences Harvard Kennedy School Harvard Law School Harvard Medical School Harvard Radcliffe Institute Harvard School of Dental Medicine Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Professional and lifelong learning Free online courses More about academics at Harvard Campus Campus Harvard's Campus Get tickets to our next game, hours and locations for our libraries and museums, and information about your next career move. Libraries Campus Explore our libraries Arnold Arboretum Horticultural Library Baker Library and Special Collections Biblioteca Berenson Botany Libraries Cabot Science Library Countway Library Dumbarton Oaks Research Library Ernst Mayr Library Fine Arts Library Frances Loeb Library Fung Library Gutman Library Harvard Divinity School Library Harvard Film Archive Harvard Law School Library Harvard Map Collection Harvard University Archives Harvard-Yenching Library HKS Library and Knowledge Services Houghton Library Lamont Library Loeb Music Library Robbins Library of Philosophy Schlesinger Library on the History of Women in America Tozzer Library Widener Library Wolbach Library Woodberry Poetry Room Museums Campus Explore our museums The Arnold Arboretum Carpenter Center for the Visual Arts Collection of Historical Scientific Instruments Graduate School of Design Exhibitions Harvard Art Museums Harvard Forest Harvard Museum of Natural History The Harvard Museum of the Ancient Near East Harvard Museums of Science and Culture Harvard University Herbaria Mineralogical and Geological Museum Museum of Comparative Zoology The Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology Warren Anatomical Museum Athletics Work at Harvard Events Commencement Campus Harvard Commencement for the Class of 2022 Harvard Commencement for the Classes of 2020 & 2021 In Focus In Focus Explore and understand the world with Harvard In Focus is a curated examination of Harvard's research, scholarly work, and community. Recent topics include: Commencement 2022 In Focus Celebrating the Graduates Highlighting the accomplishments and celebrating the bright futures of Harvard’s most recent grads Meet this year's graduates What's inside? The Harvard Gazette's coverage of this year's Commencement Explore each School's events Mental Health In Focus Mental Health Awareness Month To commemorate Mental Health Awareness Month, the Harvard community is exploring how we cope with, manage, and understand mental health and how it impacts our lives. View the feature What's inside? Is a mobile app as good as a therapist? Bipolar breakthrough Climate Solutions In Focus Climate Solutions Faculty and students from across the Harvard community are working on ways to address climate change and its effects. Explore these adaptations What's inside? Zero-waste architecture Better batteries inspired by a BLT Explore the In Focus archives Visit Visit Visit Harvard Ideas and assistance for your trip to our campus. Tours Maps and Directions About About About Harvard Information on how Harvard is structured, explore our long history, and discover our extended community. History of Harvard About History of Harvard Harvard is perhaps best-known because of its enduring history of innovation in education. But even die-hard Harvard buffs are not likely to know all of these Harvard firsts and historical snippets. Learn more History timeline Nobel Laureates Honorary Degrees Harvard Shields Leadership and Governance About Learn about our Leadership Officers and Deans Harvard Corporation Board of Overseers University Professorships Diversity and Inclusion Endowment Harvard in the Community Harvard in the World News News The Harvard Gazette Official news from Harvard University about science, medicine, art, campus life, University issues, and broader national and global concerns. Trending News Stories News Read more news Jacinda Ardern’s forceful reminder: Democracies can die New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern delivers warning on erosion of trust in her Commencement address, urging social media reforms and calling on individuals to reject tribalism. Harvard awards seven honorary degrees During today’s Commencement ceremony in Tercentenary Theatre, Harvard will recognize seven with an honorary degree. Humans hot, sweaty, natural-born runners Hairless, clawless, and largely weaponless, ancient humans used the unlikely combination of sweatiness and relentlessness to gain the upper hand over their faster, stronger, generally more dangerous animal prey, Harvard Anthropology Professor Daniel Lieberman said Thursday (April 12). Pursuit of joy starts with truth, Wu tells graduates Class Day speaker Michelle Wu ’07, J.D. ’12, urged the class of 2022 to hold fast to Harvard’s founding motto “veritas,” or truth. Sign up for the Daily Gazette Navigation Quick Links A to Z Index Find a Person Events Media Relations Alumni Give Now Harvard University Close Looking back at 2021 In Focus Looking back at 2021 Mental Health Climate Solutions Celebrating the Class of ’22 Looking back at 2021 From accomplishments and awards to viruses and vaccines, we’re reflecting on everything that happened this year. A walk down memory lane Get a glimpse of 2021 at Harvard, a year filled with artistic explorations, research innovations, and community celebrations. 2021 in a flash The year at Harvard These were some of the big moments from 2021 at Harvard. January Harvard alum Amanda Gorman delivered a poem at President Biden’s inauguration. Read about the poem February Tampa Bay Buccaneer and Harvard alum Cameron Brate played in the Super Bowl. Read more about the game March On Match Day, Medical School students learned where they would do their residencies. See where they matched April On Earth Day, members of the Harvard community shared their thoughts, fears, and hopes for the planet. Hear their thoughts May We gathered online to award degrees and celebrate the achievements of our graduates. See the Class of 2021 June After a 15-month, COVID-forced hiatus, the Family Van, a mobile health clinic affiliated with Harvard Medical School, got back on its regular routes. Learn about the Family Van July Sixteen athletes from Harvard took part in the XXXII Olympics in Tokyo. Meet the athletes August Undergraduate students, some who hadn’t been on campus in more than a year due to the pandemic, arrived at Harvard. See their arrivals September Nearly 200 student-athletes received their “Major H” sweaters. Learn more about the day October Kennedy School fellow Maria Ressa won the Nobel Peace Prize for her efforts safeguarding freedom of expression. Read more about Ressa November Harvard beat Yale in the 137th playing of “The Game.” Learn more about The Game December The Harvard Ed Portal launched their fifth annual Allston-Brighton Winter Market, which supports local artisans. Explore the market A few of our favorite moments from 2021 Enjoy more photos from this year. View Gallery The world in 2021 Harvard panel assesses the damage done by the January 6 riots Graduate School of Design experts discuss the electricity crisis in Texas Harvard Chan School professor examines the U.S. withdrawal from Afghanistan Harvard faculty member reviews a difficult summer in Haiti Students at Harvard reflect on the 20th anniversary of 9/11 Members of the Harvard community attend COP26 Another pandemic year For another year, members of the Harvard community researched COVID-19, treated those who became ill, and helped educate the public. Meet nurses working on the COVID-19 frontlines Harvard epidemiologist shares his first impression of the Omicron variant Harvard Chan School epidemiologist William Hanage says it may be months before Omicron’s transmissibility among vaccinated individuals is known. Read more about the variant Vaccine reduces the transmission in breakthrough cases Research shows that those who are vaccinated shed the virus for a shorter period of time and are less likely to spread COVID. Read more about the study Moderna edges out Pfizer vaccine in head-to-head comparison A large-scale study found that the Moderna vaccine is slightly more effective in preventing COVID-19 infection, hospitalization, and death. Learn about the study's findings Pediatrician weighs in on COVID-19 vaccine for kids ages 5-11 While many families have been eagerly awaiting the opportunity for their children to be immunized, others are hesitant. Hear more from the experts Breaking down the COVID-19 booster shot Similar to the fall flu vaccine, a COVID booster may be in our future—at least for the next few years. Learn more about the booster shot Long COVID sufferers face serious side effects, as well as physician skepticism Dismissive doctors, inconclusive tests, and an array of debilitating symptoms have been the experience for many patients suffering long COVID. Learn more about long COVID They studied medicine, and then suddenly COVID too Students at Harvard Medical School describe the challenges and treasures of navigating classes and the pandemic. Read about their experiences Is vaccine misinformation affecting our health? Harvard Kennedy School’s Matthew Baum and a team of principal investigators share new research from the COVID States Project. Read more about misinformation Security & Brand Report Copyright Infringement Report Security Issue Trademark Notice Website Accessibility Digital Accessibility Privacy Statement Get In Touch Contact Harvard Maps & Directions Jobs © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube 0:00 0:00