Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of English Undergraduate Graduate People Internships News/Events Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact People Staff Faculty General Inquiries Take Action Apply Now Alumni and Friends Course Offerings Contact Us Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Home Department of English People Elizabeth Lane Liz Lane Assistant Professor, Coordinator of Writing, Rhetoric, and Technical Communication Phone 901.678.2651 Email etlane@memphis.edu Fax 901.678.2226 Office Patterson Hall 447 Office Hours Call for Hours Education Ph.D., Purdue University, 2017 M.A., DePaul University, 2012 B.A., Transylvania University, 2010 Academic Summary Dr. Lane teaches courses in technical and professional writing. Her research focuses on feminist activism in the digital sphere and the rhetoric of social justice. She also has research interests in new media, gender and technology, and multimodal composition.She is also a Hooks Institute Academic Research Fellow as of 2020. In 2021, she served as program co-chair for the international Special Interest Group on the Design of Communication (SIGDOC) virtual conference. Select Publications Forthcoming: Lane, L. “Design Thinking and Social Design Processes as Schematics for Addressing Social Justice Issues in TPC Classrooms”. Equipping Technical Communicators for Social Justice Work: Topics, Theories, and Methodologies. Eds. Rebecca Walton & Godwin Agboka. In press with Utah State University Press, forthcoming 2021. Lane, L. (2021). “Interstitial Design Processes: How Design Thinking and Social Design Processes Bridge Theory and Practice in TPC Pedagogy”. Effective Teaching of Technical Communication: Theory, Practice, and Application. Ed. by Michael J. Klein. University Press of Colorado. Lane, L., DeHertogh, L. B., & Ouellette, J. (2020). “Feminist Citational Mapping as Recovery and Consideration: A Methodology for Analyzing Citational Practices.” Peitho, Vol. 22, Issue 3. Spring 2020. Kim, L., & Lane, L. (2019). “Dynamic Design for Technical Communication”. Experience Report. Proceedings of the 37th Association of Computing Machinery International Conference on the Design of Communication (SIGDOC). Lane, L. (2020) "Feminist Rhetorical Tactics and Hashtag Movements: #SayHerName as a Circulatory Activist Discourse." (2020) Feminist Connections: Rhetoric and Activism Across Time, Space, and Place.. Eds. Katie Fredlund, Kerri Hauman, and Jessica Oullette. 20 pp. De Hertogh, L. Lane, L., & Oullette, J. (2019) "Feminist Leanings: Tracing Technofeminist and Instersectional Practices and Values in Three Decades of Computers and Composition." Computers and Composition, special issue, "Technofeminism: (Re)Generations and Intersectional Futures. Print. Lane, L. and Unger, D. (2018) "Considering Global Communication and Usability as Networked Engagement: Lessons from 4C4Equality." Thinking Globally, Composing Locally: Applications for International Communication Exchange. Eds. Kirk St. Amant and Rich Rice. Utah State University Press. Lane, L. (2018) "Iteration for Impact: Exploring Design Thinking & Designing for Social Change in a Client Project." Experience Report. Proceedings of the 36th Association of Computing Machinery International Conference on the Design of Communication (SIGDOC). Lane, L. (2015) "Feminine Voice in the Digital Sphere: Disruptive Speech and the Subversion of Gendered Cultural Scripts." Ada: A Journal of Gender, New Media, and Technology, Special Issue 8. Sanchez, Fernando, Lane, L. and Carter, Tyler. (2014) "Engaging Writing about Writing Theory and Multimodal Praxis: Remediating WaW for 'English 106: First-Year Composition." Composition Studies. 42.2. 118-146. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 2/2/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.