Skip to main content University of Cincinnati menu left arrow COVID-19 Updates UC Admissions About UC Majors + Programs Campus Life Research Athletics Innovation UC Directory Health Give to UC right arrow magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Home » About UC » UC Policies » Tobacco Free UC Set Navigation title in component About Tobacco Free UC Cessation Resources Frequently Asked Questions Tobacco Free UC Board Rule Title: Conduct and ethics: tobacco and smoke free environment Board Rule Number: Board Rule: 3361:10-5-06 Policy applicable for: Faculty, staff, students, visitors, contractors and patients of the University of Cincinnati Effective Date: 5/1/2017 Prior Effective Date: N/A Enabling Acts: University Board Rule 10-17-06 Background Smoking is one of the largest causes of illness and premature death in the United States. Research findings indicate that nonsmokers who are regularly exposed to tobacco smoke are also at increased risk of illness. The university recognizes that smoking any substance in any form poses a public health hazard. Tobacco Free UC is the initiative to support this board rule and empower the UC community to make informed decisions about their health and well-being. You can find out more information about the Tobacco Free UC initiative on the About page. Policy Effective May 1, 2017, smoking and tobacco use (including chewing tobacco and electronic cigarettes, shall be prohibited by students, staff, faculty, visitors, vendors, and contractors at all times in or on University of Cincinnati Properties, including events on university property during non-school hours, including but not limited to the following: all facilities owned or leased by the University of Cincinnati as well as the grounds of any property owned or leased by the university. This includes all shelters, indoor and outdoor theaters and athletic facilities, bridges, walkways, sidewalks, residence halls, parking lots, and street parking and garages owned by the university. Please note this also prohibits smoking inside personal vehicles parked on university property as well as any vehicles owned, operated or leased by the University of Cincinnati. Events Want to partner with Tobacco Free UC? Please reach out to tobaccofree@uc.edu. Check out and join the various events around UC. Stay tuned for upcoming events! Tobacco Free UC: Board Rule (PDF) Frequently Asked Questions Start Your Quit Journey University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-6000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-6000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top