Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Equity, Inclusion & Community Impact Inclusion right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow Meet The Team CDO Roundtable Diversity Council D&I Resource Liaisons Student Diversity & Inclusion Council Employee Resource Groups Guiding Principles Equity & Inclusion App Feedback Equity & Inclusion right arrow down arrow Community Education & Workshops right arrow down arrow Workshop Request Form Equity & Inclusion Conference right arrow down arrow Call for Concurrent Session Proposals Equity & Inclusion Incentive Grants Marian Spencer Equity Ambassador Award Services right arrow down arrow Services Request Form Equal Opportunity & Access right arrow down arrow Affirmative Action Plan & Equal Employment Opportunity Section 504/ADA Grievance Procedure Complaint Resolution and Consultation Community Education & Workshops right arrow down arrow Equal Opportunity & Access ACADEMY right arrow down arrow Graduate Class of 2021 Inclusive Excellence Workshops The Student Experience right arrow down arrow Semester/Capstone Projects Gender Equity & Inclusion (Title IX) right arrow down arrow Making a Report right arrow down arrow Confidentiality Employee Responsibility Support & Resources right arrow down arrow Supportive Measures Pregnancy and Parenting Resources Responding to Disclosures Resources for Complainants and Respondents Gender Identity Resources Community Education & Training right arrow down arrow Training Request Form Gender and Sexual Diversity Terminology Title IX right arrow down arrow Reporting Options Title IX Sexual Harassment Policy Sex- and/or Gender-Based Misconduct Policy and Procedure Training Materials for UC Title IX Personnel Community Impact right arrow down arrow CPS Strong Make a Gift right arrow down arrow Darwin T. Turner Scholars Program DEI Toolkit Home » About UC » Equity, Inclusion and Community Impact » Equity & Inclusion Set Navigation title in component Community Education & Workshops Workshop Request Form Equity & Inclusion Conference Call for Concurrent Session Proposals Equity & Inclusion Incentive Grants Marian Spencer Equity Ambassador Award Services Services Request Form Office of Equity & Inclusion Mission Statement We work to bring out the best in our students, faculty and staff by valuing their unique backgrounds, experiences, and perspectives – welcoming and leveraging individual contributions to collaborate, create, innovate, and compete in a global society. We also address issues of harassment, discrimination, sexual misconduct, and retaliation so members of our community can work, learn, grow and thrive in a safe environment. We aspire toward inclusive excellence by leading with courage and compassion, and treating each other with dignity and respect. Hours and Location Monday-Friday 8:00 a.m.-5:00 p.m. Office of Equity & Inclusion 600 University Pavilion PO Box 210395 Cincinnati OH 45221-0395 513-556-8463 inclusion@uc.edu Office Resources The Office of Equity & Inclusion provides resources including books, activities, games, and informative video productions that relate to topics of diversity, equity, and inclusion. Resources can be checked out by any UC community member. Please visit our office located at University Pavilion, Suite 600 to sign-out these resources. Resource List Interactive Games right arrow down arrow Games that can be found in the office. The name, intended purpose, number of participants, and expected duration can be found below. Name of the Game Intended Purpose Number of Participants Expected Duration Bafa' Bafa' Stereotypes can make it difficult for people to work/learn together. Bafa’ Bafa’ provides an opportunity to discuss how stereotypes are formed and methods for overcoming their negative effects. Requires a minimum of 12 participants. Works best with 18 to 35 participants 1 1/2 hours to play. 30 minutes or more to discuss Diversity Jenga Includes questions about diversity and inclusion on the Jenga pieces that initiates conversation while also playing the game Jenga. 2+ players 30 minutes How Do You See the World? Ice breaker card game to encourage open discussion and challenge your perspective. The 5 topics you’ll explore are reflections, relationships, life’s purpose, aspirations and beliefs. 2+ players 30 minutes Keep it Real Rx A communication game which invites you to discover what really dwells within the hearts and minds of yourself and others. 2 to 10 players 1 1/2 to 2 hours Silver Series Thumballs Players catch the ball and discuss the questions under their thumb. The diversity ball is used to share experiences of feeling excluded and explore ways to build community. 2+ players 30 minutes StarPower Each of us may be tempted to abuse power. Power can be amazingly seductive. StarPower helps illustrate these concepts. A minimum of 18 and a maximum of 36 players 1 1/2 hours to play with 1 1/2 hours of discussion Totem Totem is the game that allows you to have fun while discovering your strengths through other people’s eyes. 3 to 8 players 30 minutes What Stands Between Us Questions to faciliate conversation between EuroAmericans and People of Color. 2+ players 1 hour Zoom and Re-Zoom Facilitates communication and an appreciation of the perspective of others. Up to 30 players 30 minutes to play with 30 minutes of discussion Activities, Guides, and Books right arrow down arrow Activities, guides, and books available in the office. Listed below is the author, title, and type of activity. Author Title Type Berarado, Deardorff Building Cultural Competence; Innovative Activities and Models Activity Cullen 35 Dumb Things Well-Intended People Say Guide Davis How to Teach Students Who Don't Look Like You; Culturally Responsive Teaching Strategies Guide Gardenswartz, Cherbosque, Rowe Diverse Teams at Work: Capitalizing on the Power of Diversity Guide Gardenswartz, Rowe Emotional Intelligence for Managing Results in a Diverse World Guide Gardenswartz, Digh, Bennett, Rowe Global Diversity Desk Reference: Managing an International Workforce Reference w/ CD Gardenswartz, Rowe Managing Diversity: A Complete Desk Reference & Planning Guide Reference w/ CD Gardenswartz, Rowe The Diversity Tool Kit: Revised Edition CD Gorksi, Pothini Case Studies on Diversity and Social Justice Education Case Study/Guide Graham The Best Companies for Minorities: Employers Across the Country Who Recruit, Train and Promote Minorities Informational Hollins, Govan Diversity, Equity and Inclusion; Strategies for Facilitating Conversations on Race Guide Lambert, Myers The Diversity Training Activity Book; 50 Activities for Promoting Communication and Understanding at Work Activity Lieberman 110 Ways to Champion Diversity and Build Inclusion Activity Mayorga-Gallo Behind the White Picket Fence: Power and Privilege in a Multiethnic Neighborhood Non-Fiction Michael Raising Race Questions; Whiteness & Equity in Education Case-Study/Guide Moore Jr., Penick-Parks, Michael Everyday White People Confront Racial & Social Injustice Non-Fiction Stories Obear Turn the Tide: Rise About Toxic, Difficult Situations in the Workplace Guide PaperClip Communications Race Dynamics & Racism on Today's Campus: Engaging the Community to Reduce Acts of Hate and Improve Cultural Competency Case Study/Guide Stringer, Cassiday 52 Activities for Improving Cross-Cultural Communication Activity Sue Microaggressions in Everyday LIfe Non-Fiction Sue Race Talk and the Conspiracy of Silence; Understanding and Facilitating Difficult Dialogues on Race Guide Tatum Can We Talk About Race? And Other Conversations in an Era of School Resegregation Non-Fiction Stories Thiedeman The Diversity and Inclusion Handbook Guide Wah The Art of Mindful Facilitation Activity Printable Resource List *resources can only be checked out for two weeks at a time University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati Oh 45220 513-556-5000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati Oh 45220 513-556-5000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top