Skip to main content FSU >> FSU LIBRARIES Top Right Search Box Search Our Website... * OneSearch | My Account Florida State University Libraries Search & Find Advanced Search Find a Database Journal Search Special Collections Search DigiNole Search Services & Research All Services Subject Librarians Distance Learning Digital Research & Scholarship Special Collections & Archives Government Information About the Libraries Libraries Overview Member Libraries Departments Accessibility @ FSU Libraries Diversity & Inclusion Giving to the Libraries Facts & Figures Strategic Plan Advancement Board Materials & Borrowing Borrowing Materials Library Express Delivery Interlibrary Loan Materials Purchase Request Help & Support Get Help Library Hours Maps & Directions Visitor Information COVID Guidelines Home >> Subject Librarians Subject Librarians FSU Libraries offers a professional subject librarian to each department, school, and program who provides tailored instruction, research assistance, and collection building. Search below for YOUR subject librarian. Under the photo of the Subject Specialist is a link to request a consultation with that librarian. If you are not sure what librarian to choose use this form and we'll help choose the best librarian for your needs. What can your subject librarian do for you? Serve as your first point of contact for information about library resources and services Select and purchase materials to support your research and current course curricula Collaborate with you to design and facilitate instruction sessions or workshops to introduce learners to the major research methods and tools used in specific disciplines Provide research support and help navigating the Libraries’ resources and find relevant information Create course guides or comprehensive subject guides for your students Provide support and consultation in areas such as citation management, plagiarism, and copyright Provide support and consultation in data discovery, analysis, and management Work with you to find Open Educational Resources for your instruction and for your students Search by Name Subject Specializations - Any -AccountingAfrican-American StudiesAnthropologyArtArt EducationArt HistoryAsian StudiesBiological ScienceBusinessBusiness Analytics, Information Systems and Supply ChainCenter for Leadership and Social ChangeChemistry and BiochemistryClassicsCommunicationCommunication DisordersComputer ScienceCriminology and Criminal JusticeDanceDemographyDigital HumanitiesEarth, Ocean and Atmospheric SciencesEconomicsEducationEducational Leadership and Policy StudiesEducational Psychology and Learning SystemsEngineeringEnglishEntrepreneurshipFilmFlorence Study CenterGeographyHistoryHospitalityHuman Development & Family ScienceHumanitiesInformation StudiesInterdisciplinary Social ScienceInterior DesignInternational AffairsLatin American and Caribbean StudiesLawLibrary & Information ScienceManagementMarketingMathematicsMedicineMiddle Eastern StudiesModern LanguagesMusicNew Faculty Collection Development GrantNursingNutrition and Integrative PhysiologyPanama City Florida LibraryPhilosophyPhysicsPolitical SciencePsychologyPublic Administration and PolicyPublic HealthReligionRetail EntrepreneurshipRisk Management / Insurance, Real Estate & Legal StudiesRussian & East European StudiesSchool of Teacher EducationScientific ComputingSocial WorkSociologySports ManagementSports Management and Recreation ManagementStatisticsTheatreUrban and Regional PlanningWomen's Studies Adam Beauchamp Humanities Librarian abeauchamp@fsu.edu Social Sciences, Arts & Humanities 027G Strozier Library Phone: (850) 645-2708 Request a consultation with Adam Beauchamp Subject Specializations: Classics; History; Humanities; Philosophy; Religion Adam Beauchamp is a Humanities Librarian at Florida State University Libraries serving as liaison to the departments of History, Philosophy, and Religion. His responsibilities include research support, information literacy instruction, and collection development in these disciplines. Prior to joining FSU, Adam was Research & Instruction Librarian for Social Sciences, and later Assessment & User Experience Librarian, at Tulane University. Adam completed his Master of Library and Information Science degree at Louisiana State University. He completed his Bachelor of Arts degree in History at Niagara University and earned a Master of Arts degree in History from Tulane University, where he studied Latin American history. Adam’s current research interests include critical pedagogy, ethical assessment and research in libraries, and the historical relationship of archives and libraries to colonialism. Mohamed Berray Social Sciences Librarian | Coordinator for Government Information mberray@fsu.edu Social Sciences, Arts & Humanities 027L Strozier Library Phone: (850) 645-2709 Request a consultation with Mohamed Berray Subject Specializations: Political Science; Public Administration and Policy Mohamed Berray is the liaison to the Department of Political Science, International Affairs, and the Askew School of Public Administration and Policy in the College of Social Sciences and Public Policy. He came to Florida State University from the Pennsylvania State University where he was resident Social Sciences Librarian and subject specialist for political science, international law, and international affairs. Mohamed has a Master’s Degree in Political Science, a Postgraduate Diploma in International Law with specialization in Refugee Law from the American University in Cairo, and a Master’s Degree in Library and Information Studies from the University of North Carolina at Greensboro. He is a former Fulbright Scholar, and an ILEAD (International Librarians Enhancing Access and Development) Fellow with the Department of Library and Information Studies at the University of North Carolina at Greensboro. He also was the Assistant Director, and, Head of the Law Library at the American University in Cairo. Mohamed serves on many ALA and ACRL Committees and Round Tables, and is currently Chair of the Politics, Policy, and International Relations Section Professional Development Committee. His research interests include diversity in libraries, and assessment of library user experiences. Jonathan DaSo Modern Languages Librarian jdaso@fsu.edu Social Sciences, Arts & Humanities 0027E Strozier Library Phone: (850) 644-0470 Request a consultation with Jonathan DaSo Subject Specializations: Asian Studies; Latin American and Caribbean Studies; Middle Eastern Studies; Modern Languages; Russian & East European Studies Jonathan DaSo is the Modern Languages Librarian and serves as liaison to the department of Modern Languages and Linguistics as well as to the area studies programs on campus, including: Asian Studies, Latin American Studies, Middle Eastern Studies, and Russian & East European Studies. In this role, Jonathan is responsible for research support, bibliographic and information literacy instruction, and collection development for these areas. Before his current assignment, Jonathan served as the Student Success Librarian and later as the Digital Literacy and Modern Languages Librarian. Prior to joining FSU, he was the Undergraduate and Information Services Librarian at the University of Toledo. Jonathan received his Master of Library and Information Science from FSU. He received a BA from Emory University, where he studied Spanish and Chinese language and literature. Currently, he is working towards an MA in Spanish at FSU, focusing on Hispanic cultural studies. Jonathan's current research interests include diversity and inclusion initiatives in academic libraries, accessibility and universal design in library services and resources, and the use of emerging technologies in information literacy instruction. Kathleen Dowling Florence Study Center kdowling@fsu.edu STEM Libraries Subject Specializations: Florence Study Center Elizabeth Dunne Instruction and Reference Librarian etd11b@fsu.edu Teaching, Learning, & Engagement 112D Strozier Library Phone: (850) 644-4602 Request a consultation with Elizabeth Dunne Subject Specializations: Human Development & Family Science Liz Dunne is the Instruction & Reference Librarian and the liaison to the Human Development & Family Science department. In her role as Instruction & Reference Librarian, she oversees the ENC 2135 Instruction Program, the Research Help Now Desk, and co-coordinates the Libraries’ Virtual Reference Program. As the subject specialist for Human Development & Family Science, she is responsible for instruction requests, research consults, and collection development for the department. Liz holds a BA in Literature and MS in Information from Florida State University. She is currently working on a Masters in Instructional Systems and Learning Technologies. Her research interests include critical pedagogy, universal design for instruction, systematic instructional design, and digital pedagogy. Leila Gibradze University Librarian leila.gibradze@cci.fsu.edu Innovation Hub 2023 WJB Phone: (850) 645-8418 Request a consultation with Leila Gibradze Subject Specializations: Information Studies; Library & Information Science Leila Gibradze received her MLIS from Rutgers University and MA in Western European Languages from Tbilisi State University, Georgia. Leila has extensive professional experience as a reference librarian and a cataloger both in public and academic library settings. She has taught graduate and continuing education courses in reference services and cataloging. Laura Green University Librarian, Head of the Music Library lgreen3@fsu.edu Allen Music Library N0202 HMU Phone: (850) 644-3999 Request a consultation with Laura Green Subject Specializations: Music Laura Gayle Green holds degrees from Ashland College (B. music, piano), the University of Virginia (M.A., musicology), and Indiana University (M.L.S. with an emphasis in music librarianship). She became Head of the Warren D. Allen Music Library at Florida State University in July 2012. Previous positions include Director, Music/Media Library at the University of Missouri—Kansas City (UMKC, 1993-2012) with an appointment as Adjunct Associate Professor in the Conservatory of Music and Dance, and Visiting Assistant Librarian, Music Cataloger at Indiana University (1990-1993). Ms. Green has been published in Cataloging and Classification Quarterly and Music Reference Services Quarterly, and has invited articles in Women and Music in America Since 1900 (Oryx Press 2002). She has been a speaker and panelist at Music Library Association (MLA), Music Library Association Midwest Chapter, American Musicological Association, Society for American Music, and Innovative Users Group meetings. Ms. Green has served as Convention Manager, Assistant Convention Manager, Treasurer/Executive Secretary, Program Chair, and Co-Chair Local Arrangements Committee for MLA. Ms. Green serves on the advisory board for Naxos Music Library and is on the editorial board for College Music Symposium. Kelly Grove GIS and Earth Sciences Librarian kegrove@fsu.edu STEM Libraries 202A Dirac Science Library Phone: (850) 644-0023 Request a consultation with Kelly Grove Subject Specializations: Earth, Ocean and Atmospheric Sciences; Geography; Nursing Kelly Grove is a Research and Learning Librarian at Dirac Library and the liaison to the Earth, Ocean, and Atmospheric Science (EOAS) Department, Geography Department, College of Nursing. Her background includes a B.S. in Geology from the University of Idaho and a Masters in Library and Information Science from the University of Alabama. She is a member of the American Library Association (ALA) and Association of College and Research Libraries (ACRL). Matthew Hunter Digital Scholarship Librarian mhunter2@fsu.edu Office of Digital Research and Scholarship 022, R&D Commons Strozier Subject Specializations: Classics Matt Hunter is the Florida State University Digital Scholarship Technologist and co-liaison to the Classics department. His responsibilities include reference and instruction for the Classical Archaeology, Greek, Latin, Classical Civilizations, and Ancient History programs. Matt has earned B.A. degrees in History and Classics, an M.A. in Latin, and an M.L.I.S. from Florida State University. His current research interests include emerging technology applications in humanities scholarship, library-based digital humanities research support, and library-based scholarly publication. He is a member of the American Library Association and the Association for College and Research Libraries. Renaine Julian Director of STEM Libraries rjulian@fsu.edu STEM Libraries 205A Dirac Science Library Phone: (850) 645-7961 Request a consultation with Renaine Julian Subject Specializations: Engineering; Mathematics; Nutrition and Integrative Physiology; Physics Renaine Julian is the Director of STEM Libraries at Florida State University. In this role, he oversees a team of science librarians and staff that provide support for STEM scholars across the research and learning lifecycles. Renaine has a MLIS, a MS in Urban and Regional Planning and a BS in Political Science all from Florida State University. His research interests include: library leadership and administration, research data management, and open science. Kyunghye Kim Social Sciences Librarian kkim4@fsu.edu Social Sciences, Arts & Humanities 027K Strozier Library Phone: (850) 644-7558 Request a consultation with Kyunghye Kim Subject Specializations: Communication; Communication Disorders; Hospitality; Public Health; Urban and Regional Planning Kyung Kim earned a PhD in Library & Information Science at Rutgers University. Prior to joining the FSU Libraries, Kyung worked as a medical librarian, then taught at iSchool, FSU over nine years. She is currently working on her MBA. She is leading Doctoral Support Special Interest Group at FSU Libraries. Kyung has expertise in User Studies, research life cycle, and advanced techniques for literature search. Her research interests include innovative information services for faculty and graduate students, scholarly communication, curriculum development, embedded librarianship for distance learners, and future of academic libraries. She is a member of the American Library Association (ALA) and the Association of College & Research Libraries (ACRL). Kirsten Kinsley Assessment Librarian kkinsley@fsu.edu Assessment: Library Research & Statistics 313B Strozier Library Phone: (850) 645-9347 Request a consultation with Kirsten Kinsley Subject Specializations: Criminology and Criminal Justice; Psychology; Social Work Kirsten Kinsley is an Assessment Librarian at the Florida State University Libraries and a liaison with the College of Criminology and Criminal Justice, and a co-liaison for the Department of Psychology and the College of Social Work. Kirsten completed her Master of Science in Library and Information Studies in 1999 and received a Master of Science and Specialist in Education degrees in Counseling and Human Systems in 1995 from the Florida State University. In 1989, she graduated with a Bachelor of Science in Psychology with Honors. Ms. Kinsley previously worked for the FSU Career Center Library and Law Research Center and has been working in libraries on campus in various capacities since 1991. Jeffrey Phillips Social Sciences Librarian jbp9224@fsu.edu Social Sciences, Arts & Humanities 0027F Strozier Library Phone: (850) 644-1635 Request a consultation with Jeffrey Phillips Subject Specializations: Demography; Education; Educational Leadership and Policy Studies; Educational Psychology and Learning Systems; Psychology; School of Teacher Education; Sociology; Sports Management; Sports Management and Recreation Management Jeff Phillips earned a B.S. and M.S. in Library and Information Studies and a M.S. and Ph.D. in Instructional Systems and Learning Technologies. As a Social Sciences Librarian, he has a strong focus in teaching students how to perform proper research and understanding the benefits of using library resources. His research interests include change management, cognitive load, and systematic instructional design. Mallary Rawls Humanities Librarian mrawls@fsu.edu Social Sciences, Arts & Humanities 027N Strozier Library Phone: (850) 645-8044 Request a consultation with Mallary Rawls Subject Specializations: African-American Studies; English; Women's Studies Mallary Rawls (she/her) is a Humanities Librarian at Florida State University. Her responsibilities include research support, library instruction, and collection development support. Mallary earned her Master of Science in Library and Information Studies from Florida State University in 2015. Prior to working at FSU Libraries, Mallary was a Children's Librarian at the LeRoy Collins Main Library in Tallahassee. Mallary's research interest include critical information studies, critical race theory, EDI research in librarianship, open education, critical librarianship, African American literature, American history, algorithm bias in information, Black feminist studies, and critical pedagogy. David Rodriguez Digital Services Librarian dwr16@fsu.edu Technology and Digital Scholarship 0023 Strozier Subject Specializations: Film Dave Rodriguez is the Digital Services Librarian in the Technology and Digital Scholarship Division. He holds a BA from New College of Florida (2009, Literature), an MA from the University of Florida (2011, Film & Media Studies), a Certificate from The L. Jeffrey Selznick School of Film Preservation (2012), and an MLIS from Florida State University (2018). Before coming to FSU, Dave worked in film and audio-visual preservation in museums, archives, and in the private and non-profit sectors. These positions included Chief Projectionist of the Motion Picture Department at George Eastman Museum, Manager/Archivist of The Center for Moving Image Arts at Bard College, laboratory technician at Continental Film & Digital Laboratory, and in Special Collections at the University of Miami. He has also worked as a freelance museum preparator and art handler. His current work at FSU Libraries focuses on digital media stewardship, repository management, and open-source technologies. His research interests include the curation of time-based media, copyright law, media archaeology, and experimental film/video/music. Robyn Rosasco Head of Research Services Robyn.Rosasco@med.fsu.edu Maguire Medical Library MSR-1300 Medical Library Phone: (850) 645-0348 Request a consultation with Robyn Rosasco Subject Specializations: Medicine Robyn earned a Master of Science in Library and Information Studies from Florida State University. As the Head of Research Services at the College of Medicine’s Maguire Medical Library, Robyn is responsible for reference, research, and circulation services for that branch library. She is a member of the Academy of Health Information Professionals (AHIP), the Medical Library Association (MLA), and the Florida Health Sciences Library Association (FHSLA). Nicholas Ruhs Research Data Management Librarian nruhs@fsu.edu STEM Libraries 202A Dirac Phone: (850) 645-9597 Request a consultation with Nicholas Ruhs Subject Specializations: Biological Science; Chemistry and Biochemistry; Computer Science; Scientific Computing; Statistics Dr. Nick Ruhs is the Research Data Management Librarian at Florida State University. He leads the development of data services for STEM scholars and provides support on topics related to research data management and data information literacy. He is also the subject librarian for the Chemistry, Biological Sciences, Statistics, Computer Science, and Scientific Computing departments. Prior to joining FSU Libraries, Nick earned a Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Chemistry from Washington University in St. Louis. Prior to that, he received a Bachelor of Science in chemistry with a minor in Mathematics from Quincy University in 2011. His current research interests include research data services, open science, and data information literacy for undergraduate and graduate students. He is a member of the American Library Association (ALA), the Association of College and Research Libraries (ACRL), Research Data Access and Preservation (RDAP), and the American Chemical Society (ACS). Shaun Saxon University Librarian, Head of the FSU PC Library ssaxon@fsu.edu Panama City, Florida A110 Holley Bldg Phone: (850) 770-2244 Request a consultation with Shaun Saxon Subject Specializations: Panama City Florida Library Shaun Saxon is the library director at the FSU Panama City Campus. He holds a B.A. in English from the University of West Florida and an M.S. in Library and Information Studies from Florida State University. He has experience in public, government, and academic libraries and served with distinction in the U.S. Navy and Marine Corps as an FMF Hospital Corpsman. Other past professions contributing to his generalist capabilities include professional photographer, web usability consultant, farm hand, and textile plant mechanic. In collaboration with the Tallahassee campus subject specialists, he serves the instruction and research needs for all programs at the Panama City Campus. Daniel Schoonover Social Sciences, Arts & Humanities Director dts08@fsu.edu Social Sciences, Arts & Humanities 027 Strozier Library Phone: (850) 645-1680 Request a consultation with Daniel Schoonover Subject Specializations: Anthropology Dan 'Brew' Schoonover serves as the subject librarian for Anthropology and the Director of the Social Sciences, Arts & Humanities team. He joined the Florida State University Libraries in 2008. Brew received his M.A. in Religion from Southeastern University in Lakeland, FL and his Masters in Library and Information Studies at Florida State University. He is a member of the Anthropology and Social Sciences Section of the Association of College and Research Libraries. Leah Sherman Visual & Performing Arts Librarian lrs06c@fsu.edu Social Sciences, Arts & Humanities 027H Strozier Library Phone: (850) 644-1573 Request a consultation with Leah Sherman Subject Specializations: Art; Art Education; Art History; Dance; Interior Design; Theatre Leah Sherman serves as the library liaison for all departments within the College of Fine Arts (Art, Art Education, Art History, Dance, Interior Design, and Theatre) as well as the FSU Museum of Fine Arts, The Ringling Museum, and the FSU Master Craftsman Studio. Her responsibilities include collection development, research consultations, and instructional support across the various disciplines. Leah earned her Master of Science in Library and Information Science at Florida State and is currently pursuing her PhD in Art History at FSU as well. Leah’s research interests in librarianship include increased awareness of visual literacy in instruction and the impact of outreach while her work in Art History focuses on 20th century Italian abstract painting, conceptual art, and museum history. She is an active member of ARLIS (Art Libraries Society of North America), CAA (College Art Association), ACRL (Association of College & Research Libraries), and ALA (American Library Association.) Velma Smith University Librarian vsmith@fsu.edu Resource Sharing 026 R.M. Strozier Library Phone: (850) 644-5045 Request a consultation with Velma Smith Subject Specializations: Interlibrary Loan Librarian - secures access to information not available at the Florida State University Libraries. Provides library service to the FSU Distance Education Community. Assists Subject Liaisons with Collection Development. Sarah Stanley Digital Humanities Librarian scstanley@fsu.edu Office of Digital Research and Scholarship 013 R&D Commons Strozier Library Subject Specializations: Digital Humanities; English Sarah Stanley is the Digital Humanities Librarian, and a liaison to the English Department and Digital Humanities Master’s Program. She received a Master’s in English from Northeastern University, where she studied early modern women’s writing and digital humanities. In the past she has worked on projects such as the Women Writers Project and Early Caribbean Digital Archive. At Florida State University, she assists faculty and students with projects that use digital methods, such as text analysis, humanities data visualization, and digital publication. Sarah’s research interests include studying sustainable digital humanities project infrastructure, creating structured data about people, and representing text in digital spaces. She is currently pursuing a Master’s of Science in Information at FSU’s iSchool. Sandra Varry Heritage & University Archivist svarry@fsu.edu Special Collections & Archives 203 Strozier Library Phone: (850) 645-7988 Request a consultation with Sandra Varry Subject Specializations: Lindsey Wharton Extended Campus and Distance Services Librarian lnw05c@fsu.edu Office of Distance Library Services Subject Specializations: Center for Leadership and Social Change; Human Development & Family Science; Social Work Lindsey Wharton joined the faculty at the Florida State University Libraries in 2014. As the Extended Campus and Distance Services Librarian, she is responsible for ensuring equitable access to library services and resources for all distance learning students as well as students and faculty at FSU's remote instructional sites and international programs. This entails creating library tutorials, videos, and web content, embedding library resources into the learning management system, providing online instruction and workshops using Collaborating, consulting with faculty teaching online courses, and coordinating our virtual reference service. Lindsey received her Bachelor of Arts in Philosophy from Florida State University and her Master of Arts in Library and Information Science from the University of South Florida. Before joining FSU, she served as the Assistant Director of the Learning Resource Center at Florida Keys Community College. Lindsey is a member of the American Library Association, Florida Library Association, and the Association of College and Research Libraries. Her research interests include information literacy and library instruction, emerging technologies, virtual reference services, information ethics, and digital pedagogy. Norman Wyckoff Entrepreneurial Outreach Librarian twyckoff@fsu.edu Social Sciences, Arts & Humanities 027K Strozier Library Phone: (850) 645-1475 Request a consultation with Norman Wyckoff Subject Specializations: Accounting; Business; Business Analytics, Information Systems and Supply Chain; Economics; Entrepreneurship; Management; Marketing; Retail Entrepreneurship; Risk Management / Insurance, Real Estate & Legal Studies; Sports Management Trip Wyckoff is the Entrepreneurial-In-Residence for the University Libraries to the new Jim Moran College of Entrepreneurship. He also is a subject librarian to the College of Business, Department of Economics, and the Department of Sport Management.. In addition to consulting with students and faculty, he has developed the "Business Research Certificate – BR101" course covering all aspects of business research, presented around the university for faculty, graduate students, undergraduate students, and the public. Trip has worked for a wide range of libraries, including stints in public (Houston Public Library), law (Baker & Botts), corporate (Hoover's), and nonprofit (American Productivity & Quality Center) libraries. In addition to his work with FSU, he has also owned his own company, Specialissues.com, which compiled industry information for researchers and librarians. He received his B.A. in history with a minor in Anthropology/Archaeology from Florida State University in 1987 and his Master of Science in Library and Information Studies from Florida State in 1988. Trip is a member of the Special Library Association and the American Library Association. His professional interests include business research literacy, competitive intelligence, and student entrepreneurship. I Need To... Find an Article Find Books and More... Find a Journal Find a Database Cite a Resource Access Course Reserves Find Tutoring Information Get Help My Account and Renewals About The Florida State University Libraries The mission of the University Libraries is to support and enhance the learning, teaching, research, and service activities of the Florida State University... READ MORE > Library Hours Maps and Directions Our Libraries Staff Directory Subject Librarians All Forms Library News Library Departments Library Events Library Services Employment Visiting the Libraries Giving to the Libraries Policies About the Libraries FAQ Government Information Staff Intranet Content Editor Login Internal Knowledge Base © Florida State University Libraries 116 Honors Way Tallahassee, FL 32306 Website Suggestions Privacy Principles Copyright Policy Contact Us (850) 644-2706 Search Articles, Books and More... * Connect with us!