Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Opera MM You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Opera MM Apply Request More Info Opera MM Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Ensembles & Performance Master's Audition Requirements Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Opera MM Refine your vocal technique and operatic performance skills with the Opera MM in Temple’s Boyer College of Music and Dance. This 32-credit graduate program is specifically designed for students who seek a rigorous, interdisciplinary curriculum that trains them for professional operatics. Study to become a general performer in opera houses or a soloist, as well as an educator in higher education or in a private studio. You’ll have six years to complete the curriculum, through which Boyer’s voice and opera faculty employ a systematic approach to help you master your vocal technique. In addition, you’ll develop advanced musical style and performance practice, language and diction skills, and musical and theoretical skills. Through hands-on instruction, Opera MM students have opportunities to perform on stage in musical and theater productions, as well as recitals. Department performances are designed to emulate a professional environment, and you’ll immerse yourself in the various approaches to acting, diction and vocal techniques. Each year, Opera MM students participate in a pair of full stage productions alongside orchestra students. Over the course of preparation, you’ll work with notable guest directors and artists, with opportunities to perform in productions with Temple’s choir, which routinely performs at the Kimmel Center for the Performing Arts and the Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts in New York City. In addition to students who have been awarded master class status, many others have performed at the Metropolitan Opera and the Los Angeles Opera, as well as the London Symphony Orchestra, the National Symphony Orchestra and the New York Philharmonic, among others. Explore Boyer Faculty Faculty Discover vocal arts faculty in the Boyer College of Music and Dance. Explore Boyer Faculty See faculty members in Boyer vocal arts degree programs. Classes & Curriculum The Opera MM curriculum can be completed on a full-time or part-time basis. Courses are designed to help you hone your diction and vocal skills, and prepare to perform on stage. Some of the core courses in the Opera MM degree curriculum include Aria Repertoire, History of Opera, Opera Diction and Opera Role Performance. Learn more about courses for the Opera MM degree. Related Graduate Degrees Music History MM Music Education MM Music Education PhD Performance DMA Performance MM Vocal Arts MM Theater-Acting MFA* Related Graduate Certificates Professional Studies *School of Theater, Film and Media Arts Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Music offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,095.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,458.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Additional Information Our Advisors Faculty advisors will help you to shape your coursework and research activities to align with your goals and academic interests. Paul Rardin is an associate professor and the chair of the Choral Music Department. Phone: 215-204-4742 Email: rardin@temple.edu Lawrence Indik is an associate professor in the Voice and Opera Department. Phone: 215-204-8336 Email: lawrence.indik@temple.edu Program Contact Christine Anderson is associate professor in the Voice and Opera Department and program coordinator in Temple’s Voice and Opera Department. Phone: 215-804-8375 Email: christine.anderson@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Participating in student groups provides peer support and future professional contacts. There are more than 200 student organizations at Temple University. American Choral Directors Association provides students opportunities to experience choral conducting through guest lectures and rehearsal practice, and offers opportunities to earn practical experience through various regional and state conferences. Broadway on Broad presents cabarets and various other productions at Temple University and around the Philadelphia community. It serves to provide an outlet for students who are passionate about the performing arts. Broadway on Broad is not directly affiliated with the School of Theater, Film and Media Arts. OwlCappella is a coed a cappella group—one of seven student-run a cappella ensembles on campus—that provides a musical outlet for non-music and music majors alike. Learn more about clubs and organizations. Accreditation The Boyer College of Music and Dance is accredited by the American Music Therapy Association, National Association of Schools of Music, National Association of Schools of Dance and Pennsylvania Department of Education. BC-OPRA-MMUS Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Opera MM Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Ensembles & Performance Master's Audition Requirements Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info