Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Media and Public RelationsMenu Featured Research Announcements Accolades Hot Topics In the News Experts Expert Directory Media Kits Contact Media & PR Media & PR Staff Contact Information Baylor University Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information Media Access to Campus Policy Graduation / Award Lists Marketing and Communications Scholarship Recipient Information IRS form 990: June 2020 through May 2021 IRS form 990: June 2019 through May 2020 IRS form 990: June 2018 through May 2019 IRS form 990: June 2017 through May 2018 IRS form 990: June 2016 through May 2017 IRS form 990: June 2015 through May 2016 Report on Investigation - Willis & Pena Baylor Religion Professor Receives Fulbright U.S. Scholar Award to South Korea Baylor University Honors College faculty member Candi K. Cann, Ph.D., associate professor of religion in the Baylor Interdisciplinary Core (BIC). Tweet May 12, 2022 Media Contact: Lori Fogleman, Baylor University Media and Public Relations, 254-709-5959 Follow us on Twitter: @BaylorUMedia WACO, Texas (May 12, 2022) – Baylor University Honors College faculty member Candi K. Cann, Ph.D., associate professor of religion in the Baylor Interdisciplinary Core (BIC), has received a Fulbright U.S. Scholar Award, a prestigious and competitive fellowship of the Department of State’s Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs. Cann will teach and conduct research in South Korea as the first Fulbright Scholar at Han Nam University, one of a few Christian universities in South Korea and where she was among its first American exchange students in 1990-91. A noted researcher on death and dying, and the impact of remembering (and forgetting) in shaping how lives are recalled, remembered and celebrated, Cann will teach Han Nam’s seminary faculty on this topic and speak as part of Han Nam’s chapel series in spring and summer 2023. She also will conduct research on the rise of the country’s hospital funeral homes, examining the ways in which they promote religious pluralism, a topic that aligns with her current research on diversity in death, and the intersection of death and technology around the world. “Because of Korea’s socialized medical system, the funeral home is where most hospitals make their money, which brings up some interesting ethical questions,” Cann said. “Daejon, the city where Han Nam is located, is often considered to be the ‘Silicon Valley’ of South Korea, so there are interesting things happening there in terms of technology, so I’m interested in examining what advances they are making in the area of death and technology, such as with virtual reality, so it really is the perfect place for me to be.” Cann’s books include “Virtual Afterlives: Grieving the Dead in the 21st Century,” which centered on digital grief and memorialization in the contemporary world; “Dying to Eat: Cross Cultural Perspectives on Food, Death and the Afterlife” about the intersection of food in death and grief; and “The Routledge Handbook of Death and Afterlife,” an edited collection of 30 chapters examining death and afterlife from around the world. Her scholarly work also includes numerous articles and book chapters, including “African American Deathways” in Oxford Bibliographies in African American Studies. With the COVID-19 pandemic adding to the already complex issues around end-of-life, death care and grief, Cann was involved with the Virtual Funeral Collective and a co-author of the article, “Death, Grief, and Funerals in the COVID Age,” which centered on optimal strategies for helping people develop new rituals to honor those who die during the COVID-19 era. The article’s resources and best practices for support during an unprecedented time were recognized and utilized by OptionB.org, National Hospice and Palliative Care Organization, Presidential Taskforce on Grief and Loss, and the New York State Psychological Association, among many others. In addition to teaching and research, Fulbright Scholars like Cann play a critical role in U.S. public diplomacy, establishing long-term relationships between people and nations. Alumni include 61 Nobel Laureates, 89 Pulitzer Prize winners, 76 MacArthur Fellows, and thousands of leaders and world-renowned experts in academia and many other fields across the private, public and non-profit sectors. The Fulbright brings recognition to Baylor University, an R1 university with very high research activity and a premier Christian research university, while scholars’ engagement abroad often establishes research and exchange relationships, which Cann hopes to do in the future with Han Nam. Cann is the second Baylor faculty member this year to receive the Fulbright U.S. Scholar Award. Leslie Palich, Ph.D., The W.A. (Agnes) Mays Professor of Entrepreneurship in Baylor University’s Hankamer School of Business, has received a Fulbright U.S. Scholar Award to Ireland and will work with the entrepreneurship faculty at Dublin City University in Ireland for the Fall 2022 semester. ABOUT BAYLOR UNIVERSITY Baylor University is a private Christian University and a nationally ranked Research 1 institution. The University provides a vibrant campus community for more than 20,000 students by blending interdisciplinary research with an international reputation for educational excellence and a faculty commitment to teaching and scholarship. Chartered in 1845 by the Republic of Texas through the efforts of Baptist pioneers, Baylor is the oldest continually operating University in Texas. Located in Waco, Baylor welcomes students from all 50 states and more than 90 countries to study a broad range of degrees among its 12 nationally recognized academic divisions. ABOUT THE HONORS COLLEGE AT BAYLOR UNIVERSITY The Honors College at Baylor University unites four innovative interdisciplinary programs – the Honors Program, University Scholars, Baylor Interdisciplinary Core and Great Texts – with a shared commitment to providing undergraduate students the opportunity to pursue questions that often fall between the cracks of the specialized disciplines by investigating the writings of scientists along with the writings of poets, historians and philosophers. For more information, visit baylor.edu/honorscollege. More News ... News Archives Looking for more news from Baylor University? Tweets by @BaylorUMedia Contact Us mail Media and Public Relations Baylor University One Bear Place #97024 Waco, TX 76798 tel (254) 710-1961 Email mediacomm@baylor.edu More Contact Info Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Featured Research Announcements Accolades Hot Topics In the News Experts Expert Directory Media Kits Baylor University Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information Baylor Bears 2019 Sic 'em for Safety Campaign Baylor Religion Survey Baylor Research and Innovation Collaborative Detecting Biomarkers for Cancer Eye Cancer App Helps Save Lives Exhuming Immigrant Remains Fighting Tropical Diseases Higgs Boson Research iCivics Baylor Model Life Patterns in Extreme Environments Paul L. Foster Campus Leadership and Innovation Summit Paul L. Foster Campus for Business and Innovation Small Business and Community Health Research Texas Hunger Initiative Water Quality Research Whale Earplug Reveals Lifetime Contaminant Exposure and Hormone Profiles Data Privacy Day 2019 Contact Media & PR Media & PR Staff Contact Information Baylor University Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information Media Access to Campus Policy Graduation / Award Lists Dean's Academic Honor List Graduation List Academic Scholarship Awards List Marketing and Communications Scholarship Recipient Information IRS form 990: June 2020 through May 2021 IRS form 990: June 2019 through May 2020 IRS form 990: June 2018 through May 2019 IRS form 990: June 2017 through May 2018 IRS form 990: June 2016 through May 2017 IRS form 990: June 2015 through May 2016 Report on Investigation - Willis & Pena