Skip navigation Information For: Future Students Current Students PLME Students Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Alumni Parents The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Search Brown Search AMS About Education Student Affairs Diversity Admission Financial Aid Med A to Z People Directory Division of Urology Fellowship Programs Minimally Invasive Urologic Surgery Fellowship Division of Urology Minimally Invasive Urologic Surgery Fellowship The Brown Urology Program offers a Minimally Invasive Urologic Surgery Fellowship Dr. Dragan Golijanin and Dr. Gyan Pareek Description of Fellowship Brown's Minimally Invasive Urologic Surgery Fellowship is an integrated fellowship with Brown University’s School of Public Health. The 2-year position has a primary focus on training an academic minimally invasive urologist and creating a future leader in our field. The fellow will graduate with an accredited Endourology Fellowship certificate as well as a Master's in Public Health or a Master’s in Clinical and Translational Research. The fellow is responsible for coverage of all minimally invasive urologic surgical procedures (percutaneous renal surgery, endourology, laparoscopy, and robotics) cases on his/her operating room days. The fellow may be asked to interact with our residents during certain cases, but as "teaching faculty." The fellow will be enrolled in the School of Public Health and take 2-3 classes per semester. I. SCOPE OF TRAINING Specialized training in minimally invasive urologic surgery will cover all aspects of endourologic surgery at the Rhode Island and Miriam Hospitals - including: minimally invasive urologic surgery of the lower and upper tracts, image guided therapy for urolithiasis and tumors, and various laparoscopic and robotic procedures. The subspecialty training in minimally invasive urologic surgery will provide an experience of sufficient level for the trainee to acquire advanced skills in each of these areas. The fellow will work with current residents in the Brown University Urology program. The fellow may staff cases deemed appropriate by the program director as a junior faculty for current Brown urology residents. II. QUALIFICATION OF THE APPLICANT The applicant will have completed an ACGME approved residency in urology and be eligible to sit for part I of the American Board of Urology qualifying examination. Urologists who have passed part I of the American Board of Urology Qualifying Examination and are licensed to practice medicine in the United States are also eligible for consideration in the program. III. EDUCATION PROGRAM The clinical status of a fellow is at a junior staff member. The fellow will have graded surgical responsibility and will be responsible progressively for more and more of the operative care of individual cases. The fellow will also be responsible for preparation of teaching conferences for residents and staff. In addition, the fellow will participate in teaching residents and medical students. The fellow will be required to conduct research, both clinical and basic science. The latter will be coordinated as a collaborative effort with the School of Public Health. Visit the Minimally Invasive Urology Institute website for more information. Fellowship Application Requirements Cover Letter Application CV Personal Statement 3 Letters of Recommendation (LORs), a Chairman's letter is not required USMLE Scores (Step 1 -3) ECFMG Certificate (if applicable) Current Fellow: 2021 Alejandra Balen, M.D. Medical School: Boston University Residency: Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Match Fellow: 2022 Vikas Bhatt, M.D. Medical School: Drexel University College of Medicine Residency: Albany Medical College All residents interested in fellowship at Brown Urology should contact: Gyan Pareek, MD Fellowship Director 401.444.8570 [email protected] or Sheryl (Pandolfi) Dawley, Fellowship Coordinator [email protected] Home What's New in Urology About Faculty Staff Hospitals Multidisciplinary Clinics Contact Fellowship Programs Male Reproductive Medicine and Surgery Minimally Invasive Urologic Surgery Alumni Medical Student Education Awards and Recognitions How to Apply Visiting Medical Students Clerkship Why Rhode Island? Residency Program Print this Page Share this Page Residency Program Brown University 2 Dudley Street Suite 174 Providence, RI 02905 Phone 401-444-5795 [email protected] The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Box G-A1, Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-3330 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: Facebook / LinkedIn / YouTube / Flickr / Twitter Resources Academic Departments Affiliated Hospitals Faculty Directory Make a Gift