Dream Scholars - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Counseling and Psychological Services Submit Close Student Affairs and Enrollment Services Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Counseling and Psychological Services Home About Us Accreditations Contact & Location Information Statement on Diversity Office Hours Mission and Vision CAPS Staff Confidentiality Eligibility for CAPS Services Fees Services First Visit (Triage) Essential Skills Workshops Single Session Therapy (SST) Group Counseling Couples Counseling (Short-Term) Individual Counseling (Short-Term) Community Referrals Crisis Intervention CAPS Defusing and Debriefing Process Conduct Assessment and Response Team Helping Students of Concern Get help for Sexual Assault What to do if you are in crisis Resources Harrassment, Assault/Abuse English Language Learners Faculty & Staff Parents & Loved Ones Race Related Stress Resources Self-Help Resources Students First Generation College Students What is Greek Life? International Students LGBTQIA Career Resources Student Athletes Students of Color Students with Children Students with DisABILITIES Returning Adult Students Veterans Texas Sanctuary Cities FAQ Undocumented Students DACA: What You Need to Know DACA FAQ Dream Scholars UH Resources COVID-19 Resources Outreach Outreach Request College Student Grief Awareness Let's Talk Program CAPS Liaisons Suicide Prevention Training: QPR Coogs Conquer (C-2) Series Support Groups Latinas REACH Sista Circle: Black Grads Rainbow Wellness Group Newsletters Calendar Clinical Training APA Internship Practicum Training Forms Appeals Authorization to Release of Medical Records Informed Consent for Counseling Services Medical Withdrawal Application Giving UH Home Counseling and Psychological Services Resources Undocumented Students Dream Scholars Resources Harrassment, Assault/Abuse English Language Learners Faculty & Staff Parents & Loved Ones Race Related Stress Resources Self-Help Resources Students Texas Sanctuary Cities FAQ UH Resources Undocumented Students DACA: What You Need to Know DACA FAQ Dream Scholars COVID-19 Resources ADHD/ LD/ Autism Assessment Dream Scholars Dream Scholars are students who qualify for Senate Bill 1528 legislation; the term “Dream Scholars” emphasizes the academic hopes and scholastic identity of these students on our campus. Many dream scholars experience unique strengths and challenges in the pursuit of a college education. Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) supports students’ personal and academic growth by maximizing their use of available resources within the university and in the larger community. Common Experiences for Dream Scholars These are some experiences that a counselor may be able to assist you with: Adjusting to college. Doubts about graduation. Experiencing isolation, fear, distrust, uncertainty, helplessness, confusion, frustration. Feeling devalued, rejected, dehumanized, discouraged, ashamed. Get Involved on Campus CAPS recognizes the importance of being involved on campus therefore we encourage students to find events, activities, departments and organizations of interest to them and that serve their needs. Visit the UH calendar to learn about events on campus, many are free or offer a student discount. Become involved in a student organization or student activity. Familiarize yourself with different campus departments that can address your specific concerns, meet specific needs, and offer specialized programs. The following are abbreviated lists of departments on campus: For academic support: LAUNCH Writing Center For financial support: Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid For social support: Center for Diversity and Inclusion Center for Mexican American Studies Challenger Program Center for Student Empowerment How Can CAPS Help Me? Clinicians on staff offer individual, couples, and group counseling to support you in addressing the challenges of college. If you are feeling overwhelmed, hopeless, exhausted, etc. please do not hesitate to contact CAPS; clinicians are trained to assist you in addressing your concerns. For more information regarding seeking CAPS services contact 713-743-5454. If you feel more comfortable expressing your concerns in another language, the following languages are spoken at CAPS: Danish, Mandarin Chinese, and Vietnamese. Additional Resources for Dream Scholars Forms and Guides: Best colleges: Guide for Dream Scholars Life After College Guide 36 Month Provision Affidavit (Residency Affidavit) The affidavit must be notarized and submitted to the “Admissions office at the Welcome Center”. Scholarships: Scholarships The Dream U.S. Organizations: Youth Empowerment Alliance (YEA) UH Immigration Clinic Embassies in Houston Texas United We Dream The DREAM Act Portal Immigration Policy Center Educators for Fair consideration (E4FC) Related Links UH Calendar Student Organizations Student Activities First Visit (Triage) University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies