Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Faculty Senate Menu Baylor>Faculty Senate Faculty Senate The Faculty Senate serves and functions as the representative, deliberative, and legislative body of the Baylor University Faculties. Note From The Faculty Senate Chair The Faculty Senate comprises elected members from the colleges and schools of the university community. Senate members listen, learn, and advise on a number of matters confronting faculty, students, and the university. To learn more about the role of the Faculty Senate, identify the senator(s) from your college or school, or read minutes of past meetings, click the relevant links on the Faculty Senate website. Please feel free to contact your respective senator or any senator with your questions or concerns. Coretta M. Pittman Faculty Senate Senators Senate Organization 2021-22 Previous Faculty Senates Faculty Senate Elections Meeting Dates 2021-22 Meeting Minutes - Current Minutes Archive Role of Senate Constitution and Bylaws History of Senate Motions, Resolutions, and other Documents Senate Newsletters General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Senators Senate Organization 2021-22 Previous Faculty Senates Faculty Senate Elections Meeting Dates 2021-22 Meeting Minutes - Current Minutes Archive Role of Senate Constitution and Bylaws History of Senate Motions, Resolutions, and other Documents Senate Newsletters