Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Department of Biostatistics Home About Academics Research People News Site Navigation Home Statistics Seminars Series Seminar Archive About Job Postings Our Partners Academics Doctoral Program Ph.D. FAQs Master's Program Sc.M. Degree 5th Year (A.M.)/OGE NextGen Scholars Program in Biostatistics Welcome from the chair Master's FAQs Undergraduate Concentration Career Information Series Resources Dissertation Spotlight Courses Introductory Biostatistics Courses Research People Administration Faculty Students Current Doctoral Students Current Master’s Students Alumni News News Item Submission Meet the Biostatistics Core Administrative Team From left to right: Denise Arver, Jennifer Quiroz, Diane Deignan, Lisa Ward, Kellye Gilley, Rose Benar, and Suzanne Araujo. Missing: Isabel Vieira, Lourdez Caballeros The Biostatistics Administrative Core is one of four Administrative Cores within Brown University’s School of Public Health. The Core Admin team supports the Department of Biostatistics and the Center for Statistical Sciences. Meet Our Team The Core is led by Suzanne Araujo, Director of Finance and Administration. Denise Arver is the Academic Manager and is responsible for all things involving Academic Administration. Denise works closely with Rose Benar who is our Student Affairs Coordinator. Diane Deignan is the Grants and Financial Manager for the Core. She works closely with Kellye Gilley, Isabel Vieira, and Lisa Ward who are Grants and Financial Specialists. Jenni Quiroz is the Operations Manager and is responsible for the day-to-day operations of the office as well as larger-scale logistical, structural and event planning. She will work closely with an Administrative Coordinator who will begin on June 1, 2022 (Lourdez Caballeros). Tremendous growth at the School of Public Health has not only increased our School’s impact, but has highlighted the importance of a scalable organizational framework. In November 2021, the School rolled out a reorganization of its administrative staff. The cornerstone of the School’s new structure is its four administrative cores, each aligned with one of the four academic departments: Biostatistics Behavioral and Social Sciences Epidemiology Health Services, Policy, and Practice Research centers that correspond with each academic department are also supported by the overarching administrative cores. The goal of this new foundation is to provide consistent structures for each center and department. By grouping staff into these cores, we create pathways for staff support and growth, foster collaboration and community among staff and faculty, and coordinate with similar efforts in other parts of the University. Here are some things our team enjoys doing: In her spare time, Denise enjoys landscape photography, crocheting or picking up the ole six-string. Jenni enjoys traveling, eating vanilla ice cream, and napping with her English bulldog Chloe. Diane enjoys reading and spending time with her grandkids. Suzanne enjoys reading, relaxing on the beach, and spending time with family and friends. Lisa enjoys traveling, reading and being outdoors (usually at a baseball field). Kellye enjoys discovering new restaurants/cuisine, spending time with family, friends, and her pet kitties, Lucy(fur) and Prissy, and watching old movies. Isabel enjoys reading legal mystery books. She loves the courtroom drama! Rose loves tattoos, motorcycles, and military history. She enjoys spending time with her wife and dog, and has a vast collection of physical media. If there’s a movie or show you’ve been trying to track down, just reach out to Rose! Department of Biostatistics Department of Biostatistics Brown University Box G-S121-7 121 S Main St, 7th Floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-9831 Fax: 401-863-9182 Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top