Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Law Career Development Baylor Law Menu Baylor Law About News Mission Statement and Core Values Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Practice Ready Law Professors, Life Coaches The Quarter System Quick Facts Public Service Legal Clinics Special Events Notice of Non-Discrimination Building Hours Contact Us History 100 Years of Practice Court Baylor Law Virtual Tours Academics Academic Calendar Academic Services Advocacy Transactional Degree Programs Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Experiential Learning Legal Writing Study Abroad at St Andrews Baylor Law Review Admissions Explore Apply Finance Visit Admitted Students Quick Facts Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Alumni & Giving Alumni Resources Get Involved Give Back Baylor Law School Alumni Information Update Submit Alumni Note Career Development Employers Current Students Employment Statistics Contact the CDO Baylor Law School Current Students Academic Services Calendars Leadership Development Health & Wellness Policies and Feedback Professional Development Public Service Legal Clinics Student Life Title IX ABA Required Disclosures Law School Home Events News Emergency and Closure Information Faculty & Staff Faculty and Staff Directory Faculty Scholarship Faculty and Staff News Faculty and Staff Resources Law School Home Library Library Collection Electronic Resources Library Services Policies and Information Library Online Catalog Technology Law School Equipped to Navigate All Waters. Andrew Martinez / Brazos River, Waco, TX Less than 10 minutes from campus, Andrew is off the grid, his kayak drifting silently beneath majestic cliffs, shielded by miles of canopied forests along Texas’ longest river. He moves calmly, with confidence, knowing that in law—as in life—the better prepared he is for what’s around the bend, the better equipped he’ll be to handle it. Meet Andrew > THE CAREER DEVELOPMENT OFFICE AT BAYLOR LAW Graduates looking to land the best opportunities and employers looking to recruit the best candidates find that it’s easy to connect through Baylor Law. Baylor Law’s Career Development Office works with students early in the law school journey, to recognize their strengths, identify their interests, develop a career plan, and take proactive steps to help them land the positions they seek following graduation. Likewise, the CDO works with employers to make the process of identifying top-flight young lawyers simple—with free on-campus interviews, résumé collection based on each firm’s specific needs, and job postings outside of the normal on-Campus interview program. Baylor Law consistently enjoys one of the highest law school employment rates in the country. Many employers looking for graduates with the skills, poise, and precision to hit the ground running, look to Baylor Law. Employers Hire a Baylor Lawyer Students Find Employment Student Career Development Resources Make a Career Strategy AppointmentProfessional DevelopmentSymplicity Job Postings Career Development Events Jun 1 2022 Top Gun National Mock Trial Competition (ends 06/05/2022) Jun 9 2022 Baylor Law Alumni Reception held in conjunction with the State Bar of Texas Annual Mtg. More Events Contact the Career Development Office Kristine Bridges Assistant Dean of Career Development 254.710.8537 Kristine_Bridges@baylor.edu Jana Hixson Director of Career Development - Employer Relations 254.710.7617 Jana_Hixson@baylor.edu Lauren Porter Career Development Office Manager 254.710.1210 Lauren_Porter@baylor.edu Career Development News Baylor University Honors Professor Jeremy Counseller as Outstanding Faculty for 2021-2022 May 26, 2022 Baylor University has selected Professor of Law Jeremy Counseller to receive the 2021-2022 Outstanding Faculty Award for Teaching (Tenured). 3L Lizzie Allen Earns Highly Competitive Equal Justice Works Fellowship May 24, 2022 Baylor Law 3L Lizzie Allen was recently selected to receive a highly selective Equal Justice Works Fellowship. She will provide direct representation and advocacy for students with disabilities at risk of, and currently navigating, the juvenile justice system. 16 of the Nation's Best Student Advocates to Compete for the Title of 'Top Gun' in June May 19, 2022 Student advocates who will compete in Baylor Law's Top Gun National Mock Trial Competition, the most challenging mock trial competition in the country, have been named. The invitation-only tournament pits the best advocates from 16 trial advocacy schools against one another in a head-to-head, winner-take-all contest June 1-5 at Baylor Law. Baylor Law Announces Law Schools Participating in Top Gun XIII May 3, 2022 Law students from the best trial advocacy programs in the country will travel to Waco June 1-5 to take part in Baylor Law’s thirteenth annual National Top Gun Mock Trial Competition. The invitation-only, winner-takes-all contest is the nation's most prestigious and intense mock trial competition. More News Connect Quick Search Cancel See All Search Topics Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Sheila & Walter Umphrey Law Center 1114 South University Parks Drive One Bear Place #97288 Waco, Texas 76798 tel (254) 710-1911 fax (254) 710-2316 Building Hours Monday - Friday 8:00am - 5:00pm Saturday - Sunday Closed Holidays Closed Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Employers Post a Job Schedule an On-Campus Interview Increase Your Visibility at Baylor Law Why Hire Baylor Law Advocacy Training Diverse and Highly Credentialed Student Body Experiential Learning Grading System Legal Writing Practice Court Transactional Practice The Quarter System Recruiting Policies Current Students Your Career Development Strategies and Timelines Career Paths Student Opportunities Job Search Resources Online Resources Networking Correspondence With Employers Résumés Writing Samples Transcripts Interviewing Tips Employment Offers Policy for Presenting Academic Credentials on Résumés Interviewing Opportunities Make an Appointment Employment Statistics Contact the CDO Reciprocity Baylor Law School About Academics Admissions Alumni & Giving Career Development Current Students Faculty & Staff Library