COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Nursing - Traditional Program, Major MajorNursing - Traditional Program All Programs College of Health Professions School of Nursing Wichita State’s Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) prepares you for entry-level professional nursing positions in a variety of health care settings and provides a foundation for graduate study in nursing. The program combines CCNE accreditation, experienced instructors, exclusive scholarships—and applied learning in Kansas’ health care hub. Learn how nursing - traditional program - is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To qualify as a candidate for admission to the School of Nursing, students must: Be enrolled in, or admitted to, WSU Have completed prerequisite requirements Have an overall minimum 2.75 GPA, and a 3.00 cumulative GPA in the specified science courses Complete the standardized TEAS with a minimum passing score or achieve an ACT score ≥ 27 or an SAT score ≥ 1125 Submit application materials by Feb. 1 for fall or Sept. 1 for spring Admission requirements Inside the Program State-of-the-art mannequins provide nursing students with real-world experience As a student in the School of Nursing, you will receive an interactive experience with state-of-the-art simulation mannequins in a realistic and safe environment. The lifelike actions of the mannequins simulate a variety of symptoms and scenarios, including childbirth, seizures, blood pressure problems and bleeding. Studies show that when used in conjunction with the classroom and clinicals, simulation promotes better preparation of new nurses and increased patient safety. Curriculum A minimum total of 120 credit hours is required for the Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) and includes 54 credit hours of major (professional) courses. The Wichita State and Kansas State Pathway to Nursing Program is a unique dual degree program that gives students the opportunity to earn both a Bachelor of Science (BS) degree from the College of Health and Human Sciences at Kansas State and a Bachelor of Science in nursing (BSN) from the College of Health Professions at Wichita State University. View the curriculum Careers A nursing degree from Wichita State will give you the knowledge and practical skills for high-paying, high-demand nursing careers in diverse health care settings such as hospitals, nursing and residential care facilities, schools and government. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Nursing - Accelerated Nursing - RN to BSN Dental Hygiene - Entry Level Program Aging Studies Health Management Pre-Medicine 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©