Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Legal Affairs & General Counsel General Counsel right arrow down arrow Office of General Counsel right arrow down arrow Public Records Requests Contracting with UC Ethics Attorneys & Staff Contact Us Enterprise Risk Management right arrow down arrow Insurance & Claims right arrow down arrow Insurance Verification or Claims History right arrow down arrow Claims History / Proof of Insurance Request Non-Employee Exception Sheet Medical Malpractice Cross Reference Certificate of Insurance Loss Control & Training right arrow down arrow Drones right arrow down arrow Flight Request Form Fleet Safety right arrow down arrow Driver Registration Protection of Minors Special Events Student Organizations About the Process right arrow down arrow Staff FAQ's Ask a Risk Manager Privacy Internal Audit Home » About UC » Legal Affairs & General Counsel » Enterprise Risk Management » Loss Control & Training » Special Events Set Navigation title in component Insurance & Claims Insurance Verification or Claims History Claims History / Proof of Insurance Request Non-Employee Exception Sheet Medical Malpractice Cross Reference Certificate of Insurance Loss Control & Training Drones Flight Request Form Fleet Safety Driver Registration Protection of Minors Special Events Student Organizations About the Process Staff FAQ's Ask a Risk Manager Special Events What is a special event? Special events can be sponsored by the University, students, or an outside entity, and can involve: Food services and/or alcohol; Guests, spectators, and/or keynote speakers; Using temporary stands, structures and wiring; Impact on traffic flows and/or road closures; Potential dangers for spectators (e.g. fireworks); and/or Use of volunteers and security officers to carry out the event. UC's various colleges, departments and units schedule hundreds of special events per year! Best Practices to Minimize Losses Thorough Planning -- All operational plans should be in writing and specify who is responsible for each action. Frequent Communication -- Convene a team with representation from all key stakeholders throughout the planning process. A variety of perspectives will lead to solid plans and solutions for your event. Adequate Management -- Ensure your event has the proper supervision (including clear chain of command), training on applicable policies and procedures, and other necessary resources. Safe Physical Conditions or Acts -- Evaluate the physical environment, cleanliness, ventilation, crowd control plans and duration prior to the event. Contingency Plans -- Always be prepared for the unexpected, for example, weather conditions, facilities issues, etc. and do not let one mishap trigger a series of failures. Insurance -- All special events (whether University sponsored or on University premises) should have adequate insurance coverage. Tenant User Liability Insurance Policy (TULIP) Third parties hosting events on University property are required to provide a Certificate of Insurance, which is proof of coverage for claims that may arise from the event. The type and amount of coverage and its associated cost, which is the financial responsibility of the third party host, may depend on: Risk class of the activity (for example, a workshop vs. a concert); Length of the activity; Number of participants; and Any special requirements (for example, serving alcohol). Next Steps As soon as practicable, but at least three business days in advance of your event, the University department/group involved in planning the event must: Obtain a Certificate of Insurance from any third parties; Refer third parties to Campus Connexions or URMIA as an option to purchase adequate coverage. Refer to Public Safety - Special Events to determine permit and security needs. For additional questions, Ask a Risk Manager. Resources Use of Facilities Policy Campus Services Certificate of Insurance Mini Training Series (20 minutes) University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top