Kansas State University search Search K-State web, people, directories Browse A-Z Sign in Canvas OrgCentral Navigate MyLibrary KSIS HRIS Webmail Status of ITS resources Sign in to Connect K-State home »About K-State »Campuses About K-State Home Leadership Office of the President Office of the Provost K-State 2025 See all of Leadership Campuses Manhattan Olathe Salina Global See all of Campuses Values Putting Students First Diversity and Inclusion Principles of Community See all of Values Stats and Strengths Rankings Achievements Faculty Honors National Scholars Engagement and Impact See all of Stats and Strengths History and Traditions Traditions War Memorials Honorary Degrees See all of History and Traditions Careers Faculty Staff Internal Students See all of Careers Campuses home Manhattan campus Explore Manhattan Olathe campus Salina campus Global campus Kansas State University Manhattan, KS 66506 785-532-6011 k-state@k-state.edu Campuses Kansas State University is a four-campus system that values each piece of the puzzle. Each campus has its own strengths and connections that fit perfectly within our university umbrella. Learn more about each of our unique campuses below. Manhattan K-State's main campus sits in "The Little Apple," and thrives in its vibrant college-town atmosphere. The Manhattan campus encompasses more than 2,320 acres, including agricultural and research facilities. Manhattan has a population of more than 56,000, and enjoys a great relationship with the K-State family. This campus is situated next door to Fort Riley, a large Army installation, and collaborates on many military-focused projects. The U.S. Department of Homeland Security's National Bio and Agro-defense Facility is being constructed adjacent to campus. Explore Manhattan Olathe Located within the Kansas Bioscience Park, the Olathe campus provides a direct portal linking the university's powerful research capabilities to the Greater Kansas City area and beyond. The newest K-State campus, Olathe opened its doors in 2011. K-State Olathe is focused on expanding the educational and economic growth of the region, particularly for professionals working in the metro area. This campus facilitates many partnerships between researchers and companies, developing technology for industry needs around the world. K-State Olathe also extends its expertise to K-12 leaders through educational programming in animal health, food safety and food security. Salina This professional learning environment is built on theory, research and industry application, all within a small campus atmosphere located in Salina, Kansas. The Salina campus is particularly known for its world-class aviation program. A state-of-the-art Student Life Center opened in 2009, and includes a full-size basketball court and various running and fitness areas. This campus is one of the first and few universities in the nation to offer a bachelor's degree in unmanned aircraft systems and machine learning and autonomous systems. Salina, a city of nearly 48,000, offers access to more than 600 acres of park land and the annual Smokey Hill River Festival. Global K-State Global Campus delivers the educational opportunities of the university to students who want to study online or at a distance. The Global Campus is home to K-State Online, which offers more than 100 online credit programs, including bachelor's, master's, doctoral, certificate and minor programs. Started in 1966, when faculty traveled across the state of Kansas to teach classes, K-State Online now reaches students in all 50 states and 41 countries. K-State Global Campus also offers noncredit trainings and programs both in person and online that result in certification, acknowledgment of completion or continuing education hours in a variety of fields. More than 3,000 learners completed noncredit programs online through the Global Campus in 2020. Contact us Emergency Statements and disclosures Accessibility Kansas State University Manhattan, KS 66506 785-532-6011 © Kansas State University Updated: 2/16/22