Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary COLLEGE OF ARTS & SCIENCES CTR FOR STUDIES IN DEMOGRAPHY & ECOLOGY Ctr for Stdies in Demography and Ecology Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 CSDE 501 Population Studies Seminar Series (1, max. 18) CSDE affiliates and visitors present current research projects. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: CSDE 501 CSDE 502 Population Studies Proseminar (1/2, max. 15) Professional training in demography and populations studies. Includes ethics in population research, human subjects review, proposal application and writing. CSDE faculty research specialization, and research preparation and presentation. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: ASp. View course details in MyPlan: CSDE 502 CSDE 513 Demography and Ecology (3) Theories and research on human fertility, mortality, mobility, migration, and urbanization in social/economic context. Comparative and historical materials on Europe, the United States, and the Third World. Offered: jointly with SOC 513. View course details in MyPlan: CSDE 513 CSDE 533 Research Methods in Demography (3) Basic measures and models used in demographic research. Sources and quality of demographic data. Rate construction, standardization, the life table, stable population models, migration models, population estimation and projection, measures of concentration and dispersion, measures of family formation and dissolution. Offered: jointly with CS&SS 533/SOC 533. View course details in MyPlan: CSDE 533 CSDE 555 Population Metrics in Global Health (4) Presents a conceptual framework in which to understand and assess the health of populations. Appropriate methodological tools and techniques from demography, epidemiology, and related disciplines are presented together in this broader context. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: CSDE 555 CSDE 595 Special Topics in Population Studies (1-5, max. 10) Examination of current substantive and methodological topics in demography. Content varies according to recent developments in the field and interest of the instructor. View course details in MyPlan: CSDE 595 CSDE 600 Independent Study or Research (1-10, max. 60) Provides graduate students with the opportunity to receive credit for hands-on demographic research projects completed under the supervision of a CSDE staff or affiliate faculty member. Includes independent and collaborative research time and regular check-ins with the faculty or staff supervisor. Students may propose a research project or apply to work with a CSDE researcher on an existing project. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: CSDE 600 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022