Skip to main content Menu Audiences Clemson Home CECAS Home Department Home Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift About Us Outreach Prospective Students Current Students About Us Welcome to PEER/WISE Congratulations on your choice of a science or engineering major. It is an option that is both challenging and rewarding. We, at PEER and WISE, are here to help you prepare and succeed, not only as you pursue your degree at Clemson University, but in the long-term future. This program was developed to make everyone feel comfortable and supported and we encourage you to take advantage of the many opportunities it offers. We would love for you to suggest other programs or information we could provide to help prepare you for a career in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM). Mission The mission of Programs for Educational Enrichment and Retention (PEER) and Women in Science and Engineering (WISE) is to educate, recruit, and retain underrepresented populations in STEM fields through mentoring, academic coaching, counseling, and academic enrichment. We desire to make all students feel comfortable and supported as they pursue their degree in the College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences. Serita Acker - Message from the Director Please know that my door is always open in 158 Freeman Hall. Students are first! If you need someone to cheer you up, calm you down, listen to you, talk to you, encourage you, or even if you need someone to brag about the "A" you made in Chemistry, come see me. I am here for you, so please come by often! We appreciate your feedback concerning the PEER and WISE programs. Have a Wonderful Semester! Serita Acker, MHRD Director, PEER/WISE ✉ wserita@clemson.edu ☏ 864-656-0976 As the Director of PEER and WISE, I am here to assist with questions or concerns you may have and to support you in any way. PEER/WISE ✉ cupeerwise@clemson.edu ☏ 864-656-0976 ☏ 864-656-1397 (FAX) ☞ 158A Freeman Hall About Us Meet the Team Our Impact Give to PEER/WISE Copyright © Clemson University PEER & WISE | 158 Freeman Hall, Clemson, S.C. 29634 (864) 656-0976 | Email Us