Contact & Franklin Login Main navigation Search Content Footer menu Basic info & contact footer Top navigation: Contact, Library account Login Current faculty, student, staff login Subscribed alumni and courtesy user login Library Home Libraries & hours Make an appointment COVID-19 alert: Masks are optional in all Penn Libraries spaces. Visitors to the Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center, Fisher Fine Arts Library, and Biotech Commons must follow screening requirements. See additional information for patrons in our FAQ. Main Nav 2 Home Help with... helpwith-col-one Access My account Borrowing BorrowDirect+ Alumni access Off-campus access helpwith-col-two Research Guides by topic Services for authors Research data & digital scholarship Tutorials helpwith-col-three Questions & appointments Quick start guide Make an appointment Technology & methods consultants Canvas support Ask a question helpwith-col-four Spaces & tools Find a library space Reserve a space Virtual computer lab Software finder Borrow equipment Libraries libraries-col-one Heading Albrecht Music Library Annenberg Library Biddle Law Library Biotech Commons Chemistry Library Education Commons libraries-col-two Heading Fisher Fine Arts Library Kislak Center for Special Collections, Rare Books and Manuscripts Levy Dental Medicine Library LIBRA Library at the Katz CAJS Lippincott Library of the Wharton School libraries-col-three Heading Math/Physics/Astronomy Library Penn Museum Library University Archives Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center Veterinary Medicine Libraries Weigle Information Commons Collections collection-col-one Heading Franklin (search & browse our catalog) Databases & article Indexes BorrowDirect+ (search & browse partner libraries) Research guides collection-col-two Heading Collections by subject Subject specialists Collections development policies Suggest a purchase collection-col-three Heading Special collections University Archives Digital projects Online exhibits News & events news-col-one Heading Penn Libraries News Subscribe to our newsletter news-col-two Heading Exhibits & events Lectures & conferences 30 days of events news-col-three Heading Workshops About about-col-one Heading Strategic Plan 2020-25 Strategic Plan Implementation Locations & hours Social media about-col-two Heading Staff directory Committees Human resources Resources for Libraries staff about-col-three Heading Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Accessibility Policies & guidelines for users Contact us Giving giving-col-one Our approach Our team FAQ Gifts of materials giving-col-two Our priorities Advance Engage Preserve Enrich giving-col-three Your impact Top talent Learning spaces Information resources Programs & outreach Innovations & partnerships giving-col-four Latest news Stories Press releases Penn Libraries in the News Give now Search Start with Franklin homepage Introducing the Biotech Commons Introducing the Biotech Commons Explore the state-of-the-art facility, now open to the Penn community. Learn more >> Main content Main content See Library Locations & Hours Quick Start Guide Essential library services Reserve a Space Study in the library Ask a Librarian Mon. - Fri., 9am - 5pm Libraries news From a Barn on Cape Cod to the Penn Libraries: An Interview with Stephan Loewentheil on the Path of a Special Collection Meet Our Spring 2022 Library Interns! Penn Libraries Unearths Dissertation of Trailblazing 19th Century Physician M. Alice Bennett Penn Libraries Releases Digital Strategy 2022-2024 Penn Libraries Joins Elsevier Open Access Pilot PreviousNext Collections highlights June Featured Books and DVDs: Pride Month VR for social work & counseling - Mindscape Commons, plus new social work, counseling, & therapy videostreams MLA Handbook Plus now online ... just in time for your term paper! Nonprofits and Grants Research with GuideStar Pro and Grants to Individuals More... Events 20220623 starts Jun 23 Translating Warhol: Symposium 20220601 Jun 01 Coffee with a Codex Virtual event 20220608 Jun 08 Coffee with a Codex Virtual event 20220622 Jun 22 Coffee with a Codex Virtual event 20220629 Jun 29 Coffee with a Codex Virtual event 20221010 Oct A Musical Evening with Christopher Maltman and Audrey Saint-Gil 20220930 Sep Networks of Relation: Connecting Communities & Collections with Mukurtu CMS Presented by Research Data and Digital Scholarship at Penn Libraries and the Price Lab for Digital Humanities 20221110 starts Nov 10 Translating Science 15th Annual Schoenberg Symposium on Manuscript Studies in the Digital Age 20220912 Sep 12 Sean Quimby (Penn Libraries) Workshop in the History of Material Texts More events... Exhibits Discovering Marian Anderson. Ongoing Discovering Marian Anderson through the collections at the University of Pennsylvania Library Online Making the Renaissance Manuscript. Ongoing Making the Renaissance Manuscript Discoveries from Philadelphia Libraries Online The Jewish Home. Ongoing The Jewish Home Dwelling on the Domestic, the Familial, and the Lived-In Online PreviousNext Penn Compact, Power of Penn Libraries campaign, Social media Penn Compact Penn Libraries Campaign Follow us on social media: Facebook Twitter Instagram Flickr YouTube GitHub Follow us on Instagram and Twitter Books to the ceiling, Books to the sky, My pile of books is a mile high. How I love them! How I need them! I'll have a long beard by the time I read them. ― Arnold Lobel, author of the Frog and Toad books . #PennLibraries #UPenn #LibrariesOfInstagram #Bookstagram #BookQuotes #LibraryLove #LGBTAuthors #PrideMonth #Pride2021 #OnThisDay in 1613, the Globe Theater in London burned to the ground. The theater had been built in 1599 in William Shakespeare's company of players, the Lord Chamberlin's Men, and is associated with the playwright to this day. At the Penn Libraries, you can learn about Shakespeare, his contemporaries, and the history of Shakespearean performance when you explore the collections of the The Horace Howard Furness Memorial Library. . #UPenn #PennLibraries #TodayInHistory #WilliamShakespeare #Shakespeare #GlobeTheater #RareBooks #LibrariesOfInstagram #OnThisDay in 1969, police raided the Stonewall Inn, a gay bar in New York City’s Greenwich Village. Patrons resisted arrest, and for six days fought back against the police who threatened the bar. A year later, a coalition of advocacy groups commemorated the event with a demonstration now known as the first Pride Parade. To help you celebrate Pride Month, staff, students, and faculty of Penn’s LGBT Center have put together a selection of books and films that explore the LGBTQ experience from a wide variety of perspectives. Here are some of their recommendations. Kissing the Witch by Emma Donoghue George by Alex Gino Queer: A Graphic History by Meg-John Barker and Julia Scheele Under the Udala Trees by Chinelo Okparanta The Handmaiden, directed by Chan-Wook Park Ma Vie en Rose, directed by Alain Berliner The Watermelon Woman, written and directed by Cheryl Dunye . #UPenn #PennLibraries #Libraries #LibraryLove #LibraryPride #LibrariesOfInstagram #TodayInHistory #Stonewall #PrideMonth #Pride2021 "People were stupid, sometimes. They thought the Library was a dangerous place because of all the magical books, which was true enough, but what made it really one of the most dangerous places there could ever be was the simple fact that it was a library. " —Terry Pratchett, Guards, Guards . #UPenn #PennLibraries #BeautifulLibraries #Shelfie #LibrariesOfInstagram #LibraryStacks #Bookstagram #GuardsGuards #TerryPratchett #GNUTerryPratchett WE'RE HIRING STUDENTS! This summer, experience the Penn Libraries from the other side of the desk. You'll have a chance to answer patron questions, work in the stacks, or assist with a variety of technical services. Intrigued? Search "library" in Workday to find open positions. They say not to judge a book by its cover, but are we allowed to judge it by its fore edge? Because these sure are gorgeous! 📣 NOTE: Most Penn Libraries locations are closed for Memorial Day. 👉 Don't forget, you can always find out our opening hours on our website. The Penn Libraries special collections blogs are so excited to be (re)united! Unique At Penn is now the online home for stories about our archival photos and letters, rare books and manuscripts, art collections, and so much more. Bookmark the page today! This block-view's primary content comes from two attachments (twitter & instagram). We will use JS to combine the two lists into a single list. The default content area will be hidden. Footer: Sitemap for navigation Brief footer Penn Libraries Hours Library locations Spaces Workshops Give Footer: Penn Libraries contact info Questions or comments Report accessibility issues and get help 3420 Walnut St., Philadelphia, PA 19104-6206 215-898-7555 Campus Libraries Map University of Pennsylvania ©University of Pennsylvania Admin