Skip to main content Google Tag Manager The Office of the Provost Show/Hide About People Communications Committees & Reports Policies & Procedures Initiatives & Resources Related Areas Race & in America For the second year running, the Office of the Provost is proud to partner with the Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America (CSREA) on the Race & in America webinar series. Curated by CSREA, the Race & series serves as a virtual platform for the Brown community to think through the myriad ways that race remains an enduring and foundational feature of American society and to share these insights with each other and the public at large. More than 3,000 attendees joined us over the course of eight Race & events during the 2020-21 academic year, which live on in expanded form in an extraordinary digital publication created by Brown University Library. CSREA has curated new Race & events, delving into comparative perspectives on the roots and effects of racism and exploring the arts more fully. Each program will feature three to four members of the Brown faculty, sharing their insights and expertise on topics that include: Race & Poetry (Tuesday, November 30, 2021, noon to 1:30 p.m.) Race & Music (Tuesday, February 15, 2022, noon to 1:30 p.m.) Race & Environment (Tuesday, March 15, 2022, noon to 1:30 p.m.) Race & Performance (Tuesday, April 19, 2022, noon to 1:30 p.m.) * * * For more information and to register for a Race & in America webinar, please visit brown.edu/race/raceandseries. To request accommodations or assistance for this event, please contact University Event and Conference Services at [email protected] or 401-863-3100. Past Events Race & Inequality October 26, 2021 Featuring: Prudence Carter, Sarah and Joseph, Jr. Dowling Professor of Sociology Jose Itzigsohn, Professor of Sociology Jennifer Nazareno, Barrett Hazeltine Assistant Professor of the Practice of Entrepreneurship Moderator: Tricia Rose, Chancellor's Professor of Africana Studies, Director of the Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America For details & video. Race & Anti-Black Racism April 21, 2021 Featuring: Malik Boykin, Assistant Professor of Cognitive, Linguistic and Psychological Sciences Ainsley LeSure, Assistant Professor of Africana Studies Tricia Rose, Chancellor's Professorship of Africana Studies, Director of the Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America Moderator: Richard M. Locke, Schreiber Family Professor of Political Science and International and Public Affairs, Provost For details & video. With support from the Inman Page Black Alumni Council of the Brown Alumni Association. Race & Genetics March 24, 2021 Featuring: Lorin Crawford, RGSS Assistant Professor of Biostatistics C. Brandon Ogbunu, Assistant Professor of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Yale University Sohini Ramachandran, Associate Professor of Biology, Associate Professor of Computer Science, Director of the Data Science Initiative and the Center for Computational Molecular Biology Moderator: Dr. Phyllis Dennery, Sylvia Kay Hassenfeld Professor of Pediatrics, Professor of Molecular Biology, Cell Biology and Biochemistry, Chair of Pediatrics For details & video. Race & Punishment February 24, 2021 Featuring: Lisa L. Biggs, John Atwater and Diana Nelson Assistant Professor of Africana Studies Nicole Gonzalez Van Cleve, Associate Professor of Sociology Amy Remensnyder, Professor of History Moderator: Robert Self, Mary Ann Lippitt Professor of American History For details & video. Race & Image January 27, 2021 Featuring: Matthew Guterl, Professor of Africana Studies and American Studies, Chair of American Studies Kevin Quashie, Professor of English RaMell Ross, Assistant Professor of Visual Arts Moderator: Brickson Diamond ’93, Chief Executive Officer, Big Answers, LLC For details & video Race & Democracy December 2, 2020 Featuring: Juliet Hooker, Professor of Political Science Melvin L. Rogers, Associate professor of Political Science Andre C. Willis, Associate Professor of Religious Studies Moderator: Bonnie H. Honig, Nancy Duke Lewis Professor of Modern Culture and Media and Political Science For details & video Race & Social Movements November 4, 2020 Featuring: Rebecca Louise Carter, Assistant Professor of Anthropology and Urban Studies Françoise Hamlin, Associate Professor of Africana Studies and History Brian Meeks, Professor of Africana Studies, Chair of Africana Studies Moderator: Paja Faudree, Associate Professor of Anthropology For details & video Race & Public Health October 7, 2020 Featuring: Lundy Braun, Professor of Medical Science, Professor of Africana Studies Akilah Dulin, Associate Professor of Behavioral and Social Sciences Ashish Jha, Dean of the School of Public Health Moderator: Ronald Aubert, Professor of the Practice, CSREA and the School of Public Health For details & video Race & Slavery September 9, 2020 Featuring: Anthony Bogues, Asa Messer Professor of Humanities and Critical Theory, Professor of Africana Studies and Director of the Center of the Study of Slavery and Justice Emily Owens, Assistant Professor of History Seth Rockman, Associate Professor of History Moderator: Tricia Rose, Chancellor's Professorship of Africana Studies, Director of the Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America For details & video Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Office of the Provost Office of the Provost Brown University Box 1862 Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2706 Email [email protected] Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat