Skip to the main content United States Air Force Academy Go to home page image/svg+xml Page 1 Go to home page Link to home page Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Menu Search the Site Academics A rigorous academic program that balances STEM with the arts and humanities. Academics Core Curriculum Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Registrar Faculty and Staff Directory Academic Success Center Request a Transcript Investigator or Verifications Admissions News Research Learn more about cutting-edge research that supports the Air Force and our global society. Research Office of Research Research Centers Cadet Summer Research STEM Outreach Future Conflict Cadet Life Take a peek into the life of a United States Air Force Academy cadet. Cadet Life Dormitories & Dining Cadet Clubs Cadet Support Services Day in the Life Frequently Asked Questions Military With a focus on innovation and adaptation to the changing world of warfare, we’re setting higher expectations for what it means to serve. Military Basic Cadet Training Squadrons Airmanship Military Careers Wings of Blue Athletics About There’s no limit to what you will achieve here. Academics. Athletics. Military training. We deliver the future leaders of modern warfare. About Leadership Character Development History Awards Traditions Educational Innovation More Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Back To Registrar Curriculum Customer Services Academic Success Center MAKING EACH CADETS JOURNEY A SUCCESS ACADEMIC SUCCESS CENTER The Academic Success Center offers programs and services designed to enhance the academic success of every cadet. Cadets can get help with time management, reading strategies, general study skills, writing papers and preparing for graduate school. Formal courses, group seminars and individualized help are offered to assist cadets to reach their academic and life goals. Communication Strategies Center Reading Strategies Writing Center Public Speaking Lab ESL and International Cadet Support Reading Strategies Course This 20-lesson class develops cadets’ ability to read strategically, with purpose, clarity, and focus. Cadets will increase their ability to navigate texts for ease and efficiency and enhance their literacy and critical thinking skills. By examining various genres and styles, cadets develop a comprehensive framework to help them read print, digital, and visual texts with greater proficiency and confidence. To find out more, contact Dr. Karin Becker, Director of Reading, Learning & Communications. Writing Center Our faculty and writing consultants help cadets hone their writing processes through one-on-one conversations, allowing students to understand their own strengths and areas for improvement. Cadets use the inviting and supportive writing center environment to strengthen writing assignments across all the Academy’s academic disciplines. Support is available (appointments and walk-ins) during the regular school day and during the hours of 5:30–9:30 pm (Monday-Thursday). Evening writing support parallels QRC operations to provide a one-stop area where students can get help with not only a calculus or physics problem set but also receive assistance with a history or law paper during the same visit. The Writing Center also works in collaboration with the McDermott Library to host shut-up and write events several times throughout the semester. To find out more, contact Dr. Carol Erwin, Director of the Writing Center. Strategies for Academic Success Program This program elevates leaning strategies for cadets. In the Learning Strategies 101 and 102 courses, cadets learn techniques to enhance the effectiveness and efficiency of studying. Course topics include time management, goal setting, avoiding procrastination, test-taking and note-taking techniques. Cadets will learn how to plan, organize, and become lifelong learners. To find out more, contact Mr. Spencer Thomas, Director of Strategies for Academic Success Program. Graduate Studies Office Help is available to all qualified cadets to compete for opportunities to attend graduate school following graduation from USAFA. Our cadets have earned the prestigious Rhodes, Marshall, Fulbright and other scholarships to advance their educations in all fields of study. The Graduate Studies Office oversees four programs that allows graduates to obtain advanced degrees immediately after commissioning. In 2018, more than 10% of the student body (121 students), were placed into graduate programs, including a Rhodes and a Schwarzman scholar. To find out more, contact Dr. Helen Meisenhelder, Director of Graduate Studies and Scholarships. Quantitative Reasoning Center The Quantitative Reasoning Center (QRC) provides supplemental instruction in select core quantitative disciplines in one-on-one and small group settings to enhance student learning and motivation, especially for first and second-year students. STEM faculty offer extra instruction in math, chemistry, engineering and physics. By probing into the process of learning, cadets learn how to uncover obstacles and become successful self-regulated learners. To find out more, contact Dr. Timothy Giblin, Director of the QRC. ESL and International Cadet Support English as Second Language (ESL) and international cadets can participate in learning opportunities ranging from informal conversation tables to formal courses such as English for Academic Purposes (EAP-109) to enhance their communication skills. To find out more, contact Ms. Connie Leonard Program Director. Hours Monday through Friday from 7:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. QRC Hours Monday through Thursday from 5:30 to 9:30 p.m. Contact Us Dr. Kerry McCaig, Director of Academic Success Center Academic Success Center 2354 Fairchild Drive, Suite 1A76 United States Air Force Academy, CO 80840 Cadet Support Discover Additional Resources to Aid Your Journey Cadet Support Services ACADEMICS Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Research Centers Faculty and Staff Directory CAMPUS Events Employment Emergency Weather Helping Agencies Apps COMMUNITY AF CyberWorx USAFA Band Force Support Wings of Blue VISIT Visitors Campus Map Facilities Cadet Chapel Planetarium Base Access Contact Us Social Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Flickr © 2022 United States Air Force Academy, All Rights Reserved The appearance of hyperlinks does not constitute endorsement by the Department of the Air Force or the information, products, or services contained therein. For other than authorized activities such as military exchanges and morale, welfare and recreation sites, the Department of the Air Force does not exercise any editorial control over the information you may find at these locations. Such links provided are consistent with the stated purpose of this DOD Web site.