COVID-19 Extension Updates and Resources ... More Information » Skip to Content Menu Audiences Clemson.edu College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift Clemson Experimental Forest More Experimental Forest News ›› The Clemson Experimental Forest's 17,500 acres are dedicated to education, research and demonstration in order to better understand and manage forest resources for the benefit of society. These essential resources include clean air, clean water, pleasing aesthetic qualities, abundant wildlife, protection of species and habitat diversity, recreation opportunities, along with commodity products from the forest. The forest is managed strictly for perpetual sustained or improved yield of these products. The Clemson Experimental Forest personnel, equipment, supplies, roads, recreation facilities and maintenance are solely supported by revenue generated by the Forest. Mission The prime directive for the forest is to be a well-managed, self-sustaining, ecologically healthy, living laboratory, classroom and recreational resource for the benefit of the university, commerce and citizenry of South Carolina, vouchsafed with a mandate to protect and promote in perpetuity the forest as an irreplaceable educational, environmental, scientific and social asset. The Clemson Experimental Forest is a national exemplar of a teaching, research and public-service resource for a top-tier university. The forest enhances Thomas Green Clemson's vision of the university as "high seminary of learning." The forest leads by example, developing, evaluating and demonstrating best scientific natural resource management practices. The forest serves as a rejuvenating sanctuary, revitalizing the bond between people and the natural environment and benefiting the community at large. The forest will generate revenues from fees, grants, endowments and forest products sales, enabling it to be self-supporting. The forest is a multipurpose greenspace, offering a diversity of opportunities and benefits to students, faculty and staff and the public. The forest is managed consistent with the intent of it being the nation's gift to Clemson University, showing the federal government's faith and confidence in the university to use the land for teaching, research and service. This working forest is to be used to meet current teaching, research and public-oriented needs and held in trust to meet the needs of future generations.The forest holds a unique status, serving as a historical and scientific repository of regional land-use and research. It is an invaluable evolving record for present and future generations of scholars and public-policymakers. Comment The public is invited to comment on the management and operation of the Clemson Experimental Forest. The Forest Manager or his designee will respond to your inquiry with an initial response as quickly as possible (within 10 days of receipt). Some inquiries may require consultation and response by others in the University administration. We appreciate your interest and thank you for your support. Russell Hardee Forest Manager 266-B Lehotsky Hall Clemson, SC 29634 (864) 656-4833 rhardee@clemson.edu Home About Education Research Management Recreation Resources Maps Russell Hardee Forest Manager 266-B Lehotsky Hall Clemson, SC 29634 (864) 656-4833 rhardee@clemson.edu Contact Us Contributions Volunteer in the Forest Like Us on Facebook Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Public Service and Agriculture Clemson, SC Contact Us Emergency Preparedness For Employees Page Update Request