COVID-19 UH Updates skip to Main Content Campuses dropdown menu column 1 Overviews Universities Mānoa Hilo West Oʻahu column 2 Community Colleges Hawaiʻi Honolulu Kapiʻolani Kauaʻi Leeward Maui Windward column 3 Distance Learning UH Education Centers Continuing Education Community Colleges Attend dropdown menu column 1 Overview Degrees and Programs column 2 Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition UH System dropdown menu column 1 About UH Strategic Directions Policies and Procedures Title IX column 2 Leadership Board of Regents System Offices A-Z Stewardship of Maunakea column 3 UH News Emergency Post-Pandemic Hawaiʻi and UH column 4 Support UH UH Foundation UH Alumni Relations Make a Gift Maui College: At a Glance UH System » Campuses » Maui University of Hawaiʻi Maui College campus in Kahului. Maui College serves three islands, providing comprehensive opportunities and special programs on Maui, with additional education centers on Lānaʻi and Molokaʻi. A pioneering television network helps reach rural areas. Apply today. Areas of Excellence Education Maui College offers liberal arts, occupational-technical, and transfer and certificate programs. Four-year and graduate degrees are offered through the University Center. Location The main Maui campus is in Kahului, Maui and education centers are located in Hana, Maui and on the islands of Molokaʻi and Lānaʻi. Programs The Culinary Arts program and the Maui Language Institute are just two of the outstanding offerings at Maui College that directly benefit the community. Apply: UH Maui College Admissions Pay for college Fast Facts about Maui College Degrees and Programs Certificates: 32 Associate degrees: 20 Bachelor’s degrees: 3 Enrollment Undergraduate: 2,724 Student to Faculty Ratio* 14:1 * fall 2018 Age and Gender* Average age: 25.0 years old Men: 32.7% Women: 67.3% * (full-time students) Enrollment Status Full-time: 27.1% Part-time: 72.9% Pell Grant Recipients* 48% * of eligible, full-time students awarded Fall 2020 Student Diversity (full-time students) Residency Figures from the Institutional Research & Analysis Office, Fall 2021. Maui College News Students explain value, opportunities at UH Community Colleges Hurricane season ‘22 could see few cyclones, forecasters say Hawaiian Word of the Week: Holu 2022 legislative recap: Key takeaways, budget breakdown Face masks required indoors on UH campuses and properties Featured video: UH Maui College campus news and events Contact Information and Location Maui College 310 Kaʻahumanu Kahului, HI 96732 (808) 984-3500 Directions and map for Maui College campus. Maui College Admissions Need more info? MyUH Services for new and prospective Maui College students. Last modified: April 22, 2022 Changing lives through higher education. Apply Now Universities Mānoa Hilo West Oʻahu Community Colleges Hawaiʻi Honolulu Kapiʻolani Kauaʻi Leeward Maui Windward UH Athletics UH Mānoa Hilo Vulcans Support UH UH Alumni Relations UH Foundation Our Ten Campuses UH Mānoa, UH Hilo, UH West Oʻahu, Hawaiʻi CC, Honolulu CC, Kapiʻolani CC, Kauaʻi CC, Leeward CC, Maui College, Windward CC and selected education centers are located across the Hawaiian Islands. Choose from the list to get more information on each campus. Click on map to enlarge. 2444 Dole Street Honolulu, HI 96822 An equal opportunity/ affirmative action institution Use of this site implies consent with our Usage Policy copyright © 2022 University of Hawaiʻi Twitter Facebook Instagram Flickr YouTube Contact UH If required, information contained on this website can be made available in an alternative format upon request. Get Adobe Acrobat Reader Calendar Directory Emergency Information MyUH Privacy Statement Work at UH About UH Attend Campuses Degrees and Programs Leadership Offices Back To Top Submit