Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open the search panel Open the main menu Search Go Close the search panel Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers News Events Alumni Giving About Library Login Open the Search panel Admissions Admissions Why Columbia J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics Academics J.D. Program and Curriculum LL.M. Program and Curriculum Executive LL.M. Program and Curriculum J.S.D. Program and Curriculum Dual and Joint Degrees International Programs Public Interest and Public Service Experiential Learning Courses Registration Services Academic Calendar Executive Education Areas of Study Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Criminal Justice Data Analytics Environment and Energy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Intellectual Property and Technology International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace Leadership Legal History Litigation and Dispute Resolution National Security and Privacy Social Justice and Human Rights Faculty & Scholarship Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Directory Research Centers and Programs Scholarship Archive Workshops, Lectures, and Colloquia Careers Careers Private Sector Careers Public Interest and Public Service Careers Academic Careers Judicial Clerkships Employment Statistics Employment Policies Community Life Community Life Visit Campus Dean’s Welcome Your Campus, Your City Student Life Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Strategic Initiatives Public Interest and Public Service Academics Public Interest and Public Service Develop your knowledge and gain hands-on lawyering skills through the Law School’s extensive opportunities tailored to work on behalf of individuals, groups, and governments to ensure justice and advance the general welfare. The Law School offers a wide range of public interest and public service opportunities—inside the classroom and beyond—to support you on your individual pathway. Related Links Public Interest and Public Service Careers Charting Your Public Interest/Public Service Path Year in Review Letter from SJI Dean Smock Faculty and Courses Columbia’s world-class faculty exemplify the Law School’s mission to nurture bright, inquisitive, well-rounded attorneys who will not just carry on the “good fight,” but also do so from positions of leadership. Take courses and seminars on timely issues taught by world-renowned scholars who put their ideas into practice as well as skill-building classes and courses on innovative approaches to advocating for social justice and legal change. Experiential Learning Discover all the different ways to combine your studies with concrete, impactful work in the field, while building relationships with lawyers in the trenches. Columbia Law School’s wide range of experiential learning opportunities include clinics, externships (including a semester-long externship in Washington, D.C.), and practicums linking research and practice. Many graduates cite externships and clinics as highlights of their Law School experience. Experiential Learning Extracurricular Activities Find countless opportunities to participate in public interest and public service activities. Focus on public interest issues through centers, led by faculty or practitioners. Get involved in public service work through student-led journals and a diverse array of student organizations. Meet other like-minded students via projects, events, and mentorship programs. Hone skills while engaging in issues pertaining to racial, economic, and social justice in specialized moot courts. Take advantage of New York City and discover internships and volunteer opportunities related to public interest and public service work. Students go on field trips to witness the work of social-change lawyers and have even created their own field-based learning opportunities at New York City-based organizations like the ACLU, the United Nations, Center for Reproductive Rights, NAACP Legal Defense and Education Fund, the Legal Aid Society, The Door, and the Innocence Project. Pro Bono Requirement Each year, nearly 75 percent of the graduating class exceeds their 40-hour pro bono graduation requirement. Students have worked on a range of projects including helping transgender clients petition to have their names legally changed to match their gender identity, facilitating benefits applications for veterans, and assisting refugees all over the U.S. and the world. The Law School offers approximately 20 Spring Break Caravans each year, enabling students to travel to destinations around the U.S. and overseas (such as New Orleans, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Sicily, and Puerto Rico, amongst many others) to provide vital assistance to underserved communities. Financial Support for Public Interest Columbia has one of the most generous public interest financial support programs of any law school in the U.S. Examples include: Columbia Summer Funding (CSF) and Human Rights Internship programs for summer financial support. Prestigious fellowships for postgraduate work in public interest and government sectors. Columbia’s generous Loan Repayment Assistance Program (LRAP), Enhanced LRAP Fellowships, and Public Service Bridge Loan. Financing your public interest and public service career Office of Social Justice Initiatives Columbia Law School’s Office of Social Justice Initiatives (SJI) is one of the largest offices at any law school devoted to nurturing students who are interested in exploring public interest or government work—while on campus, or as part of a future career. SJI provides professional development, career services and other support for students and graduates, and oversees key programs including the Public Interest/Public Service (PI/PS) Fellows Program, Guaranteed Summer Funding Program, Human Rights Internship Program and Pro Bono Program. Meet the SJI Team Public Interest: Pro Bono Stats and Facts Explore Public Interest and Public Service at Columbia Law 88% of the Class of 2021 exceeded Columbia's pro bono requirement. Learn more. 17 remote spring break pro bono caravans throughout the U.S. and overseas in 2021 35,526 hours of pro bono service performed by Class of 2021 students. Explore Public Interest and Public Service at Columbia Law Related Experiential Learning All Experiential Learning Clinic Entrepreneurship and Community Development Clinic Areas of Study Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Intellectual Property and Technology Leadership Social Justice and Human Rights Externship Externship on the Federal Government: Semester in Washington, D.C. Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Clinic Immigrants’ Rights Clinic Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace All Experiential Learning at Columbia Law Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Criminal Justice Data Analytics Environment and Energy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Intellectual Property and Technology International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace Leadership Legal History Litigation and Dispute Resolution National Security and Privacy Social Justice and Human Rights Public Interest/Public Service Council: This group of senior Law School alumni are past or present leaders in the public interest and government sectors and provide professional advice and support to current students or recent alumni. Related Centers and Programs All Centers and Programs Center for Constitutional Governance The Center for Constitutional Governance (CCG) is a nonpartisan legal and policy organization devoted to the study of constitutional structure and authority. CCG invites academics, students, government officials, practitioners, and community members to engage with major constitutional and governance issues of the day, from health care to civil rights, immigration, financial regulation, and national security. Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Center for Gender and Sexuality Law Columbia Law School established the Center for Gender and Sexuality Law as an incubator for bold new approaches to complex issues facing gender and sexual justice movements. The center is home to research projects and initiatives focused on gender, sexuality, reproductive rights, bodily autonomy, and gender identity and expression across law, policy, and professional practice. Students can supplement coursework with lectures, panel discussions, conferences, and guest speaker series on contemporary issues. Areas of Study Family, Gender, and Sexuality Center for Institutional and Social Change The Center for Institutional and Social Change facilitates collaboration between scholars, practitioners, and students striving to address structural inequality through institutional transformation. Participants use brainstorming, strategic analysis, and empirical and field research to develop new frameworks, strategies, and roles for effective institutional and social change. Areas of Study Leadership Litigation and Dispute Resolution Social Justice and Human Rights Center for Intersectionality and Social Policy Studies The Center for Intersectionality and Social Policy Studies examines how social structures and related identity categories, such as gender, race, and class, interact to create social inequality. Its interdisciplinary and innovative research projects and initiatives unite a diverse group of academics and advocates interested in developing effective solutions to institutional inequality. Areas of Study Family, Gender, and Sexuality Legal History Social Justice and Human Rights Center for Public Research and Leadership The Center for Public Research and Leadership (CPRL) aims to revitalize public education while filling substantial gaps in professional education. CPRL’s rigorous coursework, skills training, and research and consulting projects prepare graduate students in law, business, and public policy for careers in the education sector. With an eye toward improving outcomes for all children, CPRL utilizes the latest techniques in education, such as organizational design, democratic accountability, team-based problem-solving skills, and socio-emotional learning. Students can also participate in a semster-long intensive around transformational change in public education by enrolling in the Public Education Policy Lab-Seminar and Skills courses. Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Leadership Social Justice and Human Rights Center for the Advancement of Public Integrity The Center for the Advancement of Public Integrity (CAPI) improves the capacity of public offices and practitioners to deter, identify, and combat corruption at the municipal level of government. CAPI supports a vibrant community of leaders in the public integrity field, develops tools and resources to help governments and practitioners fight corruption, and promotes research and scholarship on important public integrity issues. Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Leadership Social Justice and Human Rights Studio for Law and Culture The Studio for Law and Culture at Columbia University (SLC) is an intellectual home for the study, research, and scholarship on the intersection of law and culture. In addition to hosting fellowships, events, and workshops, SLC supports projects that explore dual interpretations of the law—as both a strict institutional doctrine and as a regime for ordering social life, constructing cultural meaning, and shaping group and individual identities. Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Legal History Social Justice and Human Rights All Centers and Programs Related News and Stories Read All Stories More in The Press Students News Meet the 2021 Public Interest/Public Service Fellows Members of this year’s class will focus on issues including reimagining the criminal justice system, advocating for women’s and LGBTQ+ rights, and fighting for immigration reform. Students News My Virtual Summer Job: Public Interest Intern Events News From Law Student to Change Agent: Advocating for Racial Justice News James Comey Urges Students to Enter Public Service Related Events View All Events Jun 7 2022 Spring 2023 Pro Bono Scholars Program Tue, 12:00 p.m. - 1:00 p.m. Online Event Jun 20 2022 Deadline: Public Interest Enhanced LRAP Fellowships Mon, All Day Online View All Events Admissions Why Columbia Visit 435 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 212-854-2640 Contact Us Social Media (Administrative Title) Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Instagram Admissions Academics Areas of Study Faculty & Scholarship Careers Community Life Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers Login News Events Alumni Giving About Library Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Donate © Copyright 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York.