By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Admissions Cost & Aid Types of Aid Scholarships Tuition Benefits More from this Section Leadership Scholars Spotting a Scam Listserv Tuition Benefits Syracuse University offers tuition benefits, including Tuition Exchange and the SU ESF Grant, to eligiible dependents of faculty and staff. Students who receive a tuition benefit based on a parent’s employment will have their need-based Syracuse University Grant reduced by the amount of that tuition benefit. Note: Syracuse University scholarships are tuition specific and may be combined with other tuition specific awards (including those outside of Syracuse University), not to exceed the amount of tuition for each year. If you are a Syracuse University Dependent Tuition Benefit (DTB) eligible student receiving less than 100 percent benefit, or eligible to receive a Tuition Exchange award, your Syracuse merit-based scholarship may be combined with your Dependent Tuition Benefit or Tuition Exchange award, up to the cost of full tuition. If you receive 100 percent tuition benefit from the Syracuse DTB program, you will receive a merit-based scholarship in name only, as your scholarship is already included in your Dependent Benefit funding. Speak with a financial aid counselor Tuition Exchange Syracuse University is a member of The Tuition Exchange which allows dependents of our faculty and staff to apply for competitive scholarships to other member institutions—more than 660 colleges and universities. Students who are eligible through their parent/guardian’s employers to apply for Tuition Exchange and who wish to apply to Syracuse University should see the Tuition Exchange liaison at his/her sponsor college for more information. Visit The Tuition Exchange to determine the amount of the award. The Tuition Exchange process is separate from the admissions process. Learn more about the Syracuse University admissions process . Eligibility Eligibility to participate in the Tuition Exchange program is determined by Syracuse University’s Office of Human Resources . Students must meet all academic and admission requirements and expect to enroll, or already be enrolled, in a program of study leading to their first bachelor’s degree. Eligible dependents are sponsored for a maximum of four years (8 semesters or 12 quarters) of full-time undergraduate study. Summer sessions are excluded from this scholarship. Eligibility does not guarantee an award. Each individual institution determines its admission criteria, the number of scholarships offered, and the timeline for its process. Students should contact the Tuition Exchange Liaison Officer of prospective colleges for deadlines and criteria used in awarding these competitive scholarships. Coverage The amount of the scholarship is determined by the tuition charged by each individual institution. There is a minimum amount set by the Tuition Exchange and many scholarships cover full tuition. Schools with tuition rates higher than this amount may opt to award only the minimum. Student fees, course fees, books, course overloads, and room and board are not included. Full-time enrollment is required by all institutions. Some schools may have additional requirements. Application Process You and your student should review the list of Tuition Exchange schools available at the Tuition Exchange . Contact the Office of Scholarship Programs via email at scholar@syr.edu to request the names of the Tuition Exchange Liaison Officers at any school(s) you may be interested in. Begin the application process for each school. There are three separate steps to apply for the Tuition Exchange Scholarship: Visit Syracuse’s Office of Human Resources to find more information and to complete the following two forms for Dependent Benefit eligibility: The Tuition Exchange Request The Dependent Benefits Application Note: Completion of any of these steps does not guarantee a scholarship to the school of your choice. Notification and Acceptance Your student will be notified of admission and/or a Tuition Exchange scholarship directly from the awarding institution. Many schools notify students shortly after admission and others wait until April 1.The student must accept or reject the offer within the guidelines and deadlines of that institution. We strongly encourage your student to contact every school he/she applied to as soon as he/she decides on a school, especially if your student is awarded a Tuition Exchange Scholarship at more than one school. Many schools are limited in the number of scholarships they are able to award and your notification to them could be very important to another student. Renewal Eligible dependent(s) at Syracuse University must be re-certified each year. Download the Dependent Benefit Application from the Office of Human Resources and submit your completed application and required documentation to the Office of Human Resources, Skytop Office Building. Dependent Tuition Benefits The Syracuse University Dependent Tuition Benefit provides educational benefits to eligible dependents of eligible employees. Visit the SU Human Resources site for details on these programs. SU ESF Grant The Syracuse University ESF Grant provides educational grants to eligible dependents of eligible SUNY Environmental Science and Forestry employees. This grant is administered by the Office of Financial Aid and Scholarship Programs according to current financial aid awarding policies. Eligibility Eligibility falls into two distinct groups: Group 1: Dependents who were matriculated at Syracuse by fall 2010 Group 2: Dependents who were not matriculated at Syracuse by Fall 2010 Eligible Group 2 students receive an 85% tuition waiver inclusive of Federal Pell Grant, New York State Tuition Assistance Program (TAP) Grant, and Syracuse University Merit Scholarship. Students are required to file a Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) annually. A College Scholarship Service/Financial Aid PROFILE application must be filed if students wish to be considered for Syracuse University need-based financial aid. Dependent eligibility is consistent with that of dependents of Syracuse employees. Application Process Applications may be obtained at the SUNY ESF Office of Human Resources. Group 1: Applications and policy for Group 1 dependents will remain consistent with the policy for grandfathered dependents of Syracuse employees. Group 2: Applications for Group 2 dependents should be submitted to: Office of Financial Aid and Scholarship Programs 200 Bowne Hall Syracuse, NY 13244 scholar@syr.edu SUNY ESF employees are required to confirm eligibility for the Syracuse University ESF Grant annually. Questions relating to both Group 1 and 2 dependents should be directed to KC Woods , Associate Director of Syracuse University's Office of Financial Aid and Scholarship Programs. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy