Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Campus Recreation About Us Membership Fitness Nutrition Wellness Aquatics & Safety Sports & Intramurals Facilities Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact About About Hours Contact Us News & Updates FAQ Parking Employment Rules & Responsibilities Emergency Procedures Take Action Find a Fitness Class Hours of Operation Sign Up for a Membership Contact Us Connect with Us InstagramFacebooktwitter Home Campus Recreation About About Us The Department of Campus Recreation's mission is to promote health, wellness and fitness by providing quality, inclusive programming and facilities for the University of Memphis students and community. Facilities The $31 million R. Brad Martin Student Wellness Center and Plaza opened June 30, 2021. The 78,000+ square foot two-story facility is located at 3735 Southern Avenue, adjacent to the $18 million Hunter Harrison pedestrian cable bridge and $18.5 million, five-story, 1,140-space parking garage. It features expanded cardio and weight training areas, indoor and outdoor basketball courts, four fitness studios, Tiger Food Lab teaching kitchen, Tiger Café, indoor track, three tennis courts, outdoor leisure pool, classroom space and more. Members have access to free group fitness classes and reduced rates for services, such as personal training and massage therapy. The new building operates in addition to the UofM's existing Student Recreation and Sports Complex, which continues to provide intramural sports, club sports, basketball, volleyball, badminton, racquetball, outdoor playing fields and indoor swimming (currently under construction). R. Brad Martin R. Brad Martin graduated from the University of Memphis and earned an MBA from the Owen Graduate School of Management at Vanderbilt University. He was previously student body president at the UofM and interim UofM president in 2013-14, and has served on the UofM Board of Trustees since its inception in 2017. He was awarded an honorary Doctor of Letters following his time as interim president. "Wellness is at the core of what a great school is supposed to be all about," said R. Brad Martin. "There's not an element of this community [where] wellness is not impacted by the work of this great University. This is a physical demonstration of the incredible progress this University has made the past eight years under the transformative leadership of President (M. David) Rudd, one of the greatest educators of my lifetime and in this nation." Martin also served five terms as a member of the Tennessee House of Representatives and holds the distinction of being the youngest person ever elected to the Tennessee legislature. He is currently chairman of RBM Ventures and the Martin Family Foundation, and retired chairman and CEO of Saks Incorporated. "I can't imagine a more fitting building to carry the name of Brad Martin," said President Rudd. "He has been dedicated to student wellness since his days as a student at the UofM. Much of his work has been done outside the public view, but has been essential to the progress of this University and our community. It has been the single greatest joy of my eight years at the University of Memphis to be able to call Brad a friend." Philosophy & Purpose Campus Recreation is committed to meeting the wellness and recreational needs of students, faculty, staff, alumni and friends of the University of Memphis. Services include exercise classes, fitness programs, nutrition counseling, informal recreation, competitive intramural sports, special programs/events, club sports, equipment purchase/rental and a variety of courses/clinics focusing on recreation, fitness and wellness. We strive to provide safe and supervised programs as well as sound operation and timely maintenance of facilities and equipment. A sense of physical well-being, as well as the development of physical skills which lead to productive leisure time, are of vital importance to campus life. Active participation in sports and other leisure activities contributes positively to the total educational experience. Campus Recreation appreciates the meaningfulness and importance of leisure time in our students' lives and we develop our programs to support that. Goals Motivate students, faculty, staff and community members to exercise using our facilities. Provide services and facilities that are useful and beneficial to students, faculty, staff and other members. Communicate life lessons through participation in intramural programs. Effectively instill principles of healthy living through programming, student learning and marketing efforts. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/31/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.