Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity (OIED) Show/Hide About Compliance and Oversight Action Plans Initiatives Resources Incident Reporting Events Request Consultation/Training The Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity provides consultations for departments and offers a range of training and professional development opportunities for the Brown community. We are committed to supporting departments as they work toward making Brown a more inclusive community. REQUEST A TRAINING OR A CONSULTATION Please utilize the “OIED Consultation or Training Request Form” to request an initial consultation with OIED for your academic department or administrative unit. We will respond to your request within 3 business days, and upon full review, the appropriate OIED staff will be in touch to schedule an initial consultation in the following weeks. For consultation requests, we will use that first meeting to gain a full understanding of the needs of your unit and will determine goals and next steps together. We are available to serve as thought partners as you consider ideas and implementation for inclusive programs and initiatives as well as discuss reporting options for bias incidents or climate concerns. For training requests, we will use that first meeting to gain a full understanding of the scope of the current training need, what kinds of training your unit has participated in previously, and begin to brainstorm next steps forward. Please note that all training requests require at least 2 weeks notice and are subject to availability of facilitators and staff. We will do our best to accommodate requests but timing will be determined based on facilitator schedules and customized or tailored training will likely require additional time for development. We are available to facilitate training, recommend external consultants, and/or help develop training to be led by your unit. FOLLOW UP & SCHEDULING After the initial consultation, OIED will be in touch with recommendations that you may share with your planning constituents before proceeding (if applicable). In consultation with the appointed staff person in OIED, the organizing party for a training will be expected to arrange, book, and communicate the details of the training along with any unit-specific expectations with your group and intended participants. CURRENT FACILITATED OFFERINGS We currently offer facilitated trainings within three categories: (1) Diversity and Inclusion, (2) Title IX and Gender Equity, and (3) Non-Discrimination, Anti-Harassment and Bias. In addition to facilitated offerings, Brown University sponsors several online modules to assist with skill-building to establish and sustain a more inclusive community. Current offerings for both facilitated and online training modules can be found on the Resources & Trainings page of the new DIAP site. If you have questions regarding the consultation or training request process, please email us at [email protected]. Resources Training Resources Request Consultation/Training Resources for Anti-Racism Resources for Virtual Environments Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Contact Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity Brown University Box 1988 Horace Mann, Third Floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2216 Email [email protected] Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat