Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University Information Technology Services Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Get Help IT Portal System Status News Newsroom Email Newsletter Resources For Students For Employees Computer Requirement MFA Outdoor Wi-Fi Remote Work Projects Adobe Acrobat Sign Azure Server Migration Campus Email Storage@ISU WorkCyte Website Teams Digital Accessibility Research Security About About ITS Staff Directory Employment Our Culture Strategic Plan Annual Report Project Overview Iowa State University has transitioned its electronic signature service to Adobe Acrobat Sign from DocuSign. Adobe Acrobat Sign is an electronic signature platform that can be used to electronically sign documents, forms, contracts or agreements in place of paper-based processes. Back to top Project Details Due to the significant increase in the licensing cost of DocuSign a decision was made to explore other electronic signature options. In January 2021, Procurement Services surveyed DocuSign users to identify desired features in a new product. A request for proposal was conducted and Acrobat Sign was selected. Back to top Schedule & Timeline July 31, 2022 90-day grace period ends. Access to DocuSign will be discontinued. April 30, 2022 90-day grace period begins. Employees can access documents in DocuSign, but cannot use DocuSign to request signatures. April 29, 2022 DocuSign contract expires January 11, 2021 Acrobat Sign implemented at Iowa State. Back to top Frequently Asked Questions How do I access Adobe Sign? Signing a document only requires an email address. An Adobe Sign account is required to deliver documents to be signed or to create online forms for others to sign. To request an Adobe Sign license, complete a request form. What is the timeframe for implementation? The university’s contract for DocuSign expires on April 29, 2022. How will existing DocuSign templates be converted and added to Adobe Sign? If you don’t have a copy of the PDF file used to create your template in DocuSign, please email adobesign@iastate.edu and include the name of the template. You’ll receive a copy of the file which can be uploaded into Adobe Sign and workflows created. Is it possible to mass download previously signed DocuSign documents or retrieve them? It is not possible to mass download previously signed documents. Will all DocuSign templates be converted at the same time or will a phased approach be taken? The timeline for converting files is yet to be determined. Will training be provided? How-to articles and other resources are available in the IT Portal under Software and Adobe. What other software programs does Adobe Sign integrate with? To integrate software with Adobe Sign, please email adobesign@iastate.edu with details on the integration and include contact information. Who do I contact for more information? For questions about the transition to Adobe Sign, please contact adobesign@iastate.edu. Back to top Project Overview Project Details Schedule & Timeline Frequently Asked Questions Information Technology Services 271 Durham Center Ames, IA 50011 Submit Website Feedback Need tech support? IT Solution Center 192 Parks Library Ames, IA 50011 solution@iastate.edu 515-294-4000 phone Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Copyright © 1995-2022 Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information