Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law About Law Admissions Programs Current Students Faculty Careers Library Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact About Administration & Staff History ML - Memphis Law Magazine Strategic Plan Virtual Tour ABA Disclosures Diversity Diversity HomeTIPMPDPPlus ProgramSTAIScholarships Facilities Facilities OverviewVirtual TourFloor PlansPhoto Gallery News & Events Law School NewsOn Legal Grounds BlogML-Memphis Law MagazineEvents CalendarCommunications OfficeProgram Rankings Directions Contact Us Media ResourceGeneral Contact InfoFaculty & Staff Life in Memphis Memphis-The CityNeighborhoodsHousingThe Arts SceneSportsThe Food SceneA Music TownDirections and Maps Take Action Event Calendars Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Alumni & Support Contact Memphis Law Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedIn Home School of Law About US News Ranks UofM Legal Clinic in TOP 50 TOP 50 CLINICAL TRAINING PROGRAM IN U.S. Memphis Law’s Clinical Training program has been ranked as a TOP 50 program in the latest rankings for 2023 from U.S. News & World Report. The innovative Memphis Law Clinical Training program was ranked as the 46th best clinical training program in the country in the latest rankings. This is an increase from last year’s already impressive ranking of #64, which was also an improvement of 5 spots from the 2021 rankings. That’s a leap of more than 20 spots in the rankings in the last three years. Additionally, the Clinical Training program is ranked as a Top 25 program amongst public law schools, coming in at #21 in the latest U.S. News Rankings in this group. “This ranking is great recognition for Memphis Law and our Experiential Learning Program,” said Dean Katharine Schaffzin. “It is very rewarding to see the rest of the nation recognize what we have been steadfastly proclaiming for many years, that our law school excels at providing our students with real-world learning opportunities that translate to academic and career success. Our innovative Clinical Training Program and unique location have allowed us to build relationships and partnerships for years, which could not be done anywhere else, and the results are proof in themselves.” “Seeing our Clinical Program ranking jump more than 20 spots over the past three years makes it clear to me that it’s not only our students and legal community who see the worth of our program, but also practitioners and law schools across the country recognizing the special work being done at Memphis Law,” Schaffzin concluded. The James S. Gilliland Legal Clinic is composed of several area-specific clinics as part of our larger Experiential Learning program. The clinics are led by experienced faculty and staff members who are vital to the success of our clinical training program. These clinics and faculty/staff members include: Medical-Legal Partnership Clinic, led by Professor Katy Ramsey Mason. Elder Law Clinic, overseen by Professor Donna Harkness. Mediation Clinic, taught by Adjunct Professor Stephen Shields. Neighborhood Preservation Clinic, led by Professor Danny Schaffzin and Adjunct Professor Steve Barlow from Neighborhood Preservation, Inc. Housing Adjudication Clinic, taught by Professor David Romantz. “It is extremely rewarding to see our Clinical Training Program recognized nationally for the innovative and successful ways it helps prepare our students for practice in the real world,” said Professor and Director of Experiential Learning Daniel Schaffzin. “Students working in our legal clinics and externship program get to work with actual clients, negotiate with opposing counsel, and try cases in a real court of law, all of which helps contribute to their overwhelming readiness as a lawyer upon passing the bar. The hard work of our clinical faculty and staff, as well as our many dedicated externship supervisors and partner organizations, has been vital to our recent ascension in the US News rankings, seeing us move up substantially over the past three years with more exciting developments on the horizon and hopefully even more recognition of the success stories happening in our various clinics.” The law school’s Legal Writing program was also prominently ranked at #62 by U.S. News, making it the fourth consecutive year in the Top 75 legal writing programs in the country, as ranked by the publication. The Legal Writing program was also ranked in the Top 35 amongst public law schools, coming at #34 in the country in that group. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/1/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.