Skip to main content Skip to main navigation SearchMenu Baylor>Search Find Site By A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Websites starting with 'C': Campus Crime & Fire Log The purpose of the Daily Log is to record all criminal incidents, alleged criminal incidents and fire incidents that are reported to the Baylor University Police Department (BUPD). Campus Living and Learning Campus Living & Learning creates diverse residential environments (housing) that support learning and faith development through relationally driven communities. Students will experience a community that enables them to author the life they have been called to live. Campus Map An online version of the map of the Waco campus of Baylor University. This site includes a directory of all facilities on the Waco campus, driving directions to campus and to selected facilities frequented by the public. Campus Recreation Campus Recreation engages students and the Baylor community in experiential learning, recreational and leisure activities that equip individuals to live balanced, holistic and healthy lifestyles. Baylor Campus Recreation is a place for ALL students. Campus Visits We're truly glad you're interested in Baylor and invite you to come see where you could live, learn, play and worship as a future Bear. We offer many different options for you and your family to visit campus. Canvas Canvas is an online course/organization management system. Career Center The Baylor University Career Center is to ensure each student has the opportunity and support to achieve their career potential. Catering Services Online catering management system Center for Academic Success and Engagement The Center for Academic Success & Engagement (CASE) educates and empowers all students to discover and engage in effective paths for academic and personal thriving through learning strategies, self-management tools, holistic support, and a sense of belonging in the Baylor community. Center for Astrophysics, Space Physics & Engineering Research (CASPER) The Center for Astrophysics, Space Physics, and Engineering Research (CASPER) is a partnership between Baylor University and Texas State Technical College-Waco (TSTC) focusing on Space Research. Center for Christian Music Studies The Center for Christian Music Studies was founded at Baylor University with the intent to provide leadership in all aspects of Christian music within today's society. As we continually strive to become a preeminent Christian music center worldwide, we foster the growth and effectiveness of efforts, utilizing Christian music to it's God-given potential. Center for Community Research & Development The Center for Community Research and Development (CCRD) is a multidisciplinary research entity with a mission of engaging Baylor faculty and students in applied social research aimed at improving the local quality of life. Center for Gifted Education and Talent Development The Center for Gifted Education and Talent Development focuses on the intellectual, academic, social, and emotional needs of gifted children and adolescents in Texas, and assist those who parent, teach, and otherwise work with them. Center for Global Engagement The mission of the Center for Global Engagement is to educate students for worldwide leadership and service. Center for Ministry Effectiveness Our primary focus is to walk alongside congregational and mission leaders through learning opportunities and collaborative efforts to equip and encourage those who are leaders in Kingdom work. We are engaging with pastors, pastoral staff, key lay leaders, young ministers (currently in seminary and recently graduated), leaders of mission efforts, and innovative missional leaders in a variety of contexts to learn together and encourage one another. Center for Nonprofit Leadership and Service The Center for Nonprofit Leadership & Service, and the nonprofit marketing major have a distinct hands-on approach (nonprofit partners and internships) and the purpose of the curriculum is to provide students with the marketing skills and tools they need to help a variety of mission-driven nonprofit organizations meet their goals. It is the objective of this Center to encourage students to find meaningful ways to serve others while making a living - in essence, to do well by doing good. Center for Professional Selling Baylor University's Center for Professional Selling is dedicated to excellence in sales education. Based in the university's Hankamer School of Business, the sales center is recognized as one of the premier information and leadership resources for collegiate students and sales professionals in the nation. Center for Reservoir and Aquatic Systems Research (CRASR) The Center for Reservoir and Aquatic Systems Research (CRASR) is a research and education partnership between Baylor University and the City of Waco focused on aquatic resources. Central Libraries Special Collections The Central Libraries Special Collections are home to rare and unique resources spanning from a 4th century facsimile to artist books published in 2018. With over 10,000 volumes, the collection covers a wide range of disciplines in rare books, manuscripts, books arts, scholars’ libraries, archives, early printed music and more. ChairSIS This application is provided for academic department chairs and their administrative assistants. It allows updating of class instructor and class max seats and provides class rosters and available seats information, as well as basic information on individual students. ChairSIS directly accesses the University's Student Information System. Chamber of Commerce Chapel Chapel is an opportunity to worship together and learn from scholars, social activists, preachers, musicians, scientists, and others who excel in their callings as expressions of their commitment to Christ. Chemistry, Department of The home page of the Chemistry and Biochemistry department. Cherry Awards Office The Cherry Award program is designed to honor great teachers, to stimulate discussion in the academy about the value of teaching, and to encourage departments and institutions to value their own great teachers. Chinese The home page of the Chinese language department. Choirs For nearly ninety years, the Baylor Choral Program has established a long tradition of leadership in choral music across the nation, abroad, and in every major concert venue in the United States. Christian Collective for Social Innovation The Christian Collective for Social Innovation embodies the vision of connecting God’s people across the globe with one another through leveraging our collective resources, empowering change-makers, and sharing the Good News of God’s hope by sourcing visionary innovations, funding and mentoring solutions, and engaging Christians in the work of solving the world’s most pressing and complex issues. Christian Higher Education Leadership Seminar Since its beginnings in 2007 under the direction of Don Schmeltekopf, the Seminar for Academic Leadership has provided leadership development opportunities for over 250 academic administrators in Baptist universities from around the world. It is conducted and hosted by Baylor University and is sponsored by the International Association of Baptist Colleges and Universities (IABCU). Christian Leadership Institute The Christian Leadership Institute is a four-day leadership initiative offered by Baylor University for rising high school seniors that have an interest in growing their leadership skillset from a Christian perspective and Biblical worldview. Christian Reflection Project The online home of "Christian Reflection: A Series in Faith and Ethics". This innovative signature publication of "The Institute for Faith and Learning". Its themed articles, inspirational pieces, book reviews, interviews, Christian art, liturgies, and hymns help the Church reintegrate Christian ethical reflection, worship, and art. Free study guides are available on this website to enrich personal or group study. Christmas at Baylor As a Christian university, we enjoy a wonderful freedom to celebrate Christmas as the hope it represents through the birth of our Savior. We hope you will join us in our Christmas celebration. Civil Rights The Civil Rights office handles matters concerning equal opportunity, affirmative action, and unlawful harassment or discrimination on the basis of protected characteristics. We also offer education, training, support, and resources related to these issues. Classics, Department of The home page of the Classics department. ClassRoll This application provides faculty access to their class rosters in their choice of three formats - Excel/Micrograde, e-mail address book, and formatted for printing. ClassRoll directly accesses the University's Student Information System. COACHE Survey n the spring of 2020, the Baylor faculty had the opportunity to complete the Faculty Job Satisfaction Survey which provided actionable data about the conditions, the environment, policies and practices that support faculty doing their best work. College of Arts & Sciences The College of Arts and Sciences offers a comprehensive range of programs through its 25 academic departments. Scholarly teaching is at the core of the College's identity. College of Arts and Sciences Advisement College of Arts and Sciences Advisement (CASA) is an advising house that offers academic advising for undergraduates and which provides resources and institutional coordination for departmental and program advisors. CASA is dedicated to offering professional academic expertise within a scholarly community of creativity, hospitality, and care. College Tour Baylor University is proud to be part of The College Tour. If you’re not able to make it to campus, get an inside look at Baylor from a diverse group of actual students, an inspirational faculty member, and Baylor President Linda A. Livingstone, Ph.D. Through this virtual tour, we’ll introduce you to life at our nationally ranked Christian research university that is steeped in tradition and filled with opportunities that will lay a foundation for your bright future. Colleges & Schools Links to all of the colleges and schools that form the university in addition to links to numerous institutes, centers, libraries, and more. Collegiate Licensing The Collegiate Licensing Department is responsible for protecting, controlling, and enforcing the use of Baylor indices used on products, in promotions, and in advertising. Collins Outstanding Professor Award An award which is generously provided by the Carr P. Collins Foundation in order to recognize and honor outstanding teachers at Baylor University. Commencement Annually, Baylor University celebrates the completion of thousands of students undergraduate and graduate degrees during seasonal graduation ceremonies. For more information please visit the official home page of Baylor commencement. Commission on Historic Campus Representations On June 26, 2020, the Baylor University Board of Regents announced its unanimous approval of the “Resolution on Racial Healing and Justice,” acknowledging Baylor’s historical connections to slavery and the Confederacy and establishing the Commission on Historic Campus Representations. Working in a thorough, prayerful and efficient manner, the 26 members of the Commission faithfully fulfilled their charge to review the historical record and context of the University and its early leaders and to evaluate and offer guidance regarding all statues, monuments, buildings and other aspects of the campus within this context. Communication Sciences & Disorders, Department of The home page of the department of Communication Sciences & Disorders. Communication Studies A Bachelor of Arts degree seeks to provide students with a broad-based understanding of the processes of human communication and the importance of these communication processes in our society, while serving and encouraging those students with professional aspirations to become ethical, articulate, creative and innovative leaders in the field of communication. Communication, Department of The home page of the department of Communication. Community Connection Magazine Stories showcasing the work, events, activities and accomplishments of the Diana R. Garland School of Social Work. Compensation Baylor University values its most important asset, its people. In support of Baylor University's Christian mission, Human Resources partners with its leadership and supervisory management to provide a market relevant competitive total compensation program, which includes pay and fringe benefits. Computer Science As society becomes immersed in the Information Age, the computing discipline has become an integral aspect of our world today. Computer scientists are more than just programmers. They work to solve problems from all walks of life. One may be involved in science exploring the mysteries of the universe and another may be involved in medical research. A computer scientist may be solving problems with engineers in design and implementation projects while another makes extensive use of computers in music, art, or business information processing. Congregational Social Work Initiative Our desire is to train students to conduct congregational research, develop full-time congregational staff positions and strengthen community transformation initiatives in their communities. We raise awareness of the resource that social workers can be for strengthening congregations and their ministries. Content Management System The home page for learning about and accessing Baylor's website Content Management System. Continuing Education Furthering the university's commitment to transformational education by providing lifelong personal enrichment and professional development opportunities. Continuing Educaton: Personal Enrichment Explore a new skill or concept with enrichment courses in art and design, music and dance, culinary arts and dining, home and finance, science and nature, language and communication, and fitness and wellness. We also offer summer reading and college speed reading courses. Contract Review and Approval Process Learn more about the contract review and approval process on the Procurement Services website. Controller The purpose of the Controller's Office is to record accurate and timely entries to the University's accounting system, to maintain the system of fixed assets, and to provide timely and accurate financial statements and reports. Copying Services Copy Services provides a full service copy and print center available to all students, faculty, staff and auxiliary service providers serving the Baylor University community. Copyright Guidelines It is the policy of Baylor University to fully respect all rights that exist in any material protected by the copyright laws of the United States while also encouraging usage of the material that furthers the educational mission of Baylor. The details of this policy can be found in the BU-PP (Draft Copyright Policy). This site provides guidance to faculty, staff, and students on the usage of copyrighted material; however, this site is not comprehensive. Core Virtues Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information This website provides Baylor University students, faculty, staff, parents and visitors with the latest information from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Texas Department of State Health Services (DSHS) and Waco-McLennan County Public Health District about the evolving Novel (new) Coronavirus (COVID-19) global outbreak. Corporate and Foundation Relations Grantseeking is more than a process--it is a partnership. Corporate and Foundation Relations within University Advancement at Baylor University works with all schools and departments to establish and build mutually beneficial relationships with corporations and foundations through projects that fall within university priorities. Counseling Center Assist students in obtaining quality psychological services and counseling appropriate to their needs, including individual and group therapy and assessment services. Creative Arts Experience The Creative Arts Experience (CAE) engages students in the fine arts community at Baylor, providing enriching programs of art, music, theatre, film, and literature, with the additional focus of these arts as seen through the lens of world cultures. Credit by Examination Current and prospective Baylor students may receive credit for select Baylor courses through the Credit by Examination program. Links to policies and procedures and to the various testing options (AP, CLEP, IB, etc.) are located in the sidebar on the left of your screen. You must have an official score report sent to Baylor for evaluation of credit. Cross Cultural Programs Our Cross Cultural Initiatives engage with the many diverse cultures on Baylor's campus by building cross-cultural relationships with other Baylor students interested in doing the same thing. Join us as we share our stories together within the vibrant local and global communities that are here on campus by building diverse cross-cultural relationships. Curriculum and Instruction, Department of The faculty and administration in the Department of Curriculum and Instruction are committed to preparing outstanding teachers and professional educators. Graduates of the teacher education program work in a variety of educational settings in the U. S. and throughout the world. Both the undergraduate teacher preparation program and the graduate educator preparation program are NCATE accredited. Undergraduate and graduate program degrees, certifications, licensure, and supplemental endorsements are offered at the elementary, middle, and secondary levels (see Certification and Advising for more information). Faculty/Staff homepages starting with 'C': Corey,David Baylor Faculty and Staff: Update your homepage address or learn more about your homepage and privacy settings. Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678