Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin Menu Header Helpful Links Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Families & Visitors Search Search Maps Directory UT Direct Give Apply Search Search About Academics Academic Experience Areas of Study Extended Campus Cockrell School of Engineering College of Education College of Fine Arts College of Liberal Arts College of Natural Sciences College of Pharmacy Dell Medical School Graduate School Jackson School of Geosciences LBJ School of Public Affairs McCombs School of Business Moody College of Communication School of Architecture School of Information School of Law School of Nursing Steve Hicks School of Social Work School of Undergraduate Studies Admissions & Aid Be a Longhorn What Starts Here Changes the World. It's more than a motto. It’s what we prove each and every day, as Texas and its Exes advance discovery and innovation on a global stage. Join us. Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions School of Law Admissions Dell Medical School Admissions Tuition & Costs Financial Aid Campus Visits Campus & Community Explore Your Passions Thousands of events, from concerts and film screenings to readings and lectures. More than 1,100 student organizations. Incredible facilities and special attractions. And it's all set in the heart of one of the world's greatest cities. Welcome home. Arts & Culture Campus Destinations Entrepreneurship & Innovation Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Austin Report Misconduct Safety & Security Student Involvement Longhorn Resources Research Change the World Longhorns are passionate about making the world a better place, united by the belief that creating and sharing knowledge can save lives and transform society. Come explore our vast research enterprise — or better yet, create, innovate and discover with us. Overview Student Research Units & Centers Off-Campus Research Sites Libraries Experts Guide Athletics News Home About : Leadership Leadership Jay Hartzell President Office of the President 512-471-1232 Sharon L. Wood Executive Vice President and Provost Office of the Provost 512-471-4363 Vice Presidents and Deputies Darrell Bazzell Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Office of Senior VP and CFO 512-471-1422 Nancy Brazzil Deputy to the President Allan Cole Deputy to the President for Societal Challenges and Opportunities James Davis Vice President for Legal Affairs and Business Strategies Chris Del Conte Vice President and Athletics Director Athletics Richard Flores Deputy to the President for Academic Priorities C. Martin Harris Interim Vice President for Medical Affairs Dell Medical School Dan Jaffe Vice President for Research, Scholarship and Creative Endeavors Office of the Vice President for Research, Scholarship and Creative Endeavors Paul Kinscherff Deputy to the President for Business Development and Planning Scott Rabenold Vice President for Development University Development Office Emily Reagan Vice President and Chief Marketing and Communications Officer University Communications Soncia Reagins-Lilly Vice President for Student Affairs and Dean of Students Vice President for Student Affairs Andrea Sheridan Deputy to the President for Governmental Affairs and Initiatives LaToya Smith Vice President for Diversity and Community Engagement Division of Diversity and Community Engagement Deans Roger T. Bonnecaze Interim Dean Cockrell School of Engineering Charles Martinez Dean College of Education Rámon Rivera-Servera Dean College of Fine Arts Ann Huff Stevens Dean College of Liberal Arts David Vanden Bout Dean College of Natural Sciences Samuel Poloyac Dean College of Pharmacy George Macones Interim Dean Dell Medical School Mark J.T. Smith Dean and Senior Vice Provost for Academic Affairs Graduate School Claudia Mora Dean Jackson School of Geosciences JR DeShazo Dean LBJ School of Public Affairs Lillian Mills Dean McCombs School of Business Jay M. Bernhardt Dean Moody College of Communication Michelle Addington Dean School of Architecture Eric T. Meyer Dean School of Information Ward Farnsworth Dean School of Law Alexa Stuifbergen Dean School of Nursing Luis H. Zayas Dean Steve Hicks School of Social Work Brent L. Iverson Dean School of Undergraduate Studies Leadership Org Chart View Org Chart The leaders of UT’s major areas of operation work together to advance our mission. Connect with UT Austin Subscribe to our newsletter Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Starts With You Footer Helpful Links Access Course Syllabi and Instructor CVs Campus Carry Contact Counseling and Mental Health Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan Diversity, Equity, and Disability Resources ♿ Emergency Information Fraud, Waste, or Abuse Hazing Prevention and Response HEERF/CARES Act Compliance Jobs Online Institutional Resumes Public Forum On Campus Site Policies State of Texas Statewide Search Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Title IX Reporting (Sexual Misconduct) UT System Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy © The University of Texas at Austin 2022