Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Earth, Environmental and Planetary Sciences News Congratulations to all the New DEEPS Doctors Earth, Environmental and Planetary Sciences Congratulations to all the New DEEPS Doctors May 10, 2022 Congratulations to all the 2022 DEEPS Ph.D. Gratuates! We are proud to celebrate these newly-minted doctors, and we wish them all the best in their future endeavors. Dr. Jordyn Babikoff – Imaging the Lithosphere and Asthenosphere Beneath North America with Rayleigh Wave Phase Velocity and Amplification Dr. Isabella Gama Dantas – Advances in Understanding the Lithosphere and Asthenosphere System: A Case Study of Seismological Structure in Alaska Dr. Sloane Garelick – Hydroclimate and temperature variability in high-elevation regions of tropical Africa since the Last Glacial Maximum Dr. Sierra Kaufman* – (Anticipated to complete the program this May.) Investigating the Potential for Alteration in a Cold and Icy Martian Background Climate Dr. Christopher Kremer – Cross-Over Infrared Spectroscopy: A New Tool for the Remote Detection and Characterization of Silicate Minerals Dr. Sarah McGrath* – (Anticipated to complete the program this June; Thesis title to be announced.) Dr. Majid Rasht-Behesht – A theoretical development of machine learning for geophysical inversions: An application to volcano imaging Dr. Karen Wang – Reconstructing past Arctic sea ice and permafrost changes with lipid biomarkers: proxy development and case studies People Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Courses Research Lectures and Colloquia Alumni Diversity and Inclusion Outreach Print this Page Share this Page Stay Connected with DEEPS at Brown University Department of Earth, Environmental and Planetary Sciences Brown University Box 1846 324 Brook Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3339 [email protected] Calendar Jun 23 9:00am Dissertation Defense: Sarah McGrath Sep 7 All Day Classes of the first semester begin. View full calendar > Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Department Resources Computing Guide