Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Turn Up The Volume on Chanel Miller Events Past Event Turn Up The Volume on Chanel Miller Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo April 16, 2021 1:45 PM - 3:15 PM America/New_York Online Event Emily Doe, the woman sexually assaulted on Stanford University’s campus in 2016, was unknown to the world until she wrote a victim impact statement that went viral. In her recently published memoir, Chanel Miller comes forward as that powerful voice, reclaiming her name, identity, and narrative while pushing us to question our views on how and what we understand of the experience and impacts of sexual violence. Our virtual headliner event will include opening remarks from Dr. Melanie Bernitz, Senior Vice President, Columbia Health, a reading and talk by Chanel Miller, and will be moderated by La’Shawn Rivera, Executive Director, Columbia Health Sexual Violence Response. “Know My Name” was chosen as a BEST BOOK OF THE YEAR by The New York Times Book Review, The Washington Post, TIME, Elle, Glamour, Parade, Chicago Tribune, Baltimore Sun, Book Riot, among others. “Know My Name” is available for purchase at the Columbia Barnes & Noble Bookstore. “To tell her story at all is enough…the fact that Miller tells it beautifully, caring enough for her reader to spin golden sentences from her pain, is a gift on top of a gift.” -Vogue There will be live captioning for this event. For more information on this speaker, please visit prhspeakers.com. This event was developed with funding provided by the New York State Department of Health (NYSDOH), Division of Family Health. Its contents are solely the responsibility of Columbia University and do not necessarily represent the official views of NYSDOH. Columbia University makes every effort to accommodate individuals with disabilities. Please notify us in advance if you require closed captioning, sign-language interpretation, or any other disability accommodations. Alternatively, Disability Services can be reached at 212-854-2388 and [email protected]. Contact Information Sexual Violence Response 212-854-3500 [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close