Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Center for Biotechnology & Genomics Menu Search TTU Center for Biotechnology & Genomics Center for Biotechnology & Genomics Departmental News ■ Happy Fall from everyone at the CBG! ■ The CBG is seeking a Research Asst/Assoc Prof in Genomics. Search for job 25929BR in the TTU Careers site. ■ Congratulations to Shannon Sears, winner of the 2020 Distinguished Staff Matador Award. ■ "The Center for Biotechnology and Genomics is very critical for our research because it's a one-stop shop for many applications that we use. They have acquired new tools and new instrumentation that are very critical in doing cutting-edge research." Dr. Naima Moustaid-Moussa, Director, Obesity Research Cluster. ■ Congratulations to our Spring 2021 MS in Biotechnology Graduates, Lauren Kirsch and Kourtney Davis. ■ Prof. Mechref was invited to join the ISPPP scientific committee and to co-Chair the ISPPP 2021 symposium. Departmental News ■ Happy Fall from everyone at the CBG! ■ The CBG is seeking a Research Asst/Assoc Prof in Genomics. Search for job 25929BR in the TTU Careers site. ■ Congratulations to Shannon Sears, winner of the 2020 Distinguished Staff Matador Award. ■ "The Center for Biotechnology and Genomics is very critical for our research because it's a one-stop shop for many applications that we use. They have acquired new tools and new instrumentation that are very critical in doing cutting-edge research." Dr. Naima Moustaid-Moussa, Director, Obesity Research Cluster. ■ Congratulations to our Spring 2021 MS in Biotechnology Graduates, Lauren Kirsch and Kourtney Davis. ■ Prof. Mechref was invited to join the ISPPP scientific committee and to co-Chair the ISPPP 2021 symposium. Departmental News ■ Happy Fall from everyone at the CBG! ■ The CBG is seeking a Research Asst/Assoc Prof in Genomics. Search for job 25929BR in the TTU Careers site. ■ Congratulations to Shannon Sears, winner of the 2020 Distinguished Staff Matador Award. ■ "The Center for Biotechnology and Genomics is very critical for our research because it's a one-stop shop for many applications that we use. They have acquired new tools and new instrumentation that are very critical in doing cutting-edge research." Dr. Naima Moustaid-Moussa, Director, Obesity Research Cluster. ■ Congratulations to our Spring 2021 MS in Biotechnology Graduates, Lauren Kirsch and Kourtney Davis. ■ Prof. Mechref was invited to join the ISPPP scientific committee and to co-Chair the ISPPP 2021 symposium. Departmental News ■ Happy Fall from everyone at the CBG! ■ The CBG is seeking a Research Asst/Assoc Prof in Genomics. Search for job 25929BR in the TTU Careers site. ■ Congratulations to Shannon Sears, winner of the 2020 Distinguished Staff Matador Award. ■ "The Center for Biotechnology and Genomics is very critical for our research because it's a one-stop shop for many applications that we use. They have acquired new tools and new instrumentation that are very critical in doing cutting-edge research." Dr. Naima Moustaid-Moussa, Director, Obesity Research Cluster. ■ Congratulations to our Spring 2021 MS in Biotechnology Graduates, Lauren Kirsch and Kourtney Davis. ■ Prof. Mechref was invited to join the ISPPP scientific committee and to co-Chair the ISPPP 2021 symposium. Cores The center has three primary cores through which it provides research support and training. Click here to learn more about the three core facilities, or download the PDF file of rates. Genomics (Rates) Core Facility Overview Next Generation Sequencing Functional Genomics Bioinformatics (Rates) Core Facility Overview Bioinformatics Consulting Software Development Genomics-Bioinformatics (Rates) Proteomics-Bioinformatics (Rates) Mass Spectrometry Facilities--including Proteomics and Metabolomics (Rates) Core Facility Overview Protein Identification/Metabolite Identification Protein Purification Graduate Programs Multidisciplinary graduate studies in Biotechnology & Genomics prepare students for technical positions in the rapidly growing biotechnology industry. We have waived the GRE requirement for our graduate programs for Fall 2022. Spring Semester admission is restricted to students interested in the one-year MS program in Biotechnology Master's in Biotechnology Master's in Biotechnology and Law Degree (in conjunction with the Texas Tech School of Law) Please see the following important dates for the Fall semester of 2022 Orientation: August 23, 2022, 9.00 am to 5.00 pm (Attendance is mandatory!) Fall Diagnostic Test: August 24, 2022; 2.00 - 3.00 pm, EXPSCI, Room 120 First Day of Class is August 25 Our Vision Biotechnology and genomic research is a major focus at Texas Tech University. The Center for Biotechnology & Genomics is designed to capitalize on this strength by facilitating research partnerships between highly productive research teams that extend across departmental boundaries. Strong cooperative ties have been forged with academic institutions, federal laboratories, and companies in Texas and throughout the region. Please download our new brochure that describes our services. TTU Center for Biotechnology and Genomics Center for Biotechnology & Genomics Address Texas Tech University, Canton & Main Experimental Sciences Building, Room 101, Lubbock, TX 79409, Mail Stop 3132 Phone 806.742.6927 | Fax: 806.742.3788 Email chiquito.crasto@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityMay 3, 2022 11:46 AM Center for Biotechnology & Genomics About Center for Biotechnology & Genomics About Back Mission Strategic Plan Contact Info Staff Directory Publications What's New Center for Biotechnology & Genomics About What's New Back Calendar Links Core Lab Facilities Center for Biotechnology & Genomics Core Lab Facilities Back Services & Instruments Genomics Proteomics Bioinformatics Fee Schedule Testimonials Programs Center for Biotechnology & Genomics Programs Back Master's in Biotechnology Center for Biotechnology & Genomics Programs Master's in Biotechnology Back MS in Biotechnology Current Syllabus Biotechnology Student Handbook MS/JD Joint Program Students & Alumni Center for Biotechnology & Genomics Students & Alumni Back Current Students Center for Biotechnology & Genomics Students & Alumni Current Students Back Classes and Resources Welcome New Students Prospective Students Alumni Advisory Committee Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index