Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Office for Institutional Equity Covered Areas Policies Compliance Training Events Resources Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Resources Internal Resources External Resources Faculty Resources Take Action File a Complaint Request Training Prevent Sexual Violence Contact Us Home Office for Institutional Equity Resources Information for Students, Staff & Faculty Sexual Misconduct Complainant's Rights How am I protected as somone making a sexual misconduct complaint? Learn this and more about the rights afforded to people making complaints regarding Title IX and/or Sexual Misconduct. Respondent's Rights How am I protected if someone makes a sexual misconduct complaint against me? Information about the rights afforded to people named in a complaint regarding Title IX and/or Sexual Misconduct. Resource Sheet Where can I get help? Find more info about on-campus and off-campus resources for people affected by Sexual Misconduct in this list. What to Expect What will it look like if I want an investigation? Learn more about the full process involved in a formal investigation process under the Sexual Harassment and Sex/Gender-Based Misconduct policy. Hearing Officer/Advisor List Who are the people involved in sexual misconduct hearings? The listed faculty and staff members are trained to serve as hearing officers and advisors in a sexual misconduct investigation. Discrimination, Harassment, & Retaliation Complainant's Rights Information about the rights afforded to people making complaints regarding Discrimination, Harassment, and Retaliation. Respondent's Rights Information about the rights afforded to people named in a complaint regarding Discrimination, Harassment, and Retaliation. Resource Sheet On-campus and off-campus resources for people affected by Discrimination, Harassment, and Retaliation. Pregnancy Accommodations & Resources Accommodation of Pregnant Students for Faculty Information, policy review, and FAQs for faculty members who have received a request for Pregnancy Accommodations from a student. Expecting & Nursing Students, Employees On-campus resources, lactation spaces, Title IX rights, and general accommodation information for students and employees who are expecting. Workplace Posters Federal Posters Equal Employment Opportunity Poster (English/Spanish/Chinese) What keeps me from being discriminated against? Refer to this poster from the U.S. goverment detailing the protections afforded to workers by Equal Employment Opportunity. Fair Labor Standards Act/Federal Minimum Wage Poster (English/Spanish/Chinese) What is the least I can get paid? How does overtime work? Look at this poster from the U.S. goverment detailing Employee Rights under the Fair Labor Standards Act. Family and Medical Leave Act Poster (English/Spanish) What is FMLA? Take a look at this poster from the U.S. goverment detailing Employee Rights under the Family and Medical Leave Act. Nursing Mothers Poster (English/Spanish) How can I pump breast milk during work? Learn more about the requirements regarding expressing breast milk during work hours under the Fair Labor Standards Act. Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act Poster (English) Can I return to work after serving in the military? Review the protections provided by the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act in this poster from teh U.S. goverment. Employee Polygraph Protection Act Poster (English/Spanish) Do I have to take a polygraph? This poster goes over employee rights under the Employee Polygraphy Protection Act. State Posters Title VI Notice Is the University of Memphis an Equal Opportunity Employer? Notice regarding the University of Memphis' compliance with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. Title IX Notice Does the University of Memphis discriminate based on sex? Take a look at the University's notice regarding complinance with Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972. Misrepresentation of Academic Credentials What happens if I tell the University that I have a degree that I don't have? Learn more about Misrepresentation of Academic Credentials in this Memorandum from the Department of Human Resources. Tennessee Advocacy for Honesty and Appropriate Spending Act What can I do about suspected misuse of taxpayer funding? Take a look at this notice about proper use of taxpayer moneys and learn how to report misuse. Tennessee Discrimination Poster Does the state of Tennessee offer any protections against discrimination? Review this poster from the Tennessee Human Rights Commission to learn more about anti-discrimination practices. Tennessee Workers Compensation (English/Spanish) What do I do if I get injured at work? This notice from the Tennessee Bureau of Workers' Compensation reviews what do to in the event of an injury. Learn more about the University of Memphis' practices here. Tennessee Hazardous Chemical Right-to-Know Can I be exposed to hazardous chemicals while at work? The Tennessee Occupational Safety and Health Administration supports your right to a safe and healthful workplace. Learn more about what that means in this poster. Other Helpful Resources Mandatory Reporter Information (PDF) How do I determine if I am a mandatory reporter? Disability Resources for Students How can I get help with accommodations as a student? Disability Resources for Students (DRS) arranges, coordinates and provides academic accommodations and support services for qualified students with disabilities. University Police Services How do I contact the Police on campus? Police Services at the University of Memphis works hard to keep campus a safe place to work and learn. Use this link to find out more about the services they offer to the UofM community. Code of Student Rights and Responsibilities (PDF) Are there specific rules about how students should behave? Yes! Take a look at the Office of Student Accountability's Code of Student Rights & Responsibilities to learn more about the expectations for students of the University of Memphis. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 8/24/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.