Skip to main content Responding to COVID-19 Current Students Alumni Faculty and Staff Apply (Graduate) Apply (Undergraduate) Give About The Weitzman School Fast Facts Justice and Belonging at Weitzman: Beyond DEI People Development + Alumni Relations Press Room Support the School Policies Contact Us Academics Graduate Architecture Undergraduate Architecture City and Regional Planning Graduate Fine Arts Undergraduate Fine Arts & Design Historic Preservation Landscape Architecture Urban Spatial Analytics All Degrees + Certificates Admissions Get to Know Us Visit Us Admissions Events How to Apply International Applicants Tuition & Aid Admitted Students Undergraduate Applicants Impact Weitzman News Events + Exhibitions Global Engagement PennPraxis Annual Weitzman School Awards Partners Penn Planning Equity Initiative Making Sense Research Advanced Research & Innovation Lab Kleinman Center For Energy Policy The McHarg Center Penn Institute For Urban Research Center for Environmental Building & Design The Center for Architectural Conservation Applying for Research Funds Center for Public Art and Space Center for the Preservation of Civil Rights Sites Resources Architectural Archives Fisher Fine Arts Library Institute of Contemporary Art The Common Press IT Services Fabrication Lab Career Resources All Resources Student Council (Graduate Students) Search form Search Architectural Archives Home On View On Tour News Digital Resources Collections Visiting About Contents Research & Inquiries Staff Related Gallery hours Collections The Architectural Archives of the University of Pennsylvania preserves the works of more than 400 designers from the 17th century to the present. Major collections include the comprehensive archives of a number of the twentieth century's most significant designers, including: Robert Venturi & Denise Scott Brown; Lawrence Halprin; Ian L. McHarg; Edmund N. Bacon; Anne Griswold Tyng; and Louis I. Kahn. Established in the fall of 1978, the Architectural Archives gained its international reputation initially through the Louis I. Kahn Collection whose resources include all drawings, models, photographs, correspondence, and project files from Kahn's office. Purchased by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania from the Kahn estate in 1975, the Collection was placed on permanent loan to the University by the Pennsylvania Historical and Museum Commission and opened to the public in September 1979. The Kahn Collection attracts a steady stream of international visitors and has served as the basis for innumerable publications and exhibitions. The research collections in the Archives are available to faculty, students, and scholars for independent study as well as to support teaching at the University of Pennsylvania. The archives facility in the lower level of the Fisher Fine Arts Building houses the Harvey & Irwin Kroiz Gallery, a specialized library, study room, and seminar room, as well as storage and processing facilities. Research & Inquiries Works from the Archives' collections are available for study by appointment only. We strongly recommend contacting the staff to discuss your research and schedule prior to making travel plans. Study Room Hours Open by appointment only To make an appointment or for reference inquiries, please contact Heather Isbell Schumacher, Archivist, at hisbell@design.upenn.edu. For publication and copyright requests, please contact Allison Olsen, Digital Archivist, at allirose@design.upenn.edu. The Architectural Archives welcomes the use of its collections by all researchers; University of Pennsylvania affiliation is not required. Staff William Whitaker, Curator and Collections Manager Heather Isbell Schumacher, Archivist Allison Olsen, Digital Archivist © 2021 University of Pennsylvania Stuart Weitzman School of Design Sitemap | Privacy Policy Support Weitzman Your contribution positively impacts our ability to educate the creative leaders of the future. Report accessibility issues and get help Office of the Dean 102 Meyerson Hall 210 South 34th Street Philadelphia, PA 19104 Connect Subscribe to Design Weekly: News from Weitzman Login Log In