Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Give to Brown Site Navigation Academics Undergraduate Graduate & Professional Schools & Colleges Academic Departments Centers & Institutes Libraries & Collections Global Education Non-Degree Programs Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Medical School Admission Executive & Professional Admission Tuition & Aid Research Find a Researcher Industry Engagement Conducting Research at Brown Life at Brown Athletics & Recreation Community Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Providence Student Organizations University Events News Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Advising A strong network of academic advisors ensures students thrive in their individual academic paths. We help students see their time at Brown as an intellectual exploration — both inside the classroom and beyond. Breadcrumb Home Academics Undergraduate Education Sub Navigation In This Section Undergraduate Programs The Open Curriculum Special Programs Advising Advising A strong network of academic advisors ensures students thrive in their individual academic paths. We help students see their time at Brown as an intellectual exploration — both inside the classroom and beyond. Long the hallmark of an undergraduate education at Brown, the Open Curriculum encourages intellectual risk-taking and empowers students to shape their own educational experiences — all within an advising system that leaves students supported from Orientation through Commencement. Before first-year Orientation, every incoming student is assigned a faculty advisor — a professor, dean or academic administrator in the Brown community. Together with academic deans and peer counselors, these educator/scholars guide students as they define academic pathways and shape educational goals. And while Brown’s formal advising program provides structured support for students, opportunities for advising take place any time faculty and students join together — in classrooms and labs, during office hours, at events or other activities. Brown’s Advising Community Brown faculty support students’ lives both inside and outside the classroom. Meiklejohn Peer Advising [Pronounced mik-uhl-jon —like picklejohn, colloquially referred to as “Meik”]. These peer advisors are sophomores, juniors and seniors trained to provide first-year students with advice and counsel on the academic, extracurricular and social transitions that come with attending college for the first time. Meiklejohn Peer Advising Academic Advising Deans Academic Advising Deans advise and support undergraduates to make informed choices advancing their intellectual and personal growth. Deans serve as partners as students consider options, connect with resources, and reflect on their learning, goals, and challenges as they prepare for life after Brown. Academic Advising Deans Faculty Advising Fellows Faculty Advising Fellows are experienced academic advisors who support students’ lives both inside and outside the classroom. They provide individual advising and host events that bring faculty and students together for lively intellectual explorations. Randall Sophomore Advisors Drawn from a wide range of academic disciplines, Randall advisors are dedicated, knowledgeable faculty members who work with sophomores to discuss academic choices and challenges in light of students' proposed concentrations, activities outside the classroom, and plans for lives and careers. Randall advisors Matched Advising Program for Sophomores The Matched Advising Program pairs sophomore students with junior and senior mentors for one-on-one and group advising, providing a support system for navigating concentration declarations, research opportunities, internships and more. Matched Advising Program Curricular Resource Center The Curricular Resource Center for Peer Advising is a place where student advisors help their peers engage with the Open Curriculum and effectively take advantage of Brown’s academic resources. Curricular Resource Center CareerLAB The Center for Careers and Life After Brown can help you refine a resume, write a cover letter, prepare for a job interview and find jobs and internships. CareerLAB maintains BrownConnect, a database of positions posted by Brown alumni and parents across many different fields, with many opportunities set aside especially for Brown students. CareerLAB Swearer Center for Public Service Public service and experiential learning are essential components of Brown’s educational mission. At the Swearer Center, students connect with faculty, peers, and community members to explore social issues and build the skills, knowledge, and relationships necessary to lead lives of effective action. Swearer Center for Public Service Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Academics Undergraduate Graduate & Professional Schools & Colleges Academic Departments Centers & Institutes Libraries & Collections Global Education Non-Degree Programs Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Medical School Admission Executive & Professional Admission Tuition & Aid Research Find a Researcher Industry Engagement Conducting Research at Brown Life at Brown Athletics & Recreation Community Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Providence Student Organizations University Events News Featured Events For Journalists Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Advising Open details for Advising Bookmark this Page