Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Mission & Ministry Mission & Ministry Information For: Students Parents & Guardians Search BC.edu Links FYE Menu Main Nav First Year Experience Donate UMM Back Back Close About Orientation 2022 Overview Orientation Team Summer 2021 OTeam Mari Brianna A Alicia Luis Tommy Brianna C Lily Maggie Owen Taylor Mary Brooke Matthew Tyler Mo Jiu Grace Janasia Karleni Chris Jen Paco Emma M Mitzy Gianna Siobhan Serena Emma R Graceann Mikayla Megan Amy Ayana Tenniel Kelly Charlie Jose 48Hours Compass Mentoring Academic Convocation Overview Past Academic Convocations First Year Hub Donate UMM Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Mission & Ministry Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Students Parents & Guardians BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close First Year Experience Home Welcome to the Office of First Year Experience. An office in the Division Mission & Ministry, we are here to help our newest undergraduates, whether freshmen or transfer students, transition into the intellectual, social, and cultural community of Boston College. First Year Experience « » 48Hours Weekend Experience 48Hours is open to all first-year students interested in finding ways to maximize their college experience. Step off campus for a weekend, hear from juniors and seniors about their transitions to BC, and gain some perspective about your first year. Learn more about 48hours Compass Mentoring Program The Compass Mentoring Program aims to provide supportive communities for incoming first-year AHANA+ students by connecting them with upperclass mentors during weekend retreats, small group meetings, and social events. Learn more about Compass Conversations in the First Year Connect, in-person, with classmates through First Year Lunch. We will provide a socially distanced location, a lunch, a discussion guide and four classmates - the rest is up to you! Conversations In the First Year: First Year Lunch is a chance to meet your classmates, engage in a meaningful conversation and make some new connections. Learn more about First Year Lunch Follow @BC_FYE on Instagram Welcome to Boston College! We hope the next four years will be filled with new friendships, learning experiences, and personal growth. As you enter this exciting new phase, know that the Boston College community is here to support you, in your first year and beyond. Orientation Back To Top Back To Top First Year Experience Rahner House, 96 College Road bcfye@bc.edu 617-552-3281 About Orientation 48hours Compass Mentoring Academic Convocation First Year Resources Give to Mission & Ministry Division of Mission & Ministry Mission and Ministry Campus Ministry Center for Ignatian Spirituality Center for Student Formation First Year Experience Intersections Montserrat Pastoral Support The Volunteer and Service Learning Center University of Mission and Ministry Service Center Facebook Instagram Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College