HOME Make a Gift Clemson Home Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift Toggle navigation HOME DIVISIONS Medical Services Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) Healthy Campus HEALTH TOPICS ADHD Alcohol and Other Drugs Antibiotics Body Image Building Social Connections Fitness Interpersonal Violence Mental Health Nutrition Social Media and Internet Use Sexual Health Sleep Spring Break Safety Stress Suicide Sustainibility Tobacco Wellness When to See a Provider CONTACT ABOUT POLICIES & RECORDS Advance Directives Diversity Eligibility Health Fee Privacy Practice Records & Confidentiality Rights & Responsibilities Eligibility Eligibility (Students/Spouses Currently Enrolled) Students enrolled at Clemson University, University employees injured on the job and legal spouses of Clemson students are eligible for treatment at Redfern Health Center. Eligibility (Students/Spouses Not Currently Enrolled) Following their graduation, graduates and their spouses who have not purchased the University Student Health Insurance are eligible to use the services of Redfern until the first day of the next semester or summer session (maintaining their current fee-paid or non-fee-paid status). Graduates and their spouses who purchased the University Student Health Insurance are eligible to use the services up to the end of their insurance benefit eligibility on a non-fee-paid status. When a student withdraws from the University, eligibility for services for student and spouse ends. However, a grace period of up to 30 days is available to allow for transfer of care. During this 30-day period, student and spouse will maintain pre-withdrawal status of non-fee-paid or fee-paid if the student's health fee was not refunded by the University. Exception: Withdrawn students and their spouses who purchased the University Student Health Insurance are eligible to use the services up to the end of their insurance benefit eligibility on a non-fee-paid status. Students not currently enrolled and their spouses are not eligible to use the services during the regular academic year (fall/spring semesters), except as defined above by items 1 and 2. A co-op student is an enrolled student and can receive services on either a fee-paid or non-fee-paid basis. Continuing students and their spouses not enrolled in summer school are eligible to use the services on a fee-for-service basis during the two summer school sessions. Fall Semester Students If you are graduating or not planning to return to Clemson, your eligibility to receive services at Redfern Health Center terminates on the first day of Spring semester (unless you are enrolled in the annual plan for student insurance.) Spring Semester Students If you are graduating or not planning to return to Clemson, your eligibility to receive services at Redfern Health Center terminates on the first day of summer session (unless you are enrolled in the annual plan for student insurance.) If you are not attending classes during summer sessions but planning to return in the fall, you will be eligible to receive services on a fee-for-service basis. If your eligibility is terminating please discuss your prescription/medication needs with your provider. For more information you may call 864-656-2233. CONTACT DIVISION OF STUDENT AFFAIRS 202 Sikes Hall, Clemson, SC Copyright 2020 Webmaster