Close Alert Message Alert Carolina! Normal The University is currently operating under normal conditionsLast updated at 6:00pmFriday, May 27th, 2022Skip to Main Content Top Level Navigation Discover Navigate Navigate About the UniversityDisplay Sub Menu for About the University About the University Alumni By the numbers Branding and Identity GuidelinesOpens in new site Carolina NextOpens in new site For the MediaOpens in new site Frequently Asked Questions History and Traditions Leadership Mission & Values Support the University UNC Social Media UNC SystemOpens in new site News and UpdatesDisplay Sub Menu for News and Updates News and Updates Academics Around Campus Arts & Humanities Athletics Events Calendar Global Health & Medicine Innovation & Entrepreneurship University News Research Working at CarolinaOpens in new site Campaign for CarolinaOpens in new site AcademicsDisplay Sub Menu for Academics Academics Academic Calendar and Registrar Academic Enhancements Continuing Education Opportunities Academic Departments Friday Center for Continuing Education Libraries Online and Distance EducationOpens in new site Programs and Curricula Summer School Admissions and Aid SchoolsDisplay Sub Menu for Schools Schools College of Arts & Sciences Adams School of Dentistry Education Eshelman School of Pharmacy Gillings School of Global Public Health Government Graduate School Information & Library Science Law Kenan-Flagler Business School Hussman School of Journalism and Media Medicine Nursing Social Work Come Visit Us Diversity and Inclusion Research Innovation and Economic Development Arts and Culture GlobalOpens in new site Life at CarolinaDisplay Sub Menu for Life at Carolina Life at Carolina About the Town Campus Recreation Carolina Housing Carolina UnionOpens in new site Community and Public Service Health & Wellness AthleticsDisplay Sub Menu for Athletics Athletics GoHeels.comOpens in new site Campus RecreationOpens in new site IntramuralsOpens in new site Sports ClubsOpens in new site UNC HealthOpens in new site Search The University of North Carolina at Chapel HillHide Main Navigation Menu Featured Diamond Heels claim ACC title Tar Heels cap undefeated season with NCAA title Sections Featured Bold Moves Campus Life Dynamic Minds Global Engagement Impact on Our State Search PeopleOpens in new window PlacesOpens in new window Search UNC.edu It's a Great Day to be a Tar Heel “It’s a great day to be a Tar Heel” is a phrase you’ll often hear around Carolina, and for a good reason. Every day, Tar Heels are creating a positive impact on the world by improving communities and inspiring change through their extraordinary talents. They’re artists, scientists, humanitarians, researchers and innovators doing great things. Meet some of our students to find out why every day really is a great day to be a Tar Heel. Campus life creators Around Campus Spirit Team: Daniel Wood Daniel Wood has spent the past four years as one of the most recognizable Tar Heels on campus without anybody knowing it was him. Wood has anonymously been making memories for hundreds of thousands of fans at Carolina’s biggest games and becoming a regular figure at community events around the state as Rameses. Around Campus American Indian Center: Kyla Locklear Since she first arrived in Chapel Hill, junior Kyla Locklear has been dedicated to bringing awareness to Carolina's Native American community. The UNC American Indian Center quickly became the perfect place for Locklear to work toward that goal. Around Campus Admissions ambassador: Emily Madrzykowski Wanting to alleviate the stress of the college admissions process, Emily Madrzykowski had dreams of becoming a tour guide even before becoming a Tar Heel. Now an admissions ambassador, she guides prospective students through campus, sharing the Carolina story along the way. Around Campus Be a Maker Network: Ashley Dos Santos Senior Ashley Dos Santos knew that Carolina's makerspaces were where she belonged even before she was officially a Tar Heel. Now an active member in the Be A Maker Network, she's working to bring the world of making to more students. Around Campus Tar Heel Club of Magic: Jonathan Thai Jonathan Thai has been captivated by magic since first he saw his cousin perform a card trick years ago. As he works on mastering the craft himself, he’s bringing his passion for magic to Chapel Hill and creating a community of Tar Heel magicians in a new student organization. Around Campus UNC Figure Skating: Katherine Xing A competitive figure skater and president of the UNC Figure Skating Club, Carolina sophomore Katherine Xing is inviting more Tar Heels into the sport with the goal of empowering the skaters and providing a mindset that they can apply to anything they do in life. Beyond our stone walls Public service is a critical part of Carolina’s mission, and Tar Heels are finding numerous ways to fulfill that goal and serve communities far and wide. Our students work with nonprofits and community organizations throughout the year to address critical issues and challenges facing North Carolinians. By volunteering and sharing the skills they’re sharpening in the classroom, they’re bringing our mission to life and spreading it across our state. Cameron Baker wanted to become a politician or judge to find ways to make a positive impact in his hometown. But through his studies at Carolina and an internship with the local chapter of the NAACP, the junior found a different path to social change.Read more about Cameron Jade Neptune has served as a Chapel Hill Town Council campaign manager, worked with Carolina Performing Arts and the North Carolina Symphony, and provided academic coaching to North Carolina prisoners.Read more about Jade Carolina junior Desireé Lockhart has dedicated her time in Chapel Hill to supporting and serving the community as an intern with a local nonprofit focused on affordable housing and grassroots economic development.Read more about Desireé Creative Tar Heels Jason Lord After more than two decades as a school teacher, Jason Lord began taking classes at Carolina to hone his visual art skills to teach his middle school students. That experience led the Tar Heel to put his teaching career on hold and pursue a degree from UNC-Chapel Hill. Luisa Peñaflor First-year student Luisa Peñaflor has a knack for writing that has already earned her the Thomas Wolfe Scholarship, but at Carolina, she's diving into coursework that is helping take her talents to the next level. Alex Upton Alex Upton, a Carolina junior studying music in the College of Arts & Sciences, is connecting with his musical intuition through performance, composition and improvisation. Dariel Liakhovetski Dental student Dariel Liakhovetski has provided his own soundtrack to life. A classically trained cellist, he has traveled across the world playing for audiences and recently found his home as a Tar Heel. Budding researchers Research Emmaus Holder Over the span of 56 days, Emmaus Holder cycled 4,300 miles from Topsail Beach, North Carolina, to Los Angeles in a solo, self-supported ride to raise awareness for Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorder and gather dozens of interviews that he'll turn into a research paper. Research Kelli Smith-Biwer Kelli Smith-Biwer’s research delves into 1950s home audio advertisements, with a focus on the construction of gendered buying and listening practices in high fidelity culture. A vital aspect of her work hinges on community engagement and activism. Research Nihar Vaidya Carolina junior Nihar Vaidya is combining his majors of computer science and statistics and analytics to predict when patients may encounter seizures caused by epilepsy. Research Kena Lemu Kena Lemu remembers seeing deaths from treatable diseases and the impact the HIV epidemic was having on her community when she was growing up in Oromia. She knew as a child that she wanted to be the change that her community needed. Research Alayna Mackiewicz Through The Graduate School's Summer Research Fellowship, Ph.D. student Alayna Mackiewicz is spending the summer in Woods Hole, Massachusetts, studying sensory biology. Research Brian Lerch Why do some organisms live in groups? What influences their cooperation with one another? How do they choose their mates? Ph.D. student Brian Lerch has a lot of questions about ecology and evolutionary biology — and he strives to answer them using math. Explore more Campus Life Dynamic Minds Accessibility Alert Carolina Alumni Connect Carolina Campus Map Contact Us Careers Departments A – Z Ethics and Integrity For the Media Libraries People Directory Privacy Statement UNC Student Stores The Well Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest © 2022 The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill Tweet Share E-mail Tweet Share E-mail Tweet Share LinkedIn E-mail