Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School Application FAQs Graduate School Skip to Navigation Application FAQs What web browser should I use to complete an application? A list of web browsers supported by our vendor can be found at https://www.applyweb.com/apply/browser_support/. Please note that older browsers may appear to work correctly but you could experience some problems when you try to attach supporting materials or answer video questions (where applicable). If you are experiencing issues and are using an unsupported web browser we recommend you update to a supported version before contacting our vendor for assistance. When are applications due? Application deadlines vary by program. Please refer to the Graduate School webpage for the program of interest. Note, however, that the date is determined using Pacific Standard Time (PST). How do I apply for an application fee waiver? Please complete the Application Fee Waiver Request section of the online application. For more information on fee waivers, please visit the application information section of the website. What kind of support does the Graduate School offer doctoral students? The Graduate School offers incoming doctoral students five years of guaranteed financial support, including a stipend, tuition remission, health-services fee, and a health-insurance subsidy. Doctoral students in the Humanities and Social Sciences are guaranteed six years of support. This support — which may take the form of a teaching assistantship, research assistantship, fellowship, or proctorship — helps to defray the cost of tuition, and also provides a stipend to assist with living expenses during the student’s program. What is the physical address of the Graduate School? 47 George Street Providence, RI 02912 When should I submit official college transcripts? If Brown University offers you admission to the Graduate School, then you must furnish official transcripts. The grading system in my country is different. Should I convert my grade point average (GPA) to the 4.0 scale? No, there is no need to convert it. Simply report what your GPA is as a number or letter grade. Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants