Menu Close Menu Skip to content Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters A to Z index Search for: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Email People Departments Calendar Careers my.harvard Giving About Faculty & Research Admissions & Aid Academics Executive/Continuing Ed News The Nutrition Source Menuexpand child menu Skip to content Nutrition News Healthy Weight Staying Active Make a Gift What Should I Eat? Healthy Drinks Food Features About Infant formula shortages Tips for navigating the national shortage, and policy actions needed to help prevent future recurrence. Healthy Living Guide 2021/2022 Explore the downloadable guide with tips and strategies for healthy eating and healthy living. Avocados Avocados or "alligator pears" are known for their creamy smooth flesh and bumpy skin. They are a popular food across many cultures. Clean eating Once just a buzzword, “clean eating” is now a popular eating style. But what it means will depend on who you ask. Workout supplements Reviewing the research behind some of the most popular ingredients in workout supplements. Aquatic foods Learn about the global diversity of water-sourced animals, plants, and microorganisms. The Healthy Eating Plate Create healthy, balanced meals using this visual guide as a blueprint. Carbohydrates The type of carbohydrate you eat is more important than the amount. Diet Reviews A look at some popular diets—and the research behind them. Healthy Living Guide 2021/2022 A downloadable resource with tips and strategies for healthy eating and living. Protein Protein is an essential macronutrient, but not all protein food sources are created equal. Recipes Healthy eating begins in the kitchen, whether at home or another venue. The Nutrition Source Update A monthly e-newsletter with practical strategies for healthy living. Fats and Cholesterol When it comes to dietary fat, what matters most is the type of fat you eat. Disease Prevention Type 2 diabetes and heart disease is striking people at younger ages – but prevention is in our power. Kid's Healthy Eating Plate A visual guide to encourage children to eat well and keep moving. Salt and Sodium The human body needs some sodium but too much can lead to health problems. Sustainability Explore this multifaceted issue, in which food production and our diets play a major role. The Nutrition Source on Twitter RT @theNAMedicine: To meet the needs of aging populations around the world, NAM’s Global Roadmap for Healthy Longevity recommends strategie… RT @HarvardNORC: Less than 1 month left until our 23rd Annual Harvard Nutrition Obesity Symposium, "The Neurobiology of Eating Behavior in… RT @AvivaMusicus: Our new study led by @DesireeSigala found that #addedsugar warning labels on restaurant menus could inform consumers and… Tips for navigating current infant formula shortages, and policy actions needed to help prevent future recurrence. https://t.co/ov057QWAZp RT @NewAmerica: COVID transformed our society, yet tech remains underutilized in America’s safety net programs Learn how we can better uti… Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters About Key Facts Renaming the School Office of the Dean Location and Facilities Administrative Offices Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty and Researcher Directory Academic Departments, Divisions and Centers International Research Postdoctoral Research Fellows Office of Faculty Affairs Faculty Searches Office of Diversity and Inclusion Admissions & Aid Why Harvard Chan Degree Programs Non-Degree Programs Financial Aid Student Experience Career Advancement Apply Academics Academic Departments Divisions Research Centers Flagship Initiatives International Research Research Administration and Support Degree Programs Fellowships and Residencies Summer Programs Continuing Professional Education Interdisciplinary Concentrations Academic Calendar Harvard Chan Viewbook Executive/Continuing Ed Program Offerings Custom Programs Request Information News and Resources About ECPE Contact News Featured News Press Releases Student Stories In the News Newsletters HPH Magazine Why Public Health? Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College