Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Student Affairs Career Center Main Navigation Students Show Extended Virtual Career Center Titan Connection: Jobs & Internships Workshops & Information Sessions Networking Career Fairs & Expos Resumes & Cover Letters Interviewing Titan Takeover: Career Exploration Program Career & Major Exploration Graduate & Professional School College Specific Resources Online Recorded Webinars I Am First Titan Career Ambassadors Resources for Diverse Populations Parker Dewey: Micro-Internships Alumni Show Extended Alumni Career Services Help a Titan Hire a Titan Recruiters Show Extended Post Positions On Titan Connection Recruiting Calendar On-Campus Interviewing (OCI) Connect With Students Employer Partnerships Learn About Our Diverse Students Titan Takeover: Career Exploration Program Parker Dewey: Micro-Internships Faculty & Staff Show Extended Meet your Career Specialist Career Center Commercial (4 minutes) Request a Workshop Get a Titan Connection Account Post a Position Faculty Development Certificate Workshops & Info Sessions Career Fairs & Expos Online Career Guide Reports Schedule Appointment About Us Blog Post Positions On Titan Connection Recruiting Calendar Virtual Campus Interviewing (OCI) Connect With Students Employer Partnerships Learn About Our Diverse Students Titan Takeover: Career Education Program Parker Dewey: Micro-Internships Foster the Future Media Kit Click here to download the PDF Thank you for considering our Titans for your internship and career opportunities. We look forward to working with you and supporting your organization's recruitment needs. To view, a list of our Employer Engagement Services click the blue button below. Submit Your Employer Engagement Request The Career Center is pleased to work with you to promote your organization and assist you in gaining greater visibility on campus. The most successful recruiting experiences occur when an organization creates a presence on campus that fosters the development of relationships with students, faculty, and the Career Center staff. New employers are encouraged to meet with the appropriate College Career Specialist, to communicate recruiting needs and discuss strategies to build your organization's profile on campus. Click on the link below to download the Campus Recruitment Engagement Form that contains all of the Career Center services that can possibly enhance your return-on-investment while recruiting here at Cal State Fullerton. For more information, please contact Stephanie Reyes, Senior Associate Director of Employer Relations at (657) 278-2244 or sreyes@fullerton.edu . Requesting an INDUSTRY INSIDER (Information Session) To request an Industry Insider (Information Session): Log in to your Titan Connection Account . Click on the “Events” tab on the menu bar then click the “Industry Insider (Information Sessions)” tab. Click “Add New” and fill out the form. Make sure to attach any flyers that will help us promote your event. Once the form is complete click “Submit”. We will respond to your request within 48-72 business hours. Information Session Guidelines & Policies Information Sessions are as successful as the amount of effort that is placed in hosting an information session from both partners. Fee: $100 Career Center Partnership Responsibilities Space Reservation- We will reserve a space based on availability (once space is confirmed we often do not have the flexibility to make changes, due to the fact that space and room reservation is a continued challenge on our campus). Parking- We will provide your organization with 2 complimentary parking permits, as long as we know the final representative count at least one week before the event to ensure parking. Promotion- We will promote your event via various avenues including: CSUF Career Center Website Career Center Weekly Newsletter Targeted emails to students through our Titan Connection Database Targeted emails to other campus avenues we deem suitable (i.e. faculty, staff, departments, colleges, student clubs/organizations, social media etc.) Our targeted emails are most effective when a flyer promoting the event is provided Follow-Up- Our Career Center staff will follow-up with you typically one week before the event with a confirmation email with logistics, parking, directions, etc. At that time we will also notify you how many RSVPs we have for the event. If we have less than 5 RSVPs a day or two before the event, the Career Center staff will utilize their professional judgment and consult with you about potentially canceling the event. Employer Organization Partnership Responsibilities Time/Date – Confirm and provide Career Center Staff the number of representatives that will be present at the Information Session. Confirm Audio Visual Requirements- With Career Center Staff prior to reserving a space. Food- Confirm if food will be provided at the Information Session and adhere to the food guidelines attached. (Please note that food must be ordered, paid, and managed by your organization.) Please review the following guidelines that our University must adhere to when ordering food for events. The following link will provide you a list of Pre-Approved Caterers . Provide a Flyer/Marketing Materials- Provide materials to Career Center staff ahead of time to promote via PDF or hard copies. (Preferably 2-3 weeks in advance before the scheduled Information Session.) Room Rental – If you need to reserve a bigger room, all fees will need to be managed by your organization. Workshop Participation Presenting at career events and workshops is an excellent way to keep your organization visible on campus, as well as share your expertise with CSUF students. Each semester, the Career Center asks business professionals to assist with a variety of workshops, resume and portfolio reviews, and networking events. Titan Takeover: Career Education program The Career Center invites you to participate in Titan Takeover: Career Education Program, which will take place in April 2022. The intent of the Titan Takeover: Job Shadow Program is to provide students with an opportunity to explore various career paths and gain first hand insight into an organization’s culture, structure, operations, and day to day activities. This insider look into your organization will also provide students with the knowledge of certain skills and responsibilities necessary to be successful within a particular position of interest. For more information, visit Titan Takeover: Career Education Program. This site is maintained by Career Center. Last Published 4/27/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact careercenter@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.3.5 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled.