COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Exercise Science, Master's Master'sExercise Science All Programs College of Applied Studies Human Performance Studies A Master of Education (MEd) in exercise science from Wichita State combines quality curriculum, high-tech research facilities and hands-on training in real-world environments. As a graduate, you’ll be well prepared for high-demand careers, in a wide range of settings, from education and health care to the fitness industry and community-based programs. Learn how Exercise Science is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program Admission to the master’s degree program in exercise science requires: Completion of an accredited undergraduate degree A minimum 2.75 GPA in the last 60 credit hours Completion of all prerequisite coursework For additional admission details, click on the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Get real-world experience in high-tech research lab In WSU's Human Performance Lab, you'll get to choose your path. As a student researcher, you'll work alongside faculty and be fully supported as you pursue a project or niche that suits your interests. As you prepare for a career in exercise science, you'll be continuously exposed to research projects, including opportunities to work within local, state and regional companies. Many students who have come before you have gone on to full-time jobs with those very businesses. Curriculum The Master of Education (MEd) in exercise science may be earned in one of three ways: Thesis option (34 credit hours) Internship option (36 credit hours) Coursework option (36 credit hours) The thesis option requires an oral examination. The internship and coursework options require a written comprehensive examination. Internships take place in a wide variety of exercise facilities, health organizations and amateur-and-professional athletic facilities. View the curriculum Careers An exercise science degree from Wichita State will equip you with the knowledge, skills and professional connections that’ll prepare you for diverse roles. Graduates work as wellness directors, teachers, cardiology technicians, exercise gerontologist, personal trainers and more. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Sport Management (Master's) Physical Therapy (Doctorate) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©