Skip to Content Menu Search Search Enter the terms you wish to search for. Other ways to search: Events Calendar Campus Map Close Main menu Home About Academics Admissions Research Visit COVID-19 Updates Secondary Menu Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Search Enter the terms you wish to search for. Other ways to search: Events Calendar Campus Map Mobile menu Home About Academics Admissions Research Visit COVID-19 Updates Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Copyright Notice Digital Millennium Copyright Act Send copyright infringement reports to: Dan Jones Assistant Vice President and Chief Information Security Officer University of Colorado 1800 Grant St. Ste. 745 Denver, CO 80203-1187 Telephone (303) 735-6637 Email: dan.jones@cu.edu Send other reports of computer abuse to abuse@Colorado.EDU For more information on the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, visit the United States Copyright Office Web site. Commitment to Individual Privacy The University of Colorado supports the protection of individual privacy, and is committed to ensuring the confidentiality of personally identifiable information provided by its employees, students, and visitors. However, because the University of Colorado is a public institution, some personally identifiable information may be subject to disclosure pursuant to the Colorado Open Records Act (C.R.S. § 24-72-101 et seq.). In addition, the University may disclose information to third parties when such disclosure is required or permitted by law. View CU System Privacy Statement Disclaimer The information contained herein is provided as a public service, with the understanding that the University of Colorado Boulder makes no warranties, either expressed or implied, concerning the accuracy, completeness, reliability, or suitability of the information. The University of Colorado Boulder makes no warranties that the information is free of any copyright infringement. Links to Internet resources outside of the University of Colorado Boulder's website are provided solely for the convenience of those visiting the CU Boulder network of home pages. Provision of such links should not be construed as an endorsement of any or all outside sites linked from the CU Boulder servers. Apply for Admission Visit Campus Support CU Boulder Get Help Safety & Health Services Campus Communications Emergency Alert System New Student & Family Programs Getting Around Campus Map Campus Events Parking & Transportation Visit Information Information for Faculty & Staff Families Journalists Initiatives Business & Industry Collaborations Diversity & Community Engagement Free Speech Innovation & Entrepreneurship International Students Public & Outreach Programs Sustainability Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Pinterest University of Colorado Boulder © Regents of the University of Colorado Contact Us • Privacy • Legal & Trademarks Accessibility • Student Consumer Information • Policies • CU Boulder Jobs Download the Clery Act Annual Security & Fire safety report, or request a paper copy from the CU Boulder Police Department. Return to the top of the page