Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Parents Alumni News/Media Faculty/Staff Apply Give Follow Us Twitter Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Social Stream Search Navigate Search Social SMU About Administration Administration Board of Trustees President 21st Century Council Provost Dean, SMU Libraries Dean, Cox School of Business Dean, Dedman College Dean, Dedman School of Law Dean, Lyle School of Engineering Dean, Meadows School of the Arts Dean, Perkins School of Theology Dean, Research & Graduate Studies Dean, Annette Caldwell Simmons School of Education & Human Development Director of Athletics Chief Investment Officer Vice President for Business and Finance and Treasurer Vice President, Development & External Affairs Vice President, Executive Affairs Vice President, Legal Affairs Vice President for Student Affairs SMU Facts SMU Facts Campus profile Academic offerings Administration Prominent alumni Intercollegiate athletics Location and facilities Student life Undergraduate costs Maps and directions Maps and directions Campus Map Directions to SMU Parking at SMU Download and print maps Building addresses Accessibility SMU-in-Taos Strategic Plan Contact SMU Administration About SMU / Administration / K.C. Mmeje K.C. Mmeje K.C. Mmeje (pronounced MAY-jay) serves as vice president for Student Affairs at SMU. In his current role, Dr. Mmeje provides strategic leadership for areas that directly impact a student’s success and sense of belonging on campus. He oversees the Office of the Dean of Students, Residence Life and Student Housing, Women and LGBT Center, the Hegi Family Career Development Center and campus ministries. He also leads health and wellness programs and offices, including the Dr. Bob Smith Health Center, Hughes-Trigg Student Center and Dedman Center for Lifetime Sports. Driven by an earnest desire to provide an exceptional experience for all SMU students, Mmeje pioneered the development and implementation of Student Affairs’ strategic plan, Cultivating Courageous Change – a guiding ethos outlining the division’s commitment to fostering a dynamic, vibrant and inclusive campus that supports continued student development and learning. He was also instrumental in the multimillion-dollar renovation of Hughes-Trigg. Completed in 2021, the reimagined facility in the heart of the Hilltop serves as a space where students come together to socialize, dine, study and participate in the full slate of campus activities. Prior to joining SMU, Mmeje served as the assistant vice president and dean of students at Loyola University in Chicago (LUC). He also worked in various roles serving students while at the University of Southern California (USC) and the University of Vermont (UVM). Mmeje received his bachelor’s degree in sociology and Black studies from the University of California, Santa Barbara, his master’s degree in higher education student affairs administration from the University of Vermont and his doctorate in educational leadership from USC. Mmeje is the recipient of the National Institute for the Study of Transfer Students’ (NISTS) 2013 Barbara K. Townsend Dissertation of the Year Award. He has published numerous articles and book chapters in the following areas: improving student success and retention for historically underserved students; institutional effectiveness in producing equitable educational outcomes for historically underserved populations; and the declining rates of participation among college men in leadership and involvement opportunities. Mmeje serves on the National Association of Student Personnel Administrators (NASPA) NUFP Board, the UCSB Alumni Association Board of Directors and the University of Vermont’s College of Education and Social Sciences (CESS) Advisory Board. Lastly, Mmeje is a life member of Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity Inc. and is an active member of its Xi Tau Lambda Chapter. Administration Board of Trustees President 21st Century Council Provost Dean, SMU Libraries Dean, Cox School of Business Dean, Dedman College Dean, Dedman School of Law Dean, Lyle School of Engineering Dean, Meadows School of the Arts Dean, Perkins School of Theology Dean, Research & Graduate Studies Dean, Annette Caldwell Simmons School of Education & Human Development Director of Athletics Chief Investment Officer Vice President for Business and Finance and Treasurer Vice President, Development & External Affairs Vice President, Executive Affairs Vice President, Legal Affairs Vice President for Student Affairs Apply Visit Schools Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing & Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Report Sexual Harassment Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact SMU Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 SMU Twitter SMU Facebook SMU Instagram SMU Linked In SMU YouTube Social Media Directory"