Skip to main content Restrict my search to Police Department Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search University of Houston Police Department About UHPD General Information History of UHPD UHPD Strategic Vision Become a Police Officer Clery Campus Security Authority Am I a CSA? My Responsibility Get More Info Make a Report FAQs APPLY ONLINE Records & Reports Report a Crime Daily Crime Log Annual Security and Fire Safety Report File a Complaint Give a Compliment Hazard Report Safety & Security Staying Safe Crime Prevention Crime Prevention Services How You Can Prevent Crime Crime Prevention Tips Operation ID Vehicle Accidents Duty to Give Info and Render Aid Crash Involving Damage to a Vehicle Striking an Unattended Vehicle Striking a Fixture or Landscaping Immediate Reporting Police Investigation Resources Sensitive Crimes Violent Incidents Sexual Assault Sex Offender Registry Domestic Violence Hate Crimes Harassment Identity Theft Active Shooter Active Shooter Defined Avoid Lockdown & Deny Alert & Notify Defend & Counter Police Intervention Resources Bomb Threats Explosions Shelter In Place Office Security Community Services Security Escort Blue Light Emergency Phones Camera Network Lost and Found Bike Registration Special Events Money Transfers Policies & Training Campus Carry Policy FAQs Secure Storage Process Senate Bill 4 Racial Profiling Police In-Service Training Civil Protests Contact UHPD UH Home Police Department Safety & Security Crime Prevention Operation ID Police Department About UHPD Records and Reports Safety & Security Security Alerts Staying Safe Crime Prevention How You Can Prevent Crime Crime Prevention Tips Operation ID Vehicle Accidents Sensitive Crimes Active Shooter Bomb Threats Explosions Shelter in Place Office Security Community Services Policies & Training Contact UHPD Contact UHPD 4051 Wheeler Ave. Houston, TX 77204-6191 (713) 743-3333 or 911 from a campus phone non-emergency email police@uh.edu Operation ID This nationwide crime prevention program helps identify property if it should be stolen. Operation Identification is a program centered upon the belief that to prevent crime we must attempt to address the elements of the crime triangle. We attempt to make property less desirable to the criminal element by marking our valuables in such a way that they can be identified, increasing the likelihood that the thief will be caught with stolen goods. By doing this we hope that the criminal will choose to go elsewhere to commit his crimes and if he does take your belongings that if caught we can identify your property, successfully prosecute the thief, and return your property to you. Engrave Your Property Engraving your valuables with the number on your driver's license or other identifying number will aid police agencies in identifying you as the property's owner. It may also prevent a thief from choosing to steal your belongings because they are more identifiable if they are caught with them. Even if your belongings have a serial number already, engraving your driver's license number will ease identifying you as its owner. UHPD has engravers which may be borrowed to engrave your belongings. Please stop by to sign out an engraver. We will simply need for you an ID card with our dispatch office while the engraver is in your possession. Keep a List of Your Valuables Make a list of all of your valuables using a property inventory form. Make several copies and store them in two or more secure locations, such as a safe, locked drawer or cabinet. Include on your list a full description of the item including color, make, model, year of manufacture, and any other identifiers, including any engraving. Items to include on your list are MP3 players, stereos, computers (desktop and laptop), printers and any other peripherals, telephones, televisions, radios, and any other belongings. Most electronic equipment has a serial number; anything that does not have any good identifier can be engraved. Also save information about your bicycle (see Bicycle Theft Prevention) and vehicle (insurance policies often include your vehicle's identification number, plate, and other information). If you have any questions filling out your inventory or locating identifiers, please feel free to contact our Crime Prevention Officer. Report any Stolen Items If any of your belongings are stolen, make a report to UHPD as soon as possible. Reporting your loss can ease recovery. In addition, every incident is listed in our Daily Crime Bulletin, which alerts the community when such a theft occurs. In addition, valuable items can be entered in the Criminal Justice Information System computer system. This will alert police agencies nationwide of the theft, and will aide in recovering the items if another department recovers them. 4051 Wheeler Ave. Houston, TX 77204-6191 UH Emergency Information Call UHPD: 713-743-3333 Campus Map For Emergencies Dial 911 from a campus phone Non-Emergency email: police@uh.edu Security Escorts Lost and Found Bicycle Registration ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies