Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts Featured News Presidential medals honor the 'best of the best' May 26, 2022 The University of Cincinnati honors four undergraduates with the Presidential Leadership Medal of Excellence and two graduate students with the Presidential Medal of Graduate Student Excellence in the annual 2022 celebration at Cincinnati's Queen City Club. WLWT: UC finance professor encourages investors not to panic May 25, 2022 Even though the stock market has experienced extra volatility in recent weeks, investors shouldn’t panic, WLWT reported. UC names chief digital officer May 19, 2022 UC President Neville Pinto announces hiring of Bharath Prabhakaran to guide the University of Cincinnati’s digital transformation. Debug Query for this Latest News Keyword topics Select topics Answers Arts & Culture Athletics Bicentennial College bound COVID-19 Diversity Entrepreneurship Experience-based Learning Faculty Staff Health Impact In The News Insights International Must Read Next Lives Here Science & Tech Student Experience Thought Leadership colleges Select colleges College of Arts and Sciences Blue Ash College College of Allied Health Sciences College-Conservatory of Music College of Engineering and Applied Science College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services Clermont College Lindner College of Business College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing Online College of Pharmacy Clear All Filters {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove Presidential medals honor the 'best of the best' May 26, 2022 The University of Cincinnati honors four undergraduates with the Presidential Leadership Medal of Excellence and two graduate students with the Presidential Medal of Graduate Student Excellence in the annual 2022 celebration at Cincinnati's Queen City Club. WLWT: UC finance professor encourages investors not to panic May 25, 2022 Even though the stock market has experienced extra volatility in recent weeks, investors shouldn’t panic, WLWT reported. UC names chief digital officer May 19, 2022 UC President Neville Pinto announces hiring of Bharath Prabhakaran to guide the University of Cincinnati’s digital transformation. Lindner alum dives into the dumpster business May 19, 2022 His future was set. John Hollis, BBA ’22, would join Integrity Express Logistics full-time as a freight broker once he graduated following the spring 2022 semester with a marketing degree. University of Cincinnati names graduate school dean May 10, 2022 Rose Marie Ward will serve as vice provost and dean of the Graduate School WCPO: Gas prices are a microcosm of a larger issue May 10, 2022 While President Joe Biden has the ability to affect gas prices in the long term, there’s not much he can do in the short term to lower prices, University of Cincinnati economics professor Michael Jones told WCPO. WLWT: Rising interest rates could affect adjustable rate... May 9, 2022 With interest rates rising, homeowners with an adjustable-rate mortgage need to be aware of when their rate will reset, WLWT reported. Center for Entrepreneurship links sustainability with business... May 9, 2022 Housed in the University of Cincinnati Carl H. Lindner College of Business, but with programs and organizations open to all UC students, the Center for Entrepreneurship is engaged in a multipronged effort to promote the business side of sustainability. Fast Company: Work experience is important for students May 6, 2022 Gaining work experience while in college is important to students’ future career success, Fast Company reported. WCPO: Small business owners worry about inflation May 6, 2022 Inflation is the biggest concern facing small business owners and less than half of them think their local economy will improve, WCPO reported. Retail Industry Outlook May 3, 2022 Event: May 13, 2022 7:30 AM UC Real Estate presents the last Roundtable Series event of the 2021-22 season on Friday, May 13, with a look at the current state of retail, featuring a conversation with special guest Glenn Rufrano, chairman of Innovating Commerce Serving Communities (ICSC), formerly known as International Council of Shopping Centers. Volunteer leader serves, unites fellow Bearcats-for-life April 28, 2022 Rusty Myers embodies best qualities of UC alumni family. The Power of Vision: 5 Years of Momentum April 28, 2022 The last five years rank among UC’s best. Take a look at some of our recent accomplishments and proudest moments since President G. Pinto began his term as UC’s 30th President. UC Foundation names Outstanding Philanthropic Volunteer Award... April 26, 2022 The University of Cincinnati Foundation recognized its Outstanding Philanthropic Volunteer Award honorees at the George Rieveschl Recognition Dinner in April 2022. This was the first time in two years the event has been held. UC business graduate continues to offer financial education April 26, 2022 University of Cincinnati alumnus John Eringman, who offers financial education to millions of people on TikTok, is continuing to reach new audiences. Load More Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top