Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of Education Educational Technology Main Navigation Interactive Magazine Apply Now Contact Us Become an Educational Technology Leader MS in Educational Technology The Cal State Fullerton Master's degree in Educational Technology Degree and Certificate in Educational Technology Integration are online graduate programs and a professional community committed to developing teachers and educators alike capable of transforming student lives through innovation and applied research. Consistently ranked one of the best online graduate programs and has earned the Seal of Alignment for the ISTE Coach Standards. Ready to apply? APPLy NOw for Fall 2022 For detailed information about our program, check out our interactive magazine. Need more information, contact us! Fast Facts Learn the how and why of using technology in student-centered ways to engage your students Focus on integrating technology into your classroom to help your students meet the CCSS Assignments and projects are directly applicable to your teaching context Combines Educational Technology theory and practice Program has earned the Seal of Alignment for the ISTE Coach Standards Not computer savvy? Not a problem 16-months Completely online — all our courses are online, interactive, and asynchronous Cohort-based Model — you’ll be with the same peers throughout the program Make connections with educators throughout the state, region, and other countries! Be recognized as an educational technology leader! Frequently Asked Questions What is educational technology? According to the Association of Educational Communications and Technology, “Educational technology is the study and ethical practice of facilitating learning and improving performance by creating, using, and managing appropriate technological processes and resources”. Educational Technology is more than computers and the tools (i.e., technology) that educators and students use. Educational Technology includes the pedagogy and assessments that allows educators to use technology to help their students learn and improve their performance no matter what grade level they are in and no matter what content or skill they are learning. Educational Technology, in the way we approach it in our program, is about improving student learning through best practices in instruction, assessment, and the use of computers and other digital tools and devices. What will I learn in an Educational technology program? The online educational technology program will introduce you to a wide-range of concepts and ideas that will enhance what you do as an educator. The program is a mixture of theory and practice. You will read research and theory. You will explore current trends and issues in educational technology. We will examine issues related to equity and inclusion and the use of technology. You will consider the role technology plays in your classroom and how it can be best used to meet the needs of your learners. A major goal of the program is to help you take what you learn and experience in the program and make it work for you and your students in your unique context. There are a number of specific topics and content areas that we focus on in the program. The following list includes some of these topics: Distance education and how it enhance what you do in your PK-12 classroom Problem-solving in teaching and learning and how technology fits with problem-solving Making and makerspaces Students as creators Instructional design and how it can help teachers design technology-mediated instructional experiences Design Thinking and how this can be used with students Designing and developing instructional media that can be used by your students Using the Internet for instruction Understanding digital literacy, media literacy, information and communication technologies literacy Managing student privacy and safety in a digital learning Learning theory and learner development Understanding educational research--qualitative and quantitative research Using educational research to make informed decisions that guide our practice Writing a coherent literature review Understanding curriculum design and development Best practices in professional development, informal learning, and teacher growth Writing grants and professional conference proposals Becoming a change agent who can assist other educators with effective integration of technology Developing a professional portfolio to showcase your abilities as an educator who can use technology effectively and who can help other educators do the same (based on the ISTE Coach Standards) What you may notice missing from the list is specific educational technology tools. Although you will use and see different educational technology tools used throughout the online program, we do not specifically teach you how to use tools. We are more interested in you learning about best practices, the research, and the theory about using educational technology rather than focusing on specific tools. As you know, technology tools change rapidly. And, the tools you have available to use in your teaching environment may be different than what we use. We want you to pick the tools that work best for you and your students. Again, you will certainly use a wide-variety of technology tools and be introduced to many different ones. What can I do with a graduate degree in Educational Technology? A graduate degree in Educational Technology will first and foremost help you enhance what you do as an educator. Earning a graduate degree in Educational Technology from California State University, Fullerton will provide you with knowledge and skills that will transform your teaching and the learning of your students. Graduates from our program have remained as elementary, middle school, and high school teachers. Others have moved into leadership positions in their school, school district, and at the county level. Some have become technology facilitators or technology leads in their school. Others have become digital learning coaches, teachers on special assignment (TOSA), district technology coordinators, and county-level district technology coordinators.We have alumni who work in higher education as technology support specialists, instructional designers, and faculty. Several of our alumni have gone on to work for non-profit organizations focusing on educational technology. Finally, we have graduates who have gone on to doctoral programs (e.g., California State University Fullerton, California State University Bakersfield, Johns Hopkins University, University of Redlands, University of Southern California). These students have indicated that they were extremely well prepared for doctoral level work. A Masters in Educational Technology will position you well for a wide-range of opportunities in teaching. How long does it take to complete the online program? Can I go at a slower rate? The Master's in Educational Technology program is completed in three semesters and a summer. You'll take the following courses all online: First Semester Second Semester Summer Final Semester EDEL 511 Survey of Educational Research (full 16 weeks) EDEL 523 Issues and Trends in Distance Education (1st 8 weeks) EDEL 515 Problem Solving and Technology in Schools (2nd 8 weeks) EDEL 529 Learning Theory (full 16 weeks) EDEL 518A Issues in Instructional Design of Software for Use in Schools (1st 8 weeks) EDEL 518B Multimedia Development and Instruction in the Classroom (2nd 8 weeks) EDEL 522 Web Design and Instruction in Schools (1st 5 weeks) EDEL 536 Curriculum Theory and Development (2nd 5 weeks) EDEL 590 Technology Professional Development in Schools (16 weeks) EDEL 594 Final Project (16 weeks) If you wish to take a slower path for completion, a potential schedule could be: First Semester Second Semester Summer Third Semester Summer Final Semester EDEL 523 Issues and Trends in Distance Education (1st 8 weeks) EDEL 515 Problem Solving and Technology in Schools (2nd 8 weeks) EDEL 511 Survey of Educational Research (full 16 weeks) EDEL 529 Learning Theory (full 16 weeks) EDEL 522 Web Design and Instruction in Schools (1st 5 weeks) EDEL 536 Curriculum Theory and Development (2nd 5 weeks) *Can take one or both EDEL 518A Issues in Instructional Design of Software for Use in Schools (1st 8 weeks) EDEL 518B Multimedia Development and Instruction in the Classroom (2nd 8 weeks) EDEL 522 Web Design and Instruction in Schools (1st 5 weeks) EDEL 536 Curriculum Theory and Development (2nd 5 weeks) *Can take one or both EDEL 590 Technology Professional Development in Schools (16 weeks) EDEL 594 Final Project (16 weeks) Or Consider the Graduate Certificate in Educational Technology Integration This certificate is ideal for those that already have a Masters but still want to up your skills with effectively integrating technology in student-centered ways. To earn this certificate in Educational Technology Integration, you may chose 4 of these 5 courses: EDEL 514 Technology Across the Curriculum (not currently offered) EDEL 515 Problem Solving and Technology in Schools (typically offered Fall and Spring) EDEL 522 Web Design and Instruction in Schools (typically offered Summer) EDEL 523 Issues and Trends in Distance Education (typically offered Fall and Spring) EDEL 590 Technology Professional Development in Schools (typically offered Fall and Spring) You have the option of taking two additional courses. EDEL 518A Issues in Instructional Design of Software for Use in Schools (typically offered Fall and Spring) EDEL 518B Multimedia Development and Instruction in the Classroom (typically offered Fall and Spring) If you’d like more information about the Graduate Certificate, please contact us. You go through the application process for the Graduate Certificate in order to apply. PLEASE NOTE- FINANCIAL AID IS NOT AVAILABLE FOR THE GRADUATE CERTIFICATE IN TECHNOLOGY INTEGRATION Do I need to be a classroom teacher? You do not need to be a PK-12 teacher. You do, however, need teaching experience. It is necessary for you to have access to students and a classroom that you can work in to implement what you are learning and experiencing in the program. We encourage you to talk with us if you are not a PK-12 teacher or if you have what you believe is a unique situation. Contact Dr. Loretta Donovan to discuss your situation. Dr. Loretta Donovan What is the cost to attend and how does it compare to other programs? Cost of Attendance Not only is our program consistently ranked as one of the best online graduate programs, it is extremely cost effective. It is consistently one of the least expensive Masters in Educational Technology. CSUF (link to per semester breakdown) Grand Canyon Concordia Biola National University USC Approximately $14,500 Tuition, fees, & books Approximately $16,500 Tuition only Approximately $17,500 Tuition & fees only Approximately $19,700 Tuition only Approximately $21,000 Tuition only Approximately $70,000 Tuition & fees only Finacial Aid Information Visit Student Buisness Services. for information on fees, payments, and financial aid (where you can apply for FAFSA). Please Note: Financial aid is not available for the Graduate Certificate in Technology Integration. Scholarship Information For more information on unviersity scholarships and grants are offered through financial aid . For scholarships and grants specific to the College of Education see this document for specific scholarships. Can you tell me about learning online and the classroom experience? The Educational Technology program at California State University Fullerton provides a rich and innovative online learning experience for students. Students learn in an engaging, highly interactive learning distance education environment that connects you with classmates and faculty through online small-group discussions, and through communication tools like Zoom, Google Meet, Flipgrid, Twitter, and more. This means you're not tackling a rigorous, online master's program on your own. Learning occurs through exploring course content through various media. You learn from faculty who are both experts in educational technology, teaching and learning, and in teaching online. Our faculty have experience teaching in PK-12 through higher education. This translates into well-designed courses – a blend of theory and research – with real-world application. Research, projects, and coursework address important educational issues. What you learn today, you can incorporate into your classroom tomorrow. In our cohort-based program, you get to know your peers by taking classes together in a scheduled sequence. Our students value this approach because it facilitates problem-solving and sharing professional knowledge they can bring to their own classrooms. You can expect personalized attention and support throughout the program. Interactive features enhance access to instructors when you need assistance. Our students say that's unmatched by anything a traditional classroom offers. Our online graduate program is highly collaborative by design. Learning and working with professional peers enhances your learning experience. You also establish valuable networks that last well beyond the program. We have a vibrant alumni community that provides opportunities for on-going collaboration and support. Download and share one of our flyers What do our students say? Link to accessible transcript This site is maintained by Educational Technology. Last Published 5/15/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact COETech@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled. This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.