Emergency Notification: COVID-19 Visit the Health Advisories website for the latest updates, FAQs, vaccination information, and to Report a Case. Skip to main content San José State University Menu Visit Campus Tours Maps Parking Silicon Valley Hammer Theatre SJSU Loves SJ Academics Colleges and Departments Majors and Programs Centers and Institutes Academic Calendar Classes King Library Admissions Tuition and Fees Housing Professional Education Parent and Family Programs Campus Life Health and Wellness Safety SJSU Cares Events Traditions Student Alumni Connection Research and Innovation Office of Research SJSU Research Foundation Student-Faculty Collaborations Become a Research Partner About Administration and Leadership Facts and Accomplishments Partnerships Transformation Defined SJSU on Facebook SJSU on Twitter SJSU on LinkedIn SJSU on Instagram SJSU on YouTube Athletics Alumni Association Giving to SJSU Canvas one.SJSU Search University Menu .Go toSJSU homepage. Visit Campus Tours Maps Parking Silicon Valley Hammer Theatre SJSU Loves SJ Academics Colleges and Departments Majors and Programs Centers and Institutes Academic Calendar Classes King Library Admissions Tuition and Fees Housing Professional Education Parents and Family Programs Campus Life Health and Wellness Safety SJSU Cares Events Traditions Student Alumni Connection Research and Innovation Office of Research SJSU Research Foundation Student-Faculty Collaborations Become a Research Partner Athletics About Administration and Leadership Facts and Accomplishments Partnerships Transformation Defined Home Academics Academics Academics Teaching, Research, Collaboration With a breadth of academic programs, research and applied learning, San Jose State is perfectly positioned to examine essential questions facing our community and our world. Growing San Jose State’s research and innovation environment allows the university to adapt to and set the pace of change. Explore SJSU Academics Colleges and Departments Each college houses schools, departments and programs specific to its area, creating a rich variety of offerings for our students and the community. Majors and Programs Consistently ranked as one of the West’s top public universities offering bachelor’s and master’s degrees, San Jose State provides a wide range of undergraduate, graduate and doctoral programs that promote intellectual inquiry and independent thought. Classes San Jose State offers thousands of courses each year. As a result, finding the classes you need to take on your path to academic success requires planning. Advising Mutiple resources are available to help students through the academic journey at San Jose State. Registration When can you register for classes? When is the last day to drop a class? The Registrar’s Office will provide you with important dates and information about registering for your classes. Academic Calendar Find out about important academic deadlines and dates. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Library With its impressive collections of books and digital resources, technology and services that encourage the discovery and creation of knowledge, King Library supports students and faculty members through the entire research cycle, from the formulation of topics, thesis statement or hypotheses, to the publication and dissemination of the results and conclusions. Regardless of major, students who meet and work with a librarian are more successful. Accreditation San Jose State is accredited by the Accrediting Commission for Senior Colleges and Universities of the Western Association of Schools and Colleges. Various college programs are accredited by specialized accrediting agencies. Research Creating Dynamic Student Experiences One of the top 200 research universities in the nation, San Jose State offers rigorous course work and research opportunities to undergraduate and graduate students, who work side by side with faculty members at the forefront of their fields. Learn about SJSU's Commitment to Research Collaboration Centers and Institutes By intentionally blurring the lines between and among disciplines, San Jose State ignites curiosity and fosters innovation among students, faculty members, industry partners and future employers. Partnerships San Jose State is engaged with the city of San Jose, Silicon Valley industries, municipalities and civic organizations to enhance educational research, and economic and community development opportunities. Footer San José State University SJSU on Facebook SJSU on Twitter SJSU on LinkedIn SJSU on Instagram SJSU on YouTube One Washington Square San José, CA 95192 408-924-1000 Accessibility Title IX Diversity Land Acknowledgement Privacy Colleges Business Education Engineering Graduate Studies Health and Human Sciences Humanities and the Arts Professional and Global Education Science Social Science Resources A-Z Index Annual Security Report [pdf] Bookstore Calendars Careers and Jobs Catalog Current Students Emergency Food & Housing King Library Parking and Maps Contact Us Contact Form Directory Doing Business with SJSU Emergency Info Report a Web Problem Report a Title IX Complaint Last Updated Aug 13, 2021