Skip to main content Search form Search Search Toggle navigation About Equity & Diversity Advisory Council Contact Giving Join Email List Log In Academic Programs Undergraduate Prospective Students Pre-Princeton Undergraduate Overview Performance Programs Royal College of Music Program Current Students Certificate Programs Jazz at Princeton University Majoring in Music Royal College of Music Program Graduate: Composition Prospective Students Current Students Graduate: Musicology Prospective Students Current Students Performance & Community Performance Programs Certificates in Performance Departmental Ensembles Jazz at Princeton University Studio Lessons Masterclasses & Competitions Royal College of Music Program Peking Opera Immersion Program (Summer) Imola Piano Academy Exchange Public Performances Calendar of Events Departmental Ensembles Princeton Sound Kitchen Richardson Chamber Players Princeton University Concerts Edward T. Cone Performers-in-Residence: Sō Percussion Trenton Arts at Princeton People News & Events News Calendar of Events Resources Courses Funding Live Streams Mendel Music Library Opera Draw & Student Tickets PRACTICE ROOMS, LOCKERS, & INSTRUMENTS Photos & Videos Printing Services Sharepoint Toggle navigation Academic Programs Undergraduate Prospective Students Pre-Princeton Undergraduate Overview Performance Programs Royal College of Music Program Current Students Certificate Programs Jazz at Princeton University Majoring in Music Royal College of Music Program Graduate: Composition Prospective Students Current Students Graduate: Musicology Prospective Students Current Students Performance & Community Performance Programs Certificates in Performance Departmental Ensembles Jazz at Princeton University Studio Lessons Masterclasses & Competitions Royal College of Music Program Peking Opera Immersion Program (Summer) Imola Piano Academy Exchange Public Performances Calendar of Events Departmental Ensembles Princeton Sound Kitchen Richardson Chamber Players Princeton University Concerts Edward T. Cone Performers-in-Residence: Sō Percussion Trenton Arts at Princeton People News & Events Calendar of Events News Resources Courses Funding Live Streams Mendel Music Library Opera Draw & Student Tickets PRACTICE ROOMS, LOCKERS, & INSTRUMENTS Photos & Videos Printing Services Sharepoint About Equity & Diversity Advisory Council Contact Giving Join Email List Log In Home Certificate in Jazz Studies Certificate in Music Performance Program in Jazz Lessons Ensembles Immerse yourself in the vast musical and social history of jazz, establish a strong theoretical and stylistic foundation with regard to improvisation and composition, and emphasize the development of individual expression and creativity. Offerings of this program include academic course work, performing ensembles, master classes, private study, and independent projects. We strongly encourage students to pursue the Certificate Program in Jazz Studies to broaden their understanding of this music and its contribution to global culture. Students passionate about jazz performance are also welcome to pursue the Certificate in Music Performance in their major instrument, while engaging in the rich offerings of the Program in Jazz. Certificate requirements To qualify for a Certificate in Jazz Studies, students are required to complete four related courses, participate in one of the Department’s faculty-led jazz ensembles, and perform a recital. Required Courses 1) One course in Jazz History: MUS 262/AAS 262 | 2) One course in Jazz Theory/Composition: MUS 311/312. (Other courses with the program director's approval). 3) One course in Jazz Performance: MUS 215. 4) One course in Historical/Cultural Context: including non-music programs such as African American Studies, American Studies, English, History, and Sociology, as permitted by the program director. Jazz Recital A recital must be performed in the senior year for completion of the Certificate in Jazz Studies. For more information on recital procedures and requirements, please see this document. For more information, please contact the Program Director. Jazz Ensemble participation is required in both junior and senior years through the Creative Large Ensemble, or one of the Small Groups and jazz vocal ensembles. For more information, please click here. Studio Instruction Private lessons in jazz performance are available from a superb performance faculty. For more information, please click here. Applying to the Certificate in Jazz Studies Program The Program in Jazz Studies is open to juniors and seniors who have the appropriate background, and who are committed to studying the performance practices and rich cultural legacy of jazz. Admission to the program will be by application. The number of students in the program will be limited by available resources. Although enrollment is restricted to juniors and seniors, students may begin taking courses that count toward certificate requirements in their freshman year. For further information, please contact the Program in Jazz Director. blue Featured Faculty/Staff - Rudresh Mahanthappa - Anthony H.P. Lee '79 Director of Jazz rudreshm@princeton.edu | (609) 258-2219 The Anthony H. P. Lee '79 Director of Jazz at Princeton University, Mahanthappa is an award winning alto saxophonist/composer who is widely known as one of the premier voices in jazz of the 21st century. MORE INFO © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Woolworth Center of Music Studies Administrative Office 310 Princeton, NJ 08544-1007 Telephone: (609) 258-4241 Fax: (609) 258-6793 Last Updated: Jun 18, 2018, 2:52 PM