Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu FOCUS Act Press Releases FAQs Transition Team Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact PreviousNext Take Action Frequently Asked Questions Transition Team UofM Board of Trustees Timeline Home FOCUS Act FOCUS Act Dear Campus Community: As you are aware, the Focus on College and University Success (FOCUS) legislation has been finalized. The law allows for an independent governing board at the University of Memphis and other TBR member universities. The legislation enables the Tennessee Board of Regents (TBR) to maintain a "sharpened focus" on the state's community and technical colleges, increases autonomy and local control for TBR universities, and strengthens the Tennessee Higher Education Commission. The legislation includes a restructuring of the Tennessee Board of Regents, which establishes local governing boards for the six universities currently under the oversight of TBR allowing the University of Memphis to establish its own governing board in 2017. We welcome the autonomy that the FOCUS Act will provide the University of Memphis. A transition taskforce has been formed to facilitate the move to an independent governing board and is co-chaired by Melanie Murry, our general counsel, and David Zettergren, vice president for business and finance. The taskforce is addressing policy and related administrative issues and is serving in an advisory capacity. See a listing of members of the Taskforce via a link at the left. I am proud to have the opportunity to serve with all of you. As we prepare for the transition to independent governing boards with the FOCUS Act, we will continue to focus on the reasons we're here – student success, knowledge creation, research innovation and community service. M. David Rudd | President Official Documentation of FOCUS Act Tennessee General Assembly Webpage Version (includes up-to-date bill history, amendments and summary) To access the bill text, click on "HB 2578" on the left hand side of the page. Amendments to the bill proposed by subcommittees can be accessed by selecting the "Amendments" tab. Information from the Office of the Governor <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> 2016 Legislation: Focus On College and University Success (FOCUS) Act Have a question about the FOCUS Act? If you see this don't fill out this input box. My Question* Full Name Email Submit Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/1/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.