Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Division of Administration and Finance Administration and Finance right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow Leadership Units Policies Business right arrow down arrow Business Core Systems right arrow down arrow Catalyst UC Flex Community Development Travel Resources right arrow down arrow Concur Travel and Expense Management Concur Training right arrow down arrow Concur FAQs Best Practice Guide Training Guides and Videos Concur SSO Login Travel Resources Contacts Policy and Travel Tools Travel Cancellation Guidance Concur Guest Account Login Environmental Health & Safety right arrow down arrow Waste Management Training right arrow down arrow Advanced Laboratory Safety Training Animal Care Safety Training Defensive Driving Training Facilities Mgmt/Construction Training Laboratory Compliance Training Principal Investigators Training Orientation & Informational Courses Emergency Procedures right arrow down arrow Work-related Injuries & Illnesses Lab Safety Resources & Documents right arrow down arrow Advisories Additional Information Frequently Asked Questions Our Mission right arrow down arrow Laboratory Safety with an Attitude Programs right arrow down arrow Occupational Safety right arrow down arrow IACUC Information Hazardous Materials Management Environmental Engineering right arrow down arrow Pollution Control Asbestos/Lead Abatement Industrial Hygiene Health & Safety Administration Contact Us Facilities Management right arrow down arrow Departments right arrow down arrow Central Receiving Grounds Housekeeping Mail Services Maintenance & Operations Moving Services Project Services Transportation Services right arrow down arrow Shuttle Services UC*Metro Program Charters and Rentals Utilities right arrow down arrow Utilities: Production Utilities: Distribution Dashboards Energy Conservation Recycling @ UC COVID-19 Information right arrow down arrow Cleaning right arrow down arrow Classroom Cleaning Office Cleaning Hand Sanitizer Stations Specialized Cleaning Tools Physical Space right arrow down arrow HVAC - Indoor Air Quality Sneeze Guard Request Process Safe Work Environment and Wellness Resources Contact Us right arrow down arrow Service Requests Join Our Team Announcements Finance right arrow down arrow Vice President for Finance Office of the Controller right arrow down arrow Accounting & Reporting Accounts Payable right arrow down arrow Vendor Form Information Purchasing & Non-Purchasing Information Asset Management Capital Finance Payroll Operations right arrow down arrow Employee Self Service (ESS) for Former Employees Payroll Calendars Stop Payment Request Form W-2 Information Office of the Treasurer right arrow down arrow Debt Management Investment Operations Tax Compliance Treasury Operations Budget Management Investment Office right arrow down arrow Endowment Impact Stories Contact Us right arrow down arrow Karl Scheer | Chief Investment Officer Sam Ekis | Investment Director Tony Caccomo | Senior Investment Analyst Doreen Clark | Investment Operations Administrator Investment Intern Program History Planning + Design + Construction right arrow down arrow Maps and Space Management right arrow down arrow Scheduling Events at the Reading Campus 2021 Intermediate Space Survey User Guide Sustainability right arrow down arrow Get Involved right arrow down arrow Committees & Organizations Events & Programming Environmental Literacy Campus Initiatives right arrow down arrow Built Environment Energy Food Landscape Transportation Water Management Waste Diversion Purchasing Carbon Inventory & Climate Action Plan Links & Resources right arrow down arrow On-Campus Resources Off-Campus Resources Tools & Guides Partners In The News Naming right arrow down arrow General Criteria Monetary Guidelines Design Standards Naming Committee Naming Request Form Vendor Information Purchasing right arrow down arrow Purchasing Contacts Information for Suppliers Contract Compliance Supplier Diversity Home » About UC » Admin & Finance » Planning + Design + Construction » Sustainability » Campus Initiatives » Landscape Set Navigation title in component Get Involved Committees & Organizations Events & Programming Events Calendar Residence Hall Conservation Challenge Uptown Waste Diversion Environmental Literacy Campus Initiatives Built Environment Energy Food Landscape Transportation Bearcat Bike Share Bike Kitchen Zipcar Water Management Waste Diversion Purchasing Carbon Inventory & Climate Action Plan Links & Resources On-Campus Resources Off-Campus Resources Tools & Guides Partners In The News Landscape Overview The University of Cincinnati Uptown Campus has undergone major changes over the past decade, including the conversion of dozens of acres of surface parking and concrete into welcoming landscapes. UC istrives to incorporate more greenspace, more trees, and more sustainable landscape maintenance processes. A summary of these programs and processes can be found in the Landscape Guide. Some initiatives include the UC Garden and Stormwater Management. Soiled Hands Learning Garden 3310 Ruther Avenue, Clifton History The Soiled Hands Learning Garden is a collaboration between the UC Office of Sustainability and Empower Learn Create. Its mission is to engage students of all ages in experiential environmental education, foster interest in gardening and sustainable land use, and build community, all while inspiring deeper connections with nature. The Empower Learn Create Children's Garden was founded in 2005 as a collaboration between the Center and the Civic Garden Center of Greater Cincinnati. Empower Learn Creat provides daycare for UC faculty and staff as well as community members, for children 3 months to 5 years. The garden was created to provide hands-on nature education for the children. In 2010, UC students, faculty, and the Office of Sustainability developed a new collaboration with Empower Learn Create to expand and improve the Children's Garden so that it could become a more active environmental education opportunity for both the daycare children and UC students. In October 2010, a charrette was held and UC students, faculty, and staff worked with children, parents, and staff from Empower Learn Create to learn about urban agriculture and organic gardening and then create a vision for what the garden could become. Several work days in Autumn and Winter terms drew dozens of volunteers who helped build raised beds out of reclaimed ash wood, create a path and planting mounds, clear the site, and plant a small orchard. The 5000 sq. ft. space is now a place on the Uptown Campus that allows UC students to have hands-on experience with urban agriculture. Several student groups and class projects have become a part of this exciting project. For more information or to volunteer, please email us. Present Day Since the Fall of 2016, the UC Garden has undergone a revitalization with the Offfice of Sustainability working to maximize the potential of the space. The Office has adopted a more holistic, permaculture based approach to the deisgn, maintenance, and utility of the space by working with, rather than against nature through using companion planting, planting a variety of bioregionally appropriate edible perennials, working to create pollinator pockets, and harvesting water from the tool shed. The Office of Sustainability is increasingly being more programatic with the space through organizing educational workshops and community building work days. Bearcat Food Pantry Beginning in the Spring of 2018, fresh food from the Soiled Hands Learning Garden is donated directly to the Bearcat Food Pantry. Recognizing it's role in the community, UC Sustainability strives to ensure access to food for every person. We hope to do so through this partnership with the Bearcat Food Pantry. Learn more about the pantry and how to donate. Plant Pollinators In 2019, the UC Soiled Hands Learning Garden and a section of UC's Victory Parkway Campus registered with the Cincinnati Zoo as a partner for Plant for Pollinators. We are committed to providing vital habitat for pollinators by adding pollinator-friendly plants to our garden. Learn more about Plant for Pollinators. Green Infrastructure Green Roofs Currently, the University has two extensive green roofs, one on the DAA addition of the DAAP complex and one on Procter Hall. The University also has the Zimmer Hall Roof Garden that functions as a green roof. The new College of Business features an intensive green roof. In addition to reducing the amount of stormwater runoff and lessening the probability of combined sewer overflow events, green roofs are multi-functional as they reduce the urban heat island effect, provide habitat, enhance biodiversity, reduce heating and cooling costs of buildings, and add aesthetic, rejuvenating, and biopihlic qualities. Living Wall In December of 2018, the University installed its first living wall, located on the Langsam Library patio. Living Walls are a form of green infrastructure that provide multi-functional benefits, as they work to reduce the urban heat island effect, cleanse the air of pollutants, provide enhanced insulation to buildings, reduce stormwater runoff, and provide aesthetic beauty and biophilic connections to nature. The living wall came to fruition thanks to the advocacy and interest of passionate students and with the help of UC Libraries, Urban Blooms, the Department of Planning + Design + Construction, and the Office of Sustainability. Bioswales Bioswales are a form of green infrastructure that work to sequester and retain stormwater in order to reduce the possibility of combined sewer overflow events, assist with irrigation, filter out contaminants, and keep water on site. The University has a number of bioswales, most notably the Teachers-Dyer Complex courtyard, the west elevation of the Lindner College of Business and in the parking lot of the 1819 Innovation Hub. UC Clermont College also features green infrastructure where stormwater is funneled from various surface parking lots through bioswales and piped to vegetated beds and step ponds. Division of Administration and Finance University Pavilion, Suite 630 2618 McMicken Circle PO Box 210620 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0620 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Division of Administration and Finance University Pavilion, Suite 630 2618 McMicken Circle PO Box 210620 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0620 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top