Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Okta Outlook More Sign Ons... Iowa State University Graduate College Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Application Programs Contact Mission Prospective Application Application for Nondegree Application Fee / Waivers Available Programs Connect With Us Frequently Asked Questions Request more information Funding International Students International Instructions English Requirements University Resources Current Students Academic Awards & Events Academic Information Events & Deadlines Graduate College Handbook Graduation New Student Orientation New Student Checklist Program Handbooks Program of Study / Committee Theses & Dissertations You and Your Major Professor Funding Professional Development Career Services Center for Communication Excellence Graduate & Professional Student Senate Student Forms Student Tools University Resources Faculty and Staff Academic Awards & Events Academic Information Events & Deadlines Graduate Program Review Graduate College Handbook Mentoring & Advising Online & Paper Forms Funding Graduate Tools Program Contacts (DOGE List) Program Handbooks Postdoctoral Getting Started Postdoctoral Scholar Resources Principal Investigator Resources Academic Awards Benefits Policies Postdoctoral Appointments Postdoctoral Association Postdoctoral Contact People (PCP) Professional Development Career Services Center for Communication Excellence Grant Writing Diversity Faculty Funding Recruiting Practices Mentoring Student George Jackson Symposium McNair Student Associations Frequently Asked Questions Home > Prospective Students > Connect With Us > Frequently Asked Questions We appreciate your interest and application to the Iowa State University Graduate College. Your application is sent to the graduate programs upon submission and will remain with the program until they recommend who they would like to recruit into their graduate major. Any questions about your application status and admission requirements can be directed to the graduate program in which you applied. The admissions contacts/counselors can be found here. They can help you throughout the entire admissions process. Again, thank you for your interest in Iowa State University. Application Process 1. Who’s the best person for me to talk to about my interest? You may contact the application contact or the director of graduate education (DOGE) for your program of interest or feel free to contact an individual member of our faculty with whom you share research interest. The application contact or the DOGE will be listed on each program page. 2. Is it okay to contact a professor directly about my graduate interest? Yes, it is perfectly okay. It is encouraged to notify your program of interest if you are in direct communication with faculty so that the program can support you in your questions. 3. I have already been a graduate student at ISU. How do I reenter or apply to another graduate program? You should not submit a new application. Please submit a status change form through the Graduate College. 4. How do I check on the status of my application? You can find the status of your application by returning to your application and going to the Activity Page. 5. How do I add updated documents to my application? Log back into your application account. Choose Manage Documents. You can upload additional documents. You cannot remove any previously loaded documents. 6. Can I apply to more than one graduate program? Yes, however, you must pay the fee for each application. 7. If I apply to more than one program, will three letters of recommendation be sufficient? Yes. Only three letters are required regardless of the number of applications you submit. Application Requirements 8. Do I have to take the GRE? There is no university-wide requirement that applicants submit Graduate Record Exam (GRE) or the Graduate Management Admissions Test (GMAT). Each program sets its own guidelines. Please review the program page to know if your program of interest requires the exam. 9. How well do I need to score on the GRE? Most programs do not enforce strict cut-off scores. Rather, they review an applicant’s complete application package and credentials before making a decision. The GRE Institution Code is 6306. 10. Why have my recommenders not received an email with the recommendation request? The emails are not sent to recommenders until the application is submitted and the fee paid. If they have still not received the email, you can resend the email by managing your Letters of Recommendation. Double check to be sure the email address you listed for them is correct. They should check their spam/junk mail if they have not received the email. 11. How do I manage my recommenders? Log back into your application account. In the manage documents section, you can delete and add recommenders, update email addresses, and resend emails to recommenders. There are more instructions on how to manage your Letters of Recommendation (LOR) in the application instructions. 12. I did not waive my right to view my letters of recommendation. My recommender will not submit a recommendation unless I waive my right. Can I change this? You can write a separate email to the graduate program to which you have applied (and copy your recommenders) telling them that you have changed your mind and now waive your right. Do not send your LOR by email to the Office of Admissions. They should all be added to your file with the online system. Your reference can complete the Letter of Recommendation (LOR) and send it to the grad_college@iastate.edu to be added to your application file. We are sorry, but this cannot be changed in the online system. Admission Requirements 13. Does Iowa State have an application deadline? Our various academic programs have different deadlines as well as requirements for supplemental information. Please review the important program specific instructions located on each program page. 14. Does Iowa State have a GPA cutoff? The Graduate College expects a cumulative GPA of at least 3.00 on a 4.00 scale from an applicant’s undergraduate degree program, but we view applications holistically, and other qualifications may support admission. To determine your unique eligibility for admission, please contact your graduate program of interest. 15. What are the English Proficiency requirements? For the purpose of applying to Iowa State, English may be considered your primary language if you have been raised in an environment where English is the only official language of your locality and nation, and English is the language used in your home. If your primary language is not English, you must meet the university’s English proficiency requirement in one of the following ways: Earn a bachelor’s or higher degree from a country where English is the only official language. Submit official results from one of the following exams. The minimum requirements of both the Graduate College and the graduate program to which you are applying must be met. The minimum scores accepted by the Graduate College are: Internet Based TOEFL (iBT) 79 Official TOEFL exam results must be sent directly from the Educational Testing Service to Iowa State electronically. Our School Code is 6306 IELTS 6.5 The IELTS testing agency should send electronically, or mail official results to the Office of Admissions, Iowa State University, 100 Enrollment Services Center, Ames, IA 50011-2011. Pearson Test of English (PTE) 53 DuoLingo English Test 105 (only approved through spring 2023 semester) Have results sent electronically directly to Iowa State University-All Graduate programs 16. If I graduate from a college or university in Puerto Rico, am I required to take an English proficiency exam? Yes. If English is not your primary language, you must meet the university’s English proficiency requirement. 17. Are official exam scores required? Applications can be reviewed with unofficial scores. Students should upload copies of exam results to their application for the university to use when matching official scores to the student’s file. Official scores should be supplied by the examination source. The GRE is not required by the Graduate College, however, the graduate program may request the official GRE scores. Please reference the application instructions for more information. GRE scores and TOEFL Scores should be sent by ETS directly to Iowa State University. Our institution code is 6306. IELTS results should be sent by mail to: Graduate Admissions 100 Enrollment Services Center 2433 Union Drive Ames, IA 50011-2042 Duolingo scores should be sent electronically, directly from Duolingo, to Iowa State. Fees and Costs 18. Do you waive application fees? The only fee waivers offered are to McNair Scholars. U.S. military veterans will have their application fee deferred until they enroll. Otherwise, application vouchers/waivers only come from the program to which you are applying. Please find your desired program and contact the staff listed on the program page. To receive the fee waiver as a McNair Scholar, check the McNair box on the application and forward an official document from your McNair director/staff confirming your participation to grad_college@iastate.edu. 19. Do you offer fee waivers for McNair scholars? If so, what do I need to do to receive a waiver? Yes. If you are a current or past participant in a Ronald E. McNair Postbaccalaureate Achievement Program as an undergraduate, you should check YES to the question on the application asking if you are a McNair Scholar. Ask your director or other staff to submit the appropriate document affirming your participation to grad_college@iastate.edu. 20. Am I required to complete a FAFSA to receive an assistantship? No. Funding for tuition and for graduate assistantships is based on merit rather than need. Admitted Student 21. How do I accept my admission package? Am I required to pay an acceptance fee? Graduate students do not accept their offer through AccessPlus or pay an acceptance fee. Graduate students should inform the program offering them admission their intent to enroll at Iowa State University by email. 22. What official academic records are required by the Office of Admissions? Please visit the Office of Admissions website. 23. Is graduate student or family housing available on campus? Yes. Please visit the Department of Residence website. 24. If I am not a resident of Iowa, will my tuition be assessed as out-of-state? Graduate students with an approved graduate assistantship (GA) are eligible for tuition assessment equivalent to the in-state rate. An assistantship appointment provides a percentage of tuition as payment toward the university bill. An appointment does not guarantee payment any part of the student’s fees. A student is responsible for their fees regardless of assistantship. Residency does not change as a result of an appointment 25. What’s an average course load for graduate students? From 9 to 11 credits per semseter is common. 26. What is the graduate student enrollment? Please refer to the Office of Institutional Research for up-to-date enrollment data. 27. What is the population of Ames? Approximately 65,000. Population data as well as other pertinent information can be found on the City of Ames website. 28. Are graduate students on assistantship paid monthly or every two weeks? Graduate students are paid the last working day of the month. 29. Will I be responsible for paying mandatory fees each semester? Yes, unless they are covered by other sources such as an internal or external fellowship or scholarship. 30. What are Iowa State’s mandatory fees for graduate students? Mandatory fees for most majors are: activity, services, building & recreation fee; health facility fee; health fee; technology fee. For more tuition and fees information, visit the Office of the Registrar. 31. Do graduate students receive health insurance? If you hold an assistantship, you are automatically enrolled in the Self Only medical insurance plan. More questions? See the Graduate College Handbook! ➤ Graduate College 1137 Pearson Hall 505 Morrill Rd Ames, IA 50011 grad_college@iastate.edu 515-294-4531 phone Facebook Twitter Linkedin Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Loading...