Skip to main content Restrict my search to Blackboard Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Blackboard Learn Blackboard Learn Student Help Blackboard Java Issues Test-taking Best Practices Student Tutorials for Blackboard Student Online Support Form Mac PDF Issues Respondus Lockdown Browser Faculty Help Start of Semester Procedures End of Semester Procedures UH Blackboard Support New Blackboard Users UH Home Blackboard Blackboard Student Help Faculty Help UH Blackboard Support New Blackboard Users Welcome to UH Blackboard (Bb Learn) BAC Monitor Bb Learn unavailable Fridays, 2 am - 6 am. Bb Learn weekly maintenance window is now Friday mornings from 2am - 6am. During these 4 hours you will not be able to log into Bb Learn. We apologize for the inconvenience. Log in at AccessUH to access Blackboard and many other UH systems with a single log in. LOG IN HELP What's my Bb Learn User Name? Your user name is your CougarNet ID. Your password is your CougarNet password. Find out more about UH CougarNet Accounts. CougarNet passwords expire every 180 days. Forgot your CougarNet password? Request a password reset for your CougarNet account. Allow 10-15 minutes for a password reset to take effect. If you fail to log in successfully after multiple attempts, you will be locked out of the account for 5 minutes. Wait 5 minutes before you try again. Resetting your password will NOT restart the lockout period. If using Respondus Lockdown Browser for a Blackboard quiz or homework, you cannot use AccessUH. You have to log in directly to Blackboard Learn by going to https://elearning.uh.edu or clicking on the white Blackboard Learn button above. New Bb Learn Users STUDENTS - Trouble accessing your Bb Learn course? Not all courses use Bb Learn. Your instructor decides if and when to make a course available. Check with your instructor or check the Bb Learn Course Finder to see if your course uses Bb Learn. Bb Learn and myUH (PeopleSoft) are separate systems with different usernames and passwords. However, you can log in at AccessUH to access both systems with a single log in. For more information on Bb Learn, see Bb Learn Help for Students For supported browsers, see Browser Support for Q4 2016 Service Pack of Bb Learn. If you registered today in myUH (PeopleSoft), allow 12-24 hours to see your course in Bb Learn and another day to see the Bb Learn icon in AccessUH. If myUH (PeopleSoft) shows you are not enrolled in a course, you will not see the course in Bb Learn. Check your enrollment status in myUH (PeopleSoft) at https://myuh.uh.edu or via AccessUH. Don't miss a payment deadline! See http://www.uh.edu/financial/payment/ for payment information including important enrollment dates and deadlines. Some courses contain publisher-created content for which an additional fee may be charged. WARNING - Phishing emails from blackboard.com Some UH users have received emails that appear to be from blackboard.com with subjects, such as “New Course Form.” These are phishing emails. They are not from UH or from Blackboard. Do NOT click the link in the email. For more information, see the UH Information Technology site on Spam and Phishing emails. Other problems or questions? Go to Student Help. FACULTY - Get more information on Bb Learn Faculty Help Faculty and Departmental Instructional Support (FDIS) Instructional Designers by College For more information and Frequently Asked Questions on Blackboard Learn, see Bb Learn Help for Instructors University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies