Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Department of Sociology Home News People Programs Courses Undergraduate Programs Ph.D. Program Funding Ph.D. Year by Year Awards Student Resources Student Publications Student Placements Master's in Social Analysis and Research 5th-Year MSAR Apply Now On The Market Colloquia Diversity & Inclusion Apply Now Site Navigation Home News People Faculty Office and TA Lab Hours Ph.D. Students Master's Students Staff Programs Courses Undergraduate Programs A.B. in Sociology Sc.B. in Social Analysis and Research Organizational Studies Track (S/OS) Honors Transfer Credit Department Undergraduate Group (DUG) Ph.D. Program Funding Ph.D. Year by Year Awards Student Resources Student Publications Student Placements Master's in Social Analysis and Research Student Placements 5th-Year MSAR Apply Now On The Market Colloquia Diversity & Inclusion Apply Now Applications FAQ The Ph.D. Year by Year First Year of Graduate Study In the first year, graduate students normally take eight courses, six of which are the required courses described in the handbook, and two of which are other substantive courses based on the student’s areas of interest. We recommend completion of the Sheridan Center (Level One) teaching certification during this year. All students receive a mid-year evaluation from the DGS. The faculty advisor assigned upon entering the program will serve as the students advisor until the student notifies the student affairs coordinator of his or her chosen MA thesis advisor. During the summer after the first year of study, students build on their coursework and pursue a research project. The project normally forms the basis of the MA thesis. Second Year of Graduate Study In the second year students take additional seminars in theory and advanced methodology courses, along with courses in areas of substantive specialization. Students write their MA thesis in the second year, in consultation with their MA advisor, and submit the thesis to the committee during the fourth semester of graduate study. After successful completion of the MA thesis, students are strongly encouraged to submit the thesis to an academic journal for peer-review and present the work at professional conferences. During the second year students continue refining their planned areas of specialization for the preliminary exam, taking courses in the areas of their intended exams. Students also often complete their two semester teaching requirement by the end of their second year. Third Year of Graduate Study In the third year students take additional coursework, prepare and complete preliminary exams, continue the work of publishing the master’s thesis, and begin to develop dissertation topics. Completion of these preliminary examinations should be before the beginning of the fourth year of graduate study. All coursework (24 course credits earned) should be completed by the end of the third year of study. Subsequent Years By the fourth year, students will have completed the MA thesis, coursework, and preliminary examinations. Their fourth year is normally devoted to dissertation proposal preparation and presentation. During their fifth year, students work to complete and defend their dissertation. Preparation for applying for teaching and research positions, the job interview process, and related issues typically occur in the final year. Ph.D. Program Funding Ph.D. Year by Year Awards Student Resources Student Publications Student Placements Department of Sociology Department of Sociology Brown University Box 1916 Maxcy Hall, 108 George Street Inner Campus – Lower Green Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2367 Fax: 401-863-3213 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top