Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University GSAS Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded I am a... Degree Programs Student Guide Graduate Life Our Community Blog Prospective Student Current Student Faculty & Staff Alumna / Alumnus Admissions MA Programs PhD Programs Coronavirus Information for GSAS Students Financing Your Education New Student Guide Policy Handbook Research Teaching The Dissertation Career Development Convocation Diversity and Inclusion GSAS Writing Studio Graduate Student Center Student Life & Well-Being Alumni Network Dean’s Welcome GSAS at a Glance History Publications Staff Contact Us GSAS You are here: Home I am a... Faculty & Staff Faculty & Staff Please find below a list of pages frequently viewed by GSAS faculty and staff. Key Contacts Office of the Dean 109 Low Library, MC 4306 535 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 [email protected] (212) 854-2861 Quick Links Admissions Resources for Faculty and Staff A number of resources are available for faculty and staff, from instructional videos on our online application system to a newsletter with helpful tips. Forms for Faculty Download degree applications and other forms intended to be completed by faculty members. Directors of Graduate Studies The director of graduate studies (DGS) is the liaison between the department and GSAS. DGS Handbook This guide is offered as a resource for answering questions about GSAS policies and services. Executive Committee of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences ECGSAS is the deliberative body for all the research PhD and MA programs at Columbia. Effective Practices for Faculty Mentors, Program Directors, and MA Advisees See our suggestions for MA students and their faculty advisors. Effective Practices and Expectations for Faculty Mentors and Doctoral Advisees See our expectations for doctoral students and their faculty advisors. Departmental Placement Officers Each department should designate someone for the role of departmental placement officer. Resources for Faculty This Office of University Life webpage includes university-wide resources, contact information for school-based student affairs staff, and useful literature. Important Resources for Faculty, Researchers, and Staff This Office of University Life document provides instructions on how to address common concerns. Leaves of Absence A leave of absence allows students who must interrupt their studies for a compelling reason to be exempt from the Continuous Registration requirement. Blue Seal Letters Students who need to conduct research in libraries, archives, museums, or other such institutions may request letters of introduction, or "blue seal" letters. Information for International Applicants Read about the Graduate School's English proficiency requirement, and view resources for international students. Information for Admitted International Students The ISSO coordinates services for the international students, scholars, interns, and family members who come to Columbia. OPT Status for GSAS Students OPT (Optional Practical Training) is a benefit of F-1 student status that allows students to work off-campus in their field of study to gain practical experience. Withdrawals Withdrawal is the act of formally giving notice that one is leaving the university without intending to return at a future time. Reinstatement Students should submit the Return from a Leave of Absence form six weeks before the start of the semester in which they wish to return. Office of Work/Life The Office of Work/Life fosters the well-being of the Columbia community and its people in their pursuit of meaningful and productive academic, personal, and work lives. Graduate School of Arts and Sciences109 Low Memorial Library, MC 4306, 535 West 116th Street · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-8903 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close