columbia_noon Apply Apply Menu Directory Search The School Dean’s Letter Faculty Administration News Events Student Work Media Archive Alumni Campaign Visit Contact Programs Architecture Master of Architecture M.S. Advanced Architectural Design M.S. Computational Design Practices M.S. Critical, Curatorial & Conceptual Practices Ph.D. Architecture New York/Paris Intro to Architecture Urbanism M.S. Architecture and Urban Design M.S. Urban Planning Ph.D. Urban Planning Preservation M.S. Historic Preservation Ph.D. Historic Preservation Real Estate M.S. Real Estate Development Research Centers Labs Incubator Initiatives Exhibitions Publications Resources Academic Calendar Courses Faculty Resources Hybrid Pedagogy Guide Student Resources Policies & Resources Career Services COVID-19 Resources Student Organizations Facilities Avery Library Arthur Ross Architecture Gallery Making Studio Output Shop Preservation Technology Lab Admissions Thinking About Applying Application Process After You’re Admitted Tuition & Aid FAQ Give Apply A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z # A AIA CES Credits Lyla Catellier directory_staff Created with Sketch. /aiacescredits link_arrow Created with Sketch. AV Office 321M Fayerweather Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. Christopher Day directory_staff Created with Sketch. /audio-video-off… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Abstract Publication 415 Avery Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. Shannon Werle directory_staff Created with Sketch. /abstract link_arrow Created with Sketch. Academic Affairs 400 Avery Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. /academic-affair… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Academic Calendar, Columbia University http://registrar… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Academic Calendar, GSAPP /academic-calend… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Admissions Office 407 Avery Hall 1172 Amsterdam Avenue New York, New York 10027 directory_address Created with Sketch. Steffen Boddeker directory_staff Created with Sketch. /admissions link_arrow Created with Sketch. Advanced Standing Waiver Form Must be printed and returned to 400 Avery Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. https://d37vpt3x… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Alumni Board /alumni/board link_arrow Created with Sketch. Alumni Office 405 Avery Hall 1172 Amsterdam Avenue New York, New York 10027 directory_address Created with Sketch. Leah Cohen, Jillian Barsalou Kincaid, Esther Turay, Leslie Kuo directory_staff Created with Sketch. /alumni/contact link_arrow Created with Sketch. Anti-Racism Curriculum Development Award /anti-racism-act… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Architecture Studio Lottery /architecture-st… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Assistantships /assistantships link_arrow Created with Sketch. Avery Library 300 Avery Hall 1172 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 directory_address Created with Sketch. http://library.c… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Avery Review http://averyrevi… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Avery Shorts http://www.avery… link_arrow Created with Sketch. B Black Student Alliance at Columbia GSAPP /bsa link_arrow Created with Sketch. Building Science & Technology Waivers /building-tech-w… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Bulletin Archive /bulletin-archiv… link_arrow Created with Sketch. C COVID-19 FAQ /covid-19-faq link_arrow Created with Sketch. COVID-19 Resources /covid-19-resour… link_arrow Created with Sketch. COVID-19 Resources for the Columbia Community https://covid19.… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Career Services 407 Avery Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. /career-services… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Climate /climate link_arrow Created with Sketch. Columbia Books on Architecture and the City Isabelle Kirkham-Lewitt, Joanna Kloppenburg directory_staff Created with Sketch. /books link_arrow Created with Sketch. Commencement /commencement link_arrow Created with Sketch. Communications Office 415 Avery Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. Steffen Boddeker, Shannon Werle, Lucy Krebsbach directory_staff Created with Sketch. /communications-… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Conversations podcast /conversations link_arrow Created with Sketch. Counseling and Psychological Services http://health.co… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Courses /courses link_arrow Created with Sketch. Credit Transfer /credit-transfer… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Cross Registration /cross-registrat… link_arrow Created with Sketch. D Data & Design /data-design link_arrow Created with Sketch. Dean’s Letter /deans-letter link_arrow Created with Sketch. Dean’s Office 402 Avery Hall 1172 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 directory_address Created with Sketch. Nicholas Roberts directory_staff Created with Sketch. /deans-office link_arrow Created with Sketch. Dean’s Unlearning Whiteness Research Award /anti-racism-act… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Development Office 404 Avery Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. Leah Cohen, Jillian Barsalou Kincaid, Esther Turay, Leslie Kuo directory_staff Created with Sketch. /development-off… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Directory of Classes (All Columbia University) http://www.colum… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Disability Services http://health.co… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Dodge Fitness Center 3030 Broadway Dodge directory_address Created with Sketch. https://perec.co… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Dual Degree Program Requirements /dual-degree-req… link_arrow Created with Sketch. E End of Year Show /eoys link_arrow Created with Sketch. Equity /equity link_arrow Created with Sketch. Events Office 415 Avery Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. Lyla Catellier directory_staff Created with Sketch. /events-office link_arrow Created with Sketch. Exhibitions Office Irene Sunwoo directory_staff Created with Sketch. /exhibitions-off… link_arrow Created with Sketch. External Funding Sources /admissions/tuit… link_arrow Created with Sketch. F Faculty /faculty link_arrow Created with Sketch. Faculty Conduct /faculty-conduct… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Feedback /feedback link_arrow Created with Sketch. Finance Office 406 Avery Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. /finance-adminis… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Fitch Colloquium /fitch link_arrow Created with Sketch. Future Anterior Jorge Otero-Pailos directory_staff Created with Sketch. /future-anterior… link_arrow Created with Sketch. G GIS /gis link_arrow Created with Sketch. GIS Tutorials /gis/tutorials link_arrow Created with Sketch. GSAPP Community Fellowship Program /anti-racism-act… link_arrow Created with Sketch. GSAPP Emergency Fund /gsapp-emergency… link_arrow Created with Sketch. GSAPPXx+ /gsappxxplus link_arrow Created with Sketch. Grades /grades link_arrow Created with Sketch. Graduation /commencement link_arrow Created with Sketch. Graphics Project Yoonjai Choi directory_staff Created with Sketch. /graphics-projec… link_arrow Created with Sketch. H HEERF Program /heerf-program link_arrow Created with Sketch. Historic Preservation Newsletter http://us2.campa… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Honor System /honor-system link_arrow Created with Sketch. Human Resources /finance-human-r… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Hybrid Pedagogy Resources /hybrid-pedagogy… link_arrow Created with Sketch. I Identity /identity link_arrow Created with Sketch. Incubator Prize David Benjamin directory_staff Created with Sketch. /research/gsapp-… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Information Technology Helpdesk Ticket, GSAPP https://bit.ly/2… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Information Technology Office, GSAPP Ben Goldie directory_staff Created with Sketch. /it-support link_arrow Created with Sketch. Information Technology, Columbia University (CUIT) http://cuit.colu… link_arrow Created with Sketch. International Students and Scholars Office (ISSO) http://www.colum… link_arrow Created with Sketch. J Job Opportunities at Columbia http://www.colum… link_arrow Created with Sketch. K Kenneth Frampton Endowed Lecture Series /frampton-lectur… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Kinne Prize /kinne link_arrow Created with Sketch. L LatinGSAPP /latingsapp link_arrow Created with Sketch. Leave of Absence Policy /leave-of-absenc… link_arrow Created with Sketch. M Making Studio Schermerhorn Extension Floor 1 directory_address Created with Sketch. Joshua Jordan directory_staff Created with Sketch. https://www.arch… link_arrow Created with Sketch. N News and Press Releases /news link_arrow Created with Sketch. Newsletter Sign Up https://columbia… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Non-Discrimination Statement and Policy /non-discriminat… link_arrow Created with Sketch. O Onera Prize for Historic Preservation /onera-prize link_arrow Created with Sketch. Online Admissions Application GSAPP Admissions 407 Avery Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. https://apply.gs… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Output Shop 116 Avery Hall 1172 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 directory_address Created with Sketch. Carlito Bayne, Sherly Orilas directory_staff Created with Sketch. /output-shop link_arrow Created with Sketch. Ownership of Student Work Policy /ownership-of-wo… link_arrow Created with Sketch. P Paris Prize, Buell Center /buell-paris-pri… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Paul S. Byard Memorial Lecture Series /byard-lectures link_arrow Created with Sketch. Percival & Naomi Goodman Fellowship /goodman-fellows… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Plagiarism Policy /plagiarism-poli… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Policies & Resources /policies-resour… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Press Releases /news link_arrow Created with Sketch. Publications Office 407 Avery Hall 1172 Amsterdam Avenue New York, New York 10027 directory_address Created with Sketch. Isabelle Kirkham-Lewitt, Joanna Kloppenburg directory_staff Created with Sketch. /books link_arrow Created with Sketch. Q QSAPP /qsapp link_arrow Created with Sketch. R Registration /registration link_arrow Created with Sketch. Registration: Add / Drop Form https://apply.gs… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Room Reservations /room-reservatio… link_arrow Created with Sketch. S STEM Designation /stem link_arrow Created with Sketch. Satisfactory Academic Progress /satisfactory-ac… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Skill Trails Dan Taeyoung directory_staff Created with Sketch. https://skilltra… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Student Affairs 400 Avery Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. JD Stogdill directory_staff Created with Sketch. /student-affairs… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Student Awards /student-awards link_arrow Created with Sketch. Student Conduct /student-conduct… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Student Council (All Programs) /student-council… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Student Financial Services http://sfs.colum… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Student Health Services at Columbia http://health.co… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Student Organization Handbook /books/reader/59… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Student Organizations /student-organiz… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Student Services Center 205 Kent Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. https://ssc.colu… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Student Services Online (SSOL) https://ssol.col… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Student Work Online /student-work link_arrow Created with Sketch. Studio Culture Policy /architecture-st… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Studio Procedures /studio-procedur… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Studio-X Global Network /studio-x link_arrow Created with Sketch. Summer Workshops /summer-workshop… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Support GSAPP https://arch.giv… link_arrow Created with Sketch. T Travel Guide /finance-adminis… link_arrow Created with Sketch. U URBAN Magazine /urban-mag link_arrow Created with Sketch. University Apartment Housing (UAH) http://facilitie… link_arrow Created with Sketch. University Resources /university-reso… link_arrow Created with Sketch. V Virtual Studios /hybrid-pedagogy… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Visual Resources Collection (VRC) Fayerweather 204 directory_address Created with Sketch. /vrc link_arrow Created with Sketch. W Website Steffen Boddeker, Shannon Werle directory_staff Created with Sketch. /website-colopho… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Links for... COVID-19 Resources Hybrid Pedagogy Guide GSAPP COVID-19 Resources Columbia COVID-19 Resources Student Health Services Students & Faculty Student Resources Faculty Resources Course Listing 2022 Commencement Prospective students 2021 Virtual Open House Thinking about Applying Compare Programs Student Work Columbia University Columbia Student Resources University Directory Office of University Life Columbia Libraries Close This website uses cookies as well as similar tools and technologies to understand visitors' experiences. By continuing to use this website, you consent to Columbia University's usage of cookies and similar technologies, in accordance with the Columbia University Website Cookie Notice Group 6 Programs Master of Architecture overview degree requirements admissions courses Apply Jialu Deng Fall 2021 - Advanced Studio V Bryony Roberts Duncan Tomlin Fall 2021 - Architecture Studio I Alessandro Orsini Nelson De Jesus Ubri Spring 2021 - Architecture Studio VI Nina Cooke John Brian Turner Spring 2021 - Super-Tall Nicole Dosso En-Ho Chan Spring 2021 - Architecture Studio VI Mario Gooden Charlie Liu Spring 2021 - Architecture Studio II Miku Dixit Alina Abouelenin, Maria Perez Benavides Spring 2021 - Architecture Studio VI Anna Puigjaner Greta Crispen Spring 2021 - Transitional Geometries Joshua Jordan Keneilwe Ramaphosa Spring 2021 - Architecture Studio IV Jerome Haferd Andres Alvarez Davila, Jules Kleitman, Zakios Meghrouni-Brown Spring 2021 - Architecture Studio IV Phu Hoang Jean Kim, Joyce Zhou Spring 2021 - Architecture Studio IV Ziad Jamaleddine Rory Macfarlane Spring 2021 - Architecture Studio IV Robert Marino Jixuan Li, Wei Xiao Spring 2021 - Architectural Drawing & Representation II Dan Taeyoung, Lorenzo Villaggi, Violet Whitney, Lexi Tsien Cam Fullmer Spring 2021 - Power Tools Lexi Tsien, Jelisa Blumberg Mariami Maghlakelidze Fall 2020 - Re-Thinking BIM Jared Friedman Daniel Chang, Rebecca Faris, Nicolas Andres Nefiodow Pineda Fall 2020 - AT I, Environments in Architecture Lola Ben-Alon Ralph Hao-Yuan Cheng, Siyu Xiao Fall 2021 - Advanced Studio V Mabel O. Wilson Overview Columbia GSAPP’s Master of Architecture program is a three-year accredited professional degree program and is regularly ranked one of the top architecture graduate programs in the country. At GSAPP, architecture is understood as a form of knowledge inextricably linked to a broader context of environmental and global action—one that is oriented not towards what architecture is but towards what it could be. Today, the Master of Architecture program pushes this understanding of architectural experimentation and re-invention forward, with faculty and students weaving together critical discourse with technological skill, disciplinary expertise with expanded modes of practices, and design speculation with engagement in the issues of our time. Building on the School’s recent commitment to advancing architecture alongside more global and contemporary perspectives, GSAPP’s Master of Architecture program has focused on expanding its design capacities, building practices, and discursive potentials. The program finds its strength in the diversity of its faculty and their approaches to architecture. Its pedagogy is, simultaneously, rigorously structured and constantly re-examined to respond to ever-changing contexts—welcoming the openness, inquisitiveness, and intellectual generosity that enable and foster new avenues for individual development and collective directions for the field. The Master of Architecture is a designated STEM program eligible under the CIP (Classification of Instructional Programs) Code 04.0902: Architectural and Building Sciences/Technology. Learn more about STEM designation. All Master of Architecture students must complete prerequisites before the start of the program. Please review the M.ARCH Prerequisites webpage for full details. People Mario Gooden, Interim Program Director and Sequence Director, Advanced Architecture Studios Hilary Sample, Sequence Director, Core Architecture Studios Lola Ben-Alon, Sequence Director, Building Science and Technology Reinhold Martin, Sequence Director, History and Theory Laura Kurgan, Sequence Director, Visual Studies Curriculum The Master of Architecture program is centered on the Architecture Design Studio and the three curricular sequences that orbit it: History and Theory, Visual Studies, and Technology. While the sequences run in parallel, they are also designed to be brought together at critical junctures: through the intersection of specific exercises and through broader project integration. Supplementing these main pedagogical tracks is an Elective sequence and a required Professional Practice course. Prior to graduation, students are required to submit a portfolio of representative work from each semester, which is evaluated by all studio faculty. Portfolio reviews are a hallmark event at the school and the top portfolios are awarded the most prestigious prizes at the annual Commencement Ceremony. The Architecture Design Studio sequence is divided between Core and Advanced Studios. The Core Studios consists of the first three semesters. It is structured to build knowledge on the fundamentals of architectural design through the theme of “Architecture and the City” and through an inclusive and expansive understanding of history, cities, typology, and performance. Core I focuses on acquiring analytical and drawing skills; Core II tackles the design of an institutional building; and Core III concludes the sequence with the Housing Studio. Advanced Studios consists of the last three semesters, with the last two composed of nearly eighteen studios that together explore new instruments, techniques, and formats of design across a multiplicity of existing realities. The studios function as laboratories for discussion, where students and critics practice new ways of mobilizing architectural concepts, programs, tools, and methods to intervene on specific layers of the everyday. After focusing on the problem of architectural practice and its agency in the world, from spring 2019, the sequence focuses on “Architecture and Environment” as a fundamental question for the field. Read More The History and Theory curriculum stresses a b road social and cultural approach to architectural history, with particular attention to emerging global concerns. Architectural history is seen in terms of a rich matrix of parameters—political, economic, artistic, technological, and discursive—that have had a role in shaping the discipline. Students are introduced to a range of subjects broadly distributed in both space (geography) and time (chronology), and are encouraged to think and work across categorical East-West and North-South distinctions and the asymmetries these binaries often reproduce, and to consider both continuity and change across 1800 as the threshold that marks the end of the European Enlightenment and the beginning of worldwide industrialization. The Visual Studies curriculum registers how the visual in design has multiplied exponentially, especially by way of computation, and invites students and faculty to rethink how it intersects with pedagogy, projects, and practices. Through a careful survey of drawing’s new temporal nature, students discover methods to harness the potential of drawing, engage with today’s visual diversity, and communicate extraordinary visions. The sequence offers a wide range of tools and techniques designed to expose students to the potentials and limits of these tools and techniques and is divided into three broad sets of workshops: analysis/representation, design environments, and fabrication. This variety of possible trajectories promotes individual approaches to visualization and fosters invention. The Technology curriculum is founded on the belief that the realities of building technology are integral to design exploration and experimentation, especially as computational power and data have become ubiquitous, and changes in manufacturing, materials, and information technologies are shaping new modes of thinking and making. Recognizing how performance—its measurement and verification—has become not only a primary function of architectural “solutions,” but also a generator of architectural concepts, the sequence aims to encourage critical and creative approaches to data and measurement and the discovery of new design opportunities and paradigms. Show Less The History and Theory curriculum stresses a b road social and cultural approach to architectural history, with particular attention to emerging global concerns. Architectural history is seen in terms of a rich matrix of parameters—political, economic, artistic, technological, and discursive—that have had a role in shaping the discipline. Students are introduced to a range of subjects broadly distributed in both space (geography) and time (chronology), and are encouraged to think and work across categorical East-West and North-South distinctions and the asymmetries these binaries often reproduce, and to consider both continuity and change across 1800 as the threshold that marks the end of the European Enlightenment and the beginning of worldwide industrialization. The Visual Studies curriculum registers how the visual in design has multiplied exponentially, especially by way of computation, and invites students and faculty to rethink how it intersects with pedagogy, projects, and practices. Through a careful survey of drawing’s new temporal nature, students discover methods to harness the potential of drawing, engage with today’s visual diversity, and communicate extraordinary visions. The sequence offers a wide range of tools and techniques designed to expose students to the potentials and limits of these tools and techniques and is divided into three broad sets of workshops: analysis/representation, design environments, and fabrication. This variety of possible trajectories promotes individual approaches to visualization and fosters invention. The Technology curriculum is founded on the belief that the realities of building technology are integral to design exploration and experimentation, especially as computational power and data have become ubiquitous, and changes in manufacturing, materials, and information technologies are shaping new modes of thinking and making. Recognizing how performance—its measurement and verification—has become not only a primary function of architectural “solutions,” but also a generator of architectural concepts, the sequence aims to encourage critical and creative approaches to data and measurement and the discovery of new design opportunities and paradigms. GSAPP End of Year Show Spring 2019 Up next GSAPP End of Year Show Up next 1 - UP Project Up next 2 - Pool Project Core Design Studios Hilary Sample, Sequence Director At the GSAPP, the Core Design Studios introduce students to architecture through an inclusive understanding of history, cities, typology, and performance. Today, students engage the world through the increasingly global information on buildings, materials, structures, digital processes, media, and communications. These digital processes and networks that were once theorized have become a commonplace part of our contemporary world. As a result, architecture is less and less of an exclusive and autonomous profession. These social aspects are perhaps the hardest things to teach within a school, but remain a critical part of the Columbia GSAPP pedagogy. Read More The Core Studios are structured through a sequence of carefully constructed design studios where students increasingly gain new knowledge through making, implementing ideas and experimenting with the problems of architecture: from form to materials, from small to large scale, and from comfort to environment. Studios explore architecture within urban contexts from New York City and other cities around the world, situating experimental architectural thought within the world-at-large. Rather than moving from the extra small to the large, the Core sequence builds in the small and the large in relation to one another throughout the first three semesters of the Master of Architecture sequence. After the first semester’s focus on acquiring analytical and drawing skills, Core II takes as a project the design of an institutional building, and Core III culminates in the housing studio. This semester serves not only as a conclusion to the core sequence but also as a transition to the Advanced Studios, specifically transitioning to the Advanced Studio IV: Scales of Environment. While the studios are structured to present knowledge about fundamentals of architecture as they apply to design, from the scale of a house to that of a building or housing project, the core sequence aims to inspire a shift in thinking about architecture in relation to the world. Show Less The Core Studios are structured through a sequence of carefully constructed design studios where students increasingly gain new knowledge through making, implementing ideas and experimenting with the problems of architecture: from form to materials, from small to large scale, and from comfort to environment. Studios explore architecture within urban contexts from New York City and other cities around the world, situating experimental architectural thought within the world-at-large. Rather than moving from the extra small to the large, the Core sequence builds in the small and the large in relation to one another throughout the first three semesters of the Master of Architecture sequence. After the first semester’s focus on acquiring analytical and drawing skills, Core II takes as a project the design of an institutional building, and Core III culminates in the housing studio. This semester serves not only as a conclusion to the core sequence but also as a transition to the Advanced Studios, specifically transitioning to the Advanced Studio IV: Scales of Environment. While the studios are structured to present knowledge about fundamentals of architecture as they apply to design, from the scale of a house to that of a building or housing project, the core sequence aims to inspire a shift in thinking about architecture in relation to the world. Advanced Design Studios Mario Gooden, Sequence Director The Advanced Studios build on the ideas and skills developed in the Core Studios, and bring together students in the Master of Architecture and Master of Sciences in Advanced Architectural Design programs. These studios, which take place during the students’ final two semesters at the School, have always explored the future of architecture in a diversity of ways. Each studio creates its own world—with its own intersection of social, cultural, formal, material, economic, and environmental concerns—and students have almost 20 worlds to choose from. After selecting a studio, students conduct experiments and develop projects through concepts and massings, programs and forms, drawings and models, materials and atmospheres, metrics and narratives. Read More At the same time, the various students and faculty of the Advanced Studios engage in a shared discussion about the most interesting research, practice, ideas, and design of the built environment. In the fall of 2018 this shared discussion focused on the theme of “Global Practice,” and during the following spring it focused on “Architecture and Environment.” Global Practice covered design as the distinctive tool of architects in contributing to the construction of the future. It investigated the field’s extraordinary accumulation of essays and research that can be considered a cross-section of the present. Architecture and Environment built on the hypothesis that climate change is ground zero for a shared discussion about architecture’s engagement with the world. Responding to climate change involves not only technical aspects (such as energy consumption and carbon footprint) but also social and political aspects (such as inequality and public policy). In this context, the Advanced Studios were framed as a unique opportunity to address climate change at the scale of the building and to address climate change through design. Throughout each semester, studio-wide sessions involve a series of conversations and resources for the studios to draw on, including external guest lectures, faculty project talks, and paired studio exchanges. This concludes with a Super-Crit session during which each studio shares a single student project and guest critics respond to the studio-wide themes and issues. Show Less At the same time, the various students and faculty of the Advanced Studios engage in a shared discussion about the most interesting research, practice, ideas, and design of the built environment. In the fall of 2018 this shared discussion focused on the theme of “Global Practice,” and during the following spring it focused on “Architecture and Environment.” Global Practice covered design as the distinctive tool of architects in contributing to the construction of the future. It investigated the field’s extraordinary accumulation of essays and research that can be considered a cross-section of the present. Architecture and Environment built on the hypothesis that climate change is ground zero for a shared discussion about architecture’s engagement with the world. Responding to climate change involves not only technical aspects (such as energy consumption and carbon footprint) but also social and political aspects (such as inequality and public policy). In this context, the Advanced Studios were framed as a unique opportunity to address climate change at the scale of the building and to address climate change through design. Throughout each semester, studio-wide sessions involve a series of conversations and resources for the studios to draw on, including external guest lectures, faculty project talks, and paired studio exchanges. This concludes with a Super-Crit session during which each studio shares a single student project and guest critics respond to the studio-wide themes and issues. Building Science and Technology Lola Ben-Alon, Sequence Director Today, more than ever before, we realize the extent to which the design of healthier built environments by means of architectural design is critical for occupant-related outcomes. We spend more than 90% of our lives within architectural spaces, designed to create situated interactions between people, the environment, and the materials that surround them. With emerging global challenges of social and environmental equity that arise from resource scarcity and public health emergencies, novel approaches to making buildings more resource-efficient, comfortable, and affordable for all, are critical. Read More To this end, the Building Science and Technology sequence is geared towards creating novel and radical experimental forms of technology, while celebrating the tactile interaction between people, materials, structures, and the built environments. The sequence covers a range of topics, from fabrication technologies and emerging healthy assemblies, through supply chain mechanisms of low-carbon and readily available building materials, to net zero and passive housing. The Tech elective course selection not only provides tools for performance analysis, but also to crafting new ways of understanding and imagining socially equitable and environmentally sound futures. Also awaiting your discovery are the sequence event series. From the Tech Walks to the Tech Shops, the sequence offers events that converge lectures, street walking, software learning, and architecture technology and ecology in the local context of NYC. Focusing on the social and environmental impacts of building and urban technologies and narratives, the sequence event series include creative interventions with a revised outlook on social, cultural, and economic forces on building and ecological systems. Show Less To this end, the Building Science and Technology sequence is geared towards creating novel and radical experimental forms of technology, while celebrating the tactile interaction between people, materials, structures, and the built environments. The sequence covers a range of topics, from fabrication technologies and emerging healthy assemblies, through supply chain mechanisms of low-carbon and readily available building materials, to net zero and passive housing. The Tech elective course selection not only provides tools for performance analysis, but also to crafting new ways of understanding and imagining socially equitable and environmentally sound futures. Also awaiting your discovery are the sequence event series. From the Tech Walks to the Tech Shops, the sequence offers events that converge lectures, street walking, software learning, and architecture technology and ecology in the local context of NYC. Focusing on the social and environmental impacts of building and urban technologies and narratives, the sequence event series include creative interventions with a revised outlook on social, cultural, and economic forces on building and ecological systems. History and Theory Reinhold Martin, Sequence Director The History and Theory of Architecture curriculum at Columbia GSAPP aims to develop a critical, historical consciousness among students preparing for diverse forms of architectural practice. Central to this is a worldly understanding, in depth and in breadth, of a complex cultural, social, ecological, and technological past. The bearing of that past on contemporary debates and practices is an important focus, as is the relation of architectural history to other disciplines. From the outset, the curriculum equips students with questions suited to ongoing inquiry into “global” or planetary history, with an emphasis on both continuity and change. Read More The process of critical inquiry begins in the first year, with the two-semester core sequence, “Questions in Architectural History,” focused on the interaction of architecture and modernity across two centuries and taught by a group of senior history and theory faculty. In addition to introducing students to key examples, themes, and relationships, the course asks whose history is being studied, how, and why. The sequence continues into the second and third years with a series of distribution requirements that allow students to pursue selected topics in greater depth, while ensuring exposure to a range of geographically, culturally, and historically diverse contexts and subject matter. Students may also take related courses in humanities departments across the University to meet or supplement these requirements. Show Less The process of critical inquiry begins in the first year, with the two-semester core sequence, “Questions in Architectural History,” focused on the interaction of architecture and modernity across two centuries and taught by a group of senior history and theory faculty. In addition to introducing students to key examples, themes, and relationships, the course asks whose history is being studied, how, and why. The sequence continues into the second and third years with a series of distribution requirements that allow students to pursue selected topics in greater depth, while ensuring exposure to a range of geographically, culturally, and historically diverse contexts and subject matter. Students may also take related courses in humanities departments across the University to meet or supplement these requirements. Visual Studies Laura Kurgan, Sequence Director Visualization is never just presentation—it is a way of thinking, designing, and drawing spaces at all scales. In a series of courses across all programs, the Visual Studies sequence exposes students to a wide range of tools and techniques and foregrounds both their uses and their limits. The sequence seeks to initiate interdisciplinary dialogues across the school and address the dynamic nature of our visual culture. Read More The courses and workshops are divided into three broad sets of methods in visualization: quantitative, qualitative, and translational (hybrid). The variety of trajectories possible within the sequence of classes—required and elective—promotes an individual exploration of visualization, fostering innovation and creative methods. Courses are either full semester (3 credits) or half semester (7 weeks, 1.5 credits). Teaching generally follows a “flipped classroom” format with students acquiring skills in tutorials outside of class and devoting class work to methodological and creative discussions exploring the limits and underlying concepts which guide those techniques. Show Less The courses and workshops are divided into three broad sets of methods in visualization: quantitative, qualitative, and translational (hybrid). The variety of trajectories possible within the sequence of classes—required and elective—promotes an individual exploration of visualization, fostering innovation and creative methods. Courses are either full semester (3 credits) or half semester (7 weeks, 1.5 credits). Teaching generally follows a “flipped classroom” format with students acquiring skills in tutorials outside of class and devoting class work to methodological and creative discussions exploring the limits and underlying concepts which guide those techniques. Fall 2019 Reviews Core I Studio Critic: Lindsey Wikstrom Fall 2019 Reviews Advanced V Studio Critic: Andrés Jaque Fall 2019 Reviews Core I Studio Critic: Amina Blacksher Fall 2019 Reviews Core I Studio Critic: Amina Blacksher Fall 2019 Reviews Core I Studio Critic: Joshua Uhl Fall 2019 Reviews Core I Studio Critic: Lindsey Wikstrom Fall 2019 Reviews Advanced V Studio Critic: Phu Hoang Hoang Fall 2019 Reviews Advanced V Studio Critic: Tatiana von Preussen, Catherine Pease, Jessica Reynolds Fall 2019 Reviews Advanced V Studio Critic: Tatiana von Preussen, Catherine Pease, Jessica Reynolds Fall 2019 Reviews Advanced V Studio Critic: Tatiana von Preussen, Catherine Pease, Jessica Reynolds Fall 2019 Reviews Advanced V Studio Critic: Mark Rakatansky and Kim Yao Fall 2019 Reviews Advanced V Studio Critic: Ziad Jamaleddine Current Faculty Emanuel Admassu Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design, M.S. Architecture and Urban Design Alicia Olushola Ajayi Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design Olga Aleksakova Master of Architecture Lucia Allais Master of Architecture, Ph.D. in Architecture, Ph.D. in Historic Preservation Daisy Ames Master of Architecture Suad Amiry Master of Architecture Mark Anderson Master of Architecture Amale Andraos Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design José Aragüez Master of Architecture Erieta Attali Master of Architecture Sharon Ayalon Master of Architecture Carlo Bailey Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design Annie Barrett Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design Nitzan Bartov Master of Architecture Gary Bates Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design Michael Bell Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design, Materials Project Lola Ben-Alon Master of Architecture, Ph.D. in Historic Preservation, Natural Materials Lab David Benjamin Master of Architecture, Embodied Energy Andreas Benzing Master of Architecture Tatiana Bilbao Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design Amina Blacksher Master of Architecture Jelisa Blumberg Master of Architecture Victor Body-Lawson Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design Gabrielle Brainard Master of Architecture Dare Brawley Master of Architecture, Center for Spatial Research Joseph Brennan Master of Architecture Laurel Broughton Master of Architecture Eric Bunge Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design Julia Burdova Master of Architecture Stephen Burks Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design Benjamin Cadena Master of Architecture Tei Carpenter Master of Architecture Luis E. Carranza Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design Jordan H. Carver Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design Stephen Cassell Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design Michael Caton Master of Architecture John Cerone Master of Architecture Agnes Chang Master of Architecture Andrea Chiney Master of Architecture Yoonjai Choi Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design Nina Cooke John Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design, M.S. Architecture and Urban Design Christopher Cowell Master of Architecture Phillip Crupi Master of Architecture Jason Danforth Master of Architecture Matthew Davis Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design Sharon Davis Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design Thomas De Monchaux Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design, New York / Paris Ivi Diamantopoulou Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design Anna Dietzsch Master of Architecture, M.S. Architecture and Urban Design Fatou Dieye Master of Architecture Miku Dixit Master of Architecture Nicole Dosso Master of Architecture Whitney Dow Master of Architecture Kyle Dugdale Master of Architecture Sarah Dunn Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design Ifeoma Ebo Master of Architecture, M.S. Architecture and Urban Design Yasser Elsheshtawy Master of Architecture James Ewing Master of Architecture Martin Felsen Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design Adam Frampton Master of Architecture Carlyle Fraser Master of Architecture Jared Friedman Master of Architecture Emily Fuhrman Master of Architecture Sean Gallagher Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design Tim Gambell Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design Erica Goetz Master of Architecture Greg Goldin Master of Architecture Mario Gooden Master of Architecture, Global Africa Lab James Graham Master of Architecture Mark Green Master of Architecture Jerome Haferd Master of Architecture, M.S. Architecture and Urban Design Eva Hagberg Master of Architecture Dee Harvey Master of Architecture Laurie Hawkinson Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design Robert Heintges Master of Architecture Juan Herreros Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design Robert Herrmann Master of Architecture Andrew Heumann Master of Architecture Mimi Hoang Master of Architecture Phu Hoang Master of Architecture Steven Holl Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design Brian House Master of Architecture Nahyun Hwang Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design Wonne Ickx Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design Ziad Jamaleddine Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design, M.S. Architecture and Urban Design Andrés Jaque Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design Vanessa Keith Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design Leah Kelly Master of Architecture Sarrah Khan Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design Ateya Khorakiwala Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design, Ph.D. in Architecture Gordon Kipping Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design Jaffer Kolb Master of Architecture Zak Kostura Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design Christoph Kumpusch Master of Architecture, Extraction Lab Laura Kurgan Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design, M.S. Architecture and Urban Design, M.S. Computational Design Practices, Center for Spatial Research Jimenez Lai Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design Celeste Layne Master of Architecture Amy Lelyveld Master of Architecture Dominic Leong Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design Giuseppe Lignano Master of Architecture Stephanie Lin Master of Architecture Jing Liu Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design John Locke Master of Architecture Farzin Lotfi-Jam Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design Brian Loughlin Master of Architecture, M.S. Real Estate Development Sam Lubell Master of Architecture Robert Marino Master of Architecture Reinhold Martin Master of Architecture, Ph.D. in Architecture, Buell Center Jacqueline Martinez Master of Architecture Berardo Matalucci Master of Architecture Giancarlo Mazzanti Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design Mary McLeod Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design, Ph.D. in Architecture Rustam Mehta Master of Architecture David Eugin Moon Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design Zachary Mulitauaopele Master of Architecture Catherine Murphy Master of Architecture Danil Nagy Master of Architecture, Embodied Energy Umberto Napolitano Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design Anton Nelson Master of Architecture Davidson Norris Master of Architecture Toshihiro Oki Master of Architecture Oscar Oliver-Didier Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design Rory O'Neill Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design Alessandro Orsini Master of Architecture Robert Otani Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design Jorge Otero-Pailos Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design, M.S. Historic Preservation, Ph.D. in Historic Preservation Nicolai Ouroussoff Master of Architecture Ilias Papageorgiou Master of Architecture Jinhee Park Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design Catherine Pease Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design Daniel Perlin Master of Architecture Richard Plunz Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design, M.S. Architecture and Urban Design, Urban Design Lab Paul Preissner Master of Architecture Anna Puigjaner Master of Architecture Mark Rakatansky Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design Bika Rebek Master of Architecture Thomas Reiner Master of Architecture Mecky Reuss Master of Architecture Jessica Reynolds Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design Pedro Rivera Master of Architecture, Studio-X Global Network, Studio-X Rio de Janeiro Michael Rock Master of Architecture Carsten Rodin Master of Architecture, M.S. Urban Planning Rachely Rotem Master of Architecture Karla Rothstein Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design, Death Lab Lindy Roy Master of Architecture Ana Paula Ruiz Galindo Master of Architecture Hilary Sample Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design Victoria Sanger Master of Architecture Tommy Schaperkotter Master of Architecture Greg Schleusner Master of Architecture Tal Schori Master of Architecture Kevin Schorn Master of Architecture Eva Schreiner Master of Architecture Craig Schwitter Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design, Materials Project Felicity Scott Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design, M.S. Critical, Curatorial & Conceptual Practices, Ph.D. in Architecture Paul Segal Master of Architecture Danielle Smoller Master of Architecture, Intro to Architecture, New York / Paris Galia Solomonoff Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design Oana Stanescu Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design Martino Stierli Master of Architecture Tyler Survant Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design Dan Taeyoung Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design Salim Tamari Master of Architecture Troy Therrien Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design Andreas Tjeldflaat Master of Architecture Ada Tolla Master of Architecture Dimitra Tsachrelia Master of Architecture Bernard Tschumi Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design Lexi Tsien Master of Architecture, M.S. Architecture and Urban Design Marc Tsurumaki Master of Architecture Shanta Tucker Master of Architecture Josh Uhl Master of Architecture, Intro to Architecture Michael Vahrenwald Master of Architecture Ife Vanable Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design, Ph.D. in Architecture David van der Leer Master of Architecture Lorenzo Villaggi Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design Tatiana von Preussen Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design Daniel Vos Master of Architecture Mark Wasiuta Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design, M.S. Critical, Curatorial & Conceptual Practices, Collecting Architecture Territories Trevor Watson Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design Zachary White Master of Architecture Violet Whitney Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design Mark Wigley Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design, Ph.D. in Architecture Lindsey Wikstrom Master of Architecture Amanda Williams Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design Luc Wilson Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design Mabel O. Wilson Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design, Ph.D. in Architecture, Ph.D. in Historic Preservation, Global Africa Lab Chris Woebken Master of Architecture Alexander Wood Master of Architecture Lydia Xynogala Master of Architecture Kim Yao Master of Architecture, M.S. Advanced Architectural Design, M.S. Historic Preservation Naor Ben Yehoyada Master of Architecture, M.S. Architecture and Urban Design Michelle Young Master of Architecture, New York / Paris Andrea Zanderigo Master of Architecture Emmett Zeifman Master of Architecture Jia Zhang Master of Architecture Snoweria Zhang Master of Architecture Spring 2022 Courses Course Semester Title Student Work Instructor Syllabus Requirements & Sequence Location & Time Session & Points Call No. A4002‑1 Spring 2022 Core Architecture Studio II Erica Goetz Architecture Studio 500 NORTH M, W, F 2 PM- 6 PM FULL SEMESTER 9 Points 14177 A4004‑1 Spring 2022 Advanced Studio IV Ziad Jamaleddine Architecture Studio 500 SOUTH M+TH 1:30 PM- 6:30 PM, W 1:30 PM - 3:30 PM FULL SEMESTER 9 Points 14186 A4024‑1 Spring 2022 Architectural Drawing & Representation II Dan Taeyoung, Lorenzo Villaggi, Violet Whitney, Carlo Bailey Visual Studies 113 AVERY, WARE LOUNGE, 115 AVERY, 504 AVERY, 505 AVERY, 300 BUELL NORTH TU 9 AM - 1 PM FULL SEMESTER 3 Points 14272 A4050‑1 Spring 2022 Arch Elective Internship Karen Cover Architecture Elective FULL SEMESTER 1.5 Points 14219 A4102‑1 Spring 2022 Architecture Studio II Benjamin Cadena Architecture Studio 500 NORTH FULL SEMESTER 0 Points 14178 A4102‑2 Spring 2022 Architecture Studio II Karla Rothstein Architecture Studio 500 NORTH FULL SEMESTER 0 Points 14179 A4102‑3 Spring 2022 Architecture Studio II Esteban de Backer Architecture Studio 500 NORTH FULL SEMESTER 0 Points 14180 A4102‑4 Spring 2022 Architecture Studio II Miku Dixit Architecture Studio 500 NORTH FULL SEMESTER 0 Points 14181 A4102‑5 Spring 2022 Architecture Studio II Erica Goetz Architecture Studio 500 NORTH FULL SEMESTER 0 Points 14182 A4102‑6 Spring 2022 Architecture Studio II Lindy Roy Architecture Studio 500 NORTH FULL SEMESTER 0 Points 14183 A4102‑7 Spring 2022 Architecture Studio II Amina Blacksher Architecture Studio 500 NORTH FULL SEMESTER 0 Points 14184 A4102‑8 Spring 2022 Architecture Studio II Carlyle Fraser Architecture Studio 500 NORTH FULL SEMESTER 0 Points 14185 A4104‑1 Spring 2022 Architecture Studio IV Ziad Jamaleddine Architecture Studio 500 SOUTH FULL SEMESTER 0 Points 14187 A4104‑2 Spring 2022 Architecture Studio IV Alessandro Orsini Architecture Studio 500 SOUTH FULL SEMESTER 0 Points 14188 A4104‑3 Spring 2022 Architecture Studio IV Nina Cooke John Architecture Studio 500 SOUTH FULL SEMESTER 0 Points 14189 A4104‑4 Spring 2022 Architecture Studio IV Nahyun Hwang Architecture Studio 500 SOUTH FULL SEMESTER 0 Points 14191 A4104‑5 Spring 2022 Architecture Studio IV Lindsey Wikstrom Architecture Studio 500 SOUTH FULL SEMESTER 0 Points 14192 A4104‑6 Spring 2022 Architecture Studio IV Bryony Roberts Architecture Studio 500 SOUTH FULL SEMESTER 0 Points 14193 A4104‑7 Spring 2022 Architecture Studio IV Robert Marino Architecture Studio 500 SOUTH FULL SEMESTER 0 Points 14194 A4104‑8 Spring 2022 Architecture Studio IV Pedro Rivera, Ubaldo Escalante Architecture Studio 500 SOUTH FULL SEMESTER 0 Points 14195 A4112‑1 Spring 2022 AT II Structures In Architecture Zak Kostura Building Science & Technology Requirement 114 AVERY TH 9 AM-12 PM FULL SEMESTER 3 Points 14334 A4115‑1 Spring 2022 ATV - Construction Systems Nicole Dosso Building Science & Technology Requirement 114 AVERY F 2 PM - 5 PM FULL SEMESTER 3 Points 14335 A4349‑1 Spring 2022 Questions in Architectural History II Nader Vossoughian History & Theory Architecture Required 115 AVERY W 11 AM - 1 PM FULL SEMESTER 3 Points 14251 A4349‑2 Spring 2022 Questions in Architectural History II Alexandra Quantrill History & Theory Architecture Required 300 BUELL SOUTH W 11 AM - 1 PM FULL SEMESTER 3 Points 14252 A4349‑3 Spring 2022 Questions in Architectural History II Ateya Khorakiwala History & Theory Architecture Required WARE LOUNGE W 11 AM - 1 PM FULL SEMESTER 3 Points 14253 A4696‑1 Spring 2022 Advanced Professional Practice Robert Herrmann Architecture Elective 200 BUELL NORTH TU 11 AM - 1 PM FULL SEMESTER 3 Points 15086 A6900‑1 Spring 2022 Research I Danielle Smoller INDEPENDENT STUDY FULL SEMESTER 2-3 Points 14220 A6901‑1 Spring 2022 Research II Danielle Smoller BY APPOINTMENT FULL SEMESTER 2 or 3 Points 14388 A4006‑1 Spring 2022 Advanced Studio VI Mario Gooden Architecture Studio AAD Studio M + TH 600/700 AVERY, W 113 Avery M+TH 1:30 PM- 6:30 PM, W 1:30 PM - 3:30 PM FULL SEMESTER 9 Points 14196 A4106‑1 Spring 2022 Architecture Studio VI Mario Gooden Architecture Studio AAD Studio 600/700 AVERY FULL SEMESTER 0 Points 14197 A4106‑2 Spring 2022 Architecture Studio VI Wonne Ickx Architecture Studio AAD Studio 600/700 AVERY FULL SEMESTER 0 Points 14198 A4106‑3 Spring 2022 Architecture Studio VI Mark Wasiuta Architecture Studio AAD Studio 600/700 AVERY FULL SEMESTER 0 Points 14199 A4106‑4 Spring 2022 Architecture Studio VI Galia Solomonoff Architecture Studio AAD Studio 600/700 AVERY FULL SEMESTER 0 Points 14200 A4106‑5 Spring 2022 Architecture Studio VI Anna Puigjaner Architecture Studio AAD Studio 600/700 AVERY FULL SEMESTER 0 Points 14201 A4106‑6 Spring 2022 Architecture Studio VI Justin Moore, Oscar Oliver-Didier Architecture Studio AAD Studio 600/700 AVERY FULL SEMESTER 0 Points 14202 A4106‑7 Spring 2022 Architecture Studio VI David Benjamin Architecture Studio AAD Studio 600/700 AVERY FULL SEMESTER 0 Points 14203 A4106‑8 Spring 2022 Architecture Studio VI Gary Bates Architecture Studio AAD Studio 600/700 AVERY FULL SEMESTER 0 Points 14204 A4106‑9 Spring 2022 Architecture Studio VI Michael Bell Architecture Studio AAD Studio 600/700 AVERY FULL SEMESTER 0 Points 14205 A4106‑10 Spring 2022 Architecture Studio VI Gordon Kipping Architecture Studio AAD Studio 600/700 AVERY FULL SEMESTER 0 Points 14206 A4106‑11 Spring 2022 Architecture Studio VI Emanuel Admassu Architecture Studio AAD Studio 600/700 AVERY FULL SEMESTER 0 Points 14207 A4106‑12 Spring 2022 Architecture Studio VI Ada Tolla, Giuseppe Lignano Architecture Studio AAD Studio 600/700 AVERY FULL SEMESTER 0 Points 14208 A4106‑13 Spring 2022 Architecture Studio VI Juan Herreros Architecture Studio AAD Studio 600/700 AVERY FULL SEMESTER 0 Points 14209 A4106‑14 Spring 2022 Architecture Studio VI Laura Kurgan Architecture Studio AAD Studio 600/700 AVERY FULL SEMESTER 0 Points 14210 A4106‑15 Spring 2022 Architecture Studio VI Mimi Hoang Architecture Studio AAD Studio 600/700 AVERY FULL SEMESTER 0 Points 14211 A4106‑16 Spring 2022 Architecture Studio VI Stephen Cassell, Annie Barrett Architecture Studio AAD Studio 600/700 AVERY FULL SEMESTER 0 Points 14212 A4106‑17 Spring 2022 Architecture Studio VI Hilary Sample Architecture Studio AAD Studio 600/700 AVERY FULL SEMESTER 0 Points 14213 A4106‑18 Spring 2022 Architecture Studio VI Christoph Kumpusch, Patrice Derrington Architecture Studio AAD Studio 600/700 AVERY FULL SEMESTER 0 Points 14214 A4106‑19 Spring 2022 Architecture Studio VI Laurie Hawkinson Architecture Studio AAD Studio 600/700 AVERY FULL SEMESTER 0 Points 14215 A4124‑1 Spring 2022 Modern Building Technology Theodore Prudon HP Required Building Science & Technology Elective CONSERVATION LAB - 655 SCHERMERHORN F 11 AM - 1 PM FULL SEMESTER 3 Points 14358 A4344‑1 Spring 2022 Sick City: Clinics Hilary Sample Design Seminar Architecture Elective 412 AVERY F 9 AM - 11 AM FULL SEMESTER 3 Points 14217 A4352‑1 Spring 2022 Events in Modern Architecture: Exhibitions Mary McLeod Post-1800 N/W History & Theory 300 BUELL SOUTH W 4 PM - 6 PM FULL SEMESTER 3 Points 17404 A4385‑1 Spring 2022 Arab Modernism(s): Experiments in Housing, 1945-present Yasser Elsheshtawy History & Theory Non-Western Post-1800 S/E 200 BUELL NORTH M 11 AM - 1 PM FULL SEMESTER 3 Points 14254 A4397‑1 Spring 2022 Speculative City: Crisis, Turmoil, and Projections in Architecture David Eugin Moon Design Seminar Architecture Elective 323 FAYERWEATHER W 11 AM - 1 PM FULL SEMESTER 3 Points 14216 A4401‑1 Spring 2022 Pre-1800 China: Melded Architectures Amy Lelyveld Pre-1800 S/E History & Theory 408 AVERY W 11 AM - 1 PM FULL SEMESTER 3 Points 15543 A4508‑1 Spring 2022 Architecture and Money Lucia Allais, Zeynep Celik Alexander Post-1800 S/E History & Theory 930 SCHERMERHORN TU 4:10 - 6 PM FULL SEMESTER 3 Points 14257 A4534‑1 Spring 2022 Techniques of the Ultrareal Phillip Crupi Visual Studies WARE LOUNGE W 7 PM - 9 PM FULL SEMESTER 3 Points 14317 A4566‑1 Spring 2022 Collecting Architecture Territories Mark Wasiuta History & Theory Modern Post-1800 N/W 300 BUELL SOUTH TH 11 AM - 1 PM FULL SEMESTER 3 Points 14263 A4618‑1 Spring 2022 Architecture Concepts from 1968 to the Present Bernard Tschumi Post-1800 N/W History & Theory Modern 412 AVERY TH 11 AM - 1 PM FULL SEMESTER 3 Points 14264 A4635‑1 Spring 2022 Architectural Daylighting Davidson Norris Building Science & Technology Elective 504 AVERY TH 11 AM - 1 PM FULL SEMESTER 3 Points 14340 A4678‑1 Spring 2022 Housing After Scarcity: Policy, Energy, Settlement Michael Bell Post-1800 N/W History & Theory Urban 300 BUELL SOUTH TH 7 PM - 9 PM FULL SEMESTER 3 Points 14265 A4716‑1 Spring 2022 Graphic Architecture Project I: Design and Typography Yoonjai Choi Visual Studies 300 BUELL NORTH TU 6 PM - 9 PM FULL SEMESTER 3 Points 14319 A4815‑1 Spring 2022 X Information Modeling I Luc Wilson, Snoweria Zhang Visual Studies Building Science & Technology Elective WARE LOUNGE TH 9 AM - 11 AM FULL SEMESTER 3 Points 14320 A4834‑1 Spring 2022 Datamining the City I Richard Chou Visual Studies 114 AVERY W 7 PM - 9 PM FULL SEMESTER 3 Points 14322 A4845‑1 Spring 2022 Generative Design I Danil Nagy Visual Studies Building Science & Technology Elective 114 AVERY TU 9 AM - 11 AM FULL SEMESTER 3 Points 14324 A4849‑1 Spring 2022 Healthy Building Materials Catherine Murphy Building Science & Technology Elective 409 AVERY W 11 AM - 1 PM FULL SEMESTER 3 Points 14342 A4854‑1 Spring 2022 If Buildings Could Talk: Using Art + Tech to Better Connect Buildings to Their Urban Environment Sharon Ayalon Building Science & Technology Elective 409 AVERY M 11 AM - 1 PM FULL SEMESTER 3 Points 14364 A4859‑1 Spring 2022 The Outside in Project Galia Solomonoff, Laurie Hawkinson Building Science & Technology Elective WARE TH 11 AM - 1 PM FULL SEMESTER 3 Points 14344 A4860‑1 Spring 2022 Model Fictions: The Technologies of Film and Production Design in Architecture Joshua Jordan Visual Studies Building Science & Technology Elective 115 AVERY W 7 PM - 9 PM FULL SEMESTER 3 Points 14347 A4866‑1 Spring 2022 Modernism & The Vernacular Mary McLeod Post-1800 N/W S/E History & Theory Modern Non-Western 300 BUELL SOUTH TU 11 AM - 1 PM FULL SEMESTER 3 Points 14266 A4872‑1 Spring 2022 Architectural Arguments: Buildings and Rhetoric in the Age of Media Eva Hagberg Post-1800 S/E History & Theory 300 Avery TU 11 AM - 1 PM FULL SEMESTER 3 Points 15554 A4874‑1 Spring 2022 Construction Ecologies in the Anthropocene Tommy Schaperkotter Building Science & Technology Elective 300 AVERY F 9 AM - 11 AM FULL SEMESTER 3 Points 14353 A4975‑1 Spring 2022 Seminar of Section Marc Tsurumaki Visual Studies 408 AVERY TH 11 AM - 1 PM FULL SEMESTER 3 Points 14325 A4980‑1 Spring 2022 Virtual Architecture: World Building and Virtual Reality Workshop Nitzan Bartov Visual Studies WARE LOUNGE TU 7 PM - 9 PM FULL SEMESTER 3 Points 14326 A6769‑1 Spring 2022 Histories of American Cities Jennifer Gray Post-1800 N/W History & Theory American Urban 114 AVERY M 9 AM - 1 PM SES B 3 Points 14268 A6801‑1 Spring 2022 Structural Daring + the Sublime Rory O'Neill Pre-1800 N/W History & Theory Pre-1750 412 AVERY W 11 AM - 1 PM FULL SEMESTER 3 Points 14269 A6871‑1 Spring 2022 The Urban Image: Maps, Surveys, and Plans in 20th Century Urbanism Benedict Clouette Post-1800 N/W History & Theory 408 AVERY TU 9 AM - 11 AM FULL SEMESTER 3 Points 15563 A4389‑1 Spring 2022 (Un) Modern: Ex-Centric Latin@/X Spatial Practices Luis E. Carranza Post-1800 S/E History & Theory Non-Western 408 AVERY M 11 AM - 1 PM FULL SEMESTER 3 Points 14255 A4444‑1 Spring 2022 Façade Detailing: A Material Understanding Kevin Schorn Building Science & Technology Elective 409 AVERY TH 9 AM - 11 AM FULL SEMESTER 3 Points 14336 A4688‑1 Spring 2022 Recombinant Urbanism David Grahame Shane Post-1800 N/W Urban Design Seminar Urban WARE LOUNGE M 9 AM - 11 AM FULL SEMESTER 3 Points 14224 A4715‑1 Spring 2022 Re-Thinking BIM Joseph Brennan Visual Studies Building Science & Technology Elective WARE TH 7 PM - 9 PM FULL SEMESTER 3 Points 14318 A4987‑1 Spring 2022 Architectural Photography: From the Models to the Built World Michael Vahrenwald Visual Studies 115 AVERY F 9 AM - 11 AM FULL SEMESTER 3 Points 14327 A4988‑1 Spring 2022 Coding for Spatial Practices Celeste Layne Visual Studies 114 AVERY TU 7 PM - 9 PM FULL SEMESTER 3 Points 14328 A4995‑1 Spring 2022 Power Tools Lexi Tsien, Jelisa Blumberg Visual Studies 409 AVERY M 9 AM - 11 AM FULL SEMESTER 3 Points 14332 A6702‑1 Spring 2022 Investigative Techniques Amanda Thomas Trienens Building Science & Technology Elective HP Elective CONSERVATION LAB - 655 SCHERMERHORN W 1 PM - 3 PM FULL SEMESTER 3 Points 14370 A6705‑1 Spring 2022 Housing Depression-Era New York Andrew Dolkart Post-1800 N/W History & Theory HP Elective 200 BUELL NORTH W 11 AM - 1 PM FULL SEMESTER 3 Points 14372 A6815‑1 Spring 2022 Public Space: Rhetorics + Practices David Smiley Post-1800 N/W Urban Design Seminar History & Theory Urban UD Required 408 AVERY TU 11 AM - 1 PM FULL SEMESTER 3 Points 14223 A6414‑1 Spring 2022 Digital Heritage Documentation Bilge Kose Building Science & Technology Elective HP Elective CONSERVATION LAB - 655 SCHERMERHORN W 4 PM - 6 PM FULL SEMESTER 3 Points 14367 A4047‑1 Spring 2022 Immeasurable Cities Emanuel Admassu Urban Design Seminar Real Estate Elective HP Elective Architecture Elective UP Elective Urban Design Elective 504 AVERY W 11 AM - 1 PM FULL SEMESTER 3 Points 15212 A4890‑1 Spring 2022 Conflict Urbanism Laura Kurgan Post-1800 N/W History & Theory 200 BUELL NORTH W 9 AM - 11 AM FULL SEMESTER 3 Points 14267 A4063‑1 Spring 2022 Points Unknown: Cartographic Narratives Juan Saldarriaga, Michael Krisch Visual Studies WARE LOUNGE F 11 AM - 1 PM FULL SEMESTER 3 Points 14302 A4122‑1 Spring 2022 Mapping For Architecture Urbanism and Humanities Juan Moreno Visual Studies 408 AVERY F 9 AM - 11 AM FULL SEMESTER 3 Points 14314 A4135‑1 Spring 2022 Urban Ecology + Design Gena Wirth, Matt Palmer Urban Design Seminar 311 FAYERWEATHER F 11 AM - 1 PM FULL SEMESTER 3 Points 15539 A4407‑1 Spring 2022 Methods in Spatial Research Dare Brawley Visual Studies WARE LOUNGE F 9 AM - 11 AM SES A 1.5 Points 15214 A4861‑1 Spring 2022 Footprint: Carbon and Design David Benjamin Building Science & Technology Elective Architecture Elective 409 AVERY TH 11 AM - 1 PM FULL SEMESTER 3 Points 14350 A6886‑1 Spring 2022 Building the Engine: Industry + the African Urban Agenda Fatou Dieye Real Estate Elective Building Science & Technology Elective HP Elective International 409 AVERY F 9 AM - 1 PM SES B 3 Points 15213 See all Architecture Events Apr 22, 1pm Writing Architectural History: Evidence and Narrative in the Twenty-First Century Avery 114 & Zoom Apr 4, 6:30pm Sean Connelly Wood Auditorium Apr 4, 11:15am Tim Michiels Avery Hall Mar 28, 6:30pm Galia Solomonoff Wood Auditorium Mar 23, 1pm Working with Cove.tool Virtual Feb 16, 11am Unzipped Embodiments M323 FAYERWEATHER Feb 14, 11am Dan Lockton Virtual Feb 7, 11am Tenlie Mourning Avery 412 Nov 22, 2021, 6:30pm Postponed: Amale Andraos Wood Auditorium, Virtual Nov 15, 2021, 6:30pm Postponed: Brigitte Shim Virtual Nov 12, 2021, 1pm Postponed: Towards a Practice Virtual Nov 8, 2021, 12pm AAU Anastas Virtual Nov 3, 2021, 6:30pm Wonne Ickx Room 114, Virtual Oct 18, 2021, 6:30pm MAIO Wood Auditorium, Virtual Oct 8, 2021, 1pm Beirut Wood Auditorium, Virtual Oct 7, 2021, 12:30pm Imagining the Evident Virtual Oct 4, 2021, 12pm Mariam Kamara 114, Virtual Sep 27, 2021, 6:30pm Wanda Dalla Costa Wood Auditorium, Virtual Sep 24, 2021, 1pm WIP Collaborative: Women in Practice | Work in Progress Wood Auditorium, Virtual Sep 22, 2021, 6:30pm Charles L Davis II Wood Auditorium, Virtual May 14, 2021, 1pm Knowledge Worlds Virtual Mar 29, 2021, 6pm Mabel O. Wilson Virtual Mar 25, 2021, 11am Setting Out on Your Own: Challenges and Opportunities Virtual Mar 22, 2021, 6pm Ekene Ijeoma Virtual Mar 19, 2021, 1pm Infrastructures of Violence Virtual Mar 17, 2021, 6pm Gabrielle Bullock Virtual Mar 15, 2021, 6pm Nader Tehrani Virtual Mar 11, 2021, 11am Equity & Justice Issues with the Architecture Profession Virtual Mar 10, 2021, 11am Healthy Building Materials Virtual Mar 9, 2021, 5pm Ronald Rael Virtual Feb 15, 2021, 6pm The Detlef Mertins Lecture on the Histories of Modernity Ana María León Virtual Feb 9, 2021, 5pm Matthew Mehalik Virtual Feb 8, 2021, 6pm Teddy Cruz and Fonna Forman Virtual Feb 3, 2021, 5pm Karenna Gore Virtual Feb 1, 2021, 6pm Francis Kéré Virtual Jan 26, 2021, 5pm Timothy Beatley Virtual Jan 22, 2021, 1pm Edward Mazria Virtual Jan 17, 2021, 6:30pm Graphics Project Workshop Day 2: Portfolio and Photography Virtual Jan 16, 2021, 6:30pm Graphics Project Workshop Day 1: WSDIA and 2x4 Virtual Jan 3, 2021, 12am Application Deadline for Master of Architecture Dec 30, 2020, 7pm MARCH Admissions Open Session 2 Virtual Dec 30, 2020, 9am MARCH Admissions Open Session 1 Virtual Nov 23, 2020, 6pm Toshiko Mori Virtual Nov 17, 2020, 11am The Warmth and Wisdom of Mud Buildings Virtual Nov 16, 2020, 6pm The Kenneth Frampton Endowed Lecture: Tatiana Bilbao Virtual Nov 13, 2020, 5:30pm Gloria Cabral Virtual Nov 9, 2020, 6pm Majora Carter Virtual Oct 26, 2020, 6pm L.E.FT Virtual Oct 16, 2020, 5:30pm Destin Jenkins Virtual Oct 12, 2020, 6pm Al Borde Virtual Sep 30, 2020, 6pm Lola Ben-Alon Virtual Sep 28, 2020, 6pm Yasmeen Lari Virtual Sep 14, 2020, 6pm Stephen Burks Virtual Aug 13, 2020, 4pm Spatial User Experience and Telepresence Virtual Jul 28, 2020, 11am 3D Scanning in Architecture Virtual Lecture Jul 27, 2020, 11am Greater Than the Sum of its Parts: A Shared History of Collaboration Virtual Lecture Jul 23, 2020, 3pm Building Sovereign Systems Virtual Jul 23, 2020, 12am Transscalarities: Arenas of Design Virtual Jul 20, 2020, 11am Model-journalism: Making and Photography Virtual Lecture Jul 16, 2020, 11am Composite Models Virtual Lecture Jul 15, 2020, 12pm Reinhold Martin: History/Theory Sequence Virtual Jul 14, 2020, 11am Time and Section in Architectural Representation Virtual Lecture Jul 9, 2020, 11am Color: Outside the Lines Virtual Lecture Jul 8, 2020, 11am Posting and Posing: Social media, activism and the contemporary practice Virtual Lecture Jul 7, 2020, 12:30pm The Architectural Drawing Virtual Lecture Jul 1, 2020, 12am Center for Spatial Research: Current Work Virtual Jun 26, 2020, 1pm GSAPP Skill Trails Virtual Discussion Jun 22, 2020, 7:01pm Preparing 3D Models for Web and Photogrammetry Virtual Lecture Jun 11, 2020, 12pm Anna Puigjaner: M.Arch Core I Studio Virtual Apr 17, 2020, 3pm Advanced Architecture Studio VI Supercrit Virtual Lecture Apr 7, 2020, 12am Broadcast: Anna Puigjaner Virtual Lecture Apr 1, 2020, 12am Open Course: Le Corbusier Virtual Lecture Mar 11, 2020, 6:30pm Life in Proximity to Death Avery Hall, Room 114 Feb 26, 2020, 11am Peder Anker Fayerweather 323 Feb 17, 2020, 6:30pm Emre Arolat & Zeyep Arolat - POSTPONED Wood Auditorium, Avery Hall Feb 14, 2020, 1pm Stone Men 114, Avery Hall Feb 10, 2020, 6:30pm Carme Pinós Wood Auditorium, Avery Hall Feb 7, 2020, 1pm The GSAPP Incubator Prize 114, Avery Hall Feb 3, 2020, 6:30pm Jesse Reiser Wood Auditorium, Avery Hall Jan 27, 2020, 6:30pm Bjarke Ingels Wood Auditorium, Avery Hall Nov 25, 2019, 2pm Architecture Programs Online Info Session Nov 22, 2019, 1pm “Public Works for a Green New Deal” Supercrit Wood Auditorium Nov 16, 2019, 10am Arch & UD Professional Portfolio Workshop Faculty House, 64 Morningside Dr., NYC Nov 15, 2019, 1pm Ruralism Dialogues 114, Avery Hall Nov 8, 2019, 4pm Thomas Thwaites Wood Auditorium, Avery Hall Oct 21, 2019, 10am Prospective Student Open House 2019 Avery Hall Oct 10, 2019, 6:30pm GSAPP Faculty on Housing – Big Ideas for Small Lots Ware Lounge, Avery Hall Aug 2, 2019, 5pm Benevolent Intentions: Makassed, Patron of Modern Architecture Saleh Barakat Gallery, Beirut, Lebanon Apr 18, 2019, 1pm The Studio Prize Ware Lounge, Avery Hall Mar 27, 2019, 11am Transactional Archiurbanism 504 Avery Hall Feb 11, 2019, 6:30pm Pedro y Juana Wood Auditorium, Avery Hall Feb 9, 2019, 10am Architecture and Urban Design Career Fair Faculty House, 64 Morningside Dr. Jan 28, 2019, 6:30pm Buromoscow Wood Auditorium Nov 30, 2018, 3pm Transfer Dialogues Wood Auditorium Nov 16, 2018, 9:30am Acts of Design: New Housing Paradigms in North America Wood Auditorium, Avery Hall Nov 12, 2018, 4pm Lecture and Workshop with Luis Úrculo Avery Hall, Room 114 Nov 10, 2018, 10am Arch & UD Professional Portfolio Review Brownie’s Cafe, Avery Hall Nov 9, 2018, 4pm Lecture and Workshop with Photographer Michael Vahrenwald Avery Hall, Room 114 Oct 22, 2018, 6:30pm David Benjamin Wood Auditorium, Avery Hall Oct 22, 2018, 12am Prospective Student Open House Avery Hall Apr 11, 2018, 6:30pm Two Sides of the Border: Reimagining the Region Wood Auditorium, Avery Hall Apr 10, 2018, 6:30pm Architecture & Urban Design Student and Alumni Speed Networking Faculty House Apr 10, 2018, 11am Art, Architecture, and Capital Flows in the Ruins of New York Avery Hall, Room 505 Apr 9, 2018, 10am Admitted Student Open House - Architecture, AAD, CCCP and Urban Design Avery Hall Mar 28, 2018, 4pm Design Earth Wood Auditorium Mar 21, 2018, 3pm Neeraj Bhatia: Territory and Form Wood Auditorium, Avery Hall Mar 2, 2018, 1:30pm Mapping Borderlands 200S Fayerweather Feb 17, 2018, 10am Architecture and Urban Design Career Fair Faculty House Feb 16, 2018, 1pm VizTech: Converging Pedagogies + Practices Wood Auditorium, Avery Hall Feb 13, 2018, 11am Sean Anderson Avery Hall 505 Feb 9, 2018, 10am Architecture and Urban Design Career Fair Faculty House, 64 Morningside Dr. Jan 28, 2018, 1pm Graphics Project Talks Day 2 Wood Auditorium Jan 27, 2018, 1pm Graphics Project Talks Day 1 Wood Auditorium Jan 26, 2018, 6pm Graphics Project: Architecture Unbound Wood Auditorium Nov 18, 2017, 10am Arch & UD Professional Portfolio Review Brownie’s Cafe Nov 17, 2017, 9:30am Constructing Practice Wood Auditorium, Avery Hall Nov 8, 2017, 6:30pm The Kenneth Frampton Endowed Lecture: Rahul Mehrotra Wood Auditorium, Avery Hall May 13, 2017, 4pm GSAPP Graduation South Lawn, Columbia University Apr 14, 2017, 1pm Cooking Sections: The Empire Remains Shop Ware Lounge, Avery Hall Apr 7, 2017, 1pm Cities and Climate Action: New Orleans, Rio, NYC Avery Hall, Wood Auditorium Apr 4, 2017, 1:30pm The Studio Prize 200 S Fayerweather Mar 24, 2017, 3pm Transfer Dialogues: Madrid - Ljubljana Wood Auditorium Feb 15, 2017, 3pm In Pursuit of an Architectural Urbanism / Rescripting Urban Systems 114 Avery Hall Feb 11, 2017, 10am Arch & UD Internship Career Fair Brownie’s Cafe Feb 10, 2017, 9:30am Architecture + Technology: Pedagogy in an Age of Disruption Wood Auditorium Feb 8, 2017, 1pm Thinking Strategically About Your Firm Avery 114 Nov 21, 2016, 6:30pm Anupama Kundoo Wood Auditorium Nov 19, 2016, 10am Professional Portfolio Review Brownie’s Cafe Nov 17, 2016, 6:30pm Gregg Pasquarelli, SHoP Wood Auditorium Nov 14, 2016, 6:30pm Fulong Wu Wood Auditorium Nov 9, 2016, 6:30pm POSTPONED: Frampton Lecture Wood Auditorium Oct 24, 2016, 6:30pm Emilio Ambasz Wood Auditorium Oct 17, 2016, 6:30pm Laurel Consuelo Broughton (Welcome Projects) and Andrew Kovacs (Archive of Affinities) Wood Auditorium Oct 10, 2016, 6:30pm Walter Hood Design Wood Auditorium Sep 26, 2016, 6:30pm Nieto Sobejano Arquitectos Wood Auditorium Sep 21, 2016, 6pm Designing Your Future, Creating Value in Your Career 200 South Fayerweather Sep 19, 2016, 6:30pm Design, Bitches Wood Auditorium Sep 9, 2016, 6:30pm Vincent De Rijk Wood Auditorium Jun 27, 2016, 7pm Two Perspectives on the Urban Village: Stefan Al & Jonathan Bach Ware Lounge, Avery Hall May 14, 2016, 6pm End of Year Show Opening Avery Hall May 2, 2016, 6:30pm Distributive Property Avery Hall, Room 114 Apr 11, 2016, 6:30pm The Paul S. Byard Memorial Lecture: “Staying in Character,” Tod Williams and Billie Tsien, Wood Auditorium Apr 9, 2016, 10am Graduating Student Career Fair Brownie’s Cafe Apr 4, 2016, 6:30pm Kengo Kuma Wood Auditorium Mar 28, 2016, 4:30pm Johnston Marklee Wood Auditorium Mar 28, 2016, 12pm Salary Talk Ware Lounge Mar 25, 2016, 1pm Assemble Wood Auditorium Mar 11, 2016, 7pm A Genealogy of Modern Architecture: Book Launch and Reception Housing Works, 126 Crosby Street Mar 8, 2016, 2pm Toyo Ito, Kazuyo Sejima, Sou Fujimoto, Akihisa Hirata, and Junya Ishigami in Conversation Wood Auditorium Feb 20, 2016, 10am Resilience by Design University, Day 2 20 Cooper Square, 2nd Floor Feb 19, 2016, 7pm Alumni Speed Networking Reception Low Library Feb 19, 2016, 10am Resilience by Design University Wood Auditorium Feb 13, 2016, 10am Internship Career Fair Brownie’s Cafe Feb 12, 2016, 1pm Architecture In Print: New Editorial Manifestos Ware Lounge Feb 5, 2016, 1pm The Spatial Impact Of Forced Migration: Implications For Urban Scholarship And Practice Ware Lounge Feb 2, 2016, 6:30pm Perspectives on Practice 200 Fayerweather Show More Architecture News May 26 Brianna Nichole Love '24 MArch featured among Architectural Digest's NYCxDesign 2022 Highlights May 25 Faculty Dahlia Nduom receives Graham Foundation grant for "Tourism, Tropicalization and the Architectural Image" project May 24 Assistant Professor Emanuel Admassu ‘12 MSAAD ‘13 AAR receives Graham Foundation grant for "Where is Africa" publication, co-edited together with Anita N. Bateman May 24 Faculty Luis E. Carranza co-curates Barragán Archive exhibition at Vitra Design Museum May 20 Faculty Galen Pardee '16 M.Arch publishes Harlem Studio designed by his office Drawing Agency on ArchDaily May 20 Interim MArch Program Director and Professor Mario Gooden '90 M.Arch delivers talk and presents work at “Thinking Through Mediums," organized by Stockholm University’s International Master's Programme in Curating Art May 17 Professor and Dean Emerita Amale Andraos and Faculty Dan Wood '92 M.Arch featured in "I Would Prefer Not To" podcast May 16 Assistant Professor Ziad Jamaleddine publishes a review of the book "The Art of Orientation. An Exploration of the Mosque through Objects" in the journal "21: Inquiries into Art, History, and the Visual " May 12 Assistant Professor Lola Ben-Alon speaks at the "Plastic. Remaking our world" event organized as part of NYCxDESIGN May 5 Professor Laura Kurgan receives Columbia University's 2022 Faculty Mentoring Award Show More Dual Degrees Master of Architecture & M.S. in Historic Preservation Master of Architecture & M.S. in Urban Planning Master of Architecture & M.S. in Critical, Curatorial & Conceptual Practices in Architecture Master of Architecture & M.S. in Real Estate Development See more Other Architecture Programs at GSAPP M.S. Advanced Architectural Design A three-term program that provides outstanding young professionals who hold a B.Arch or M.Arch the opportunity to enter into an intensive, postgraduate study. M.S. Computational Design Practices M.S. Critical, Curatorial & Conceptual Practices A two-year, full-time course of intensive academic study and independent research. Ph.D. in Architecture The doctoral program addresses the development of modern architectural form and ideas as they have been affected by social, economic, and technological change. New York / Paris A one-year intensive liberal arts program with a strong studio component, focused on the design issues of these two cities. Intro to Architecture A summer pre-professional program Columbia University Graduate School of Architecture, Planning and Preservation 1172 Amsterdam Avenue New York, New York 10027 (212) 854-3414 Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Please click here to sign up for occasional emails © 2022 Columbia University / Colophon