Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search About Us UM Public Health in Action Department Events Message from the Chair Mission, Vision and Goals Quick Facts Accreditation Photo Gallery Get To Know Us Viewbook Divisions Biostatistics Environment & Public Health Epidemiology & Population Health Sciences Health Services Research & Policy Prevention Science & Community Health Faculty & Staff Primary Faculty Secondary Faculty Voluntary Faculty Emeritus Faculty Postdocs Administrative Staff Graduate Programs Staff Research COVID-19 Research Research Areas Research Highlights Research Centers Research Labs Research Collaborations Community Partnerships News UM COVID-19 Information News Releases 2021 COVID-19 Impact Report Department Newsletter Graduate Programs Newsletter Public Health News Homepage News Archive Admissions Graduate Studies About Graduate Studies Admissions Academic Programs Current Students Alumni Viewbook About Us Divisions Faculty & Staff Research News Admissions Graduate Studies Search About Us UM Public Health in Action Department Events Message from the Chair Mission, Vision and Goals Quick Facts Accreditation Photo Gallery Get To Know Us Viewbook Divisions Biostatistics Environment & Public Health Epidemiology & Population Health Sciences Health Services Research & Policy Prevention Science & Community Health Faculty & Staff Primary Faculty Secondary Faculty Voluntary Faculty Emeritus Faculty Postdocs Administrative Staff Graduate Programs Staff Research COVID-19 Research Research Areas Research Highlights Research Centers Research Labs Research Collaborations Community Partnerships News UM COVID-19 Information News Releases 2021 COVID-19 Impact Report Department Newsletter Graduate Programs Newsletter Public Health News Homepage News Archive Admissions Graduate Studies About Graduate Studies Admissions Academic Programs Current Students Alumni Viewbook GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply Home Divisions AAA Biostatistics Division Numbers: The Building Blocks of Health Research Numbers support, numbers communicate and numbers convince. This collection of numbers in the 21st century are known as Big Data, which are data that move fast and come in large quantities, requiring new methods of analysis. Our biostatistics faculty are at the cutting edge, developing novel methods to analyze, process and extract value from the data, finding ways to visualize numbers to communicate findings. The goal is to transform data sets into useful and understandable information and to ensure that studies are designed correctly. From genetics, HIV, diabetes to cancer, our biostatisticians tackle today's challenges and train tomorrow's researchers. COVID-19 Projects Academics Faculty Postdocs Research Ph.D. Dissertation Defenses Student and Alumni Spotlights Biostatistics Collaboration and Consulting Core (BCCC) Division Events Video M.S. in Biostatistics The Master of Science in Biostatistics is an applied one-year program intended for quantitative students seeking training in applied biostatistics. The program emphasizes applications and understanding of statistical concepts rather than theoretical and mathematical principles. LEARN MORE Ph.D. in Biostatistics The Ph.D. in Biostatistics, offered through the Division of Biostatistics in the Department of Public Health Sciences at the Miller School of Medicine, provides a flexible curriculum to cover the basics. Depending on their background, a student will follow either a Track A and Track B stream to completion of the Ph.D. LEARN MORE Biostatistics Recruitment – Spanish Version Learn about the various reasons to study biostatistics at UM, including the outstanding and accessible faculty, research opportunities, location in Miami, and more. LEARN MORE Learn More For information regarding Division projects and initiatives, please contact Dr. Sunil Rao, Dr. Hemant Ishwaran and Dr. Tulay Koru-Sengul at jrao@med.miami.edu, hishwaran@med.miami.edu and tsengul@med.miami.edu. For program inquiries regarding the M.S. and Ph.D. in Biostatistics, please contact Andria Williams and Heather Rose at alw157@med.miami.edu and hrose@med.miami.edu. Contact Information University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Department of Public Health Sciences 1120 NW 14th Street, CRB 919 Miami, FL 33136 305-243-8331 305-243-8331 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram social-flickr social-linkedin Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices