Skip To Main Content Report an Accessibility Barrier The Department for Disability Support Services Search | Menu Search Resources Email Canvas Banner PiratePort PirateID IT Help Videoconferencing Engage Work Request Directory Maps Virtual Tour A-Z Index Academic Calendar Event Calendar Catalog PRR Catalog A-Z Recently Updated Interim Repealed About Policy Sources University Policy Committee Help PRRs> Governance and Administration> Board of Trustees> Board of Trustees Bylaws - Version 4 Board of Trustees Bylaws Version 4 (Current Version) Print All Versions: Version 1 Version 2 Version 3 Current Version Compare 2 Versions Policy POL01.05.01 Title Board of Trustees Bylaws Category Governance and Administration Sub-category Board of Trustees Authority Board of Trustees History Adopted July 8, 1993; Amended September 27, 1996; March 7, 1997; October 9, 1998; December 10, 1999; March 16, 2001; July 23, 2002; October 18, 2002; July 20, 2003; May 7, 2004; December 16, 2005; May 5, 2006; August 22, 2007; April 15, 2011; April 19, 2013; Transitioned to Policy Manual August 29, 2014; Amended April 20, 2018. Amended September 13, 2019. Amended November 22, 2019. Amended April 29, 2022. Contact Assistant Secretary to the Board of Trustees (252) 328 - 6105 Related Policies Additional References UNC Code Section 402B ARTICLE I. ORGANIZATION Section 101 Membership (A) EAST CAROLINA UNIVERSITY shall have a Board of Trustees composed of thirteen (13) persons chosen as follows: (a) eight elected by the Board of Governors of The University of North Carolina, (b) four appointed by the General Assembly, two of whom shall be appointed upon the recommendation of the President Pro Tempore of the Senate, and two of whom shall be appointed upon the recommendation of the Speaker of the House of Representatives; and (c) the president of the student body ex-officio. (B) In every odd-numbered year, the Board of Governors shall elect four persons to the Board of Trustees and the General Assembly shall appoint one person upon the recommendation of the President Pro Tempore of the Senate, and one person upon the recommendation of the Speaker of the House of Representatives to the Board of Trustees; and the term of office of all such elected or appointed trustees (excluding the ex-officio trustee) shall commence on July 1 of such odd-numbered year and shall be for four years and until the successor is elected or appointed. (C) Whenever any vacancy occurs in the membership of the Board of Trustees among those appointed by the General Assembly, it shall be the duty of the secretary of the Board of Trustees to inform the General Assembly of the existence of such vacancy, and the vacancy shall be filled as provided in G.S. 120-122, and whenever any vacancy occurs among those elected by the Board of Governors, it shall be the duty of the secretary of the Board of Trustees to inform the Board of Governors of the existence of the vacancy, and the Board of Governors shall elect a person to fill the unexpired term. If for any reason other than ill health or service in the interest of the State or nation, a member fails to be physically present for three successive regular meetings of the Board of Trustees, his/her place as a member shall be deemed vacant. (D) Any person who has served two full four-year terms in succession as a member of the Board of Trustees shall be ineligible, for a period of one year, for election or appointment to the Board of Trustees but may be elected or appointed to the board of another institution. (E) No member of the General Assembly or officer or employee of the State, the University of North Carolina (UNC), or of any constituent institution of UNC or spouse of any such member, officer or employee shall be eligible for election or appointment as a member of the Board of Trustees. Any trustee who is elected or appointed to the General Assembly or who becomes an officer or employee of the State, UNC, or of any constituent institution of UNC or whose spouse is elected or appointed to the General Assembly or becomes such an officer or employee shall be deemed thereupon to have resigned as a member of the Board of Trustees. (F) No person may serve simultaneously as a member of the Board of Trustees and as a member of the Board of Governors. Any trustee who is elected or appointed to the Board of Governors shall be deemed to have resigned as a trustee effective as of that date that his/her term commences as a member of the Board of Governors. Section 102 Officer Nominations and Elections (A) At the first regular meeting after June 30 of each year, the Board of Trustees shall elect from its membership a chair, a vice chair, and a secretary, each for a term of one (1) year (See G.S. 116-32) and each shall serve until his or her successor is elected. In no event shall officer elections take place before July 1, or before the swearing in of new board members whose terms commence on July 1. Any member of the Board of Trustees who is or who shall be duly appointed and sworn in at the time of the election shall be eligible to serve as an officer, regardless of length of service on the Board of Trustees. Elections shall be conducted such that each member of the Board of Trustees, including newly appointed members, can fully participate in the nomination, consideration, and election of officers. Any nominating committee convening prior to July 1 to determine a slate of officer candidates may include members who have been appointed but have not yet been sworn in but may not include current members whose terms end June 30 and who have not been reappointed. If the term of the chair expires before his or her successor as chair is elected, then the vice chair shall become the interim chair until the chair's successor is elected. If the terms of the chair and the vice chair on the Board of Trustees both expire on June 30 of that year, the secretary will serve as interim chair until elections are held. If the terms of the chair, the vice chair, and the secretary all expire on June 30 of that year, the assistant secretary of the Board will notify the Executive Committee prior to June 30 of that year and, prior to June 30, the Executive Committee will nominate a trustee to be presented for approval by the Board prior to June 30 to serve as interim chair from July 1 until elections for the year's term are held at the first regular meeting of the Board after June 30. (B) Officers may serve no more than two full terms in the same office. (C) Nominations and elections shall be conducted separately and in the following order: chair, vice chair, and secretary. The chair of the nominating committee will place in nomination the officer candidates selected by the nominating committee. Beyond those nominations provided by the nominations committee, any trustee may nominate a candidate for any office. Once a quorum is established, voting can be by show of hands, voice vote, roll-call vote, or written ballot, at the discretion of the chair of the Board of Trustees. All written ballots must be signed by the trustee casting the ballot, retained by the assistant secretary and open for public inspection until the meeting minutes are approved, and documented in the meeting minutes by listing the vote of each Trustee voting. (D) If a vacancy occurs in the office of chair during a term, the vice chair shall succeed to the office of chair for the remainder of the unexpired term. Vacancies in the office of vice chair or secretary during their terms shall be filled by election by the Board of Trustees, and persons so elected shall serve for the remainder of the unexpired term. (E) The Board of Trustees may also elect an assistant secretary from among the members of the Chancellor's staff. Copies of all minutes, papers and documents of the Board of Trustees may be certified by the assistant secretary with the same force and effect as though such certification were made by the secretary of the Board. Section 103 Committees (A) The Chair, with the approval of the Board of Trustees, shall establish the standing committees of the Board and identify their duties and jurisdiction consistent with any requirements of the UNC Board of Governors. The chair or the Board of Trustees with an approved motion may establish ad hoc committees with specific duties and jurisdictions as needed. No such committee shall have authority to take final action on behalf of or that is binding upon the Board of Trustees if the committee includes members that are not members of the Board of Trustees. The members and chairs of all committees shall be appointed and may be removed by the Chair of the Board of Trustees. Persons appointed to any committee of the Board who are not trustees, including any ex officio (voting) member, shall be subject to conduct requirements that may be established by the Board of Trustees regarding conflicts of interest and other standards similar to those applicable to members of the Board of Trustees. (B) Every member of the Board of Trustees shall be allowed to attend every meeting of each committee of the Board. The chair of each committee of the Board shall ensure that notice of every meeting is provided to every member of the Board of Trustees, the Chancellor, and the Assistant Secretary of the Board. Section 104 Endowment Fund Board The Trustees of the Endowment Fund Board shall consist of six members, one of whom shall be the Chair of the Board of Trustees, who shall serve as the ex-officio Chair of the Endowment Fund Board; one of whom shall be the Chancellor; one of whom shall be the Vice Chair of the Board of Trustees; and three of whom shall be elected by the Board of Trustees. One of those elected may be (but need not be) a member of the Board of Trustees and the other two shall be members of the Investment Committee of the ECU Foundation. The terms of the three elected members shall be for staggered three-year terms. The Trustees of the Endowment Fund Board shall make decisions concerning the receipt and administering of Endowment Fund gifts and property bequests, exclusive always of monies received through State appropriations and from tuition and fees. The Endowment Fund Board shall function in accordance with North Carolina General Statute 116-36 and regulations of the Board of Governors of the University of North Carolina. ARTICLE II POWERS AND DUTIES Section 201 General Powers and Duties The Board of Trustees shall promote the sound development of East Carolina University within the functions prescribed for it, helping it to serve the people of the State in a way that will complement the activities of the other institutions and aiding it to perform at a high level of excellence in every area of endeavor. The Board of Trustees shall serve as advisor to the Board of Governors on matters pertaining to East Carolina University and shall also serve as advisor to the Chancellor concerning the management and development of the institution. Section 202 Other Powers and Duties The Board of Trustees shall have such other powers and duties, not inconsistent with provisions of The Code of The University of North Carolina or as defined and delegated by the Board of Governors. ARTICLE III MEETINGS Section 301 Regular Meetings There shall be not fewer than three (3) regular meetings of the Board of Trustees each year. At each regular meeting a tentative date shall be announced for the next regular meeting. The Chair of the Board, in consultation with the Chancellor, is authorized to change the date of any meeting if necessary because of schedule conflicts, provided that immediate notice of the new meeting date is provided to the members of the Board at least seven (7) days in advance of the new meeting date. A notice specifying the time and place of each regular meeting of the Board shall be transmitted electronically or delivered physically by the Secretary or Assistant Secretary to each member of the Board at least seven (7) days in advance of the meeting date. Any matter of business may be considered at a regular meeting of the Board. Section 302 Special and Emergency Meetings A special meeting of the Board of Trustees may be called by the Chair and shall be called by the Secretary or Assistant Secretary upon the written request of not fewer than six (6) members of the Board. A special meeting called by the Secretary or Assistant Secretary shall be held within ten (10) days of receipt by the Secretary or Assistant Secretary of the sixth written request for such special meeting. A notice specifying the time and place of a special meeting of the Board shall be provided electronically by the Secretary or Assistant Secretary to each member of the Board at least forty-eight (48) hours in advance of the meeting, but less than forty-eight (48) hours East Carolina University E 5th Street | Greenville, NC 27858 | 252-328-6131 ©2022 | Terms of Use | Accessibility | Report a Barrier