Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Financial Aid Home Getting started Eligibility How need is determined Expected family contribution Net price calculator Student budgets Husky Promise Applying for aid Key dates and deadlines Application process Award process Maintain eligibility Summer quarter Types of aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Childcare Assistance Program Veterans Benefits Emergency aid Emergency Food Assistance Other assistance Receiving aid Disbursement Appeals and special circumstances Request changes to your award Satisfactory academic progress Forms & resources Forms Consumer Information Glossary of Terms for Award Notifications Loan repayment Tax benefits Withdrawal and refund Financial aid code of conduct Money management Emergency Relief Fund Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund III Washington Emergency Relief Grant Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund II CARES Act FAQs Processing and Response Timelines Contact us My Financial Aid Loan repayment Menu Financial Aid Home Getting started Eligibility How need is determined Expected family contribution Net price calculator Student budgets Husky Promise Applying for aid Key dates and deadlines Application process Award process Maintain eligibility Summer quarter Types of aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Childcare Assistance Program Veterans Benefits Emergency aid Emergency Food Assistance Other assistance Receiving aid Disbursement Appeals and special circumstances Request changes to your award Satisfactory academic progress Forms & resources Forms Consumer Information Glossary of Terms for Award Notifications Loan repayment Tax benefits Withdrawal and refund Financial aid code of conduct Money management Emergency Relief Fund Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund III Washington Emergency Relief Grant Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund II CARES Act FAQs Processing and Response Timelines Contact us My Financial Aid Home Student Financial Aid Forms and resources Loan repayment Forms and resources Home Forms and resources Loan repayment How to pay Repayment options Cancellation Postponing repayment Consolidation Avoiding default Tax benefits Withdrawal and refund Financial Aid code of conduct Loan repayment is a serious obligation. The Office of Student Financial Aid is here to answer your questions on paying back the loans used to fund your university education. Don’t hesitate to contact us if you need help managing your loan repayment plan. We’ve pulled together some key resources that should answer many of your questions. But we’re still here if you want to phone, email or come in to discuss your questions one-on-one. If you have a federal Direct Loan (Stafford, Unsubsidized Stafford or Graduate Plus), check your account https://studentaid.gov to determine which loan servicer is managing your loan repayment. Once you’ve identified your specific loan servicer, locate their contact information. Federal Perkins loans, Health Profession and Nursing loans, and UW Institutional Loans are billed by the UW Loan Servicer Heartland ECSI. Contact information and online access to your ECSI account is available from their website. For information about private student loans, click here. Coronavirus and Forbearance Information for Students, Borrowers, and Parents. How to pay Learn more Repayment options Learn more Cancellation Learn more Postponing repayment Learn more Consolidation Learn more Avoiding default Learn more Home Forms and resources Loan repayment How to pay Repayment options Cancellation Postponing repayment Consolidation Avoiding default Tax benefits Withdrawal and refund Financial Aid code of conduct Resources Applying for Financial Aid Parent Plus Loan New Borrowers of Federal Student Loans Contact us Send us a message Visit Contact us for office location, directions and mailing address. Federal School Code Our Title IV federal school code is 003798. This code is used for Seattle, Bothell and Tacoma campuses. About us Our mission is to provide educational access and opportunity for all students. We promote participation in higher education by providing programs of assistance to help bridge the gap between the cost of attending the University and the family’s own resources. We believe students from all economic backgrounds should have the opportunity to attend the University of Washington. Finances should not be a barrier to getting a world-class education. University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA