× Please sign in You need to log in to use the bookmarking feature. Sign In Harvard Business School Sign in to Baker Library Baker Library | Bloomberg Center Search Find Services Ask Browse Databases Collections & Archives Guides Exhibits Find Books, Articles & More More Places HOLLIS Catalog Harvard Library Working Knowledge Service Type Research Curriculum Research Data Program See all... Service Audience Faculty Doctoral Students MBA Students Alumni Executive Education Staff Visiting Researchers Ask Us Ask a Question Fast Answers Policies Staff Directory How Do I... Request HBS Cases Plan A Visit Manage My Data Get Teaching Support Baker Library Databases Ask Us Special Collections Fast Answers All Services Hours Plan Your Visit Exhibits Hollis Working Knowledge HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Campaign Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions Search Search Search Home Services Services for Visiting Researchers Services for Visiting Researchers Bookmark This Services for Visiting Researchers /services/services-for-visiting-researchers Learn more about services available to Visiting Researchers 99 35616 Services for Visiting Researchers /services/services-for-visiting-researchers Learn more about services available to Visiting Researchers 99 35616 Add My Librarian Item Filters Service Type Research Curriculum Research Data Program Publications Archives & Records Management Information Management Service Audience Faculty Doctoral Students MBA Students Alumni Executive Education Program Participants Staff Visiting Researchers Browse All Services Baker Library welcomes a variety of visiting researchers using our collections. The unique resources and services within Special Collections are available to the global academic research communities. For more information regarding access to Baker Library’s Contemporary Collections and databases, please see our Policies. For a full list of library services for visiting researchers, please see below: Consultations /services/consultations Do you want to schedule a research consultation with a Baker librarian? Find out more about how we can help. 67 36001 Consultations /services/consultations Do you want to schedule a research consultation with a Baker librarian? Find out more about how we can help. 67 36001 Add My Librarian Item Consultations Do you want to schedule a research consultation with a Baker librarian? Find out more about how we can help. Digital Image Requests from Special Collections /services/digital-image-requests-from-special-collections Reproduction information 67 34956 Digital Image Requests from Special Collections /services/digital-image-requests-from-special-collections Reproduction information 67 34956 Add My Librarian Item Digital Image Requests from Special Collections Reproduction information HBS Working Knowledge /services/hbs-working-knowledge Staffed by a small team of experienced journalists, Harvard Business School Working Knowledge publishes accessible feature articles about faculty research (and practice) for an audience of business practitioners. We also publish brief summaries of every working paper published through HBS. Our goal: to explain the practical relevance of economic research to a non-academic audience. 67 34931 HBS Working Knowledge /services/hbs-working-knowledge Staffed by a small team of experienced journalists, Harvard Business School Working Knowledge publishes accessible feature articles about faculty research (and practice) for an audience of business practitioners. We also publish brief summaries of every working paper published through HBS. Our goal: to explain the practical relevance of economic research to a non-academic audience. 67 34931 Add My Librarian Item HBS Working Knowledge Staffed by a small team of experienced journalists, Harvard Business School Working Knowledge publishes accessible feature articles about faculty research (and practice) for an audience of business practitioners. We also publish brief summaries of every working paper published through HBS. Our goal: to explain the practical relevance of economic research to a non-academic audience. Library Tours /services/library-tours Tours are available for the HBS and Harvard communities in different formats to meet a variety of needs. We also offer tours to other visitors on a limited basis depending on the purpose of the tour and the availability of staff guides. 67 84271 Library Tours /services/library-tours Tours are available for the HBS and Harvard communities in different formats to meet a variety of needs. We also offer tours to other visitors on a limited basis depending on the purpose of the tour and the availability of staff guides. 67 84271 Add My Librarian Item Library Tours Tours are available for the HBS and Harvard communities in different formats to meet a variety of needs. We also offer tours to other visitors on a limited basis depending on the purpose of the tour and the availability of staff guides. Research Assistance /services/research-assistance Baker Library offers access to a vast array of information resources. It also connects you to the broader resources of the Harvard University Libraries. With so many resources available, sometimes it's not easy to find and evaluate the information you need. Don't hesitate to ask for assistance. 67 48745 Research Assistance /services/research-assistance Baker Library offers access to a vast array of information resources. It also connects you to the broader resources of the Harvard University Libraries. With so many resources available, sometimes it's not easy to find and evaluate the information you need. Don't hesitate to ask for assistance. 67 48745 Add My Librarian Item Research Assistance Baker Library offers access to a vast array of information resources. It also connects you to the broader resources of the Harvard University Libraries. With so many resources available, sometimes it's not easy to find and evaluate the information you need. Don't hesitate to ask for assistance. Research Fellowships at Baker Library /services/research-fellowships-at-baker-library Information on fellowships that include support for research at Baker Library. 67 46542 Research Fellowships at Baker Library /services/research-fellowships-at-baker-library Information on fellowships that include support for research at Baker Library. 67 46542 Add My Librarian Item Research Fellowships at Baker Library Information on fellowships that include support for research at Baker Library. Research Services for the R.G. Dun & Co. Collection /services/research-services-for-the-r.g.-dun-co.-collection Special Collections reference archivists can conduct a search for individual business or personal names in the R.G. Dun & Co. Credit Reports collection. Arranged geographically, by state or territory, the R.G. Dun & Co. credit ledgers are a rich source of information about American business from the 1840s-1890s. 67 34979 Research Services for the R.G. Dun & Co. Collection /services/research-services-for-the-r.g.-dun-co.-collection Special Collections reference archivists can conduct a search for individual business or personal names in the R.G. Dun & Co. Credit Reports collection. Arranged geographically, by state or territory, the R.G. Dun & Co. credit ledgers are a rich source of information about American business from the 1840s-1890s. 67 34979 Add My Librarian Item Research Services for the R.G. Dun & Co. Collection Special Collections reference archivists can conduct a search for individual business or personal names in the R.G. Dun & Co. Credit Reports collection. Arranged geographically, by state or territory, the R.G. Dun & Co. credit ledgers are a rich source of information about American business from the 1840s-1890s. Resources Special Collections specialcollectionsref@hbs.edu 617.495.6411 Curriculum & Learning Services infoservices@hbs.edu 617.495.6040 Back to top Today's HoursAll Hours Connect with Baker Map & Contacts Know Before You Go Library Spaces Staff Directory About the Library B4B Product Catalog Books@Baker Annual Reports Harvard Business School Baker Library | Bloomberg Center Soldiers Field Boston, MA 02163 Phone: 1.617.495.6040 Email: infoservices@hbs.edu Maps and Directions Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes All Social Media Jobs Trademarks Site Map Harvard University Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 President & Fellows of Harvard College.