Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Classics Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Classics Major Apply Visit Request More Info Classics Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Arts in Classics Immerse yourself in the past, and explore the civilizations that helped shape our world today with the Bachelor of Arts in Classics in the College of Liberal Arts at Temple University. This 123-credit undergraduate degree program emphasizes the study of the cultures and languages of two major civilizations of the ancient Mediterranean world. As a student in the Classics Major, you’ll delve into the spoken and written word of ancient civilizations with the Classical Languages and Literature concentration, or broaden your understanding of the cultural, political and social conditions of Ancient Greek and Roman society with the Classical Civilizations concentration. Familiarize yourself with the ways in which people communicated and conducted themselves, their businesses, and their faith and family life. You’ll learn about the pioneers of human discovery who answered some of the biggest questions of their time and developed groundbreaking innovations, and whose stories still resonate today. The Classics BA degree program’s interdisciplinary curriculum invites students to take a holistic approach to learning by covering several areas of study, including art, history, languages, literature and philosophy. In addition to curriculum requirements, students are encouraged to conduct research alongside faculty who are at the forefront of their fields and study away in the very places on which coursework subjects are focused. The strong liberal arts foundation students build in this degree program is invaluable for future careers in many organizations and industries, including academics, cultural institutions, government agencies or the social sciences. Concentrations You can focus on Classics or you can take one of the following concentrations. Classical Civilization Study the institutions and cities of ancient Greece and Rome; explore the meaning and function of art, gender, race and slavery in ancient times. Develop proficiency in Greek or Latin and read what ancient historians thought of their world. View Concentration Details Classical Languages Literature Pursue in-depth study of Latin or Greek, and learn to read ancient texts in their original languages. Study abroad in Rome to experience the architecture, geography and topography that inspired the ancients. Analyze the plays, mythologies and treatises that form the foundation of our modern jurisprudence and social norms. View Concentration Details Classes & Curriculum The following are examples of required and elective courses in the Classics Major with a concentration in Classical Civilizations. Ancient City: Alexandria Ancient City: Periclean Athens Ancient Medicine Greek History Greek Philosophy Greek Sculpture Roman Art and Archaeology Roman History The following are examples of required and elective courses in the Classics Major with a concentration in Classical Languages and Literature. Ancient Greek Classical Greek and Roman Mythology Comparative Mythology Latin Readings in Greek Literature (tragedy, epic, historiography, philosophy) Readings in Latin Literature (oratory, epic, historiography, poetry) Learn more about Classics Major required courses. Related Graduate Degrees English MA English PhD Liberal Arts MLA Philosophy MA Philosophy PhD Religion MA Religion PhD Certificate Programs The College of Liberal Arts has 22 undergraduate certificate programs for you to expand your knowledge and diversify your Temple education. Certificates can complement bachelor's programs, allowing you to specialize in an area and highlight your exposure to disciplines outside of your major. 4+1 College of Education and Human Development Program Students interested in teaching at the high school level can enroll in the 4+1 BA/MEd Accelerated Program for High School Latin Teachers. This program is offered by the College of Liberal Arts and the College of Education and Human Development. It offers Classical Languages and Literature majors the opportunity to complete their undergraduate degree and a Master of Education in Secondary Education degree with one year of study beyond the BA. Learn more about the 4+1 program. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Arts offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $16,488.00 per year Out-of-state: $29,712.00 per year Our Academic Advisors Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development Dedicated advisors at the Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development in the College of Liberal Arts are available to guide students through their academic careers and with their career paths beyond Temple. They can help you choose a major, navigate your curriculum, identify internship opportunities, explore career opportunities and determine your post-graduation plans. Learn more about the center. Program Contact For questions regarding the Classics Major, contact the following staff member. Michelle Xu is an administrator in the Classics program. Phone: 215-204-5628 Email: xu.michelle@temple.edu The following staff member leads the Classics Department. Robin Mitchell-Boyask is the department chair. Phone: 215-204-1640 Email: robin@temple.edu University Honors Program The College of Liberal Arts participates in Temple’s Honors Program. Learn more about the program and how to be admitted. Students who meet certain academic and extracurricular criteria may become members of the following honor societies. Alpha Lambda Delta is a national society that honors academic excellence during a student's first year at college. Golden Key is an international society that enables members to realize their potential through the advancement of academics, leadership and service. Phi Beta Kappa is open to juniors and seniors in the College of Liberal Arts. To qualify for Phi Beta Kappa, a student must maintain a high grade point average in a broad, rigorous program of study in the liberal arts, including mathematics and foreign languages. Learn more about Temple’s Honor Societies. Student Clubs & Organizations Getting involved and connecting with other students is easy at Temple. There are more than 300 student organizations available, including community programs, student government, student media and clubs. Students pursuing a Classics Major program are encouraged to join Eta Sigma Phi, the national honorary collegiate society for students of Latin and/or Greek. Learn more about Temple student clubs and organizations. Study Away College of Liberal Arts undergraduate students are encouraged to study away for an academic year, semester or summer. Enrich your experience at Temple by immersing yourself in the culture and history of Greece or Rome. Spend a summer on an archaeological dig in the Mediterranean, or spend a year studying in Rome from Temple’s Villa Caproni location, a beautiful building facing the Tiber River in the heart of the ancient city. Learn more about Temple’s study abroad programs. Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-CLAS-BA Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Classics Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info