UW Home Home Stories Menu Home Stories Make your gift today Give Pause You Deserve the World A poem by Ally Ang, ’21 Launch video Test video title× The UW commissioned poet Ally Ang, ’21, to write and perform a poem for the University’s 2021 Recognition Gala. Here, we collaborated with Ang to bring the poem to a wider audience. Ang is a 2021 graduate of the UW Master of Fine Arts program in creative writing, with a focus on poetry. They are currently a development associate at Seattle’s Hugo House, a nonprofit writing center named for Richard Hugo, ’48, ’52, a two-time finalist for the Pulitzer Prize in poetry. You Deserve the World What to do with this knowledge that our living is not guaranteed? — Aracelis Girmay, “Elegy” During this latest shiny new catastrophe, while I lie in bed and luxuriate in the silk of my sadness, a friend’s text lights up my screen: You deserve the world. Not this world, hostile and unkind, but the one we are building in the lines of poems, in our wildest melatonin dreams, in the dirt of our gardens and the recipes passed down to us in a language that we have not yet forgotten. I catch glimpses of it in the tsunami of voices that floods the streets after another life is snatched from a mother’s grasp, their demands for justice impossible to ignore. I feel it in my friend’s deliberate knuckles massaging coconut oil into my scalp, how their steady hands unworry my brow. Everywhere I look, aliveness. I open my cupboard to discover the plump red face of a tomato that I forgot to turn into pasta sauce, now blooming soft tufts of mold, the stubborn insistence of life in even the harshest conditions. I slice the tip of my finger while chopping cloves of garlic, and before the first drop of blood has blushed the counter, it coagulates at the edge of the wound — a miracle, this body, how it has already begun to heal before I’ve even registered the hurt. When I say You deserve the world, what I mean is this is not the first apocalypse we have survived. The world has ended before, and before and before, and for some, there was no after. We have watched its rind cracking open like a freshly broken heart, and each time we build and rebuild. We kiss our houseplants on their leafy foreheads before we go to sleep. We dress our bodies in the most brilliant light. We dance like the empire is dying, water the ground where it once stood, and watch what blooms, lush and verdant, in its wake. First published November 2021 What you care about can change the world When you support the Boundless Impact Fund, you can help provide an unparalleled graduate experience for students like Ally Ang. Give Now Give Now Connect with us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn UW Current Newsletter Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA