By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Life Services & Support Career More from this Section Safety & Security Writing & Tutoring Technology Financial Literacy Counseling & Support Health and Wellness Career Services The beginning of your successful career doesn't start when you graduate—it starts the minute you join us. We can help connect your coursework, passions, and activities to a career that you're going to love. The professionals in Career Services are focused on helping you explore your options, build skills, make connections, and can assist you throughout your college career and well beyond. Connect with Career Services Explore First, we start by laying out all kinds of career paths. We search through different industries, graduate programs, law schools, and med schools. Build Then, we can help you build the skills necessary to apply and connect to opportunities you want to pursue. By utilizing the resources and services that can be useful both during and after college, such as: Workshops on resumes and cover letters, interviewing and networking, search strategies, personal statements, social media, etc. One-on-one counseling sessions Drop-ins Connect Next, we'll help you take the steps to connect with employers and alumni, and apply for things that interest you. One connection leads to the next, and could potentially lead to employment before you graduate. In fact, approximately 40% of Syracuse undergraduates secure employment before they even graduate! Focus If you already have an idea of your goals and interests, some of our schools and colleges have their own career services. The qualified staff of each is waiting for your special set of skills. School of Architecture College Arts and Sciences School of Education College of Engineering and Computer Science School of Informational Studies Graduate School College of Law Martin J. Whitman School of Management The Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications College of Visual and Performing Arts Featured Stories Live the Orange Experience Through Our Students Syracuse University senior shares her favorite memories and what it means to be Orange. Related Pages Graduate and Professional Career Development Graduate students have specialized professional and career advising available through the Graduate School. Resumes and Cover Letters Your resume and cover letter should present your skills, experience, and knowledge briefly and effectively. Self-Discovery Tools Not really sure where to begin or completely lost as to what interests you? We can help you dig a bit deeper by talking about your options with you, or by providing you with a career test. Internships Internships are available throughout the year and can be pursued as early as freshman year. Networking and Interviewing Even with the growth of social networking, face-to-face contact still matters. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy