Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU HARVie Academic Calendar Directory Search HOME About What is FAS? Dean Claudine Gay Messages from the Dean FAS Leadership Advisory Committees Advancing Racial Justice Support FAS Reports FAS Strategic Planning Core Activities Teaching and Learning Research and Discovery Student Experience Academics & Research Academic Divisions & SEAS Departments and Areas Degree Programs & Courses Centers, Institutes & Societies Libraries Museums Resources Quick Contacts Sexual & Gender-Based Harassment Policy/Resources For Faculty For Staff For Postdocs News Covid-19 Updates and Resources News HOME / ACADEMICS & RESEARCH / Libraries Harvard Library is a champion of curiosity. Harvard Library aims to be a global leader in expanding world knowledge and intellectual exploration. It engages with our communities in the creation and sharing of new knowledge, connecting them with the vast collections that it curates and stewards through collaborations around the world. Harvard Library’s efforts are motivated and powered by working collaboratively, embracing diverse perspectives, championing access, aiming for the extraordinary, and always leading with curiosity. At its core, the library’s mission for over four centuries has been to advance the learning, research, and pursuit of truth that are at the heart of Harvard. Harvard Library is more than 700 staff across 29 libraries. Its collections number over six million digitized items, 21 million volumes, 400 million manuscripts, one million maps, and tens of millions of digital images, and its rare and special collections are amongst the most remarkable in the world. Harvard Library collects collaboratively with peer institutions and facilitates international open access, multiplying access to materials. Established in 1638, Harvard Library is the oldest library system in the United States and the world’s largest academic library. Learn more at library.harvard.edu. Get started: Find a Space Ask a Librarian View our Locations & Hours Explore Collections Academics & Research Academic Divisions & SEAS Departments and Areas Degree Programs & Courses Centers, Institutes & Societies Libraries Museums Harvard University Faculty of Arts & Sciences Cambridge, MA 02138 Contact us website poll - real Help Us Improve Our Website Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement