Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Give to Brown Site Navigation Academics Undergraduate Graduate & Professional Schools & Colleges Academic Departments Centers & Institutes Libraries & Collections Global Education Non-Degree Programs Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Medical School Admission Executive & Professional Admission Tuition & Aid Research Find a Researcher Industry Engagement Conducting Research at Brown Life at Brown Athletics & Recreation Community Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Providence Student Organizations University Events News Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Rainbow Chen Class of 2021 At Brown, Rainbow Chen is able to combine her love of learning with her commitment to social change and making a difference. Breadcrumb Home Life at Brown Sub Navigation In This Section Athletics & Recreation Community Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Providence Student Organizations University Events Rainbow Chen Class of 2021 At Brown, Rainbow Chen is able to combine her love of learning with her commitment to social change and making a difference. Rainbow Chen was not expecting to meet many students like her at Brown. But just days after arriving on campus, she was pleasantly surprised to find a welcoming community. “There's no better place to start learning how to be more unapologetically me, and that's pretty much why I chose Brown,” she says. Two Brown initiatives made her feel at home right away: the Bonner Community Fellows pre-Orientation program and the Undocumented, First-Generation College and Low-Income (U-FLi) Student Center. “Bonner has allowed me to see that I’m not alone in the first-gen, low-income struggle,” she says. “And the U-FLi Center is a great part of this campus. Having groups of U-FLi Center students coming together to participate and care passionately about community engagement with Bonner really helped me feel confident in my place here.” I found that Brown's education department was absolutely stellar, and I wanted to get involved with it as soon as possible. – Rainbow Chen Bonner fellows volunteer with local organizations working in education, health care, the environment, economic justice and the arts. Rainbow loves the friendship and support of the other fellows, but it’s the opportunities Bonner gives her to deeply connect with disadvantaged and underrepresented high school students in Rhode Island that have made the biggest impact on her. “This is not just a job for me,” she says. “I’m so lucky that I get to spend time with these youth who are going to make such a big difference in the world.” Since her first year, Rainbow has partnered with a nonprofit called Youth in Action (YIA), a Providence after-school program. “YIA has been teaching me skills that can't be taught and polished at Brown,” she says. “By working directly with youth in the community, learning their stories, working with my diverse coworkers and learning how to manage and communicate between all of those things is what truly separates this from any other experience at Brown. It has developed – and continues to develop – my leadership skills, making me feel more proud, and more capable, of pushing past societal obstacles to find social change.” Rainbow chose to concentrate in education policy and history. “I found that Brown's education department was absolutely stellar, and I wanted to get involved with it as soon as possible,” she said. “I had some experience with education policy and by having both the Open Curriculum and incredible faculty, I would have the opportunity to jump right in!” Rainbow Chen plays the double bass with the Brown Orchestra. As a Bonner fellow, Rainbow will complete two community-focused summer internships. She chose to teach at a local elementary school. “Teaching for the first time has been a rewarding experience I will never forget,” she says. “Being able to leave College Hill and go to a space that empowers youth with similar identities to mine is a major breath of fresh air. “Sustainable community partnership, at least in my few years at Brown so far, has taught me so much about intersectionality, society and life on a much more applicable level than Brown could.” When she isn’t mentoring other minority students or boasting about her native Vermont, she finds time to play double bass with the Brown Orchestra. She’s grateful the University has allowed her to have a college experience that complements her commitment to making a difference in the community. “We can learn about pressing issues in our society through reading articles and texts, but being in a community and actively combating these issues is something you can only get when you engage with the community.” Learn more about: Department of Education Pre-Orientation programs Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Academics Undergraduate Graduate & Professional Schools & Colleges Academic Departments Centers & Institutes Libraries & Collections Global Education Non-Degree Programs Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Medical School Admission Executive & Professional Admission Tuition & Aid Research Find a Researcher Industry Engagement Conducting Research at Brown Life at Brown Athletics & Recreation Community Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Providence Student Organizations University Events News Featured Events For Journalists Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Rainbow Chen Open details for Rainbow Chen Bookmark this Page