Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Research Menu About News Our Research Commitment Research Contacts Find A Researcher White Eye Detector: How Baylor Research Fights Pediatric Eye Disease Meals-to-You Baylor University Celebrates Four 2020 CAREER Grant Winners Baylor Celebrates National STEM Day Highlights Health Data Sciences Materials Science Human Flourishing, Leadership & Ethics Baylor in Latin America Other Research Initiatives Facilities, Centers & Institutes FAQ Priorities Industry Professionals Baylor Researchers R1 Impact Baylor>Research>About>Our Research Commitment Our Research Commitment Baylor stands apart as a Christian research university – a position that empowers our aspirations to become America’s preeminent Christian research university. This bold goal is undergirded by Illuminate, a strategic plan for the future with an overarching ambition to bring light to the world. As we build on Baylor’s historic strengths and strategically invest in new areas of research, this roadmap for growth yields research marked by quality, impact and visibility. At Baylor, we believe all truth is God’s truth, fully open to inquiry and debate within the free marketplace of ideas that top-tier academic institutions foster. Illuminate calls Baylor faculty to engage in multidisciplinary, signature academic initiatives and contribute as mentors to undergraduates and graduate students through high-impact learning experiences. By strengthening scholarship, deepening learning and improving teaching, these initiatives will support our commitment to excellence in undergraduate education and growth in graduate education. Collaboration is vital to finding solutions to the immense challenges facing our world. Illuminate’s signature initiatives will be developed around areas where existing collaboration is yielding results and where continued work will galvanize interest among faculty and academic leaders on campus. A grand vision requires a path imbued with deep purpose, and Illuminate defines that commitment through a distinct focus on five signature academic initiatives: Health Research and collaboration will span all schools and colleges across the University as we focus on environmental determinants of health, family and community. Data Sciences Data Sciences is a rapidly advancing, interdisciplinary field that relies on techniques and theories drawn from machine learning, data mining, scalable data storage, and digital communication, as well as the disciplines of statistics, mathematics, and library sciences. Materials Science Materials Science is a cutting edge field with high market demand for graduates and vast extramural funding. Investments in Materials Science will position Baylor University as a leader in these technologies. Human Flourishing, Leadership & Ethics Baylor University will be a recognized leader in understanding the conditions by which humans, communities, and societies flourish. Baylor in Latin America The Census Bureau projects that by the year 2030, immigration will surpass natural increase as the primary contributor to population growth in the United States. The Baylor in Latin America initiative will position the University to be one of the most extensively engaged faith-based universities in the nation with regard to engagement in the Americas. Other Research Initiatives Baylor faculty share historic strengths in areas such as business, religion, education, family and consumer sciences, education and more. Learn more about Baylor research across a variety of disciplines that enriches understanding of the ways individuals and societies work, play, learn and worship. The university’s commitment to research growth and impact is further evident in the priorities of Give Light, Baylor’s ambitious $1.1 billion comprehensive philanthropic campaign. Give Light provides significant funding for research efforts university-wide through strategic, focused growth in the number of endowed faculty positions. Thanks to the generosity of an anonymous donor, a unique matching program, the Baylor Academic Challenge, will match qualifying gifts given for the purpose of establishing endowed chairs in select areas. Plans are in place to create up to 50 new endowed faculty positions, including 17 new prestigious endowed chair positions funded through the Academic Challenge gift. With each endowed position, Baylor grows in its ability to attract and retain top faculty members whose expertise enhances Baylor’s impact through research and engaged learning. About News Our Research Commitment Research Contacts Find A Researcher White Eye Detector: How Baylor Research Fights Pediatric Eye Disease Download White Eye Detector (App Store) Meals-to-You Baylor University Celebrates Four 2020 CAREER Grant Winners Baylor Celebrates National STEM Day General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About News Our Research Commitment Research Contacts Find A Researcher White Eye Detector: How Baylor Research Fights Pediatric Eye Disease Meals-to-You Baylor University Celebrates Four 2020 CAREER Grant Winners Baylor Celebrates National STEM Day Highlights Health Data Sciences Materials Science Human Flourishing, Leadership & Ethics Baylor in Latin America Other Research Initiatives Facilities, Centers & Institutes FAQ Priorities Industry Professionals Baylor Researchers R1 Impact