Students - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Counseling and Psychological Services Submit Close Student Affairs and Enrollment Services Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Counseling and Psychological Services Home About Us Accreditations Contact & Location Information Statement on Diversity Office Hours Mission and Vision CAPS Staff Confidentiality Eligibility for CAPS Services Fees Services First Visit (Triage) Essential Skills Workshops Single Session Therapy (SST) Group Counseling Couples Counseling (Short-Term) Individual Counseling (Short-Term) Community Referrals Crisis Intervention CAPS Defusing and Debriefing Process Conduct Assessment and Response Team Helping Students of Concern Get help for Sexual Assault What to do if you are in crisis Resources Harrassment, Assault/Abuse English Language Learners Faculty & Staff Parents & Loved Ones Race Related Stress Resources Self-Help Resources Students First Generation College Students What is Greek Life? International Students LGBTQIA Career Resources Student Athletes Students of Color Students with Children Students with DisABILITIES Returning Adult Students Veterans Texas Sanctuary Cities FAQ Undocumented Students DACA: What You Need to Know DACA FAQ Dream Scholars UH Resources COVID-19 Resources Outreach Outreach Request College Student Grief Awareness Let's Talk Program CAPS Liaisons Suicide Prevention Training: QPR Coogs Conquer (C-2) Series Support Groups Latinas REACH Sista Circle: Black Grads Rainbow Wellness Group Newsletters Calendar Clinical Training APA Internship Practicum Training Forms Appeals Authorization to Release of Medical Records Informed Consent for Counseling Services Medical Withdrawal Application Giving UH Home Counseling and Psychological Services Resources Students Resources Harrassment, Assault/Abuse English Language Learners Faculty & Staff Parents & Loved Ones Race Related Stress Resources Self-Help Resources Students First Generation College Students Greek Life International Students LGBTQIA Career Resources Student Athletes Students of Color Students with Children Students with DisABILITIES Returning Adult Students Veterans Texas Sanctuary Cities FAQ UH Resources Undocumented Students COVID-19 Resources ADHD/ LD/ Autism Assessment Students As a student, you may encounter academic, emotional and social concerns at some point in your time at UH. We commonly hear students say, "I don’t need counseling because I'm not crazy". We want you to know that students seek counseling for a wide range of issues that may interfere with their daily life activities, some of which may include low academic performance, stress, anxiety, relationship problems, loneliness, depression, adjustment issues, identity issues, suicidal thoughts, and bipolar disorder. Contrary to the myth, a student who seeks counseling is not "weak", they have the strength and courage to recognize when they may need help, which is the first step in solving any difficulty. As mental health professionals, we strive to help students cope and work towards self-understanding and improvement of psychological, interpersonal and academic functioning. CAPS is committed to diversity and inclusiveness and our staff embrace all who seek services here. We understand that it is a big step to seek mental health services. We are here to help, so before you decide that your problem is too great or too small, please give us a call. We are here to help you weather any storm. Many students visit CAPS each year. They come from very diverse backgrounds and seek our services when they are experiencing stress, hopelessness, loneliness, anxiety, depression, difficulty adjusting, relationship issues, identity questions, and a variety of other concerns. CAPS staff members provide a safe, confidential atmosphere where, together, we can talk about your current situation in the context of your personal history and life experiences. You can come to see yourself, your relationships, and the world in a different way. In order to ensure a safe environment for students to explore their personal concerns, all counseling services are confidential. This means that our staff will not reveal your identity, will not confirm or deny your participation in counseling when anyone else is inquiring, and will not provide any details about what has been discussed in counseling without your written consent. We do not give information to parents or to other offices or departments within the university without your written consent. You may request to have information shared with the person(s) of your choice and can sign a release granting us permission to share confidential counseling information. Psychology ethics and state law require that these services be confidential except under unusual, well-defined circumstances. We Offer a Variety of Services Daytime and after-hours crisis intervention Essential Skills Workshops Single Session Therapy (SST) Group Counseling Individual Counseling Couples Counseling Let’s Talk Consultation to the Campus Community Eligibility and Fees Eligibility for CAPS Services Fees How to Make an Initial Appointment If you are interested in our services, initial appointments at CAPS are offered on a walk-in basis. Simply come to CAPS between 8:30 am and 4:00 pm, Monday-Friday. You should expect about 15 to 20 minutes to complete paperwork, followed by a brief visit with a CAPS clinician. This initial contact is an opportunity for you and a CAPS clinician to determine what kinds of services will best meet your needs. This may include CAPS services or referrals to other campus and community agencies. Please let us know if you will need any accommodations or assistance with completing your paperwork at the time of your visit. CAPS Staff CAPS staff consists of doctoral and masters level clinicians, as well as, advanced graduate trainees in counseling and clinical psychology. Contact Information CAPS is located on the UH campus and on the UH at Sugar Land Instructional Site. Office Hours Related Links What to do if you are in crisis Group Counseling Consultation with CAPS Staff University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies