Skip to Content Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Indiana University Bloomington Indiana University Bloomington IU Bloomington Menu About History Rankings & Campus Statistics Mission & Strategic Planning Leadership & Administration Safety & Emergency Information Visit Campus Transportation & Parking A-Z List Jobs at IU How to Hire IU Students Admissions How to Apply Cost & Finances Visit IU & Bloomington Academics The Academic Experience Degrees & Majors Business Health & Wellness Science, Engineering & Technology Public Service Arts & Culture Schools Academic Opportunities Study Abroad Online Classes & Programs Schedule of Classes & Academic Calendar Academic Advising & Support Libraries Research Hoosier Life Traditions & Spirit Student Organizations Recreational Sports Athletics Health, Wellness & Safety Housing & Dining Visiting Bloomington Attractions & Things to Do Diversity on Campus Career Prep Find Your Passion Get Experience Develop Your Career Use Your Network Alumni & Giving News & Events Indiana University Bloomington Home About Admissions Academics Research Hoosier Life Career Prep Alumni & Giving News & Events Home Hoosier Life Housing & Dining Housing & Dining It’s a beautiful day in every IU neighborhood What’s your style? Preppy? Artsy? Hipster? At IU, you’re sure to find a residence hall and dining options that fit you to a T. Live the college dream on campus We have plenty of traditional residence hall options, with shared rooms, communal living spaces, and handy food courts. You’ll also find apartments for those who need some space, private rooms for those who tend toward the introverted side, and co-op kitchen facilities for those who want to cook their own food. To make sure you get the most out of your IU experience, first-year undergraduate students are required to live on campus. This is where college life gets real Find the perfect space for you Find your place in a Learning Community Whether you want to live in an environment that emphasizes academics or you just want to share space with people who share your passions, you’ll find what you’re looking for in our Learning Communities. You can choose from more than 20 communities in two categories; Living Learning or Thematic. Each offers specialized programming and, best of all, people who understand you. Description of the video: [Video: The Indiana University trident appears] [Words appear: Indiana University] [Words appear: Fulfilling the Promise] [Words appear: Barry Magee, Assistant Director for Residential Life, Residential Programs & Services] Barry speaks: Spectrum is a brand new thematic community, and it started off when we started thinking about what are some ways to be more supportive of our students who identify across the gender spectrum and the sexual orientation spectrum. [Video: Spectrum Thematic Learning Community logo appears] [Video: Closeup of a wooden surface appears. A rainbow colored drawing of a head says “Open Your Mind To Diversity.” From the top of the head flow colorful banners with words and phrases such as “Sex,” “Race/Ethnicity,” “Religion,” “Diversity,” “Social Justice,” “Socio-Economic Background,” and “International Culture.” A thought balloon coming from the head reads, “Respect each other . . . Be yourself . . . Explore your beliefs . . . Create an environment where everyone feels welcome and valued . . . Treat others as you would like to be treated . . . .”] [Words appear: Steven Dora, Spectrum Resident Assistant, Social Work Major, Sophomore.] Steven speaks: It’s important for IU to have this kind of community—especially for incoming freshmen, wanting to have that safe environment. This really helps transition them into the IU community because it gives them a safe environment where they they will know that they will be accepted. Barry speaks: One of the reasons for choosing Teter, first and foremost, is that it has single occupant bathrooms; and two, we found a small enough floor that we could start off with the small enough group that makes it feel fairly intimate. Steven speaks: Currently we have about 20 students with several more moving in. We are hoping to have the floor filled by the end of the year with an exception: we will have some emergency rooms just in case there are any incidents on the within the IU campus. [Video: A sign appears with the words “Community Guidelines” at the top. A bullet list of guidelines includes, “Toilet seats down,” “Weekdays: 10–8; weekends: 2–10 (loud time),” “Control your guests,” “Respect preferred pronound. If corrected, do not be offended,” “No tarantulas,” “No judgment (even outside guests),” and “Pick up paper towel scraps.”] Barry speaks: Four other Big Ten institutions already have LGBT thematic communities or living learning centers. We really do want to make sure that we are providing as many options as other institutions in our area. [Video: A sign offers residents the opportunity to post their dreams.] Steven speaks: So far it’s been really great. People have been very friendly. I’ve been able to do a lot with the community. Barry speaks: It’s really not geared towards just thinking about LGBTQ ally issues. It’s really looking at the spectrum of gender and sexual orientation, so not just those who identify across those spectrums, but to also consider and have conversations about what does this mean, what are all of the places across those spectrums that many of us never even talked about or know anything about. Steven speaks: To me, having this community available lets people like me in the queer community have a safe space so that we have a place that we can call home. It’s really just an opportunity for people to find where they want to be. [Video: The Indiana University trident appears] [Words appear: Indiana University] [Words appear: Fulfilling the Promise] See what IU Learning Communities can offer you Dining that’s just your style Discover your IU Dining options IU Dining serves everything from hearty breakfasts to midnight snacks in its many locations across campus. Although most IU Dining facilities are located in residence halls, it also makes healthy (and not so healthy) snacks available in classroom buildings and library facilities through its Campus Cafes. Get the scoop on IU Dining Check out the restaurants at the Indiana Memorial Union (IMU) Whether you’re longing for some Starbucks, craving a healthy salad, or hungry for something sweet, the IMU has what you want. IMU restaurants aren’t included in RPS dining plans. But you can use the money on your CrimsonCard to get discounted meals and snacks. See what’s available at the IMU Explore the Bloomington food scene There’s a reason Bloomington continues to show up in top-10 food city lists all across the Internet. The food here is delicious. You’ll find the usual pizza places and pubs. But you’ll also find tons of ethnic eateries, and dozens of restaurants that emphasize local food. Learn more about Bloomington restaurants Fresh. Local. Sustainable. From growing vegetables at the Campus Farm to partnering with a local farmer for beef, IU is doing food—and sustainability—right. A tomato picked in the morning could be on your sandwich from IU Dining the same evening. And you can even buy your own produce.Read some food for thought Living off campus Looking for somewhere to live off campus? You have plenty of options in Bloomington. You’ll find everything from budget studios to luxury apartments, and houses of all shapes and sizes. Learn about living off campus Learn MoneySmarts rules for your housing search Traditions & Spirit Student Organizations Recreational Sports Athletics Health, Wellness & Safety Housing & Dining Visiting Bloomington Attractions & Things to Do Diversity on Campus Indiana University Bloomington social media channels Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn Contact, Address and Additional Links Services Canvas One.IU AskIU Find Directory A-Z List Courses Campus Map Required Disclosures Library IU Bloomington Libraries IUCAT OneSearch@IU Resources Knowledge Base IT Services Faculty & Staff Resources Diversity Non-Discrimination Notice Protect IU Email About Email at IU Outlook Web Access INDIANA UNIVERSITY BLOOMINGTON 107 S. Indiana Avenue Bloomington, IN 47405-7000 Phone: 812-855-4848 Accessibility | Privacy Notice | Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of Indiana University