Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Email Print Nicholas Johnson Valedictory Remarks for Class of 2020 On-Campus Commencement by the Office of Communications May 18, 2022, 4:17 p.m. Valedictorian Nicholas Johnson speaking at the on-campus Class of 2020 Commencement on Wednesday, May 18, 2022. Photo by Charles Sykes, Associated Press Images for Princeton University This address was given by Nicholas Johnson, the Class of 2020 valedictorian, during the class Commencement ceremony in Princeton Stadium on Wednesday, May 18, 2022. Remarks as prepared Hello everyone, welcome! It is so great to see you all. I want to start off by thanking all the friends and families who made the trip and made the time to be here today. It is so special for us graduates to share this moment with you — with the people who supported us, who believed in us, and who continue to be such a big part of our lives. I also want to extend a sincere thank you to the faculty and staff for making today happen and for making our time at Princeton so transformative. Thank you. We are the first graduating Princeton Class to have not one, but two Commencement ceremonies — and it’s an immense privilege for me to be addressing you for the second time as your valedictorian. The honor of being Princeton’s first Black valedictorian is very dear to me and I wish to open doors for others in the same way that doors have been so graciously opened for me by Black leaders and other mentors throughout my life. Like many of you, today marks my first return to campus in more than two years. And in the time since I was last here, I have thought a lot about our time at Princeton and what it meant to me and to us. Those 24 months have acted as a filter on my memories, magnifying the most impactful experiences, while obfuscating others — and in its wake, this filtering has left a refined appreciation of how special our four years at Princeton truly were. One experience that has stood the test of time is the Freshman Writing Seminar, the first shared academic experience that we all struggled with but, nevertheless, managed to overcome. I wrote my R3 on the legacy of the Residential School System in Canada. For those of you in the audience who may not be aware or who may have blocked Writing Seminar from your memory and need a refresher, R3 is the final research project and substantial piece of writing that all Freshmen produce in their Writing Seminar. As I reflect specifically on the many hours spent working on my R3, what stands out are the countless conversations I had with my Professor and fellow classmates that challenged my understanding of my topic and pushed me to further refine my thinking. At some moment during that process of working on R3, my primary motivation pivoted from merely wanting to do well to wanting to discover and understand something new, and that’s something my peers helped me achieve. I cultivated lifelong friendships in that writing seminar. Friendships rooted in academic curiosity and that stretched far beyond the classroom. Beyond encouraging me to find my voice as a writer and laying the foundation for future independent work at Princeton, one of the biggest takeaways from my Writing Seminar was the importance of committing to the pursuit of knowledge. It is imperative that a commitment to the pursuit of knowledge extends far beyond Writing Seminars and academic work into all aspects of our life’s work. Two years ago, when I spoke at our virtual Commencement from my home in Montreal, dans la belle province du Québec, I talked about “building” as the best way to create value in the world. Now, this is still true today. But I think it’s even more important to appreciate how the pursuit of knowledge is intimately related to creating value. It is only through such pursuit that we, as builders, can develop a holistic appreciation for what most urgently needs to be changed in our world — and also refine our understanding of how certain innovations may adversely affect marginalized communities when not carried out thoughtfully. Leaders have a duty to think creatively about the pursuit of knowledge, and I believe that cultivating communities with diverse voices is key to this pursuit. We live in a world where it has never been so easy to access information on any topic, and yet so many of us find ourselves in echo chambers. A world where our attention is routinely manipulated or hijacked by self-serving agents. After being isolated for so long, many of us are starved for community. And far too many falsely believe that it can only be found in familiar places. We’ve been given the tools to connect with the world, to access its knowledge, yet too many of us choose to surround ourselves with more of what we already know. With more of who we already are. People who think like us, who look like us. People who come from the same places and went to the same schools. The world desperately needs leaders who dare to listen to and empathize with those whose views differ from their own. Leaders who will commit to the crusade that is the pursuit of knowledge. I believe that we — the Great Class of 2020 — are such leaders. Though it was not pleasant, we have been tested — by the pandemic yes, but also by the many challenges each one of us had to overcome to be here today, and due to our collective experience, we now possess an extra level of preparedness. I’m an operations research concentrator. I like to think that I appreciate randomness and uncertainty more than most — but even that could not have prepared me for our abrupt departure from campus in March 2020 during our senior spring. During the ensuing global health crisis, and time of renewed, heightened national and international dialogue on the topic of race, we stepped up as a Class — we maintained and continued to build our community virtually, we supported one another through grief, heartache and distress, and, ultimately, we persevered in the face of seemingly insurmountable challenges. Look at us now. In a few moments, we will leave campus for the first time through FitzRandolph Gate. As we enter the world, my hope is that we all commit ourselves to the pursuit of knowledge. Not only is this something that we ought to do, but it is something that we absolutely must do to fully realize our ambition to create value in the world. Congratulations Class of 2020! Commencement 2020 View All News Connect with #Princeton20 Facebook Twitter Instagram 2020 Virtual Commencement website Class of 2020 returns to Princeton and celebrates on-campus Commencement University News: Read more Class of 2020 On-Campus Commencement Address by President Eisgruber — 'Entangled with Princeton' University News: Read more Princeton University staff, faculty, others named honorary members by Class of 2020 Campus Life: Read more Princeton awards five honorary degrees University News: Read more 2020 Commencement Address by President Eisgruber University News: Read more 2020 Valedictory remarks by Nicholas Johnson University News: Read more 2020 Salutatory oration by Grace Sommers University News: Read more Watch Princeton University's virtual Commencement University News: Read more Watch Princeton's 2020 virtual Hooding ceremony for graduate students University News: Read more Princeton seniors awarded for achievements in athletics, academics, leadership Athletics: Read more Princeton senior Aguilar Guerrero wins awards for service on and off campus Award: Read more Princeton’s Phi Beta Kappa chapter honors Haynes, Lloyd with teaching awards Award: Read more Princeton seniors Oakland, Ott receive awards for leadership and service Award: Read more Seniors Forte and Iyer recognized for their service to Princeton, Class of 2020 Award: Read more Four faculty members honored for excellence in mentoring graduate students Award: Read more Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice