Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links University Catalog Menu Main Nav University Catalog University Catalog Back Back Close Undergraduate Programs Overview Carroll School of Management Accounting Business Analytics Business Law and Society Finance General Management Information Systems Management and Organization Marketing Connell School of Nursing Lynch School of Education and Human Development Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences African and African Diaspora Studies Art, Art History, and Film Biochemistry Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Eastern, Slavic, and German Studies Economics Engineering English Environmental Studies History Interdisciplinary Programs and Minors (MCAS) International Studies Islamic Civilization and Societies Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology and Neuroscience Romance Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology University Courses Schiller Institute for Integrated Science and Society Woods College of Advancing Studies Summer Session Graduate Programs Overview Boston College Law School Boston College School of Social Work Carroll School of Management Connell School of Nursing Lynch School of Education and Human Development Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics English History Islamic Civilization and Societies Mathematics Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology and Neuroscience Romance Languages and Literatures Sociology Theology School of Theology and Ministry Woods College of Advancing Studies Courses Overview Boston College Law School Boston College School of Social Work Carroll School of Management Accounting Courses Business Analytics Courses Business Law and Society Courses Business Writing and Communication Courses Finance Courses Information Systems Courses Management and Organization Courses Management Elective Courses Management Required Courses Marketing Courses Portico Courses Undergraduate Management Courses Connell School of Nursing Nursing Courses Forensics Courses Palliative Care Courses Lynch School of Education and Human Development Counseling, Developmental, and Educational Psychology Courses Educational Leadership and Higher Education Courses Experience, Reflection, Action Courses Learning Engineering Courses Measurement, Evaluation, Statistics, and Assessment Courses Teacher Education and Curriculum and Instruction Courses Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences African and African Diaspora Studies Courses Art History Courses Biology Courses Capstone Courses Chemistry Courses Classical Studies Courses Communication Courses Computer Science Courses Cornerstone Courses Earth and Environmental Sciences Courses East Asian Languages and Civilizations Courses Economics Courses Engineering Courses English Courses Environmental Studies Courses Film Courses French Courses German Studies Courses Hispanic Studies Courses History Courses Italian Courses International Studies Courses Islamic Civilization and Societies Courses Jesuit Studies Courses Journalism Courses Linguistics Courses Mathematics Courses Music Academic Courses Music Performance Courses Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations Courses Philosophy Courses Physics Courses Political Science Courses Psychology and Neuroscience Courses Romance Languages and Literatures Courses Slavic Studies Courses Sociology Courses Studio Art Courses Theatre Courses Theology Courses University Courses Schiller Institute for Integrated Science and Society School of Theology and Ministry Christian Ethics Courses Course Area Unspecified Courses History of Christianity Courses New Testament Courses Old Testament Courses Pastoral Studies Courses Practical Theology Courses Religious Education Courses Systematic and Historical Theology Courses Woods College of Advancing Studies Accounting Courses Administrative Studies Courses Biology Courses Business Management Courses Communication Courses Corporate Systems Courses Criminal Justice Courses Cybersecurity Courses Economics Courses Education Courses English Courses Examined Life Courses Film Courses Finance Courses Fine Arts Courses Geology Courses Healthcare Administration Courses History Courses Information Technology Courses Journalism Courses Law Courses Leadership Studies Courses Marketing Courses Mathematics Courses Philosophy Courses Political Science Courses Psychology Courses Romance Languages Courses Sociology Courses Spanish Courses Sports Administration Courses Sustainability Courses Theology Courses Policies and Procedures Catalog Archive Close Directory A to Z Listing Search University Catalog Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Undergraduate Programs Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Music Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences African and African Diaspora Studies Art, Art History, and Film Biochemistry Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Eastern, Slavic, and German Studies Economics Engineering English Environmental Studies History Interdisciplinary Programs and Minors (MCAS) International Studies Islamic Civilization and Societies Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology and Neuroscience Romance Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology University Courses Music Whether students aspire to a career in music or wish to pursue their own love of the art, they will find that the Department of Music offers courses in theory and composition, in the history and current trends of both Western and non-Western music, and lessons in voice and/or an instrument. All students, regardless of musical background, are welcome in any course unless a prerequisite or an instructor’s permission is indicated (for example, in certain theory courses). The Music Department offers a variety of courses (MUSA1100, MUSA1200, MUSA1300, MUSA1701) that satisfy the University Core requirement in the Arts and that serve as introductions to the various areas of musical knowledge. MUSA1100 Fundamentals of Music Theory focuses on technical aspects of the language of music and functions as a prerequisite to Harmony and further upper level courses in theory and composition, such as Chromatic Harmony, and Counterpoint, as well as Jazz Harmony, Tonal Composition, and the Seminar in Composition. MUSA1200 Introduction to Music offers a broad contextual survey of music history and styles of music, while upper level courses focus on various periods of Western music history (Middle Ages, Renaissance, Baroque, Classical Era, Romantic Era, Modern Era), the historical development of various genres (Opera, Symphony, Keyboard Music, Dance), or the contributions of various individual composers (Monteverdi, Bach, Beethoven, Brahms). MUSA1300 History of Popular Music offers a socio-historical approach to the broad history and context of Popular music; upper level cross-cultural courses deal with Popular traditions (such as Irish Folk Music, Music in America, History of Jazz, Hip-Hop, the Beatles) and World music. MUSA1701 Aesthetic Exercises is an Enduring Questions class which, with THEO1701 Spiritual Exercises, satisfies the Arts Core and one of the two Theology Core requirements. In World music, MUSA1320 Introduction to Musics of the World, MUSA2303 Afro-Brazilian Music, MUSA2304 Musics of India, MUSA2306 Musics of Africa, MUSA2307 Musics of Asia, and MUSA2309 Music and Culture in the Middle East satisfy the Cultural Diversity requirement of the Core, but not the University Core requirement in the Arts. For the music major, a liberal arts framework offers a broader perspective than that offered by conservatories or schools of music. In this comprehensive liberal arts framework, students encounter historical, theoretical, cultural, ethnographic, and performance perspectives on music. The student majoring in music at Boston College may find employment in teaching, communications, arts administration, or liturgical music, or may major in music to provide a firm enriching discipline for the mind or a source of lifelong enjoyment. Some students plan to go on to graduate school or a conservatory to become professional performers, composers, musicologists, ethnomusicologists, educators, or arts professionals. Within the major, all students acquire a common base of knowledge with a specialization at higher levels in such areas as composition, performance, music history, or cultural studies. A grounding, not only in the traditional musical skills of Western art music, but also knowledge of American music and of the traditions of other cultures, is considered indispensable. Music Academic Courses Music Performance Courses Music Faculty Music Website Print Open All Close All Performance Performance The Music Department offers individual instruction in voice and instruments either for credit (MUSP1925—1 credit per semester) or not for credit (MUSP1920, 1910, 1900). Individual instrumental instruction, for either credit or non-credit, requires an extra fee. In addition, several free, non-credit performance courses offer instruction and/or coaching in various instruments and ensembles. Private lessons, when taken for credit, require a juried performance at the end of the semester. Students may count up to 3 credits of individual instruction toward graduation. Major Requirements Major Requirements (Minimum of 12 courses, 38 credits) Theory, Analysis, and Composition Courses: (12 credits total) Prerequisite: MUSA1100 Fundamentals of Music Theory or equivalent Required of all majors: MUSA2100 Harmony, MUSA3100 Chromatic Harmony, MUSA3106 Counterpoint Choice of any one course: MUSA3110 Form and Analysis, MUSA3114 Jazz Harmony, MUSA3120 Composition Seminar, MUSA3126 Tonal Composition, MUSA3130 Orchestration, MUSA2130 Education Through Music Historical Courses: (9 credits total) Required of all majors: MUSA2209 Music of the Modern Era Choice of any two*: MUSA2201 Medieval-Renaissance Music, MUSA2202 Music of the Renaissance, MUSA2203 Music of the Baroque, MUSA2205 Music of the Classic Era, MUSA2207 Music of the Romantic Era *With permission of the Director of the Undergraduate Program in Music, a composer or genre course may be substituted for a period course. Cultural Courses: (6 credits total) Required of all majors, a choice of one from each of the following two groups: Group I—World Music MUSA1320 Introduction to Musics of the World* MUSA2303 Afro-Brazilian Music* MUSA2304 Musics of India* MUSA2306 Musics of Africa* MUSA2307 Musics of Asia* MUSA2308 Music in the Medieval Islamic World MUSA2309 Music and Culture in the Middle East* *MUSA1320, MUSA2303, MUSA2304, MUSA2306, MUSA2307, and MUSA2309 also satisfy the Core Cultural Diversity requirement Group II—Popular Music MUSA2320 Music and America MUSA2330 History of Jazz MUSA2334 Hip Hop in American Culture MUSA2340 Introduction to Irish Folk Music MUSA3350 The Beatles Required Senior Seminar: (one semester, 4 credits) The Senior Seminar (MUSA4941) is ordinarily open only to senior music majors. The Seminar entails a series of weekly projects allowing majors to investigate issues in depth with special emphasis in one of the areas listed above (history, cultural studies, or performance). The Seminar serves as preparation for a senior project with supervised reading, research, writing, and discussion. Electives: (6 credits) Students choose a minimum of two 3-credit courses in whatever category is appropriate to their particular interest, whether it is in music theory and composition, performance, history, or cultural studies. Students with a performance emphasis must have three semesters of private instruction for credit. Three semesters of private instruction for credit may be used as an elective only upon completion of the juries at the end of each semester of lessons. Performance Ensemble Experience: (minimum of two semesters) Each major must have two semesters of experience in ensemble performance in some capacity and may choose from any organized performance group at Boston College (such as Boston College Symphony Orchestra, Chamber Music Ensemble, Popular Styles Ensemble, Irish Traditional Music classes, University Chorale, the Middle Eastern Ensemble, West African Drumming and Dance, Voices of Imani, Liturgy Arts Group, student a cappella group, BC bOp, Marching Band, Wind Ensemble, etc.), through more informal student groups (by consultation with the Director of the Undergraduate Program in Music), or through private lessons. Cumulative Listening Competency Majors will be asked to identify important works from the Western tradition in a series of Listening Competency exams. Each year of the music major (normally three), a list of works will be given to students that they must be able to identify by the end of the year. A listening test on each of three lists of works will be administered until the student passes. Ear Training/Sight Singing: (2 credits) All majors must pass the minimum competency requirements in Ear Training and Sight-Singing before graduation. The courses MUSA1090 and MUSA2090 Ear-Training and Sight-Singing are 2-credit classes designed and recommended as an aid to passing this test. Minor Requirements Minor Requirements (Minimum of six courses, 18 credits) The Music Department has designed a minor in music as an alternative for students who are interested in music, but who do not wish either to make music their career or to go on to graduate studies or who have majors that preclude taking music as a second major. The total number of courses required for the minor in music is six. Those wishing to minor in music should take the following: One of the following (3 credits): MUSA1100 Fundamentals of Music Theory (required if they do not have the background in music theory needed before entering MUSA2100 Harmony), or MUSA1200 Introduction to Music, MUSA1300 History of Popular Music, or MUSA1701 Aesthetic Exercises. Students who can pass out of MUSA1100 will substitute an upper-level course as an elective. Two additional music theory courses (6 credits): MUSA2100 Harmony and MUSA3100 Chromatic Harmony. Three historical and cross-cultural electives (9 credits): One period course, one composer or genre course, one cross-cultural course (either in World Music or in Popular Music). The choice of courses should be made in consultation with an advisor from the Music Department. In addition, each student must participate in at least two semesters of credit or non-credit performance experience (either as a member of an ensemble or through private lessons), as approved by the department. Honors Honors In order to graduate with departmental honors, a student must maintain a grade point average of 3.5 in the major and 3.3 in the University, pass the Ear-Training and Listening Repertoire requirements with a high score, and produce a final project, recital, or paper deemed worthy of honors. The project must be completed for a grade of A- or better to receive honors. There are various ways to fulfill the project: A research paper of no fewer than 40 pages and a public presentation of approximately 20 minutes on their findings. A recital of around 40 minutes (but no less than 30 minutes) with a paper of no fewer than 15 pages. Non-honors majors may still count a senior recital for credit as MUSA4600 Senior Recital Preparation but without it being considered for honors. A composition or set of compositions of no less than 15 minutes. Information for First-Year Majors and Non-majors Information for First-Year Majors and Non-majors Included in the University’s Core Curriculum is one course in the Arts (Art, Art History, and Film, Music, or Theatre). MUSA1200 Introduction to Music, MUSA1100 Fundamentals of Music Theory, MUSA1300 History of Popular Music, and MUSA1701 Aesthetic Exercises are the Music Department's Core offerings. They are designed for the non-musician as well as the student who has studied music. Prospective music majors should reference the Recommended Course of Study below. Students with advanced musical backgrounds and interests should speak to the Director of the Undergraduate Program in Music regarding appropriate upper-level courses. The Department offers MUSA1320 Introduction to Musics of the World, MUSA2303 Afro-Brazilian Music, MUSA2304 Musics of India, MUSA2306 Musics of Africa, MUSA2307 Musics of Asia, and MUSA2309 Music and Culture in the Middle East as options for the Cultural Diversity requirement of the Core. Information for Study Abroad Information for Study Abroad For the Core: Students who wish to satisfy the Arts Core through Music while abroad should consult with the Director of the Undergraduate Program before their departure. Acceptable courses should be similar in scope and content to those offered at Boston College. Not all Study Abroad programs offer classes that satisfy these requirements. For the major and minor: The department requires that the music theory sequence for minors and majors through Chromatic Harmony and the Senior Seminar for majors be taken at Boston College. Music of the Modern Era and Counterpoint (required of majors) should be taken at Boston College, though exceptions may be possible depending on equivalent courses offered by the host school. Majors may not be abroad in the Fall semester of senior year since they are required in this semester to take the Senior Seminar at BC. Before going abroad, both minors and majors should have completed Chromatic Harmony. Majors, in addition, should have taken a few of the history or cultural studies courses. Thus, acceptable offerings from abroad tend to lean towards courses in Western music history or in World or Popular studies, with some upper-level theory courses acceptable. Usually students complete 6 or 9 credits; however, majors have had as many as 12 credits fulfilled abroad. Students should contact the Director of the Undergraduate Program in Music, to plan an acceptable course of study for their semester or year abroad. The department recommends the music programs offered at King’s College, London, and University College, Cork, Ireland. Recommended Course of Study Recommended Course of Study Freshman Year All students with a serious interest in music should try as freshmen to take, or test out of, MUSA1100 Fundamentals of Music Theory. The theory courses (especially MUSA1100 Fundamentals of Music Theory and MUSA2100 Harmony) are essential and necessary predictors of a student’s potential to succeed in the major. Those who can test out of MUSA1100 and who wish to fulfill the Arts Core requirement with a music course should take MUSA1200 Introduction to Music, MUSA1300 History of Popular Music, or MUSA1701 Aesthetic Exercises. Outside of Music, Core courses in Art, Art History, and Film or Theatre are also possible instead of Music and are recommended for those who wish to acquire a broader and deeper understanding of the Arts. Sophomore Year Harmony and Chromatic Harmony should be taken in sequence along with MUSA1090–2090 Ear Training/Sight Singing Labs. Two history courses in Western Music (selected from Medieval-Renaissance, Baroque Music, Music of the Classical Era, Music of the Romantic Era, Music of the Modern Era, or a composer or genre course) or one history course and one World or Popular music course should be taken. The first year’s required Listening Repertoire should be mastered. Some performance experience (Orchestra, Chorale, Band, Chamber Music, non-Western performance, and/or private lessons) should be started and pursued throughout the major. Junior Year Counterpoint and a choice of Jazz Harmony, Form and Analysis, or Composition and a second or third history course and/or course in World or Popular music should be taken. The second year of the required Listening Repertoire should be mastered. Senior Year Any advanced courses in the department relevant to a student’s chosen emphasis—performance, composition, history, or cultural studies—and the Senior Seminar, which is designed to synthesize previous course work. The final year of the required Listening Repertoire should be mastered. Recommended Course of Study: Minors Students can add music as a minor as late as their junior year, but no later than second semester as the minor requires a minimum of three consecutive semesters in order to complete the theory sequence of the following: Fundamentals, Harmony, and Chromatic Harmony. The history and cultural studies component may be taken at any time in conjunction with various levels of theory, although some understanding of Fundamentals is recommended for students with little previous, formal background in music. Back To Top Back To Top Managed By University Catalog Office of Student Services Lyons Hall 103 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College