Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Undergraduate Admission Student Affairs About News Athletics Events Calendar Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Giving Ways to Give Your gifts at work Give now Menu Search SMU Giving Recognition Donor Spotlights Donor Spotlights Why I Give For Stephen Reiff ’10, it’s hard to know if the most valuable part of his SMU experience was the caring faculty and staff who gave him a feeling of empowerment or the lifelong friendships that he built as a first-year student. “SMU made me feel like the world was my oyster and that helped encourage me to dream big – taking me everywhere: from the front lines of a presidential campaign to a refugee camp in Uganda and on to advising senior leaders in the business world,” Stephen said of the faculty and staff who cared about him personally. “Or perhaps,” he pondered, “the friendships formed were the most valuable part of my SMU experience. I didn't get married until I was 33 and the two best men in my wedding were my two best friends at SMU - both of whom I met within my first week at school!” Today, Stephen donates to SMU as a way to show strength in numbers for alumni donor support, a statistic that influences how the university is ranked in publications like US News & World Report College Rankings. “When I give to SMU,” he said. “I am helping empower the next generation of leaders and strengthening the brand of SMU to the world.” Ways to giveGive now Back to top Schools and areas Scholarships Endowed faculty positions Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Athletics Libraries Student Affairs Cox School renovation and expansion Hughes-Trigg renovation Owen Arts Center transformation Ways to Give Endowment giving Current-use giving Capital giving Planned giving University-wide initiatives School and unit giving Contact Us Office of the Vice President for Development and External Affairs Principal and Major Gifts School and Project Development Athletics © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Give now SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow Impact Your gifts at work Annual Report Alumni Giving Parent Giving Student Giving Faculty and Staff Giving Recognition Giving Societies SMU Ignited Gifts Donor Spotlights Resources Why support SMU Ways to Give Frequently Asked Questions Contact us Office of Donor Relations Give now Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Current Students Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Faculty & Staff Majors & Minors Alumni COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Did you know? SMU's singular approach to integrating rigorous learning with hands-on experience will prepare you to achieve your educational goals and expand your world in ways you never imagined. Ours is a community of people forging their own paths. We'd like to help you shape yours. Plan your visit Menu Search