Skip to main content Service Request Penn Homepage Penn Sustainability Penn Connects Search this site Main menu About Services Standards & Policies Sustainability Capital Process Maps Collaborative Efforts Collaborative Efforts Print Facilities and Real Estate Services coordinates with the City, students, and other Divisions and Departments at Penn to help the University commence and achieve their sustainable initiatives. University Collaboration Environmental Sustainability Advisory Committee The Environmental Sustainability Advisory Committee (ESAC) is a University-wide committee made up of faculty, students, and staff that was created in response to Dr. Gutmann signing the Presidents Climate Commitment in 2007. ESAC has been charged with the development of a Climate Action Plan for carbon reduction at Penn. The committee is chaired by the Vice President of the Facilities and Real Estate Services. Several staff members from FRES sit on this advisory committee and the six subcommittees. To learn more about the ESAC Committee, click here. Academics Facilities and Real Estate Services coordinates the Academic Sub-Committee of ESAC. Facilities also works with the Provost's Office, students, and faculty to encourage University-wide support of sustainable efforts. For more information, click here. Student Participation The undergraduates have formed an organization, the Student Sustainability Association at Penn (SSAP), that helps promote and teach the University community sustainable practices. Facilities and Real Estate Services works closely with the Association as well as our Student Eco-Reps to help disseminate accurate information and to promote the activities happening in our department. We usually can be found at Move-In handing out compact fluorescent light bulbs (CFLs) to encourage more energy efficient living. Student volunteers hand out recycling bins and CFLs to new students during Move-In Transportation Facilities works closely with the Division of Public Safety and the Division of Business Services to set campus-wide strategy for bike racks, parking, and traffic patterns on and around campus. Facilities further oversees the maintenance of pedestrian paths throughout campus. We also maintain pedestrian paths throughout campus and work with our Penn partners to ensure safe pedestrian and bicycle access. For more information about Penn's sustainable transportation programs, click here. Green Fund Program The Penn Green Fund is an initiative of Penn Sustainability and funded by the Division of Facilities and Real Estate Services and the Office of the Provost. The Penn Green Fund welcomes ideas from the Penn community about ways to improve Penn’s environmental performance and reduce carbon emissions. The committee is composed of Penn faculty, staff, and student representatives. For more information about the program and how to apply for a grant, please click here. PennMOVES In 2008, Business Services launched PennMOVES– Move Out Volunteers Engaging in Service which collects items that Penn students can’t take with them when they leave campus in the summer – clothes, furniture, appliances, books, kitchen gear, toys, sporting goods and non perishable food, etc. Rather than ending up in the landfill, these items are gathered, sorted and then offered for sale. On average, over 90,000 pounds of items are collected each year. Proceeds and additional items are donated to Goodwill Industries. More information can be found on the PennMOVES website. Collaboration with the Community Green Building United Green Building United is a nonprofit membership organization whose mission is to transform the Delaware Valley through sustainable and environmentally responsible planning, design, construction and operation of the region’s buildings, landscapes, cities and communities, mindful of the legacy left for future generations. Bicycle and Pedestrian Transportation Penn has also been collaborating with different organizations in the City of Philadelphia around bike sharing and bike/pedestrian issues to promote a more sustainable City and to further engage the University with the Philadelphia community. Penn works closely with the University City District (UCD) and UCD’s sustainability efforts. Contact: sustainability@upenn.edu Sustainability Energy Management Built Environment Waste Management and Recycling Collaborative Efforts Info for: Penn Community Facilities & Real Estate Services 3101 Walnut St Philadelphia, Pa 19104 Emergency/Vehicular Address: 3160 Chestnut Street (proceed to the glass Pavilion at end of the parking lot) © 2022 University of Pennsylvania Report accessibility issues and get help » Webmaster Contact » Service Request Penn Homepage Penn Sustainability Penn Connects About Mission Organizational Chart Departments Campus History Campus Plan News Divisional Overview Vendor Information Directions to FRES Services Maintenance and Renovation Campus and Building Plans Landscape Planned Events Real Estate Signage Moving Services Standards & Policies Standards Policies Safety Procedures Sustainability Energy Management Built Environment Waste Management and Recycling Collaborative Efforts Capital Process Initiate a Project Capital Planning Facilities Renewal Maps and Locations Building Locations Penn Connects Public Art Bike Racks Discover Penn Public Parking Printing the Campus Map PennAccess Location List Contacts Penn Community Penn Homepage