Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Counseling Center Menu COVID-19 About Us Confidentiality Contact Us Feedback BUCC Mission Statement Diversity Vision Statement Diversity Meet the Staff Notice of Non-Discrimination Our Interns and Graduate Trainees Records Request Where are we located? POTH Policy Counseling Services Response to Serving Students During the Pandemic Services Baylor Telehealth by Academic Live Care Get Started Here Clinical Services Addictive Behavior Services Are you in crisis? Care Management Services Groups LOTUS Medical Nutrition Services Additional Information about Regina Mastin Office Hours Program of Care Scope of Service Initial Assessments Outreach Around the Table Active Minds at Baylor Outreach Request Form APA Accredited Doctoral Internship Program Letter from the Training Director Adaptation and Flexibility in the APA Internship Program related to COVID-19 APA Accreditation Overview of the APA-Accredited Internship RCT Framework for Training and Supervision Trauma Recovery Supervision Group (TRSG) Diversity Outreach Partnership (DOP) Our Commitment to Diversity Working at a Faith-Based Christian University Application Information & Selection Process Baylor University Our Counseling Center Stipend, Benefits, and Other Resources Internship Admissions, Support, and Initial Placement Data Current and Past Interns Waco & The Heart of Texas Contact Us Maintaining Mental Health Baylor>Counseling Center>Services>Initial Assessments Initial Assessments Fall/Spring Hours Monday - Friday 9:00am - 4:00pm (Fall and Spring only) Summer Hours Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Friday 1:00pm - 4:00pm Wednesday 10:00am - 4:00pm Monday - Friday 9:00am - 4:00pm Welcome! Monday through Friday the Counseling Services will be open for Initial Assessment Appointments. The Initial Assessments is for students who are seeking our services for the first time, or if you urgently need to speak to a counselor before your next scheduled appointment. The purpose is to give the student a free initial assessment that is accessible to their schedule and is confidential. All you have to do is call to schedule an appointment or come by our office during office hours. You can find the paperwork under "patient paperwork" tab on our website. If you have already been assigned a counselor, or are returning to see the same counselor from last semester, you do not need to participate in the Initial Assessment. FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS When is the Initial Assessments? Monday thru Friday the counseling services will be available bt phone for Initial Assessment Appointments. Initial Assessment Hours Monday – Friday / 9:00 - 4:00 What is an initial assessment? An initial assessment is the first entry point into the Baylor Counseling Services. During your initial assessment you will meet with one of the Walk-In Clinic Team and they will explain to you the level of care that the Counseling Center provides. This includes answering any questions about Initial Assessments. They will listen to why you are seeking services and making recommendation that will best meet your current needs. Though the Initial Assessment Team is part of the Clinical Staff, the initial assessment will not count as a counseling appointment. Why do I need to fill out all these forms and survey? In order for us to best help you, we need to know a little bit about who you are and what brought you to see us today. These forms and survey will help us understand who you are and how you are currently feeling. It also helps the counselor to provide a more comprehensive initial assessment by referring to the Client Information Form. You are your counselor will collaborate on what level of care is appropriate for your needs based on your survey and appointment. Why do I have to take the CCAPS survey? CCAPS (Counseling Center Assessment of Psychological Symptoms) is a survey we have you take when you come for Walk-In. It takes about 7-10 minutes to fill out, but it will help the Clinician understand what your Mental Health concerns are. The CCAPS is a tool that the clinician will use in the Initial Assessment to help aid in their judgment on what level of care would best fit your needs and share the results as well with you. It is important that you answer all questions carefully in order for the clinician to get an accurate understanding of what your concerns are. I'm in crisis, what do I do? If you are in crisis, please use our Walk-In Clinic, but you can come any time the BUCC is open. If you're in crisis, please call our office during business hours/non-business hours, (254) 710-2467. How long will it take? The college years are an exciting but stressful time! Many students decide they want assistance, so we have a lot of business each day. Also, while we try to see students in the order they arrived, sometimes an urgent situation demands our attention. We will get to you as soon as possible. The Initial Assessment is often 30 minutes, but may extend to an hour based on your present need. Do you offer Telehealth therapy? Baylor University offers several options for online counseling: If you are in Texas and would like to visit a Baylor University counselor over a video chat during the normal Counseling Center office hours, call 254-710-2467. If you are outside of Texas, or if you’re looking for counseling services outside of the Counseling Center’s regular business hours, call 833-969-3998. If you are outside of the U.S., call +44 20 8987-6588. Counseling Center hours: Monday-Friday 8am-5pm If you have more question: Please feel free during your Initial Assessment to ask any questions that you might have about our services with the counselor, who will be willing to address any concerns, or call our office at (254) 710-2467 Services Baylor Telehealth by Academic Live Care Get Started Here Clinical Services Addictive Behavior Services Are you in crisis? Care Management Services Groups LOTUS Medical Nutrition Services Additional Information about Regina Mastin Office Hours Program of Care Scope of Service Initial Assessments Visit Us McLane Student Life Center, 2nd Floor 209 Speight Ave Waco, TX 76706 Contact Us 254.710.2467 Counseling_Center@baylor.edu Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Counseling Center Facebook Pinterest Twitter Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 COVID-19 About Us Confidentiality Contact Us Feedback BUCC Mission Statement Diversity Vision Statement Diversity Meet the Staff Notice of Non-Discrimination Our Interns and Graduate Trainees Records Request Where are we located? POTH Policy Counseling Services Response to Serving Students During the Pandemic Services Baylor Telehealth by Academic Live Care Get Started Here Clinical Services Addictive Behavior Services Are you in crisis? Care Management Services Groups LOTUS Medical Nutrition Services Additional Information about Regina Mastin Office Hours Program of Care Scope of Service Initial Assessments Outreach Around the Table Active Minds at Baylor Outreach Request Form APA Accredited Doctoral Internship Program Letter from the Training Director Adaptation and Flexibility in the APA Internship Program related to COVID-19 APA Accreditation Overview of the APA-Accredited Internship RCT Framework for Training and Supervision Trauma Recovery Supervision Group (TRSG) Diversity Outreach Partnership (DOP) Our Commitment to Diversity Working at a Faith-Based Christian University Application Information & Selection Process Baylor University Our Counseling Center Stipend, Benefits, and Other Resources Internship Admissions, Support, and Initial Placement Data Current and Past Interns Waco & The Heart of Texas Contact Us Maintaining Mental Health