Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Division of Research and Innovation About Vision, Mission, & Values Researchers Business & Partners News Facilities Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Researcher Resources Identify Interest Getting StartedCommon Funding OpportunitiesInternal Funding OpportunitiesCollaboration and Networking ERA Getting StartedCayuse TrainingImportant FormsSponsor News & Updates Route & Submit Getting StartedElectronic Research AdministrationPI EligibilityResearch Forms & GuidesSponsor Guidance Research Compliance Getting StartedHuman Subjects (IRB)Research Data SecurityFinancial Conflict of InterestAnimal Care (IACUC)Export Controls Award & Grants Getting Started Sponsored Agreements Advance Accounts Non-Financial Post-Award Reports and Deliverables Subaward Administration Closing the Award Training Resources Training CalendarCurrent Training ResourcesArchive of Past TrainingFIT Training ResourcesCayuse TrainingCoRS Training How do I? Institutional Information Research Forms Take Action For Researchers For Business Strategic Goals & Tactical Plan Contact Us @UofMemphis FacebooktwitterLinkedn Home Division of Research and Innovation Researchers Sponsored Agreements Sponsored Agreements Award Negotiation and Acceptance Award negotiations, as defined in this section, mean the scope of activities between proposal submission and the acceptance of an award by the University. During this period, the award mechanism (grant, cooperative agreement, or contract) and the sponsor will largely determine the length and complexity of the negotiation process. The end result of award negotiations is a mutually agreeable set of terms under which the University will conduct the proposed project. CHANGES TO THE SCOPE OF WORK AND/OR BUDGET Any time a sponsor requests or requires a change in the originally proposed budget or scope of work, the Principal Investigator should always notify and coordinate a response through OSP before submitting a revised budget or scope of work to the sponsor. TYPES OF AWARDS INDUSTRY AGREEMENTS These are awards from industry or for-profit sponsors, including funds that flow to the University through an industry sponsor to a third party. GOVERNMENT AGREEMENTS Contract negotiations with a government agency primarily focus on budget and scope of work issues. The terms and conditions of the award are usually fixed by law or regulation. However, it is important to make sure that the terms and conditions imposed by the agency are appropriate for the work proposed and applicable to the University. FEDERAL Contract negotiations with a federal government agency primarily focus on budget and scope of work issues. The terms and conditions of the award are usually fixed by law or regulation. However, differences in the interpretation of law and regulation can result in the negotiation of certain clauses, especially in the areas of export controls, restrictions based on citizenship status, contractual requirements to provide protected private information in the absence of any regulations, options to classify the project as secret, publication approval and other publication restrictions or editorial controls. Therefore, it is important to make sure that the terms and conditions imposed by the agency are appropriate for the work proposed and applicable to the University. STATE OF TENNESSEE Contract negotiations with state agencies primarily focus on budget and scope of work issues, payment terms, travel rates, reporting requirements, invoiceing documentation, audit, ownership of research records, termination, and penalty clauses for breach of contract. OTHER ITEMS ADDRESSED PRIOR TO START OF AWARD COMPLIANCE Before funding can be released or an advance account established, all applicable compliance must be in place for that award. If you're unsure of what is required, please contact OSP. An award which requires approval from one or more of the compliance committees (IRB, IACUC) must have approved protocol prior to the release of funding. Principal Investigators (PI) should submit their protocol applications to the appropriate committee as soon as an award appears to be forthcoming. For additional information contact researchcompliance@memphis.edu or visit the IRB, IACUC and Financial Conflict of Interest webpages. BUDGET If the awarded budget is less than the proposed budget then the PI or departmental administrator must create a budget allocation. This is required before OSP can process the award. In some cases where the funding has been cut significantly the scope of work may also need to be reduced. ONCE NEGOTIATIONS ARE COMPLETE Sponsored Projects will officially process the award in Cayuse and data will be automatically transmitted to Banner with Grants Accounting receiving notice there is an award pending set up. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 7/29/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.