Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open the search panel Open the main menu Search Go Close the search panel Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers News Events Alumni Giving About Library Login Open the Search panel Admissions Admissions Why Columbia J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics Academics J.D. Program and Curriculum LL.M. Program and Curriculum Executive LL.M. Program and Curriculum J.S.D. Program and Curriculum Dual and Joint Degrees International Programs Public Interest and Public Service Experiential Learning Courses Registration Services Academic Calendar Executive Education Areas of Study Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Criminal Justice Data Analytics Environment and Energy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Intellectual Property and Technology International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace Leadership Legal History Litigation and Dispute Resolution National Security and Privacy Social Justice and Human Rights Faculty & Scholarship Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Directory Research Centers and Programs Scholarship Archive Workshops, Lectures, and Colloquia Careers Careers Private Sector Careers Public Interest and Public Service Careers Academic Careers Judicial Clerkships Employment Statistics Employment Policies Community Life Community Life Visit Campus Dean’s Welcome Your Campus, Your City Student Life Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Strategic Initiatives J.D. Admissions Admissions J.D. Admissions Join a diverse and remarkable community and benefit from a legal education renowned for its intellectual rigor and broad curricular and experiential opportunities. Welcome to Columbia Law School. More in this Section Explore J.D. Admissions: The J.D. Experience Application Process Visit and Connect Entering Class Profile Frequently Asked Questions Viewbook 2021-2022 Admissions Calendar J.D. Tuition and Financial Aid Application Information Update Admissions Philosophy, Eligibility, and Standards Whether your interest lies in international or corporate law, public interest or government, gender and sexuality law, or another area of study, a Columbia Law School education will support your goals and prepare you to lead the way. Immerse yourself in a rich, progressive curriculum focused on today’s most complex legal and social challenges, and learn to use the law as a tool for change. Engage with our faculty of scholars who bring the real world into the classroom, and then develop practical lawyering skills through clinics, externships, labs, workshops, and more. Enrich your education with interdisciplinary study, either within Columbia University or with our partner institutions, and open the door to unique professional opportunities like dual and joint degree programs, such as the Three-Year JD/MBA Program. Build lifelong relationships with classmates who share your intellectual curiosity and commitment to excellence and network with alumni around the world Make your home in New York City and explore the convergence of culture, law, finance, and social justice in one of the most dynamic cities in the world. Gain access to top employers, and pursue a career in any aspect of the legal profession or draw on the versatility of your J.D. to advance your career outside the law. Contact Information J.D. Admissions 212-854-2674 Send an email Related Links Apply Check Application Status J.D. Program and Curriculum Application Process Learn More Frequently Asked Questions Learn More “I chose Columbia Law because it presented an opportunity for a top legal education in an amazing city. In addition to having a rich curriculum that covers a wide array of legal topics, Columbia has knowledgeable faculty members who are approachable and willing to chat about their research with interested students.” Alexis Danielle Campbell ’20 Related Events View All Events View All Events Related News and Stories Read All Stories More in The Press Students Video A Lawyer’s Responsibility: Class of 2022 Graduates Reflect on Law School and What’s Next Six students look back on their time in law school and share how they think the Class of 2022 will have an impact on the legal profession and the world at large. Alumni News In Memoriam: Morton L. Janklow ’53, Preeminent Literary Agent In The Press Who Should Regulate? A Review of “The Chevron Doctrine” Thomas W. Merrill | New York Review of Books In The Press Is Musk Getting Cold Feet About Acquiring Twitter? Eric Talley | Bloomberg Law Podcast Admissions Why Columbia Visit 435 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 212-854-2640 Contact Us Social Media (Administrative Title) Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Instagram Admissions Academics Areas of Study Faculty & Scholarship Careers Community Life Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers Login News Events Alumni Giving About Library Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Donate © Copyright 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York.