Skip Top Navigation null More details Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Wellness at Dartmouth (603) 646-3706wellness@dartmouth.eduMail Home Menu About Mission & Contact Wellness Ambassadors People Wellness Benefits Wellness Benefit Options Pulse Program Common Myths FAQs Health Stations Fitness Reimbursement Fitness Reimbursement Form Alumni Gym Membership Healthy Living Resources Recreation & Fitness Charity Walks and Runs Nature Walks and Local Hikes Fitness Groups Mindfulness Family Support Local Community Events Green Commuting Support Healthy 2021 Health Coaching Omada Pre-Diabetes Program Tobacco Cessation Ergonomics Flu Vaccine Clinics Election Self-Care COVID-19 Coping Resources Dimensions of Well-being Physical Emotional Financial Social Environmental News & Events Webinars, Yoga & Fitness Classes Events Bulletin Boards Newsletters Monthly Well-being Calendars SearchClose Search Search Emotional Well-being Emotional well-being is being aware of and accepting of your feelings and being able to manage your emotions in a constructive and supportive way, and having the tools and resources needed to navigate life's challenges. Faculty/Employee Assistance Program (F/EAP) Your Dartmouth College Faculty/Employee Assistance Program, in partnership with GuidanceResources, gives you and your household members confidential support, resources and information for personal and work-life issues. These services are provided at no charge to you. Webinars The Wellness at Dartmouth office offers free live and pre-recorded webinars covering a variety of topics to help support your emotional well-being. Dartmouth Health Connect: Behavioral Health Specialist If you are a patient of Dartmouth Health Connect, you have free access to a Behavioral Health Specialist as part of your care team. Tucker Center for Spiritual and Ethical Life The Tucker Center provides pastoral counseling, free mindfulness sessions and provides access to a walking labyrinth as well as prayer and meditation rooms. Cigna: Virtual Behavioral Care Options If you are enrolled on a Cigna medical plan through Dartmouth College, there are a variety of virtual behavioral health resources available to you. MDLive telehealth services offers care for behavioral/mental health care. Watch this short video to learn more. MDLive provides access 24/7/365 - even on weekends and holidays. Connect with quality licensed counselors and psychiatrists anywhere via video or phone (board-certified doctors/pediatricians are also available for minor medical care). TalkSpace is an online therapy platform for you to connect with a licensed behavioral therapist via text, video and voice. Ginger is an app-based platform to access behavioral health coaches via chat text any time you need immediate support. Plus, access licenced therapists and psychiatrists for therapy via video with flexible hours, including weekends and evenings - all from the privacy of your smartphone. Free Apps: iPrevail App - Learn how to boost your mood and improve mental health with on-demand coaching 24/7. After completing a brief assessment, you receive a program tailored to your needs that includes interactive lessons and tools. You get access to a peer coach who is matched based on your symptoms. You can also join support communities focused on stress, anxiety, depression and more. Free for Cigna members. Happify App - Everyday stressors can impact your relationships, work, health and emotional well-being. But you can change your outlook – and the way you see the world – with Happify. Happify’s science-based activities and games are designed to help you manage stress and build resilience, and can be accessed 24/7. Free for Cigna members. Learn more here or view Cigna's virtual guide to behavioral health programs available here. Looking to meet with a local provider? Cigna has a comprehensive network of behavioral health providers. Visit mycigna.com or call the number on your ID card to find a provider near you. Plus, if the provider is also in Cigna's EAP network, you can receive three face-to-face sessions per issue per year at no out of pocket cost (you need to retrieve an authorization code from myCigna before your first appointment - after logging in to mycigna.com, hover over 'Coverage' and select 'Employee Assistance Program' then click on 'EAP Counselor' in the 'Emotional Health & Family Support' section, and select 'Get an EAP code' or call Cigna to obtain your EAP code. Please note: Cigna's EAP network is completely separate from Dartmouth's Faculty/Employee Assistance Program network and does not provide the same benefits. Relaxation Recordings Take some time for yourself and relax with one of these recordings by F/EAP Counselor, Sharon Morisi. Guided Relaxation at the Beach: Progressive Muscle Relaxation: Yoga, Movement & Mindfulness Access free live and recorded yoga, movement, and mindfulness sessions. Additional Support Resources For additional support resources to help you cope during the COVID-19 pandemic, visit our Coping Resources webpage. Last Updated Physical Emotional Financial Social Environmental Share Close Close People Courtney Rotchford Program Manageror for Health Promotion and Wellness Courtney.L.Rotchford@Dartmouth.edu Find Us Address 7 Lebanon Street, Suite 203 Hanover, NH 03755-3529 7 Lebanon Street Suite 203 Hanover, NH 03755-3529 Check out the Campus Map. Talk to Us Phone: (603) 646-3706 HB: 6042 Email: wellness@dartmouth.edu Phone: (603) 646-3706 Fax: (603) 646-1108 Email: wellness@dartmouth.edu HB 6042 More Contact InformationClose Contact Us My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback Dartmouth College Wellness at Dartmouth About Wellness Benefits Healthy Living Resources Dimensions of Well-being News & Events Back Mission & Contact Wellness Ambassadors People Back Wellness Benefit Options Pulse Program Fitness Reimbursement Alumni Gym Membership Back Recreation & Fitness Mindfulness Family Support Green Commuting Support COVID-19 Coping Resources Back Physical Emotional Financial Social Environmental Back Webinars, Yoga & Fitness Classes Events Bulletin Boards Newsletters Monthly Well-being Calendars Back Common Myths FAQs Health Stations Back Fitness Reimbursement Form Back Charity Walks and Runs Nature Walks and Local Hikes Fitness Groups Back Local Community Events Back Healthy 2021 Health Coaching Omada Pre-Diabetes Program Tobacco Cessation Ergonomics Flu Vaccine Clinics Election Self-Care Last Updated: May 10, 2022