For the most current information on the status of Libraries operations, services and policies visit UW Libraries Operations Updates. Online resources and support are available 24/7 Skip to primary content Skip to sidebar content University of Washington University Libraries My UW Calendar Maps Directories Toggle navigation Home Start Your Research Articles & Research Databases Literature on your research topic and direct access to articles online, when available at UW. E-Journals Alphabetical list of electronic journal titles held at UW. Encyclopedias & Dictionaries Resources for looking up quick facts and background information. E-Newspapers, Media, Maps & More Recommendations for finding news, audio/video, images, government publications, data sets and other types. Evaluating Information Learn how to choose the best and most reliable information that meets your research needs. Citation Styles & Tools Quick MLA, APA, and Chicago style guides for bibliographies; tools for storing and organizing sources. Course Reserves Library materials reserved for your classes. Collections & Archives Unique online and physical collections on specific subjects, in distinct formats, and in special archives. Mobile Search Tools Mobile-optimized research databases and library-related mobile apps. Research Guides Librarian recommended resources & research tips tailored to your topic. Undergraduate Researcher Tutorial Self-paced online tutorial that introduces students to research skills and UW Libraries resources and services. moreon research Use the Libraries Your Library Account Log in to renew borrowed materials, check on items you have requested, and pay fines. Study & Meeting Spaces Study, conference, event, and meeting spaces, and how to reserve them. Computers & Printing Computers, printers, and scanners in the Libraries. Accessibility We are committed to providing equal access to library collections, services, and facilities for all library users. Interlibrary Loan & Scanning Services Get PDFs of print articles delivered via email and borrow items not held at UW. Borrowing & Access What you can check out from the Libraries, how long, renewals, and returns. more on using the Libraries Help & Support FAQ Short, simple how-to and demos of frequently asked questions about using the Libraries and information resources. Graduate Funding Info Service Assistance with locating funding for research, tuition, travel, and other graduate school-related expenses. Off-Campus Access & Technical Support Using library resources from off-campus and other technical tips. Open Scholarship Commons One-stop shop for knowledge creation and dissemination services. Resources for Writing Campus writing help and links to online resources. Scholarly Publishing & Open Access Info and tools for scholarly publishing and open-access publishing alternatives. Subject Librarians Talk to a librarian with expertise in your subject area for help with your research. Teaching Support Collaborative library instructional services that can improve the research and information skills of your students. more help About Libraries & Hours Contact info, map location, and hours for all library branches. News Events Exhibits What's going on at the Libraries: announcements, upcoming events, and current exhibits. Organization At-a-Glance Staff directory and info about the Office of the Dean and other library departments. Support the Libraries Give to the Libraries! Join the Friends of the Libraries. Our Blog News, views and impact stories from the UW Libraries. Jobs Student, staff, and librarian job opportunities at the Libraries. PoliciesLibraries policies governing use of library resources, space, and services. Strategic Plan Current Libraries strategic goals and initiatives. Equity, Diversity, Inclusion and Anti-Racism Position statement, goals, working groups, community engagement. more about the Libraries Libraries Art Library Built Environments Library Drama Library Engineering Library Foster Business Library Friday Harbor Library Gallagher Law Library Government Publications, Maps, Microforms & Newspapers Health Sciences Library Mathematics Research Library Music Library Odegaard Undergraduate Library Research Commons Special Collections Suzzallo and Allen Libraries Tateuchi East Asia Library UW Bothell/Cascadia Library UW Tacoma Library Ask Us! Get help 24/7 with this real-time chat service. Email Get answers to less-urgent questions and comments via email. Consultations Make an appointment and get specialized help from a librarian. more ways to contact us About the Libraries / News Events Exhibits Libraries Newsletter News & Announcements Libraries in the News Events & Exhibits Calendar Exhibits Guidelines Social Media Directory Latest from Our Blog UW Libraries’ Negeen Aghassibake selected as 2022 LEADING Fellow May 25, 2022 Preparing for Finals Week: UW Libraries 10 Tips for Success May 24, 2022 Inside and Out: Working with Vendors to Improve Accessibility May 19, 2022 No Easy Answers: Big Data Vendors, Information Access and Libraries May 05, 2022 May Update Apr 29, 2022 Latest from Our Blog - More… Stay Connected Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Home / About the Libraries / News Events Exhibits / News & Announcements / UW Faculty Senate votes to support the UW Libraries’ Principles in Licensing Scholarly Resources Info UW Faculty Senate votes to support the UW Libraries’ Principles in Licensing Scholarly Resources “The primary mission of the University of Washington is the preservation, advancement, and dissemination of knowledge.” - University of Washington Mission Statement In support of the mission of the University of Washington, the UW Libraries states as a strategic goal to Advance Research for the Public Good and that UW research attains its greatest impact on our most pressing global challenges when we advocate for open, public and emerging forms of scholarship. (UW Libraries 2018-2023 Strategic Plan) The scholarly publishing model based on paywalls and rationing of access, inequitable opportunities for publishing, and excessive pricing and annual price increases is not sustainable. It is not sustainable for library budgets, it is not sustainable for authors trying to publish, and it is not sustainable for the health of the scholarly ecosystem where the open sharing of knowledge is critical to progress and innovation. The UW Libraries is committed to working with publishers and vendors who share the goal of moving to a sustainable publishing model built on openness and equity. On April 14, the UW Faculty Senate voted to approve a Class C Resolution expressing its support for UW Libraries’ Principles in Licensing Scholarly Resources and the use of these principles in negotiations with publishers and vendors of scholarly resources and empowering the UW Libraries to discontinue negotiations that conflict with these principles. The legislation, sponsored by the Faculty Council on University Libraries endorses the Libraries’ Principles and voices support for the three core values of Sustainability, Access and Equity, and Support of Scholarship and Teaching. SUSTAINABILITY: The UW Libraries negotiates for terms that build and support sustainability and the open sharing of knowledge created at the University of Washington. We prioritize agreements that move past the historical pricing models that uphold artificial rationing of knowledge and we work with publishers to move towards models based on sharing. We are shifting spending away from purchasing content from proprietary, closed, for-profit scholarly information providers and increasing investments to create and support community-owned infrastructure and shared digital resources. ACCESS AND EQUITY: The UW Libraries negotiates terms to preserve and further equitable access to knowledge for all faculty, researchers, and students at the University of Washington. We seek agreements that elevate voices from historically minoritized, ignored, and silenced groups. We actively negotiate for agreements that ensure equitable access for persons with disabilities and protect the privacy of researchers and their ability to conduct their research without sharing personal information. As an institution committed to advancing the public good, we continue to work toward the creation of an open scholarly ecosystem where barriers that restrict access to research and to publishing are eliminated. SUPPORT OF SCHOLARSHIP AND TEACHING: The UW Libraries supports the breadth and depth of scholarship and teaching at all levels at the University of Washington. We do this by being part of a network of shared collections in research libraries worldwide that allows our researchers to reach into the collections anywhere in this network to access what they need to complete their research. The UW Libraries negotiates agreements that support sharing across this network of collections. We prioritize agreements that allow us to curate our collections in alignment with research and teaching priorities. We are grateful for the support of our faculty colleagues and look forward to continuing to work together for a more sustainable and more equitable scholarly communication ecosystem. For questions or more information contact: SustainableScholarship@uw.edu ### University of Washington Libraries Box 352900 Seattle, WA 98195-2900 USA phone: 206-543-0242 - Contact Us UW Home / Privacy / Terms Text on this page created by UW Libraries is licensed under a CC BY-NC 4.0 license. Images and video are not included. See details.