Skip to content Stanford University Students Faculty & Staff Families Visitors Alumni COVID Resources Search Menu News Events Academics Research Health Care Campus Life Admission About Search term Search Stanford: Web People Search Web Other ways to search: Map Profiles Main Content Health Care Clinical care, research and education fuel innovation to advance human health. 1,600+ Faculty physicians New adult hospital Opened in 2019 540,000+ Annual pediatric visits to Stanford Children's Patient Care We coordinate expertise with the most advanced treatments and technology for the best possible patient outcomes. Stanford Health Care Stanford Medicine delivers unparalleled care for each patient’s unique needs. Our multidisciplinary approach to health care coordinates expertise with the most advanced technology for the best possible outcomes. Stanford Health Care Stanford Children's Health Stanford Children’s Health is the only health care network in the Bay Area – and one of the few in the country – exclusively dedicated to pediatric and obstetric care. Stanford Children's Health Research We are drawn to the difficult problems, the ones for which prevailing science does not yet have a framework to understand. Medicine Don’t vape that! More Stanford Medicine Research Education Our strength in interdisciplinary scholarship, our dedicated faculty and a culture of innovation set the training ground for the next generation of biomedical leaders and pioneers. Stanford School of Medicine With easy access to world-class faculty and coursework in medical science as well as engineering, computer science, education, business and the humanities, aspiring physicians and scientists can experiment across disciplines and customize their education to match their interests. Stanford School of Medicine Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube iTunes U Schools Business Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences Education Engineering Humanities & Sciences Law Medicine Departments Departments A - to Z Interdisciplinary Programs Research Research Centers A - to Z Interdisciplinary Research Libraries Health Care Stanford Health Care Stanford Children's Health Online Learning Stanford Online About Stanford Facts History Accreditation Admission Undergraduate Graduate Financial Aid Resources A - to Z Index Campus Map Community Engagement Directory Stanford Profiles Applying Visiting Giving Careers Contact Stanford University Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility ©Copyright Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305.