Main navigation Main content University of Minnesota - Duluth Home Page Search terms Submit search COVID-19 Updates Give One Stop MyU: For Students, Faculty, and Staff Crookston Duluth Morris Rochester Twin Cities About UMD Academics Admissions Athletics Campus Life Events News Research MyU One Stop Where what meets why Congratulations, Bulldogs! You’re admitted and committed. Time for the next steps: connect with your advisors, your classes, and your true north. Your Orientation Starts Here Explore With over 150 majors and minors, there are many ways to approach your passions. View your options > Apply Take a small step toward something big. Start your next adventure with us. Apply Now > Enroll Take the first step toward becoming a bulldog. Confirm your enrollment > Colleges & Schools College of Arts, Humanities, and Social Sciences College of Education and Human Service Professions Labovitz School of Business and Economics Swenson College of Science and Engineering Graduate School Medical School College of Pharmacy Discover the beauty of a University surrounded by nature. Explore UMD Campus COVID-19 Safety UMD is following guidelines of the Minnesota Department of Health and U of M public health experts. Campus has many health and safety features to reduce the spread of COVID-19, such as hand sanitizing stations, physical distancing measures, and wearing face coverings. COVID Updates UMD News Toward Stronger Families UMD child welfare scholar creates change. Bangladesh to Duluth A Teaching Assistant Conquers an Electrical Engineering Masters Program All UMD News #UMDProud Simply no other campus around like it. See what makes us UMDProud! Duluth Campus CONTACT Contact UMD 1049 University Drive Duluth, MN 55812 VISIT Campus Tours Maps & Directions Transportation & Parking RESOURCES FOR Newly Admitted Students Current Students Employee Resources Alumni Parents & Family Community & Visitors GIVE Support UMD SEARCH Directory Employment Events Library CONNECT © 2022 Regents of the University of Minnesota. All rights reserved. Privacy Statement The University of Minnesota is an equal opportunity educator and employer. Campus Climate