By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Admissions Cost & Aid Types of Aid Loans In this Section Educational Loans Federal Consolidation Loan Loan Exit Counseling Loans Although institutional scholarships and grants make up a large portion of many financial aid awards, student and parent loans can also help you meet your education costs. Personalized loan counseling is available—particularly at graduation time—and every effort is made to keep debt levels manageable. Several fixed-interest loans are available to assist you and your parents with the cost of college. Some are based on financial need, and all loans take into consideration the cost of attendance and any other sources of financial aid being received. View educational loan options Before You Borrow Before making any borrowing decisions, you should: File your Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) . Tap your other resources. Borrow Federal Direct Loans first Pursue Federal Graduate PLUS loans next (if you are a graduate student). Ask for help from your parents. Shop around before borrowing an alternative (private) loan. Federal Loan Eligibility To be considered eligible for a Federal loan, you must: Be matriculated and making academic progress in a program leading to a degree, certificate, or diploma at Syracuse University. Be a U.S. citizen or eligible noncitizen. Be enrolled for six or more credit hours per term Not be in default on any previous federal student loan or grant program. Loan Disbursements Loans are sent in two disbursements, half in the fall and half in the spring. If the loan is being borrowed for only one semester, the funds are disbursed in full at the beginning of the semester. Graduate students enrolled in online programs will receive their loan disbursements at the beginning of their enrollment period. Many students receive a refund from their loan funds for living expenses. You may request a refund on MySlice under Student Services or by contacting the Bursar’s office . Come to campus prepared to buy books and have money for personal expenses because refunds may not be immediately available when you arrive on campus. Application Deadlines You must reapply for your loans by completing the FAFSA each academic year. You may apply for a federal loan at any point throughout the term for which you want the loan, but you cannot borrow a federal loan for a term that has ended. Questions to Ask Before Borrowing An Alternative Loan What is the interest rate? Is it fixed or variable, and how is it determined? How often is the interest rate adjusted? How much are the origination fees and how are they charged? Will I have to pay interest while enrolled in school? When does the interest start to accrue, and will it be capitalized? What are the minimum and maximum loan limits? Under what circumstances would a co-signer be required? When does repayment start? Is there a grace period before repayment begins? Can I defer repayment of the loan if I go to graduate school? What is the monthly minimum payment? What is the maximum repayment period? Am I allowed to pay the interest while in school? Are there any loan repayment benefits or reductions? If so, will they remain if a future payment is late? Is the loan eligible for consolidation? How are the loan proceeds disbursed? Must I establish financial need for the loan? Do you sell your loans? If so, do the benefits go with them? Under what conditions would I qualify for cancellation, discharge, or forgiveness of the loan? Does the lender provide a toll-free phone number or website to ask questions as they arise? Do you apply any penalties or charges for pre-payments or early payoff? Related Pages Speak with a Financial Aid Counselor The Office of Financial Aid and Scholarship Programs is here to assist you and make the financial aid process as easy as possible. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy