Skip To Content Skip To Navigation Skip To Search Academics Admissions Research Global Faith & Service Campus Life Student Life Inclusion Arts & Culture About Visit About Visit Give Alumni Athletics University of Notre Dame Home Academics Admissions Research Global Faith & Service Campus Life About Visit About Visit Give Alumni Athletics Home Contact Search Menu Campus Life A Home Under the Dome Notre Dame is a community of scholars committed to holistic education. Notre Dame stands on 1,250 acres considered by many to be among the most beautiful possessed by any university in the nation. From the collegiate Gothic architecture and park-like landscape to exquisite outdoor sculpture and breathtaking views, Notre Dame’s campus is a visual splendor. Even its more recently constructed buildings that house state-of-the-art academic and student life facilities fit within a cohesive visual aesthetic that preserves tradition amid progress. Yet the setting is only significant because of what takes place here. There is a deep sense of community that permeates Notre Dame and helps to create a distinct home for our students, faculty, and staff. All undergraduate students begin in one of our 33 on-campus residence halls to support their formation as they pursue their studies, develop healthy relationships, become servant leaders, and reflectively and prayerfully discern their futures. While each of the halls is a world unto itself, collectively they combine to create a unified campus community that is unlike any other in American higher education. This community is rich in tradition; Notre Dame is alive with events that are woven into the fabric of campus life and enliven the student experience each year. The University’s approach to residential life pervades every component of a student’s time at Notre Dame. From intellectual pursuits to selfless service to their psychological and physical well-being, we strive to care for the needs of all who study here, physically, emotionally, and spiritually. Traditions of Springtime The Month in Photos: April 2022 View photo essay 32 Residence Halls More than 315,000 people in the South Bend-Elkhart region 28 Campus Eateries 500+ Student Clubs and Groups 5 Recreation Venues Student Life Inclusion Arts & Culture Quick Links Bookstore Employment Tour InsideND Academic Calendar University of Notre Dame Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn © 2022 University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, IN 46556 USA 41.703234 -86.238985 Phone: (574) 631-5000 Contact Search Mobile App News Events Visit Accessibility Emergency Closed Captioning Notice of Non-Discrimination Home Academics Admissions Research Global Faith & Service Campus Life About Visit