Your browser does not support JavaScript! Your browser does not support JavaScript! Skip to main content Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Canvas | Webmail | Contact Us Request Info Apply Now eCourseware | Webmail | Contact Us Request Info Apply Now About UofM Global Learn More Rankings Accreditations Contact Us Degrees & Programs Undergraduate Graduate Certificates All Programs Complimentary Courses Admissions Apply Now Request Info Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Current Students Student Services & Support Register for Courses Graduation Home UofM Global Corporate Partner Programs Corporate Partner Programs FedEx: LiFE Methodist LeBonheur: MAAP Nike: Lane Four City of Memphis COMPETERISE Need Help? Call 844-302-3886 Email Us UofM Global Corporate Partnership Programs LiFE: Learning inspired by FedEx UofM Global collaborated with FedEx to offer eligible employees a higher education degree program, LiFE: Learning inspired by FedEx. There are potentially no out-of-pocket costs (as long as you meet eligibility requirements and are in good academic standing). Plus you will have courses suited to your prior education, 24/7 tutoring and a UofM Global LiFE Coach to help you along the way. Learn more about LiFE > MAAP: MLH Associate Advancement Program UofM Global collaborated with Methodist Le Bonheur Healthcare to offer Associates higher education degree and certificate options as part of MAAP: MLH Associate Advancement Program. There are potentially no out-of-pocket tuition costs, as long as you meet eligibility requirements and are in good academic standing. Plus, you will have courses suited to your prior education, 24/7 tutoring and a UofM Global Advocate to help you along the way. Learn more and register for MAAP > City of Memphis COMPETE COMPETE: City of Memphis Prepares Employees to Excel is for eligible City of Memphis employees. You can choose any undergraduate or graduate degree program that is offered by the University of Memphis, either on-campus or online. Learn more and register for COMPETE > RISE RISE: Responders Initiating Success through Education is the sister program of COMPETE and is designed for first responders of the City of Memphis. Through this innovative program, MFD employees can earn a degree in a cost-effective, timely manner with the help of a support team dedicated to student success. Learn more and register for RISE > Nike: Lane Four UofM Global and Nike have teamed up to offer an educational program to put eligible Nike employees in the best position to succeed: Lane Four. Eligible Nike Distribution Center employees can earn a degree online with potentially no out-of-pocket tuition costs. A high school diploma is not required, and a dedicated student success team will support you every step of the way. Learn more and register for Lane Four > About UofM Global Learn More Ranked Online Degrees Accreditations Contact Us Degrees and Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Certificates Corporate Partners Complimentary Courses Admissions Apply Now Request Info Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Contact Us Tuition Financial Aid Students Canvas Student Services & Support SmartStart Learning Support Technology Support Advising Register for Courses Experiential Learning Credit Graduation Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 12/10/20 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.