Skip to Main Content Brown University Division of Biology and Medicine Search Menu Site Navigation Home About the Division Leadership Strategic Plan Departments Affiliated Hospitals Contact Us Research Core Facilities Centers, Institutes, and Programs Offices and Services Diversity Search Division of Biology and Medicine Division of Biology and Medicine at Brown University Through cutting-edge teaching and world-class research, the Division of Biology and Medicine at Brown is accelerating knowledge and innovation across the clinical and basic life sciences. Division of Biology and Medicine at Brown University Through cutting-edge teaching and world-class research, the Division of Biology and Medicine at Brown is accelerating knowledge and innovation across the clinical and basic life sciences. What Is BioMed? The Division of Biology and Medicine at Brown is composed of The Warren Alpert Medical School and the Program in Biology. It is home to five basic biology departments and 14 clinical departments, and is affiliated with eight diverse teaching hospitals in and around Providence. The Warren Alpert Medical School The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University promotes the health of individuals and communities through education, research, and clinical excellence. Visit Page Open details for The Warren Alpert Medical School Program in Biology A component of Brown University's Division of Biology and Medicine, the Program in Biology comprises six basic science departments offering undergraduate and graduate study in the life sciences. Visit Page Open details for Program in Biology Physician-scientist Dr. Mukesh K. Jain appointed dean of medicine and biological sciences at Brown A cardiovascular specialist and health care leader at University Hospitals and Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland, Dr. Jain will lead biomedical research and education, and serve as Warren Alpert Medical School dean. Learn more Quick Links Leadership The Division leadership team works to advance Brown's biomedical enterprise through excellence in teaching, research, and service. Visit Page Open details for Leadership Research Faculty, students and staff in the Division of Biology and Medicine students are unified in their mission to change the world through research. Visit Page Open details for Research Offices and Services Administrative offices that support the operations and mission of the Division are listed below. Visit Page Open details for Offices and Services Upcoming Events Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About the Division Leadership Strategic Plan Departments Affiliated Hospitals Contact Us Research Core Facilities Centers, Institutes, and Programs Offices and Services Diversity This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Division of Biology and Medicine at Brown University Open details for Division of Biology and Medicine at Brown University Bookmark this Page