We use cookies to make your website experience better. To learn about how we keep your information safe, view our Privacy Policy. Accept Safer Return to Campus Masks Strongly Recommended. Notification of Potential Workplace Exposure. Skip To Main Content Popular Searches × 1 2 3 eduroam Connect to the fastest, most reliable campus WiFi Connect to eduroam Slide2 2020/21: A Year of Challenges and Amazing Accomplishments - A CIO Note of Thanks for IT&IP next to an arrow outline filled with grad infographics on a green background. IT&IP Year in Review Read Now Slide3 Megaphone emerging from envelope with blue background. Email Safety 7 Tips You Can Use Now eHelp: How to Avoid Being "Hooked" Previous Next Information Technology & Institutional Planning Home 2-step IT Service Status About IT Services Information Security Institutional Data Technology Governance Accessible Technology PPMO Reports Computer and Mobile Devices Continuity Communications Need Help? Division of Information Technology and Institutional Planning Links to Resources, Departments, and Services Student eduroam DUO 2-Step Authentication Canvas Access Student Technology Software for Students More Student Services Faculty eduroam DUO 2-Step Authentication Canvas BroncoDirect Zoom More Faculty Services Staff eduroam DUO 2-Step Authentication BroncoDirect Zoom Microsoft Teams More Staff Services News DUO 2-Step Authentication To protect your privacy and secure your Bronco account, Cal Poly Pomona is requiring 2-Step Authentication for all campus accounts. This process will verify your identity before allowing access to campus systems. The CSU and Cal Poly Pomona are using the DUO application, a third-party smartphone app, for the 2-Step Authentication process, also known as Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA). The DUO app sends a push notification to your phone when you log into your CPP account to verify your identity. To set up 2-Step Authentication, go to the CPP DUO webpage. For more information, go to CPP’s DUO website or eHelp, or contact the IT Service Desk online or 909.869.6776. 7 Email Safety Tips You Can Use Now Tips for Email Safety Limit the data being shared. Utilize links, not attachments. Verify the correct information is included/attached. Password-encrypt data files. Double-check the recipient's email address. Identifying Email Phishing and Spoofing Scams Check the sender’s email address – not just the display name. All official CPP correspondence will use an @cpp.edu email address. For more information, go to the IT Security website, IT Security's Phishing & Scams article in eHelp, or contact the IT Service Desk. eduroam Everywhere: Wi-Fi = eduroam For a more consistent and secure campus Wi-Fi experience, IT&IP recommends using “eduroam” for your campus Wi-Fi option. Eduroam allows you to use your own CPP credentials to access Wi-Fi at numerous educational institutions worldwide. The Guest Wi-Fi network supports the needs of temporary visitors to the campus. Users of the Guest Wi-Fi network will be prompted to enter their cellphone number in order to receive a security token that allows them access to the network for 24 hours. For more information, go to the Wireless Access page in eHelp or contact the IT Service Desk. The Division of Information Technology & Institutional Planning works in collaboration with the campus community to provide innovative and strategic technology to advance the mission of the university as well as strengthen and further the university's unique polytechnic identity and learn-by-doing educational approach. 3801 West Temple Avenue, Pomona, CA 91768 ©2021 California State Polytechnic University, Pomona All Rights Reserved About Cal Poly Pomona Feedback Privacy Accessibility Document Readers