COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Alert Apply for external scholarships year-round! ScholarshipUniverse is our scholarship-matching tool for admitted and current Wichita State students. It connects Shockers to millions of dollars in external scholarships. Log into ScholarshipUniverse to review opportunities today! ScholarshipUniverse WSU National Merit Scholarship Section Menu Scholarships Home Freshmen Merit Scholarships Honors College Scholarship National Merit Scholarship Sedgwick County Access Grant State of Kansas Scholarships Transfer Merit Scholarship Office of Financial Aid WSU National Merit Scholarship Estimated value of $50,000 over four years, with eligibility Open to National Merit Finalists and National Hispanic Recognition Finalists Who is eligible? National Merit Finalists Finalists in the National Hispanic Recognition Program NOTE: Eligibility is contingent upon submission of a complete admission application to WSU by March 1. National Merit/National Hispanic scholarships will replace Freshmen Merit awards, but may be combined with scholarships awarded through the student's academic college, up to the Cost of Attendance. What are the requirements to receive the WSU National Merit Scholarship? Become a National Merit Finalist or a Finalist Scholar in the National Hispanic Recognition Program Become fully admitted to WSU in a degree-bound program by March 1 of your senior year National Merit Finalists: Designate WSU as your number one school of choice with the National Merit Scholarship Corporation by May 1 National Hispanic Recognition Finalists: Provide a copy of your certificate/notification letter from College Board to the Office of Financial Aid by May 1 What are the renewal requirements for the WSU National Merit Scholarship? Maintain a minimum cumulative GPA of 3.50 at the conclusion of each semester of the academic year Enroll in and successfully complete at least 15 credit hours each semester (Fall and Spring) NOTE: If you have fewer than 24 hours remaining in your degree program, enrollment exceptions may be granted on an individual review based on a written request. Participate in one organization with your major or academic college and one organization through Student Involvement Pre-register for classes for each fall semester by July 1, and each spring semester by December 1 of each year Apply for Admission to Wichita State Apply to the Cohen Honors College Learn More About the Dorothy and Bill Cohen Honors College 316-978-3375 honors@wichita.edu Cohen Honors College 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©