Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Campus Recreation Hours-Schedule Member Services Member Services Online Member Portal Online Member Portal Instructions Membership Rates Fees Room Reservations and Events Parking Programs Programs Aquatics Fitness Intramural Sports Outdoor Adventures Sport Clubs Youth Spirit Spirit Band Rotunda Spirit Squads About ☰ Fitness Campus Recreation Programs Fitness MUST REGISTER TO ATTEND! For class descriptions click here. Group X schedule Recorded GX Classes Power Yoga with Alexa: Session 1 Session 2 Yoga with Caroline: Session 1 Session 2 Session 3 Session 4 Session 5 Session 6 HIIT with Ashley: Session 1 Session 2 Session 3 Session 4 Session 5 Session 6 Session 7 Session 8 Session 9 Session 10 Meet the Instructors KATIE BERELIN PROFESSIONAL BACKGROUND: Katie Bergelin is a freshman from Winston-Salem, North Carolina studying Journalism, Fashion Media, and History at SMU. She enjoys traveling, spending time with her friends, enjoying the outdoors on the Katy Trail, and developing her online magazine. Back in North Carolina, Katie swam competitively for ten years, but after a few injuries, she took up cycling as another form of exercise. Katie is super excited to teach cycling at SMU, and is passionate about making classes a fun way to work hard, sweat, and meet personal fitness goals. FITNESS CLASSES TAUGHT AT SMU: Cycle KRISTY OFFENBURGER A creative at heart and lover of people, Kristy Offenburger serves as the Director of Communications and Marketing at SMU Dedman School of Law where she specializes in graphic design, communications, content management, and marketing. Kristy is a proud member of the SMU community since 2008 and enjoys spending time with friends and family, travel, tennis, and walks on campus or the hike and bike trail behind her house. She obtained her M.L.S. in Arts & Culture from SMU in 2019, volunteers as an English as a Second Language teacher, and is excited to be a brand new instructor of spin classes on campus! Lunch break workouts are a favorite part of her day, and she hopes they are a favorite part of yours. FITNESS CLASSES TAUGHT AT SMU: Cycle MARIA CLARA PROFESSIONAL BACKGROUND Maria Clara Cabral is a freshman from Recife, Brazil studying Mathematics and Educational Studies at SMU. Dancing has been a passion of hers since she was a kid. Bringing cheerful songs from her country, Brazil, Maria’s goal is to make sure every single person in her class is having fun. For her, letting the music guide you and enjoying the process is much more important than memorizing any steps! Even if you don’t feel so confident about your dance skills, come try a class out! I promise you won’t regret it! FITNESS CLASSES TAUGHT AT SMU: Zumba JINYU DU PROFESSIONAL BACKGROUND: Jinyu is a certified personal trainer and a well-trained Gravity class instructor. She enjoys working out and studying the science of exercise. Her goal is to provide exercise training for health and happiness. She is a Ph.D. student in Statistical Science at SMU. If you would like to have a strong and toned body, please come and join her in the Gravity classes! FITNESS CLASSES TAUGHT AT SMU: Gravity TIDA CHAMBERS PROFESSIONAL BACKGROUND: Tida Chambers teaches an Evening Flow YOGA class at SMU. She encourages her students to develop a mindful, present-moment awareness to more deeply connect with their mind, heart, body, and to consciously use their breath for greater awareness and harmony. She is currently assists at Jesuit College Preparatory School for the Summer Athletic Performance camps to bring yoga as cross training for athletes. Tida’s wish and intention is that each student begins their own path and journey to experience the greatness that lies within through developing a consistent yoga practice. FITNESS CLASSES TAUGHT AT SMU: Yoga CAROLINE HAMILTON PROFESSIONAL BACKGROUND: Caroline is studying Mathematics, Music, and pre-med as part of the class of 2022. She has held a Yoga Alliance certification since 2016, when she went to teaching training at Yoga Yoga in Austin to study Hatha and Hatha Flow yoga. She is a member of the Meadows Percussion Ensemble, the SMU Service House, and the community service student organization Mustang Heroes. She firmly wishes for everyone to march to the beat of their own drum within their practice. FITNESS CLASSES TAUGHT AT SMU: Yoga SIMONE OHARA PROFFESIONAL BACKGROUND: Simone Ohara is from Denver, Colorado. She is a freshman at SMU studying Sports Management, Political Science, and Spanish. Growing up, Simone was surrounded by athletes with both parents competing in marathons and ski races, later leading Simone to competitively ski and play basketball for 13 years. Currently, Simone is preparing to compete in weightlifting competitions and fell in love with cycle as a form of cardio. She hopes her classes will help all her students find what they love in exercise and inspire them to continue a healthy lifestyle! FITNESS CLASSES TAUGHT AT SMU: Cycle CHARISE WARREN PROFFESIONAL BACKGROUND: Charise’s passion is TEACHING yoga and inspiring a growing and ever-evolving yoga practice to its students. She acknowledges the asanas benefits from the inside out and also weaves in lessons of how to breath and connect with the breath, a focus on alignment and balance, the effects of the postures on the organs, bones, muscles, nervous system, mind, etc. Charise believes yoga is for everyone! All ages, shapes, sizes, and levels. Our yoga practice strengthens, teaches patience and self-care as well promotes healing, health and overall well-being. It is also kind and gentle, cleansing and nurturing and nourishing...these virtues that lovingly extend into our lives and the lives of those around us, through us. FITNESS CLASSES TAUGHT AT SMU: Yoga CARLIE LARA PROFESSIONAL BACKGROUND: Carlie Lara is a freshman from Bedford, Texas studying Business Management and Spanish at SMU. Here at SMU, she is involved with Younglife, AKPsi, Mustang Heroes, and the Cockrell McIntosh Commons. She is always doing something active, and she loves to be outside, travel, and work on her growing restaurant blog. She played club fastpitch softball from when she was little to her sophomore year of high school. Sophomore year, she tore her rotator cuff, but then took up hot yoga, cycling, and running. Since then, she has ran two marathons, now teaches hot yoga at her studio back home, and now teaches cycle. Carlie is super excited to start teaching group fitness here at SMU and is passionate about making movement a part of a healthy lifestyle. She will always be your biggest cheerleader, and she can’t wait to sweat with you! FITNESS CLASSES TAUGHT AT SMU: Cycle Personal Training SMU Fitness offers quality fitness equipment, a positive atmosphere, and exciting programs that can improve cardiovascular function, respiratory health, endurance, strength, body composition, and flexibility. Now Available at SMU Dedman Center: Body Fat Measurement: $15 Available throughout the semester. Please contact Gina Garcia to set up an appointment. Set and Meet Fitness Goals with a Personal Trainer Personal Training Packages To purchase a personal training package please download the personal training new client application. Bring the completed form to the Main Desk at the Dedman Center. We accept the following methods of payment: cash, check, credit (VISA, MasterCard, Discover), & SMU Pony Card. You will be contacted within 48-hours to schedule your initial fitness assessment and gym orientation with your SMU personal trainer. The assessment includes measurements of your blood pressure, muscular strength, flexibility, body fat, and cardiovascular endurance. Following the assessment, you and your personal trainer will discuss your current level of physical fitness and future exercise goals. PACKAGE DESCRIPTIONS All packages include a fitness assessment and gym orientation. Package Number of Sessions Cost Additional Benefits Bronze 1 $60 Better Bronze 3 $165 Silver 5 $280 Gold 10 $500 Post-Fitness Assessment Platinum 30 $1350 Post-Fitness Assessment Pairs* 10 Shared Sessions $270/person Post-Fitness Assessment Personal Training Rules Initial appointment: After the health and wellness coach attempts to schedule the initial appointment three consecutive times with no response from the client, the Health and Wellness Coaching fee/package will be considered null and void. This includes all sessions purchased. Cancelling sessions: Clients must notify the health and wellness coach by email at least 24 hours in advance to reschedule a session. If the client fails to do this, that lesson will be forfeited. If a client no-show, he/she will still be charged for that session. There will be NO REFUNDS and NO EXCEPTIONS. Tardy client: If a client is late for a session, the length of the session is degraded by that amount of time. For instance, if a client signs up for a 1-hour session and is 15- minutes late, the session will only last 45-minutes. There will be no discount for this remission. Tardy trainer: If a coach is over 5-minutes late for any session, he/she will give that client a complimentary 60-minute session, in addition to the number of sessions already purchased. Dissatisfaction with assigned trainer: If a client is not satisfied after the FIRST session with the trainer he/she is assigned to, he/she can be reassigned to a new trainer at no additional cost and one complimentary session will be added with the new trainer. If the client waits until all sessions have been completed, then complains that he/she is not satisfied with the trainer, there will be no reimbursement or reassignment (free of charge). Meal plans: Personal Trainers, without nutrition certification or dietitian license, are not allowed to prescribe meal plans to their clients. Nutritional information/guidelines may be discussed and explained, but specific meal prescriptions are strictly prohibited. Remaining sessions: After the trainer attempts to contact the client to schedule remaining sessions three consecutive times without a response from the client, all remaining sessions will be considered null and void. At this point the client will no longer be able to access these sessions (regardless of how many are left). Clients will be required to purchase new sessions to continue working out with the SMU Personal Training program. Clients are able to put sessions on “hold” until the client is able to utilize them. It is the client’s responsibility to contact the Fitness Coordinator with this information. There are NO REFUNDS for sessions purchased. Personal Trainer Bios Giuliet Kibler Certification: ACSM Certified Personal Trainer, Red Cross CPR/AED Specialties: Strength Training, Circuit Training, Cardiovascular Fitness, Overall Health Education: Pre-Medical Student at Southern Methodist University for Major in Biochemistry and Minor in Mathematics Hobbies: Weight Lifting, Volunteering, Traveling, Shopping, Netflix Contact: 314-566-3995 or gkibler@smu.edu Benjamin Baker Certifications: ACE Personal Trainer, EXOS Certified Performance Specialist Specialties: Strength Training, Power Lifting, TRX, Mass Building, Circuit Training Education: Health Promotion & Wellness, BS at UNT Hobbies: Coffee Addict, Occasional Video Game Player, Strength Training Enthusiast, Netflix Binger Extraordinaire Contact: 469-323-7928 or benjaminbaker@my.unt.edu James Barta Certifications: ACSM Certified Personal Trainer, Red Cross CPR/AED Certified Specialties: Resistance Training, Cardiovascular Training, Weight Management, Injury Prevention Education: Freshman at SMU- Biochemistry and International Relations majors, IB Diploma Recipient Hobbies: Exercise, Hiking & Camping, Reading, Travel, Sports Cars, Art Museums Contact: (469)-910-4452 or jbarta@smu.edu Derek Ruiz Certifications: ACE Personal Training, AFAA Group Exercise, Cooper Institute Biomechanics, Special Populations, Functional Assessments, Keiser Indoor Cycling, Gravity GTS Training Specialties: Weight Management, Fitness Figure, Bodybuilding, Sports Performance & Conditioning, Weight Training, Gravity Strength, Kettlebells, High Intensity Interval Training, Boot Camp, Spinning, Boxing Education: Electrical Engineering, Biomedical Hobbies: Running, Outdoors, Working Out, Basketball, Movies, Music, Computers, Technology, Cars, Salsa Dancing Contact: 214-557-6918 or dmruiz@smu.edu Lamont Stano Certifications: CPT-Cooper Institute Specialties: Weight Loss, Overall Health & Athleticism Hobbies: Exercise, Healthy Eating & Cooking, Watching Football (go Cowboys!), planet watching with telescope Contact: 214-293-5253 or lstano@smu.edu Small Group Training Package WHAT IS SMALL GROUP TRAINING? Small Group Training is a training group of 3-11 people, all being trained at the same time with the same personal trainer twice a week for 10 weeks. In a group setting you can have the benefits of a personal trainer while staying motivated with your friends training along with you. Together you and your group of friends can increase energy, cut down weight and body fat, lose inches, and improve your overall health and wellness for only $10/person per class. HOW CAN I START A SMALL GROUP? Find a group of 3 or more friends who are interested in achieving similar goals. Then contact Gina Garcia ggarcia@smu.edu to discuss times and days that work best for your group’s training sessions. The cost per person is $100 for 10 classes in 5 weeks. SMALL GROUP TRAINERS AVAILABLE: Zero to Sixty: Learn proper form in the first class of the week and then apply the technical lessons with intense, full-body workouts in each week's second class. The program design focuses on body mechanics, building lean muscle, and improving cardiovascular strength. Personal Trainer: Sophia RunFAST: RunFAST includes running form training, speedwork, and strength training sessions - focusing on improving 5K finish times. Personal Trainer: Emily Extreme Continuum: An intense interval mix class that takes you to next level. This workout is guaranteed to challenge your muscular endurance, strength, body balance and coordination by using multi-joint moves. In this class, we integrate total body functional strength training moves in a way that is fun, safe and challenging for participants of all fitness levels. Personal Trainer: Yasser Small Group Gravity: Join Small Group Gravity for a different and fun resistance workout. Varying degrees for varying fitness levels, all available on a movable platform. Try out Small Group Gravity with Dana to liven up your workout and find your energy phenomenon! Personal Trainer: Dana Health Assessment POLAR ASSESSMENTS SMU offers fitness health assessments that determine your current fitness level. From this information, you can learn about the areas in your fitness and health that can be improved. After the assessment you will receive an accompanying booklet with your detailed testing results. The results of the assessment are determined by resting heart rate, blood pressure, body composition, flexibility, muscular strength, aerobic fitness, heart disease factors, cholesterol levels, VO2 Max, and anaerobic threshold measurements. FIRST ASSESSMENT $50 REASSESSMENT $20 Assessment Measurements Include: Blood Pressure Flexibility Body Weight Body Composition Strength Test VO2 Cardiovascular Analysis THE TECHNOLOGY BEHIND SMU FITNESS ASSESSMENTS: At SMU, we use Polar technology to assess your overall fitness level. From the information recorded, the Polar technology will give you your body age compared to your actual age. This Polar technology and equipment is called the Polar BodyAge Health and Fitness Assessment. The fitness assessment records your current fitness level, including strengths and weaknesses. The information from the assessment gives you a good starting point for your training and specific goals. By the end of the assessment, your BodyAge score will identify whether your fitness age is above or below your biological age. For example, you may be 30 years old and very fit. Therefore your BodyAge could be 25. On the other hand, you may be 40 years old and sedentary. Your BodyAge might be 50 or 60. The assessment takes into consideration many fitness factors: resting heart rate, blood pressure, body composition, flexibility, muscular strength, aerobic fitness, heart disease factors, cholesterol levels, and VO2 max with anaerobic threshold. We also offer reassessments that allow you to track your progress in order to compare your past and present results. After each assessment, the Polar BodyAge technology gives you specific ways you can lower your BodyAge in the upcoming weeks. After each assessment, you will be given a personalized booklet sent via email that gives you a detailed analysis and graphical representation of your rankings in each fitness category, your BodyAge, and tools to help you stay healthy. BODY FAT MEASUREMENTS Are you curious about your body fat percentage? Do you need a starting point to begin setting your fitness goals? The 7-site skin caliper test, available at the SMU Dedman Center, is a great way to find your body fat percentage and measure improvements in your body composition. Skinfold Measurement: $15 Subcutaneous body fat can be measured using a device called a skinfold caliper. In an average person, approximately 50% of body fat is distributed just below the skin. Skinfold measurement determines body composition via the measurement of select subcutaneous adipose tissue sites. Given the ease of administration and low cost, skinfold measurements are still considered the most practical assessment tool for measuring body composition in the fitness setting. BODY FAT PERCENTAGE CATEGORIES Classification Women (% fat) Men (% fat) Essential Fat 10-13% 2-5% Athletes 14-20% 6-13% Fitness 21-24% 14-17% Average 25-31% 18-24% Obese >32% >25% [1] American Council on Exercise (2014). ACE Personal Trainer Manual, 5th ed. Bryant, CX & Green, DJ & Merrill, Sabrena (Eds). San Diego, CA: American Council on Exercise. Certification Courses GROUP INSTRUCTOR CERTIFICATION Group Exercise Instruction Series - $300 with ACE study material SMU offers Group X-Instructor course twice a year at the beginning of the fall and spring semesters. the course is offered to currently enrolled SMU students and Dedman Center member and it's not part of the academic class. It's a 10-week training course that teaches students the knowledge and skills needed to be a group exercise instructor. Candidates must participate in group exercise classes and show an interest in exercise science. Out of class group exercise participation is required. Auditions for SMU Group-X Instructors are held at the end of the course. Instructor opportunities are dependent on passing the ACE instructor certification exam. Course Information: 10 week course Classes meet once a week for 2 hours Participants must take 3-5 Group-X classes a week This course does not start if participation low than 3 people. This course does not guarantee employment at SMU, but the course does give preference over those who have not taken the instructor course PERSONAL TRAINING CERTIFICATION Personal Trainer Instruction Series - $500 with ACE study material *Currently enrolled SMU Students & Dedman Center members Are you interested in becoming a certified Personal Trainer? This self-study course will consist of online quizzes, provided through the University Curriculum, and practical instruction of the course led by a Certified Personal Trainers. The course is offered to currently enrolled SMU Students & Dedman Center member and it’s not part of the academic class. Participants will become prepared to take the ACE Personal Trainer Certification exam by learning the following components; exercise science, physiology, fitness assessment, exercise program design, instructional and spotting techniques, and basic nutrition and lifestyle modification. Not only will you receive in-person practical instruction, but also a personal copy of the ACE study materials and ACE certification Exam. For more information, please contact Gina Garcia. Email Gina Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share