Main navigation Search Content Footer menu Basic info & contact footer Main Nav 2 Home Help with... helpwith-col-one Access My account Borrowing BorrowDirect+ Alumni access Off-campus access helpwith-col-two Research Guides by topic Services for authors Research data & digital scholarship Tutorials helpwith-col-three Questions & appointments Quick start guide Make an appointment Technology & methods consultants Canvas support Ask a question helpwith-col-four Spaces & tools Find a library space Reserve a space Virtual computer lab Software finder Borrow equipment Libraries libraries-col-one Heading Albrecht Music Library Annenberg Library Biddle Law Library Biotech Commons Chemistry Library Education Commons libraries-col-two Heading Fisher Fine Arts Library Kislak Center for Special Collections, Rare Books and Manuscripts Levy Dental Medicine Library LIBRA Library at the Katz CAJS Lippincott Library of the Wharton School libraries-col-three Heading Math/Physics/Astronomy Library Penn Museum Library University Archives Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center Veterinary Medicine Libraries Weigle Information Commons Collections collection-col-one Heading Franklin (search & browse our catalog) Databases & article Indexes BorrowDirect+ (search & browse partner libraries) Research guides collection-col-two Heading Collections by subject Subject specialists Collections development policies Suggest a purchase collection-col-three Heading Special collections University Archives Digital projects Online exhibits News & events news-col-one Heading Penn Libraries News Subscribe to our newsletter news-col-two Heading Exhibits & events Lectures & conferences 30 days of events news-col-three Heading Workshops About about-col-one Heading Strategic Plan 2020-25 Strategic Plan Implementation Locations & hours Social media about-col-two Heading Staff directory Committees Human resources Resources for Libraries staff about-col-three Heading Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Accessibility Policies & guidelines for users Contact us Giving giving-col-one Our approach Our team FAQ Gifts of materials giving-col-two Our priorities Advance Engage Preserve Enrich giving-col-three Your impact Top talent Learning spaces Information resources Programs & outreach Innovations & partnerships giving-col-four Latest news Stories Press releases Penn Libraries in the News Give now Main content Search Penn Libraries News: Stories Collections Press releases Penn Libraries in the news Stories From a Barn on Cape Cod to the Penn Libraries: An Interview with Stephan Loewentheil on the Path of a Special Collection Posted on March 31, 2022 by Amanda Alexander Left: Photographer Edward S. Curtis, Wikimedia Commons. Right: Antiquarian Stephan Loewentheil Stephan Loewentheil is an expert matchmaker, but not in the usual sense of the word. The antiquarian, founder and president of the 19th Century Rare Book and Photograph Shop, and member of the University of Pennsylvania Libraries Board of Advisors connects people and institutions to culturally significant books, manuscripts, and photographs. From U.S. presidents searching for meaningful gifts for world leaders to museums and universities crafting exhibitions, Loewentheil’s expertise has played a crucial behind-the-scenes role. Recently, Loewentheil bestowed a collection of 17 photographic plates by photographer Edward S. Curtis (1868–1952), as well as the related proof sheets, manuscripts, and ephemera, on the Penn Libraries. Valued at $765,750, the collection complements an earlier gift of photographic plates by Curtis from collector William H. Miller III — a client of Loewentheil’s, who made the gift with his guidance — and further cements Penn’s position as a leading center for research and work on Curtis. The Penn Libraries recently had the opportunity to talk with Loewentheil about his intention behind the gift, the importance of Curtis’ work, and his process for creating artistically and historically significant collections. What is the background of the Curtis plate collection you donated? When and how did you acquire the plates, and what was your interest in them at the time? I first encountered the Curtis interpositive glass plates in 2007 at a large photographic auction including a small number of the plates. Having learned that the plates existed, I was then able to track down that owner’s original source. They were in a barn on Cape Cod, owned by the same family who had essentially bought them from the company that produced the plates in the 1920s. I arranged to purchase the entire collection to preserve them for posterity. My interest in the plates was, and is, both intellectual and artistic. Interpositive plates like these are sharper and more detailed than any other photograph. Thus, many of the plates are important for their sheer beauty and ability to demonstrate the intent of the photographer. Others have markings and edits, so they illuminate the process followed by Curtis in producing the images. The overall collection thus represents both the photographer’s artistic and historic dreams of preserving this subject matter for posterity. I take great pride in being a small link in the chain that has preserved this important evidence and art. In your career as an antiquarian, how frequently do you come across photographic plates? How do they contribute to the history of photography? I come across photographic plates like these very rarely. Large format glass plates, or mammoth plates, are infrequently encountered for a number of reasons. They are, of course, old and fragile, and require delicate handling. Glass plates were also expensive, so many 19th century photographers reused them at the time. These plates essentially went out of use around the turn of the 20th century, and because they were not generally recognized as having artistic value, there was not much impetus to preserve them, thus neither collectors nor institutions visualized the significance of these plates until the study and appreciation of photography matured in the mid-20th century. In my years of collecting I have found only a few glass plates by significant photographers, but this was an exceedingly rare opportunity where I found a large number of these rare plates in one location, available for purchase. It was immediately clear to me that by obtaining this large survival, it would be possible in time to preserve this little-known aspect of Curtis’ great work for posterity. These plates exemplify the period in photography’s history when one had to compose and produce pictures extremely carefully. Due to the tedious photographic process, and the skill and expense required, each exposure mattered. Today, we can take several pictures on our iPhones and figure that one of them will turn out well; at Curtis’ time, each photograph had to be made painstakingly. In the photogravure process that Curtis used, these interpositive plates marked only one step in the transformation of an initial exposure into a final printed image. So these plates illuminate a moment in the medium’s history in which photographers had to go through a very tedious process and use high levels of craftsmanship to create an image. This can be difficult to conceive of in our age of ubiquitous and instantaneous photography. You have spoken in interviews about the importance of matching a gift of a book or rare artifact with the perfect recipient, as you helped several past U.S. presidents to do. How and why did you select the Penn Libraries to receive the generous gift of photographic plates, as well as match the Libraries with Mr. Miller and his gift? My colleague Constantia Constantinou, the Vice Provost and Director of Libraries at Penn, had asked me to join with her and the Board of Advisors to provide assistance for the growth of the spectacular special collections at the University of Pennsylvania. Plus, I had been looking for a special gift for the Penn Libraries to commemorate my association with Constantia and Penn. Because of the Libraries’ unique relationship with the Penn Museum, I was interested in finding a gift that could be of use to both institutions. I believe that the significance of historical imagery in the process of education and scholarship gives these Curtis plates significant academic and artistic value. Not only do these plates document Native American cultures at a specific moment in history, but they also hold great aesthetic interest. Furthermore, the plates are situated in a complex conversation about representation of Native American cultures, as we evaluate Curtis’ decisions in framing and editing these images. I felt that, given their interdisciplinary interest, these plates would be useful for exhibition and study across both institutions. Mr. Miller was a long-time client of mine. He wanted his gift of photographic plates to go to an institution where they would be of value and best fit in with existing collections. I believed the plates could be of interest to both Penn Museum and Libraries, as well as a complement to the Kislak Center’s collection of historically significant photographs. Because of Penn’s existing collections and the interdisciplinary possibilities of its many cultural and academic institutions, I believed the Penn Libraries were a perfect match for Mr. Miller’s gift. How do you think your collecting experience influences your perspective as a member of the Penn Libraries’ board of directors? I have been a collector and a dealer of important intellectual and artistic works throughout my entire life, during which time I’ve worked with major libraries, institutions, and collectors. My scope and depth of experience developed over 40 years in this field have given me a keen perspective on what is significant. This includes an appreciation for an item’s intellectual importance and its appropriateness for a particular collection, as well as its rarity and value. As a member of Penn Libraries’ board of advisors, I believe I can be of significant assistance in helping Constantia and her excellent staff evaluate opportunities for developing collections in current areas of expertise and exploring new areas of interest. What do you see as the role of collections for an academic library, and Penn Libraries in particular, in the 21st century? I believe that the modern student, and educator, is increasingly conditioned to obtain information visually. Today, the use of computers, screens, and imagery is one of the primary modes of information circulation around the world. As the academic library evolves in the 21st century, I therefore believe it is increasingly important to build the reservoir of images to maintain Penn’s position as a leading research institution in the face of growing changes in information technology. Part of my role in that development is to help important institutional libraries recognize the need to focus on this imagery from earlier times – bridging our digital, image-saturated age and the time when photography was first perfected and used as a mode of transmitting knowledge. As we move forward in history, it is the duty of great institutions to continue the longstanding collecting traditions, while evolving to remain accessible to current and future students. Through these collections, we can use objects to help tie the past to the future. Do you have a favorite item, or one that you find most interesting, within the collection you donated – and can you share a bit about it if so? The part of the collection that interests me most is actually not a plate, but a set of printed photographs bearing various editorial markings and corrections. In a set of 23 proof sheets from The North American Indian, you can see how Curtis’ photographs were to be cropped and edited for use before publication. I have not seen anything else quite like these sheets, so they are fascinating in their rarity alone. However, what’s particularly interesting is the insight they provide into the process of creating a perfect image. These annotated sheets show that as much as these photographs are faithful recordings of life, they are also images that were deliberately framed, edited, and contextualized by Curtis and his publishers. Related Albrecht Music Library Annenberg School for Communication Library Lippincott Library of the Wharton School Van Pelt Library Biddle Law Library Area Studies Fisher Fine Arts Library Penn Museum Library Biotech Commons Area Studies Annenberg School for Communication Library Fisher Fine Arts Library Penn Museum Library Van Pelt Library Biddle Law Library Lippincott Library of the Wharton School Van Pelt Library Annenberg School for Communication Library Biotech Commons Lippincott Library of the Wharton School Van Pelt Library Annenberg School for Communication Library Penn Museum Library Demography Library Lippincott Library of the Wharton School Van Pelt Library Annenberg School for Communication Library Area Studies Fisher Fine Arts Library Penn Museum Library Van Pelt Library Kislak Center for Special Collections, Rare Books and Manuscripts Library at the Katz Center for Advanced Judaic Studies Van Pelt Library Penn Museum Library Annenberg School for Communication Library Lippincott Library of the Wharton School Demography Library Biotech Commons Biddle Law Library Penn Museum Library Van Pelt Library Annenberg School for Communication Library Area Studies Fisher Fine Arts Library Biotech Commons Lippincott Library of the Wharton School Lippincott Library of the Wharton School Annenberg School for Communication Library Demography Library Van Pelt Library Area Studies Biotech Commons Fisher Fine Arts Library Penn Museum Library Biddle Law Library Recent Posts June Featured Books and DVDs: Pride Month More to Explore on Women in the American Wilderness Diversity in the Stacks: North African Books in French Exploring the meanings of "home": Children’s lit recommendations from the Penn Libraries Community Engagement team Penn Libraries Announces Warhol@Penn Again Series May Featured Books and DVDs: Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month  “Translating Warhol,” a Symposium Diversity in the Stacks: Folk and Tribal Arts in South Asia Penn Students, Faculty, and Staff Can Now Access Selections from the Criterion Collection through Kanopy Penn Libraries Joins Elsevier Open Access Pilot Archive June 2022 May 2022 April 2022 March 2022 February 2022 January 2022 December 2021 November 2021 October 2021 September 2021 August 2021 July 2021 June 2021 May 2021 April 2021 March 2021 February 2021 January 2021 December 2020 November 2020 October 2020 September 2020 August 2020 July 2020 June 2020 May 2020 April 2020 March 2020 February 2020 January 2020 December 2019 November 2019 October 2019 September 2019 August 2019 July 2019 June 2019 May 2019 April 2019 March 2019 February 2019 January 2019 November 2018 October 2018 August 2018 June 2018 April 2018 March 2018 February 2018 January 2018 Pennlib news blog department menu show menu items Older news show submenu Departmental Library news show submenu Albrecht Music Library Annenberg School for Communication Library Architectural Archives Area Studies Athenaeum of Philadelphia Barbara Bates Center for the Study of the History of Nursing Biddle Law Library Biomedical Library Chemistry Library Demography Library Education Commons Engineering Collection Fisher Fine Arts Library Kislak Center for Special Collections, Rare Books and Manuscripts LIBRA - Penn Libraries Research Annex Levy Dental Medicine Library Library at the Katz Center for Advanced Judaic Studies Lippincott Library of the Wharton School Math/Physics/Astronomy Library Morris Arboretum Penn Museum Archives Penn Museum Library Pennsylvania Hospital Medical Library University Archives & Records Center Van Pelt Library Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center Veterinary - Campus: Atwood Veterinary Medicine Library Veterinary - NBC: duPont Veterinary Medicine Library Weigle Information Commons Footer: Sitemap for navigation Social media Footer: Penn Libraries contact info Penn Libraries 215-898-7555 Questions University of Pennsylvania ©University of Pennsylvania Edit 5015