Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Purchasing Conducting Business with Brown University Purchasing Conducting Business with Brown University MEMORANDUM TO: Brown University Vendors, Contractors and Suppliers FROM: Brown University Strategic Purchasing, Contracts & Insurance DATE: Revised Aug 15, 2021 RE: COVID-19 Brown University Requirements for Vendors, Contractors and Suppliers Please Read this Important Notice in Its Entirety: Brown University seeks to mitigate the spread of COVID-19, and follows all relevant federal, state and municipal guidelines to protect our students, faculty, staff and visitors. Due to the number of vendors, contractors and suppliers interacting with the University, we are providing the following statement: The University adheres to all relevant federal, state, and municipal laws, orders, rules of regulation, including, Occupational Safety and Health Administration (“OSHA’) and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (“CDC”), and the Rhode Island Department of Health (“RIDOH”) guidelines (as updated from time-to-time) to prevent and control the spread of COVID-19 (collectively the “Guidelines”) as applicable to the University. The University expects all vendors, contractors and suppliers to comply with the Guidelines, including ensuring that their employees have access to appropriate supplies such as facemasks and personal protective equipment (“PPE”) while on the University’s campus as needed. The University will notify vendors, contractors, and suppliers of COVID-19 confirmed cases as appropriate relating to the locations where work was performed or sites were visited, and in accordance with the Guidelines and applicable University policies. Similarly, all vendors, contractors, and suppliers must notify the University if one of their employees who has worked or visited the campus tests positive for COVID-19, and the location of the employee’s whereabouts on campus. Everyone who enters any Brown University facility is responsible for helping to prevent and control the spread of the COVID-19 infection. Similar to long-term and short-term visitors, vendors, contractors and suppliers whose level of engagement with the Brown campus require vaccination (e.g., sustained and consistent in-person contact) must attest that their employees are fully vaccinated. Vendors, contractors and suppliers identified by the University to be in this category will be notified by the University about the process. Vendors, contractors and suppliers who are on campus for short durations of time , are required to abide by the COVID-19 Campus Safety Policy and any requirements specific to the facility or program they are visiting (e.g., health care or medical research settings with indoor mask requirements). This includes requirements for taking appropriate precautions when feeling sick, after being exposed to someone who has tested positive and for taking appropriate precautions as the result of a positive test result. Sections 3.2.3 and sections 3.2.4 of the COVID-19 Campus Safety Policy address these requirements. Additional information can be found at the Healthy Brown Website. Mask Protocols: Vendors, Contractors and Suppliers must comply with all University mask requirements. Current University policy regarding face masks for all Brown community members,visitors and guests can be found on the University’s COVID-19 Campus Activity Status page. In addition to the University’s policies, all vendors, contractors, and suppliers are expected to comply with the guidelines established by OSHA, (https://www.osha.gov/Publications/OSHA3990.pdf) and the CDC (https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/index.html), as updated from time-to-time, to prevent and control the spread of COVID-19, as well as all applicable federal, state, and municipal regulations and guidelines. All vendors, contractors, and suppliers sending employees to the University to visit or to provide a service are deemed to have acknowledged that (i) they have received this Notice, (ii) will comply with the requirements of this Notice, and (iii) have informed those employees about the University’s policies and requirements, and their obligations to comply. Failure to comply may cause denial of entry onto the University campus. Questions regarding these requirements should be directed to [email protected]. Jeanne Hebert Senior Director Brown University Strategic Purchasing, Contracts & Insurance 401-863-3366 THIS NOTICE IS EFFECTIVE IMMEDIATELY Prospective Suppliers: Prospective Suppliers will need to meet the requirements stated on the Procurement Standards page. Compliance with these guidelines shall be maintained for the term of the business relationship. Suppliers who will be involved with the production of merchandise using University logos should consult and comply with the Brown University Licensee Code of Conduct Policy. Current Suppliers/Payees: Transactions involving competitive bids, RFPs, should be coordinated with SPCI. Contract performance issues or concerns should be directed to [email protected] To ensure payment, complete the Brown University Supplier and Individual Payee Registration process. This step is required for set up in the University’s procurement system and to provide the information needed for compliance with IRS requirements. If a Brown University Purchase Order is being issued to you or your company, please be sure to review the University’s standard terms & conditions. Visitors to Brown To ensure payment, please complete the Supplier and Individual Payee Registration Process. This process is required if Brown is paying for services provided by the visitor and/or travel reimbursement for a visitor. Related Files Purchase Order Terms and Conditions Brown University Standard PSA Terms and Information Instructions for Online Supplier Registration Scam Alert - Fraudulent Purchase Orders Related Links Licensee Code of Conduct Policy Supplier Registration Form Home SPCI Process Improvement Projects (BCM, BrownBuys, Supplier Onboarding) Staff About Strategic Suppliers Strategic Sourcing Uniform Guidance Overview Ordering Goods and Services Contract Review Conducting Business with Brown University Supplier and Individual Payee Registration Requirements for Suppliers Posted Bid Opportunities Brown's Property Insurance Office Forms Policies Print this Page Share this Page Strategic Purchasing, Contracts & Insurance Brown University Box 1845 Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-2206 [email protected] Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Related Offices Insurance Controller's Office