Skip to main content Skip to main content SMU Home Giving Giving Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Simmons About Dean's Message Programs, Degrees, and Certifications Faculty and Staff Directory Simmons Governance Simmons School History Executive Board Simmons Luminary Award XPRIZE Honor Code Simmons Resources Travel-Study Programs Simmons Lecture Series AERA 2022 Graduation Ceremony May 2022 Paving the Way to Inclusion Conference Simmons Graduate Council Faculty and Administrative Position Openings Simmons Blogs and Social Media Hub Annette Caldwell Simmons Hall Harold Clark Simmons Hall Photo Tour Contact Us Academic Departments & Areas of Study Applied Physiology & Wellness B.S. | Applied Physiology & Sport Mgmt. Undergraduate Specializations Applied Physiology and Health Management Sport Management Sport Performance Leadership M.S. | Health Promotion Management M.S. | Sport Management Non-Degree | Wellness Dispute Resolution & Counseling M.S. | Counseling Specialties Clinical Mental Health Marriage, Couple and Family School Counseling M.A. | Dispute Resolution Non-Degree | Dispute Resolution Specialties Executive Coaching Education Policy & Leadership M.Ed. | PK-12 School Leadership M.Ed. | Higher Education Ed.D. | PK-12 School Leadership Ed.D. | Higher Education Graduate Liberal Studies MLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities DLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities Non-Degree | Science, Arts, & Humanities Ph.D. in Education Teaching & Learning B.S. | M.Ed | MBE | Ph.D. Graduate Specializations Bilingual Special Ed ESL Gifted Literacy Math STEM Urban Education Research Research A comprehensive list of Simmons research projects Faculty Research Publications & Presentations Recent research publications and presentations Center on Research & Evaluation (CORE) Offers comprehensive program evaluation services, largely in the non-profit sector, and performs education research Research in Mathematics Education Conducts research in mathematics education and disseminates findings Integrative Physiology Laboratory Investigates autonomic function and thermoregulation in healthy and clinical populations Locomotor Performance Laboratory Studies terrestrial locomotion and the relationship of muscle function to metabolic energy expenditure and performance Center for VR Learning Innovation Investigates the use of virtual, augmented and mixed reality for education and human development Youth Sports Impact Partnership SMU and the Children’s Health Andrews Institute have launched a collaboration dedicated to improving the health, activity levels, and well-being of kids. Research Resources for Simmons Faculty and Staff Technology and Education Cluster Our Faculty Community Engagement Advanced Placement Summer Institute Summer Institute for AP and Pre-AP Teachers The Budd Center Partners with community agencies to offer educational opportunities for disadvantaged children Center for Family Counseling Counseling services in Plano for individuals and families College Access Programs Programs and workshops that help students advance academically Institute for Leadership Impact Leaders in education, health and social enterprise enhance skills to lead organizations and solve real-world problems Project Connect A repository of ideas, activities and videos for educators interested in improving instruction for English Language Learners West Dallas STEM-Focused School Preparing students for the next generation of STEM jobs Alumni Search Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Simmons About Simmons About Simmons Graduation Ceremony May 2022 Simmons COVID-19 Information Fall 2021 Important Student Information Dean's Message Faculty and Staff Directory Academic Integrity and Code of Conduct History: from 1920 Executive Board Simmons News Catalogs Giving Academic Services Simmons Strategic Plan Simmons Resources Travel-Study Programs Simmons Lecture Series AERA 2022 Simmons Luminary Award Paving the Way to Inclusion Simmons Graduate Council Faculty and Administrative Openings Simmons Governance Simmons Newsletters Simmons Blogs and Social Media XPRIZE Alumni Contact Us Academics Academics Applied Physiology and Sports Management Dispute Resolution Counseling Education Policy and Leadership Graduate Liberal Studies Ph.D. Teacher Education Programs & Degrees Fall 2021 Graduate Student Orientation Our Faculty Our Faculty Faculty Research Publications & Presentations Research Research Research Projects Archive 2020-21: Research Snapshot Research Resources Virtual Reality Surgery Simulator (VRSS) Integrative Physiology Laboratory CORE Locomotor Performance Laboratory Research in Mathematics Education Center for VR Learning Innovation Youth Sports Impact Partnership Faculty Research Publications and Presentations Dallas Noyce: A Community-Focused Mathematics Teacher Pipeline Technology and Education Cluster Community Engagement Community Engagement Advanced Placement Summer Institute College Access Programs The Budd Center: Involving Communities in Education Institute for Leadership Impact Center for Family Counseling Project Connect West Dallas STEM-Focused School Alumni ☰ Youth Sports Impact Partnership Simmons Research Youth Sports Impact Partnership A Signature Partnership SMU and Children’s Health through its Children’s Health Andrews Institute for Orthopaedics and Sports Medicine are launching a collaboration dedicated to leveraging the transformational power of sports to improve the health, activity levels and well-being of kids. The Youth Sports Impact Partnership, a unique university-hospital relationship, will use an evidence-based approach to improve access to youth sports, prevent injury and share age-appropriate training and development practices. Pervasive Problems in Youth Sports Despite broad participation and interest, unaddressed issues limit the positive impact of youth sports in America: Inequality Impacts Access. Access to organized youth sports is limited by family income. According to the 2020 Census, only 23.4 percent of children aged 6 to 11 living below the poverty line participate in sports.1 Inactivity is Widespread. The CDC reports that fewer than 24 percent of children are physically active every day, leading to serious health problems like childhood obesity.2 Underinformed Participants. Volunteer coaches are the backbone of organized youth sports, but only 10 percent receive any kind of relevant training leading to youth injury and burnout, according to the National Alliance for Youth Sports.3 Addressing These Issues In response, this collaboration will generate research in sports medicine and athletic development, which will be the basis of leadership training for coaches and continuing education for parents. Long-range plans for the collaboration include the creation of an index to measure access to play in North Texas communities, development of a training and injury-prevention program for school and volunteer coaches and performance research on elite athletes to study best practices in training and coaching. “This partnership will benefit the field of sports medicine and the entire youth sports sector by focusing on injury prevention and performance through a collaborative effort for sports medicine professionals and coaches across the industry,” says Dr. James Andrews, founder and director of the Andrews Institute for Orthopaedics and Sports Medicine, who is lending his expertise to the partnership. Peter Weyand, Ph.D., who directs the Locomotor Performance Lab in SMU’s Simmons School of Education and Human Development and is leading the partnership’s research efforts. "As a researcher, I have had the opportunity to observe the scientific benefits of exercise and activity," Weyand says. "I look forward to the opportunity to use science to inspire kids to be active, have fun and learn all at the same time." Making Sports and Activity Accessible to All Researchers also plan to create social impact programming designed to break down the barriers to sports and active play often more prevalent in underserved communities. Social impact initiatives will include providing low cost programs to increase play, educating athletics personnel on sports best practices, and combating misinformation and disinformation in the youth sports space. "All of the partners in this program understand the importance of sports and play as key parts of a healthy childhood," says Children’s Health System of Texas Chief Operating Officer Pete Perialas Jr. "We will take a proactive approach to making participation in youth sports healthy and accessible to all North Texas children." A Systemic Impact Through the work of the partnership, we will strive to achieve the following outcomes. Advance the knowledge of youth sports science and medicine. Equip practitioners to better train athletes and prevent injuries. Increase access to sports for youth in Dallas-Fort Worth (and beyond). Improve the overall public health of communities. According to Dean Stephanie L. Knight, SMU Simmons School of Education and Human Development, "SMU’s Simmons School is dedicated to developing and understanding evidence-based best practices for childhood and human development. Our faculty members are internationally known for their strengths in the science of human performance, coaching and leadership, and STEM education. This partnership offers a new way for Simmons to impact the lives of children in a positive way." The Road to Creating a Lasting Impact To achieve the partnership’s desired outcomes, the partnership will pursue the following objectives. Secure operational and programmatic funding. Initiate research and social impact programming. Secure a long-term partnership with a media company to combat misinformation and disinformation. Create systemic programs to increase access to sports in DFW and beyond. Secure a federal designation as a clearinghouse for youth sports research and best practices. Build a world-class facility that will serve as an international hub for youth sports research. Contact Us To learn more about the Youth Sports Impact Partnership, please contact Greg Weatherford II, SMU’s Simmons School’s Director of Community Engagement & Special Projects, at smuchai@smu.edu or 214-768-1779. 1: 2020 Census 2: CDC 3: National Alliance for Youth Sports Youth Sports Impact Partnership Our Team Contact Simmons Contact Us 214-768-7587 sehd@smu.edu Visit Us Annette Caldwell Simmons Hall Southern Methodist University 3101 University Boulevard Dallas, Texas 75205 Connect with Us Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 facebook twitter