Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Topics Science and Technology Date August 5, 2021 2021-08-05 Media Contact Kevin Stacey [email protected] 401-863-3766 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Summer Experiences Every May, Brown students leave the classrooms of College Hill behind to pursue a wealth of transformative summer opportunities — from internships and fellowships to research projects and entrepreneurial startups. Summer Experiences Nathan Brown: Toward a better, more versatile wheelchair With the help of a Royce Fellowship from the Swearer Center, Nathan Brown is developing a wheelchair design with the aim of increasing mobility for users on both indoor and outdoor terrain. Drawing on experience in his own family, Nathan Brown is working to design a better wheelchair. Credit: Nick Dentamaro/Brown University PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — Growing up with two great-grandparents who used wheelchairs, Nathan Brown saw first-hand how difficult it can be for wheelchair users to get around in certain situations. “They worked fine indoors or on pavement,” Brown recalled, “but as soon as there was a little gravel or a few steps, it became really difficult to get around.” Now a senior at Brown concentrating in biomedical engineering, Brown is working to develop a new wheelchair design that works as well outdoors as it does inside. Dubbed Trailfinder, the design aims to combine the stability of wheelchairs specially designed for the outdoors with the compact maneuverability of chairs designed primarily for indoor use. “One way we’ve described it is to compare it to tennis shoes,” Brown said. “They’re designed for tennis, but they’re also good walking shoes, or running shoes, or just shoes you can wear every day. So we wanted to design a chair that was good indoors, but could also work on dirt walking trails and rougher surfaces.” The project started with conversations between Joseph Crisco, a professor of orthopedics and engineering; David Olaleye, a biomedical engineering master’s student who graduated last May; and Brown. “It was just an idea at the time,” Brown said. “Professor Crisco handed it over to us and we started working on it.” After getting feedback from potential users and caregivers, Brown is working this summer to refine the Trailfinder design. Credit: Nick Dentamaro/Brown University The initial design, which became the subject of Olaleye’s master’s thesis, altered the wheel configuration of a standard wheelchair found in hospitals or assisted living facilities to increase stability. With help from Brown, Olaleye used computer-aided design software to position the wheels in a way that increased the angles at which the chair could be expected to tip. The key innovation was a new configuration for the front wheels. Unlike a standard chair that has two large wheels in the back and two smaller ones in the front, Trailfinder replaces the two front wheels with a single retractable wheel. In “trail mode,” the third wheel extends out in front of the chair, dramatically increasing the chair’s wheel base and making it more stable. In “indoor mode,” the wheel retracts under the seat, giving the chair the same compactness and ability to negotiate tight corners as a standard chair. This summer, Brown and collaborator Daniel McDermott, a fellow undergraduate, are guiding the project through a new phase. With the help of a Royce Fellowship — a summer grant awarded by the Swearer Center that supports independent student research and study projects — Brown is reaching out to wheelchair users and assisted living facilities both in Providence and back in his home state of Georgia. “We want to get people’s thoughts on what we have so far,” Brown said. “Based on our current design, we want to see what we can improve based on people’s experience.” The interviews are ongoing now. Brown and McDermott plan to present their results to the University community later in the fall. I think that whatever someone does they can find a way to help people, but for me choosing biomedical engineering was a way to really have a positive impact on people’s lives. Nathan Brown Ultimately, Brown hopes the design will one day result in a product that increases mobility for wheelchair users. The idea of using technology to improve people’s lives is what first sparked his interest in biomedical engineering, Brown said. A few years ago, his father had knee replacement surgery, which greatly improved his ability to get around. That got Brown thinking about what goes into creating an artificial knee. “It had such a positive impact on my dad’s life, and I wondered: Who were the people who did this?” he said. “Is that something I can do? Since then I’ve always looked for ways to give back, and I think the Royce Fellowship is one of those things.” He’d like to continue finding ways to help people after graduation. “The space I want to be in is being able to apply what I know to help people,” Brown said. “I think that whatever someone does they can find a way to help people, but for me choosing biomedical engineering was a way to really have a positive impact on people’s lives.” Tags Research School of Engineering The College Undergraduate Research Related news: Science and Technology Eavesdroppers can hack 6G wireless frequency with DIY metasurface, research team demonstrates May 19, 2022 Scholars from Rice and Brown universities say that next-generation wireless networks that use the technology could be designed with built-in defenses against the ‘metasurface-in-the-middle’ attack. Read Article Open details for Eavesdroppers can hack 6G wireless frequency with DIY metasurface, research team demonstrates Science and Technology Researchers highlight more equitable way to analyze DNA data from understudied groups May 4, 2022 New methods of analyzing DNA will allow for a better understanding of how genetic conditions affect different populations, ultimately enabling more targeted treatments. Read Article Open details for Researchers highlight more equitable way to analyze DNA data from understudied groups Science and Technology Robotic swimmer sheds light on microorganisms in motion April 20, 2022 A self-propelled robotic swimmer, developed by Brown University students and faculty, could help researchers better understand the complex swimming behaviors of bacteria and other microorganisms. Read Article Open details for Robotic swimmer sheds light on microorganisms in motion Summer Experiences Every May, Brown students leave the classrooms of College Hill behind to pursue a wealth of transformative summer opportunities — from internships and fellowships to research projects and entrepreneurial startups. Summer Experiences Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Nathan Brown: Toward a better, more versatile wheelchair Open details for Nathan Brown: Toward a better, more versatile wheelchair Bookmark this Page