Skip to main content Search for people, departments & websites Submit keywords Toggle search Columbia University Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Main navigation expanded Admissions Academics Research Campus Life About News You are here: Home Admissions Admissions Attracting the best minds in pursuit of greater human understanding, pioneering new discoveries, and service to society. For more than 250 years, Columbia has been a leader in higher education in the nation and around the world. At the core of our wide range of academic inquiry is the commitment to attract and engage the best minds in pursuit of greater human understanding, pioneering new discoveries, and service to society. Visit Contact the Visitors Center to schedule a tour of the Morningside campus. Learn Learn more about being a part of the Columbia community while living in one of the world’s great cities. Apply A list of the admissions sites for each of Columbia's schools Explore Columbia offers a comprehensive array of academic programs. These include three undergraduate schools, fourteen graduate and professional schools, a world-renowned medical center, four affiliated colleges and seminaries, twenty-six libraries, and nearly two hundred research centers and institutes. Academic Calendar Find important academic dates and deadlines. Areas of Study Looking for info on a specific area of study? Search by keyword or view an alphabetical list. International Students & Scholars Office International students who have been admitted to a full-time program will apply here for visa documents. Schools Read specific information on admission to a particular Columbia school. Departments Search for a specific department or see a list of all departments. Courses Peruse the extensive list of courses offered at Columbia. Financial Aid Review a start-up guide to financial aid and learn more about how to apply. Centers and Institutes Search Columbia's broad spectrum of research institutes and centers. University Life Your hub for University-wide student life information and initiatives. Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close