Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Undergraduate Admission Student Affairs About News Athletics Events Calendar Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Meadows School of the Arts Areas of Study Admissions About Menu Search Art The Division of Art educates students within our liberal arts university to become productive in the fields of art. We value artistic excellence in the forms of rigorous inquiry, outstanding production, & professional success. We believe that art made in this way moves freely among disciplines and finds its place in a national and international environment. We recruit the best students and faculty to create a community seeking knowledge, to nurture commitment to the study of art across a wide spectrum, and to provide a guiding force in society. Art Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Classes (See Catalog) Facilities Faculty Graduate Students Alumni Pollock Gallery Art in Dallas Travel Opportunities Student Resources Student Internships & Collaborations Visiting Artist Lecture Series Subscribe Undergraduate Majors/Minors B.A. in Art B.F.A. in Art Minor in Art Minor in Photography Graduate Majors/Minors M.F.A. in Art MADI program Meet the Faculty Ira Greenberg Professor and Chair Painting, Drawing and Creative Computation Sofia Bastidas Pollock Gallery Director and Curatorial Fellow Melanie Clemmons Assistant Professor Digital/Hybrid Media Jer'Lisa Devezin Visiting Lecturer, Interdisciplinary Art Barnaby Fitzgerald Professor of Art Painting and Drawing Ryan Goolsby Technical Manager Peter Ligon Adjunct Lecturer Lisa McCarty Assistant Professor, Photography Brian Molanphy Associate Professor of Art Sarah Nance Assistant Professor of Interdisciplinary Art Tippi Polo Coordinator, Division of Art, Department of Art History, and Center for Creative Computation Nishiki Sugawara-Beda Assistant Professor of Art – Painting and Drawing Tabatha Trolli Adjunct Lecturer Philip Van Keuren Professor of Art Printmaking and Foundations Ariel C. Wilson Lecturer, Photography Ceramics Studio The Division of Art ceramics facilities are available to Art majors, minors and other students enrolled in ceramics courses. They are located on the lower level of Owen Arts Center and include a fabrication studio (OAC B640), a glaze room (OAC B660) and a kiln room (OAC B615), plus shared use with sculpture classes of a kiln yard (B613), decal printing and 3D printing studio (B620), and plaster room (B670) for earthenware, stoneware and porcelain production. Featured Courses ASAG 3310 Art in the World Students study the world of art by visiting museums, galleries, notable architecture and installations, attending public lectures and symposia, and more. All student work is written or made in relation to the experiences in these venues. ASAG 3380 Critical Issues A seminar for art majors in their third year of studies. This course investigates topics in current critical theory in the arts as well as the historical context of their development. Readings are taken from philosophy, literary criticism, art theory and art criticism. ASAG 5315 Advanced Studio I A forum for art majors in the fourth year of studies that facilitates the students' ability to articulate their work as artists and to defend and present it in a peer–group setting. Serves as a culmination of the study of art through the production of a body of work for exhibition. Nicolás González ’16 – Evolution of a Young Artist A Path Less Taken charts that journey while hinting at a growing career. Read His Story Student Work Art Mi Corazon No Esta Lejos Del Tuyo, Photobook, 2021 Olivia Arratia, MFA '22 Art Herbs & Spice, Mixed media, 2020 Niva Parajuli, M.F.A. '22 Art Tolerance for Ambiguity, 2020, Cochineal ink, tomatoes, color pencil, cotton paper, 34” x 60” Analise Minjarez, M.F.A. ’22 SMU-in-Taos The program at Fort Burgwin, Taos, N.M. offers several approaches to independent and directed study each summer, including the Open Media Workshop, an interdisciplinary studio workshop, as well as sculpture, printmaking and photography. Upcoming Art Events Meadows School of the Arts Meadows School of the Arts 6101 Bishop Dallas, Texas 75205 214-768-2000 Mailing Address: P.O. Box 750356 Dallas, Texas 75275-0356 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Apply Now Visit Us Back to top © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Areas of Study Advertising Art Art History Arts Management & Arts Entrepreneurship CCPA Creative Computation Dance Film & Media Arts Journalism Music Theatre Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Scholarships And Financial Aid Internships & Collaborations Visit Meadows Contact Meadows Admission Dual Admission About A Statement of Our Values Mission History Message From The Dean Dean's Executive Council Student Academic Services Academic Affairs Contact SMU Meadows Faculty Directory Faculty/Staff Bio Submission Form Facilities Resources Employment Meadows Graduate Student Council Site Map Report a Web Problem News and Events Art History After Hours Virtual Season Subscribers News Featured Media Our Calendar Performing Arts Season Music Recitals Events Newsletter Meadows Events Parking Directions & Public Transportation Meadows Recognition Ceremony The Movement Mission Ignite Arts Dallas SMU DataArts Meadows Prize Arts Entrepreneurship International Opportunities Interdisciplinary Studies Research and Creativity Alumni Submit Your Information Alumni News Alumni in the Media Alumni on LinkedIn Support Meadows Contact Development The Meadows Scholars Program Meadows Gala Apply NowVisit UsGive Menu Search Search Submit Menu Search