Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Keeping St. John's Healthy Apply Deposit Give Programs Return to St. John's University homepage Search Search by keyword Search by purpose I amSelect an optionFuture StudentCurrent StudentAlumniFaculty & StaffParent looking forTake Me There Schools and Colleges Menu About Faith & Mission Leadership & Administration History & Facts Equity and Inclusion A Five-Year Plan for St. John’s Future Campuses and Locations News & Media Student Consumer Information Academics Find a Program Schools and Colleges Global Programs Libraries Research Summer Session Centers and Institutes Our Faculty Academic Resources Course Offerings Office of the Registrar Commencement Admission and Aid Tuition and Financial Aid Scholarships Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Transfer Admission International Admission Connect With Us Other Programs Life at St. John's New York City Campuses The World, Your Classroom Residence Life Career Services Student Services Spectrum Student Development Student Conduct Health and Wellness New Student Orientation Parent and Family Connections Title IX Public Safety Alumni and Friends Ways to Contribute Get Involved Benefits and Resources Success at St. John's Athletics Red Storm Sports Tickets Schedules Sports Camps and Clinics Red White Club News Locations Events Resources Admissions Faculty & Staff MySJU For Students [email protected] John's Student Employment Choose Language Select LanguageEnglishAfrikaansAlbanianArabicArmenianAzerbaijaniBasqueBelarusianBengaliBosnianBulgarianCatalanCebuanoCroatianCzechDutchEsperantoEstonianFilipinoFinnishFrenchGalicianGeorgianGermanGreekGujaratiHaitian CreoleHausaHebrewHindiHmongHungarianIcelandicIgboIndonesianIrishItalianJapaneseJavaneseKannadaKhmerKoreanLaoLatinLatvianLithuanianMacedonianMalayMalteseMaoriMarathiMongolianNepaliPersianPolishPortuguesePunjabiRomanianSerbianSlovakSlovenianSomaliSpanishSwahiliTamilTeluguThaiTurkishUkrainianUrduVietnameseWelshYiddishYorubaZulu Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn YouTube TikTok Residence Life click to pause sliderclick to play slider Home Life at St. John's Residence Life Life at St. John's New York City Campuses Join us for the 2022 St. Patrick’s Day Parade in NYC! St. Patrick's Day Registration Form Queens Campus Life Campus Activities Campus Concierge Fraternity and Sorority Life Student Government, Inc. Student Organizations eSports Performing Arts Staten Island Campus Life Around Staten Island Campus Ministry Career Services Staten Island Health and Wellness Student Organizations Campus Activities Board Fraternity and Sorority Life – Staten Island Recreation Opportunities Staten Island Campus Concierge Staten Island Virtual Activities The World, Your Classroom Residence Life Residence Life Handbook Residence Life Overview Student Conduct/Community Standards Residence Hall Procedures Residence Hall Services Health and Safety Regulations Emergency Evacuation Instructions Fines Legal Notices Housing Selection Move-in Survival Guide Dates to Remember Faculty in Residence Non-University Housing Residence Halls Summer Housing University Mailroom Work With Us Career Services Alumni Career Outcomes Career Services Staten Island Email Scams Employers Employer Relations Team Post a Job or Internship Faculty & Staff International Students Leadership Development Mentoring Parents & Families Students A Johnny's Journey Career Peers Internship Opportunities Career Tools & Resources Identity-Based Career Resources Student Services Campus Recreation Recreation Opportunities Personal Training Intramurals Club Sports Campus Recreation Student Employment Bookstore Dining Services NJTRANSIT Quik-Tik Stormcard Transportation Options Spectrum Student Development Discover New York R.I.S.E. Network Student Conduct Policies Code of Conduct General Provision Student Code of Conduct Student Conduct Process Student Organizations Conduct Process Report a Concern Student Conduct Checks Academic Honors Pledge Health and Wellness COVID-19 Student Wellness Resources Disability Services Emergency Situations Following an Emergency Situation or a Traumatic Event Hotlines Center for Counseling & Consultation ThrivingCampus Health Related Leave SOAR (Sexual violence Outreach, Awareness, and Response) Sexual Assault: You Are Not Alone Survivors of Sexual Assault Helping Survivors of Sexual Assault Reporting Sexual Assault Faculty Toolkit: Be the Bridge Student Health Services COVID-19 Online Patient Portal Required Health and Immunization Forms Student Health Insurance Influenza Wellness Education and Prevention Services Screening, Brief Intervention, and Referral to Treatment (SBIRT) New Student Orientation First Year Student Orientation Transfer Orientation Family Orientation Family Weekend International Orientation Graduate Orientation Resource Guide Parent and Family Connections Title IX Public Safety Parking Program Crime Prevention Emergency Preparedness Fire Safety University Events Annual Security and Fire Safety Report Recent Alerts LiveSafe Residence Life aims to develop a residential community that supports and enhances the academic mission of St. John's University and promotes safe, clean and comfortable living environments conducive to learning. Room and Board Rates 2022-23 Housing Agreement Housing Selection Process As you explore the many benefits of life and learning at St. John’s University, take a look at the advantages of living in University housing in our ultramodern residence facilities: cable-ready with Wi-Fi Internet access and plenty of space, our residence halls offer you the total college experience—varied activities, new friends, and the convenience of being close to class, the library, University support services, and campus recreational facilities. Statement of Our Community Values The development of the whole individual is our priority and the foundation of our Residence Life program. In addition to providing students a place to sleep, Residence Life strives to supplement learning and provide a variety of educational, social and recreational activities. Becoming a member of the St. John’s residential community provides students the special opportunity to live, learn and grow together. This necessitates the creation of set expectations and community standards in order to develop a respectful, thoughtful, and inclusive educational environment. Our community is a place where a developed sense of integrity and the ability to make good decisions is highly esteemed. It is a place where we celebrate diversity and expressly repudiate discrimination. As we are living together in community, it is essential for each of us to adopt an active understanding of the Residence Life Policies. The policies are designed to create an optimal living environment for every member of the community and those who visit. The policies establish clear and consistent behavioral expectations. Infractions of these policies will be documented and adjudicated in order to preserve and protect the integrity of our community. The community values set forth are reflective of the Vincentian Mission of the University. St. John’s University strives to promote justice, instill personal and moral values, and create a healthy learning environment. In the event that a student is found responsible for violating a section or sections of the Residence Life Policies or the Student Code of Conduct, a sanction may be assigned. Sanctions imposed through the judicial process are intended to facilitate the aforementioned goals. The judicial process is an essential part of the educational setting, as it stresses personal accountability and respect for others. The Office of Residence Life at St. John’s University is committed to the safety and well being of all community members. We strive to create an environment that is free of acts of violence, harassment, and infringement of rights of privacy and property. The Office of Residence Life is one of many student service offices within the University. As a staff, we take a personalized approach to student development by identifying resources both on and off campus to further support our students. The residential program is comprised of students that come from a wide variety of geographical locations and cultural backgrounds. Experiences with other students will enhance one’s learning while exposing them to different perspectives, stressing tolerance and acceptance, respect for others, and regard for the standards of good citizenship. The Director, Associate Directors, Assistant Director, Residence Directors, Resident Assistants and the Office Support Staff are responsible for administering the entire residence hall program which includes, but is not limited to, staff training and supervision, programming, student support, crisis response, room assignments, and facility maintenance. Resident Resources St. John's provides a modern and vibrant residential community, offering home-like environments for studying, with the appeal of a Big East University. If you need assistance or any other information, please contact the Office of Residence Life. General Information Click to Open At St. John’s, we take full advantage of our financial and metropolitan resources—passing these benefits along to students who live on campus. For instance, we offer discounted tickets to major New York City events including Yankee games, museums, and Broadway shows. The living conditions you’ll find at St. John’s are second to none. We offer: Internet Access Rooms are equipped with Wireless Access Points to connect to Wi-Fi, ensuring internet access to all of your devices. Residents are prohibited from using personal routers anywhere on campus, including the residence halls. For assistance connecting to SJUMobile, please visit follow these instructions: Connecting to SJUMobile If you have concerns regarding your access, submit a ticket on the I.T. Support portal, or call 718-990-5000, Monday to Friday, 7:30 am to 7:30 pm, EST. Campus Dining Campus Dining offers students a number of dining options and healthy choices. Montgoris Dining Hall is an all-you-care-to-eat facility conveniently located in the center of the Queens campus. Here, you can help yourself to an assortment of fresh food, including grilled specials, pasta, Asian dishes, salads, sandwiches and enticing entrees. Find out more about the Meal Plan options at St. John's. Safety and Security A security desk is located in the lobby of each residence hall, which is staffed 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, to ensure the safety and identification of those entering and leaving the building. Each time a resident enters a building, students present their StormCard at the front desk. Commuter students must be accompanied by their residential host, show their storm card, and sign-in to the building. Every room is equipped with state-of-the-art life protection systems, including fire sprinklers. St. John’s also has its own on-campus security force, which is in direct contact with the New York Fire Department and the New York Police Department. Additionally, emergency call boxes are always nearby. To contact the Public Safety office, call 718-990-6281 or 718-990-5252 in the event of an emergency. Laundry and Vending Machines Each hall offers residents free access to washers and dryers, located in the basement of the building. If a washer or dryer malfunctions, please inform your residence hall staff immediately or Contact ASI at 1-800-734-8851, or visit http://servicerequest.coinmach.com/. Vending machines are also located in the basement and in some lounges of each residence hall. Housekeeping The cleanliness of the residence halls is very important to all residents and staff. Housekeeping is responsible for the cleanliness of the common areas of the building (e.g., hallways, lounges, stairwells). Residents are responsible for the cleaning of their own suites/rooms, including their bathrooms. As a community member, you have the right and responsibility to help keep your residence hall clean and orderly. .You also have the opportunity to report concerns about cleanliness to your residence hall staff. Ongoing concerns about the condition of common area facilities should be reported promptly to your Residence Director. Maintenance The university provides maintenance and repair services to all residence halls and apartments.It is important that you request repairs on a regular and timely basis, so that we may properly maintain our facilities. If you have a maintenance request or other concern regarding the physical upkeep of your room/suite (plumbing problem, broken heater, broken dresser, light bulb replacement, etc.) you should complete a Facilities Work Order Request. You may also contact Facilities Services at 718-990-6254. After office hours, emergency maintenance problems should be reported immediately to Public Safety at 718-990-6281. Parking Residents must purchase a Resident Parking Permit from Public Safety in order to park a car on campus. Only residents in their junior or senior year and graduate and law students are permitted to purchase residential parking stickers. Parking stickers are limited in availability and sold on a first-come, first-served basis. Please know that limited parking is available, but parking is not guaranteed. Overnight guests who are parking with vehicles must obtain a temporary parking pass from Public Safety. Exercise and Recreational Sports Campus Recreation offers on-campus weight and exercise rooms, fitness classes, and personal training. Students can also take advantage of the many intramural and club sports organized each semester. You can enjoy live broadcasts of St. John’s athletic teams as they compete in the Big East. The Henley Road Complex also features a fitness room. Summer Storage Due to summer conferences and space limitations, St. John’s is not able to store anything over the summer. Please check out summer storage places in the area. For student-friendly storage of boxes and for other small items, please see Collegiate Storage and Rental. For more traditional storage and for storage of larger items (i.e. furniture), please see Public Storage. Please note that St. John’s does not take responsibility or liability for these places but only offers them as some possible suggestions. Fire Safety Please see Public Safety's important message regarding kitchen cooking and fire safety (PDF). Emergency and Hurricane Preparation Click to Open Please keep the Student Emergency Brochure (PDF) handy so you will know how to respond in the event of a problem. Public Safety Contact Information: Queens Campus - Emergency Number: Ext. 5252 Staten Island Campus - Emergency Number: Ext. 4487 Manhattan Campus - Public Safety Front Desk: 212-277-5155 Oakdale Campus - Public Safety Officer on Duty: 718-374-1435 Important Links: University Closing Procedures Emergency Planning Information In Case of Emergency If a fire alarm is activated or Public Safety initiates an emergency evacuation of your building: Stay calm and do not panic. Proceed to the closest emergency exit. Do not take the elevator. Follow instructions of Public Safety Officers and Emergency Evacuation Volunteers (EEVs). Once outside the building, continue to follow the directions of Public Safety Officers who will direct you to an assembly area. Hurricane Preparation For more information about what you need to know about hurricanes in New York City, please visit Know Your Zone (NYC.gov). All furniture, including beds, should be pulled away from the windows whenever possible. Electronic devices should be kept off the floor, preferably in a closet. All electrical items should be unplugged, except refrigerators. Since the floors can get wet, all articles such as shoes, rugs, clothes, bags, suitcases, etc., should be placed off the floor on closet shelves or in dresser drawers. All loose objects should be placed in drawers or closets. Papers, books, etc., should not be left on the tops of desks or dressers. Valuables should be placed in closets or dresser drawers. All doors should be locked when the occupants are not in the room or apartment. During the peak of the storm, electronics including computers and televisions should be disconnected from electric outlets, cable TV jacks, and elevated above floor level. Make sure all windows are closed tightly. Do not open or “crack” windows in attempt to “equalize” or “balance” pressure within the room or building. Opening windows does not help with pressure. This only creates additional forces inside the building which can lead to structural damage. Open all blinds (regardless of style) and curtains. This is to permit as much light as possible to enter the room in the event of a power loss and to minimize damage should window breakage occur. Do not tape windows or modify or cover windows in any manner without permission from Residence Life Staff. Any student who owns a car should see that the emergency brake is set. If you have an automatic, make sure the car is in park. If you have a manual (stick-shift), you should put the car in reverse gear. All windows should be closed and the car locked. All cars must remain in assigned parking areas. Each student should provide their own flashlight in case of power failure. Do not use candles under any circumstances; fire is uncontrollable during a hurricane. Students should provide themselves with necessary food items for a three-day period. Items that do not require cooking or refrigeration are usually best. Procedures During a Hurricane: It is essential that all residents stay indoors throughout the entire hurricane or other emergency situation. Students should remain away from danger areas, such as the glass windows and doors in the lobby areas of the halls or the living rooms of suites. Students should not attempt to open windows or doors to see what is happening outside. Report all accidents, injuries, broken windows or excessive water to the Resident Assistant, Residence Director, or Public Safety. Cell phone calls should be made only in case of emergency, such as those mentioned above. Whenever possible food service facilities will be open. Students are encouraged to provide for their own food requirements for the initial period of the emergency, usually three days. Campus Television Service Click to Open SpectrumU SpectrumU TV is a video streaming service available to resident students that delivers a wide variety of live TV, entertainment, news and sports programming, including on-demand television shows and movies. How to connect to SpectrumU Queens Campus St. John's SpectrumU Channel Line-Up A&E HD East Disney XD HD East HGTV HD Nicktoons Network HD East Starz Kids & Family HD East ABC (WABC-DT) HD DIY Network HD History Channel en Espanol SD NYC TV CUNY SD SundanceTV HD AMC HD E! Entertainment Television HD East History HD East NYC TV Drive SD SuperCanal Caribe SD American Heroes Channel HD El Rey HD East HLN HD NYC TV Government HD SYFY HD Animal Planet HD ESPN Classic SD HSN HD NYC TV Life (WNYE-DT) HD TBN (WTBY-DT) HD Antenna TV (WPIX-DT2) SD ESPN Deportes HD IFC HD NYC TV SD TBS HD East Arabic TV SD ESPN Goal Line & Buzzer Beater HD Impact Network HD NYC TV World SD TeenNick HD East BBC America HD East ESPN HD INSP HD Outdoor Channel HD Telemundo (WNJU-DT) HD BBC World News HD (101449) ESPN News HD Investigation Discovery HD Ovation TV HD Telemundo SD East [National] beIN SPORTS en Espanol HD ESPN2 HD ION (WPXN) HD OWN HD TeleN SD beIN SPORTS HD ESPNU HD ITV Gold SD Oxygen HD East Television Korea BET HD East Estrella TV (WASA-LD) HD KBS World SD PAC-12 National HD TeleXitos (WNJU-DT2) SD BET Her HD East Evine HD Korean Broadcasting Network SD Paramount Network HD East Tennis Channel HD BET Soul SD EWTN HD Leased Access - BQN SD PBS (WHJN) SD The Olympic Channel HD Big Ten Network HD Food Network HD Lifetime HD PBS (WLIW-DT) HD The Weather Channel HD Bloomberg TV HD FOX (WNYW-DT) HD Lifetime Movie Network HD East PBS (WNET) HD TLC HD East Boomerang SD FOX Business HD Live Well (WABC-DT2) HD PBS Kids (WNET-DT2) SD TNT HD East Bravo HD FOX Deportes HD LOGO HD East POP HD Travel Channel HD East Buzzr (WWOR-DT3) SD FOX News Channel HD MeTV (WJLP-DT) HD Queens Public TV 34 SD truTV HD East BYUtv HD Fox Sports 1 HD MLB Network HD Queens Public TV 35 SD Turner Classic Movies (TCM) HD Cartoon Network HD East Fox Sports 2 HD MLB Network Strike Zone HD Queens Public TV 56 SD TV 10-55 (WLNY-DT) HD CBS (WCBS-DT) HD Freeform HD East MotorTrend HD Queens Public TV 57 SD TV Dominicana SD CBS Sports Network HD Fuse HD MSNBC HD QVC HD TV Land HD East China Central TV (CCTV4) SD FX HD MTV Classic SD East RAI Italia SD TV One HD CMT HD East FX Movie Channel (FXM) HD MTV HD East Revolt HD TVG SD CNBC HD FXX HD East MTV Live HD SEC HD TVK2 SD CNN Espanol SD FYI HD East MTV Tr3s SD SEC Overflow HD UniMas (WFUT-DT) HD CNN HD Galavision HD East MTV2 HD SET Asia International SD UNIMSAT Comedy Central HD East GAME07HD MTVU SD Showtime 2 HD East Universal Kids HD Cooking Channel HD Gem Shopping Network SD MyTV (WWOR-DT) HD Showtime Beyond HD East Univision (WXTV) HD Cozi TV (WNBC-DT2) SD GetTV (WFUT-DT3) SD Nat Geo Wild HD Showtime Extreme HD East Univision Deportes Network HD Create (WLIW-DT2) SD Golf Channel HD National Geographic Channel HD Showtime HD East Univision HD C-SPAN HD Great American Country HD NBA TV HD Showtime Next HD East Univision tlnovelas SD CW (WPIX-DT) HD GSN HD East NBC (WNBC-DT) HD Showtime Showcase HD East UP HD Destination America HD Hallmark Channel HD East NBC Universo HD East Smithsonian Channel HD East USA Network HD East Deutsche Welle A SD Hallmark Movies and Mysteries HD NBCSN HD Sorpresa SD VH1 HD East Discovery Channel HD HBO Comedy HD East New Evangelization Television Stadium (WRNN-DT2) HD Viceland HD East Discovery en Espanol SD HBO Family HD East Newsmax TV HD Start TV (WCBS-DT2) SD WAPA America SD Discovery Familia en Espanol SD HBO HD East NFL Network HD Starz Cinema HD East WFUTDT4 (WFUT-DT4) Discovery Family HD HBO Latino HD East NFL RedZone HD Starz Comedy HD East Willow Cricket HD Discovery Life SD HBO Signature HD East NHL Network HD Starz Edge HD East WMBC-TV HD Disney Channel HD East HBO Zone HD East Nick Jr HD Starz HD East Women's Entertainment (We) HD Disney Junior HD HBO2 HD East Nickelodeon HD East Starz in Black HD East World (WLIW-DT3) SD Zee TV USA SD Registering Overnight Guests Click to Open To register an overnight guest, download and log in to the St. John's Connect app using your St. John's user name and password. This is the same user name and password you use to log in to signon.stjohns.edu. From the app, select Resources > Residence Life > Overnight Guest Registration to register an overnight guest. Please note: Submissions do not guarantee approval. Submissions must be approved by Public Safety. Registration and pass pickup requires proper identification. Renting a MicroFridge Click to Open Residence Life is pleased to announce that the Energy Star-rated MicroFridge Combination Appliance is available for rental. This service is provided by University Logistics. MicroFridge is the original 3-in-1 refrigerator/freezer/microwave combination appliance. It has a 0° real freezer and a state-of-the-art touchpad microwave, all in an Energy Star-rated package that substantially reduces the amount of electricity required to operate the unit. These units offer more efficient freezer storage space with a separate door offering true freezer capability compared to basic single door units. The units we offer meet all University requirements for energy consumption and space allocation. To learn more about microfridges, please view this informational video or visit www.mymicrofridge.com. To contact by phone, their call center can be reached at 800-525-7307. Donovan Hall rooms do not have microwaves and refrigerators. All students who rented from University Logistics last year will receive an automatic $10 discount for a repeat order. Campus Mailing Addresses Click to Open Mail Service Each resuite is issued a mailbox located in the lobby of each residence hall. You will be given a key to access the mailbox. If you receive packages requiring your signature, letters, or packages too large to fit in your mailbox, a notice will be placed in your mailbox. You can retrieve this mail at the ROTC Building Mailroom. View the mailroom hours of operation » On-Campus Mailing Addresses To ensure that your mail is delivered to your residence hall in a timely and efficient manner, please provide your address in this format: Name Residence Hall Building # St. John's University, Suite & Room No. Queens, NY 11439-[Building Zip code below] Residence Hall Building No. Building Zip O'Connor 100 1000 Carey 200 2000 Century 300 3000 DaSilva 400 4000 Hollis 500 5000 Donovan 600 6000 Founder's Village 700 7000 St. Vincent 800 8000 Off-Campus Mailing Addresses Henley Road Complex Student Name 172-14 Henley Road, Apt. (insert apt no. here) Jamaica Estates, NY 11432 Seton Complex Student Name 152-11 Union Turnpike, Apt. (insert apt no. here) Flushing, NY 11367 DePaul Complex Student Name 147-(insert building no. here) Union Turnpike, Apt. (insert apt no. here) Flushing, NY 11367 Goethals Avenue Student Name 164-(insert building no. here) Goethals Avenue Jamaica, NY 11432 Mold and Mildew Prevention Click to Open Things to Know About Mold Molds produce allergens, but like any other allergen, exposed individuals will respond differently. If you are having symptoms you believe may be the result of mold allergens, please visit Student Health Services in DaSilva Hall. The EPA reports that “there is no practical way to eliminate all mold and mold spores in the indoor environment; the way to control indoor mold growth is to control moisture”. St. John’s University has a Mold Management Plan to identify and treat areas of potential mold growth. Guidelines for Preventing Mold and Mildew Growth REDUCE HUMIDITY Minimize indoor humidity levels during hot and humid weather, by keeping room windows closed, and operating your air conditioners at or above 70° F. Thoroughly dry your personal items. Do not leave wet or damp clothes, towels or shoes in closets. Set them out on drying racks until completely dry. Do not place potted plants or any other source of moisture on or around heating and cooling units. Do not block the airflow from your heating or cooling unit. Condensation usually appear on cold surfaces. Wipe visible condensation with a paper towel and discard in trash. REMOVE FOOD SOURCES Mold feeds on dust. Routinely wipe down dusty surfaces. Maintain good housekeeping practices and clean your room, bathroom, bed linens, clothing and towels regularly. Please empty your room and bathroom trash on a regular basis, and do not allow trash to accumulate in your room. WHEN TO REPORT If you see what you suspect are small amounts of mold, you can clean this with a general household cleaner. Report larger or recurring mold growth to Facilities Services by calling 718-990-6254, or using the MySJU > How Do I > Submit a Request to Facilities Services. For emergencies involving a plumbing leak or any water infiltration, please call Facilities Services at 718-990-6253 or 718-990-6254 (day) or Public Safety 718-990-6281 (evenings/weekends). Mold and Mildew FAQ What are the health effects from mold? Molds have the potential to cause health problems. Mold exposure can irritate the eyes, skin, nose, throat, and lungs. Molds produce allergens (substances that can cause allergic reactions) and irritants. Inhaling or touching mold or mold spores may cause allergic reactions in sensitive individuals. Allergic responses include hay fever-type symptoms, such as sneezing, runny nose, red eyes, and skin rash. Molds can also cause asthma attacks in people with asthma who are allergic to mold. For more detailed information consult the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention mold website. What is the difference between mold and mildew? Molds include all species of microscopic fungi that grow in the form of multicellular filaments, called hyphae. Molds can thrive on any organic matter, including clothing, leather, paper, and the ceilings, walls and floors of homes with moisture management problems. Mildew refers to certain kinds of mold or fungus. The term mildew is often used generically to refer to mold growth, usually with a flat growth habit. Mildew often lives on shower walls, windowsills, and other places where moisture levels are high. What is "black mold"? What is "toxic mold"? "Black mold" is not a species or specific kind of mold, and neither is "toxic mold." When the media talk about "toxic mold" and "black mold", they are usually referring to molds that may produce toxic substances called mycotoxins. Often they are referring to a specific mold called Stachybotrys chartarum. For more information, please consult www.epa.gov/mold. Important Communications Please read the important communications sent by the Office of Residence Life to resident students. Spring 2022 Move-in Update Click to Open Dear Student, University housing closes for the Winter Recess on Sunday, December 19, 2021 at 3:00pm. Additional information regarding our closing procedures will be communicated in the coming weeks. Looking ahead to the Spring 2022 semester, we are mindful of changes to CDC guidance on travel since students’ arrival on campus this Fall. We would like to provide a brief preview of the move-in expectations for Spring semester to provide students with information that will be helpful in the planning process. We will provide additional details and procedures at a later date via the Move-in Survival Guide . *We ask that students and their families remain flexible in their travel plans should changes to public health guidance necessitate revisions to our move-in procedures and timeline. ST. JOHN’S UNIVERSITY CHECK-IN PROCEDURES St. John’s students (new undergrad, continuing undergrad, law, and graduate) are still required to comply with the vaccination requirement. We strongly encourage students eligible for COVID booster shots to stay current with their vaccinations and to update their medical records in Medicat with additional doses as received. Resident Student check-in, by appointment, will take place on Monday, January 17 and Tuesday, January 18, 2022 so that students can arrive prior to the first day of classes on Wednesday, January 19th. Students may not schedule a check-in appointment prior to these dates, but may check-in later from Wednesday, January 19th through Friday, January 21st by appointment. Check-in will take place in the Donovan Community Room, located in the rear of Donovan Hall, garden level. COVID-19 testing is required for all students. Students who do not complete their testing are subject to having their StormCard access revoked. Testing will take place on campus, free of charge, in the D’Angelo Center on the first floor, by appointment during the days of move-in. If you arrive after testing hours you are required to be tested the next day testing is available. Please follow the schedule below for your testing appointments: Check-in Appointment Testing Appointment Option(s) Monday, January 17 Donovan Community Room Monday, January 17 from 9:00am to 3:00pm or Tuesday, January 18 from 9:00am to 3:00pm D’Angelo Center 1st Floor Tuesday, January 18 Donovan Community Room Tuesday, January 18 from 9:00am to 3:00pm or Wednesday, January 19 from 9:00am to 3:00pm D’Angelo Center 1st Floor Wednesday, January 19 Donovan Community Room Wednesday, January 19 from 9:00am to 3:00pm or Thursday, January 20 from 9:00am to 3:00pm D’Angelo Center 1st Floor Thursday, January 20 Donovan Community Room Thursday, January 20 from 9:00am to 3:00pm or Friday, January 21 from 9:00am to 3:00pm D’Angelo Center 1st Floor Friday, January 21 Donovan Community Room Friday, January 21 from 9:00am to 3:00pm only D’Angelo Center 1st Floor INTERNATIONAL TRAVELERS The United States is expected to require all inbound international travelers be vaccinated beginning in November 2021. As such, international travelers will not be required to quarantine upon arrival in the US but should obtain their COVID-19 test on campus 3-5 days after arrival in accordance with CDC guidelines. Note:If you are an international student and you remained in theU.S. over the winter break, you will follow the “St. John’s University Check-in Procedures” as noted above. ADDITIONAL NOTES Up to two family members wishing to assist students in the move-in process may enter the residence hall or apartment with their student by showing picture ID and proof of COVID vaccination status to residence life personnel. Masks must be worn the entire time indoors. Family assistance may take place only between Monday, January 17th and Friday, January 21st. Meal plans will reactivate for Spring 2022 for dinner on Monday, January 17th in Montgoris Dining Hall. If you have tested positive for COVID-19 within the past 90 days of your move-in date, please contact Student Health Services before scheduling your move-in appointment for further guidance. In the event the travel guidance changes, we reserve the right to reschedule move-in and we will send a revised schedule and procedures to students. We will share more detailed move-in instructions, including the link to the move-in appointment scheduler application over the Winter Break period (December/January). Please monitor your St. John’s email regularly. If you have additional questions, please contact your residence director or call 718-990-2417 during business hours. Thank you for your continued patience as we adapt to changing public health guidelines. We look forward to having you back on campus for the spring semester! Until then, please take care of yourself. Follow the Johnnies Care Commitment and public health guidelines when away from campus to reduce your level of risk and exposure to Covid-19. Sincerely, Office of Residence Life Easter Recess Planning - March 9, 2021 Click to Open Dear Student, As we look ahead to Easter Recess (Thursday, April 1st through Monday, April 5th), the residence halls (Queens and Staten Island Campus) and Montgoris Dining Hall (Queens Campus) will remain open, even when classes are not in session. With those added incentives, it makes even more sense to spend your Easter Recess at St. John’s. And, we strongly encourage you to do so. We are requiring that all St. John’s resident students complete the Easter Recess Plan Form by Friday, March 19th. A form must be received for every student, regardless of your travel plans. Students who do not submit a form will have their StormCards deactivated, will lose access to their residence hall on Wednesday, March 31st at 5pm, and will need to complete the testing, quarantine, and arrival date requirements below to be reactivated. Should you be planning to leave campus for Easter Recess, please be prepared to follow the instructions below and be advised that the New York State Travel Advisory remains in place. New York State guidance may change again over the coming weeks; if this happens,we will notify you of revisions to the timeline and plan. Travel Advisory and Quarantine/Testing Requirements Students traveling from a non-contiguous state (not New York, New Jersey, Connecticut, Pennsylvania, Vermont, and Massachusetts) or from another country may only return to campus on Monday, April 5th from 9am to 2pm. The New York State Travel Advisory requires that students within three days of returning to New York State receive a negative COVID-19 test. If you receive a positive test result you must isolate at home and should not travel to New York. Please notify the Office of Residence Life of your positive result so we can arrange for a latter move in date. In addition, please upload your test results (positive or negative) to the Student Health Portal, Medicat (instructions are below). Students who do not upload their results to Medicat, must quarantine for 10 days, with no exceptions. If your initial COVID-19 test was negative, once you arrive on campus you will be asked to quarantine for four days o that you can comply with the New York State Travel Advisory. On day four of your quarantine, you will be tested again. If your test is negative you will be released from quarantine. Students who have tested positive in past 90 days You must comply with the New York State Travel Advisory. If you have tested positive for COVID-19 within 90 days of Monday, April 5th, please upload your results to Medicat, if you have not done so already. Students who have tested positive in the past 90 days will still need to upload a negative test result prior to entering New York State (NYS), quarantine on campus, and take another test on day 4 of quarantine. In the event there is new guidance from NYS, we will provide new instructions. Students who have been fully vaccinated for COVID-19 Students who are fully vaccinated for COVID-19 (e.g., two weeks post second dose Pfizer& Moderna; two week post single dose J&J) at the present time, are required to follow the same travel advisory instructions. If this guidance changes, we will provide updated instructions. Please upload your vaccination information to Medicat just in case this guidance changes so we can verify you are completely vaccinated for COVID-19. Instructions for Uploading Test Results/Vaccinations to Medicat The instructions to upload the results of your test from home are below: Sign in using your St. John's network credentials at signon.stjohns.edu. If this is your first time logging in, you will be prompted to set up multifactor authentication. Please view the Student Single Sign-On Instructions. For more information, please visit stjohns.edu/IT to view details about Single Sign-On. Once you signed in, click on the icon for Medicat (Student Health Services and Wellness). This should open up Medicat. Once you are in Medicat Select “Upload.” Scroll down to the drop down menu and select type of document you will be uploading, e.g., COVID-19 Negative Test Results. Click “Select File” to browse your computer for the document you will upload and click upload. (You only need to press upload once.) *Please make sure your test results clearly have your name, the date the test was collected, and the test results. Students returning from travel to a non-contiguous state will have their StormCards deactivated and be required to quarantine in University housing, in a location determined by the Office of Residence Life. Please be advised that roommates or suitemates that allow unauthorized access to a student to their room will be subject to disciplinary action by the Office of Student Conduct. Since travel plans may be different for each student, it is likely that your quarantine period will need to take place in a temporary assignment. Students should pack with them the items they will need for quarantine before they depart, so that they can go directly into quarantine upon their return on Monday, April 5th. Day 4 testing will be provided for students on campus, free of charge, on Thursday, April 8th. Students with a second negative test result on day 4 will be able to leave quarantine, once an official notification comes from the Office of Residence Life. Students who cannot arrive on Monday, April 5th, must follow the same testing and quarantine requirements, however testing will not be available on campus for those students. Please see the schedule below: Arrival For Students Traveling From Non-contiguous States/internationally Available Date to Return Pre-travel Testing (on own) Quarantine Period Test out of Quarantine Date Mon, 4/5 from 9am to 2pm Fri, 4/2, Sat, 4/3 or Sun, 4/4 (on own) Mon, 4/5 to Thu, 4/8 Thu, 4/8 (on campus) Tue, 4/6 (or after) Within 3 days prior to travel (on own) 4-10 days Day 4 (on own) Quarantine Meals Students in quarantine may only receive meal deliveries prepared by Chartwells and are hand delivered by the Residence Life staff once per day. These meals are covered by the board plan. Outside deliveries are not permitted. Resident students who live off campus will not receive meals and should plan ahead with food, beverages, and snacks to sustain you for the quarantine period. Travel Reminders If you plan to fly, please consult your airline first, as most carriers are requiring a negative COVID test prior to travel. Please be mindful of social distancing, continue to avoid large gatherings, and wear a mask (or double mask) to keep yourself and those around you, including your loved ones, safe. Remember to pack what you will need for quarantine upon return if you are traveling to non-contiguous states, as you will not be able to go to your permanent space until the quarantine and testing requirements are complete. Thank you for your continued cooperation with the processes put in place for the well-being of you, and our community, during these unusual times. The Office of Residence Life Office Location Donovan Hall, Room C-16 8000 Utopia Parkway Queens, NY 11439 Monday–Thursday: 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Friday: 8:30 a.m. to 3 p.m. 718-990-2417 Contact Information Residence Life Administrators Click to Open Eric Finkelstein Associate Dean of Students / Director of Residence Life 718-990-2417 [email protected] Krystyna Zappel Department Assistant 718-990-2417 [email protected] General Inquiries, Meal Plan Adjustments, Billing Questions Housing and Facilities Operations Click to Open Michelle McCullers Associate Director of Residence Life 718-990-2417 [email protected] Early Arrival Requests, Damage Billing, Facilities Issues, Residency Certification Letters Housing Assignments and Occupancy Click to Open Dr. Jason Bartlett Associate Director of Residence Life 718-990-2417 [email protected] Housing Selection, Room Changes, Meal Plan Adjustments, DePaul Houses Residential Education, RA Selection, Training Click to Open Mary-Elizabeth Sabo Associate Director of Residence Life 718-990-2417 [email protected] Residential Programming, RA Selection Process and Supervision Area Directors Click to Open Samuel Baah Area Director, Founders Village, O’Connor, and Carey Halls 718-990-5581 [email protected] Richard Sigal Area Director, Henley Road Complex, Seton Complex, and Goethals Apartments 718-523-7146 [email protected] Residence Directors Click to Open Kaicherise Alexander Residence Director, Century Hall 718-990-5510 [email protected] Johanna Levey Residence Director, DaSilva Hall 718-990-2657 [email protected] Please contact main office Residence Director, Hollis Hall 718-990-5511 Graduate Assistants Click to Open Celeste Daniel Graduate Assistant, Seton Complex 718-990-2417 [email protected] Matthew DiCairano Graduate Assistant, Donovan Hall 718-990-2408 [email protected] Bethanie Jones Graduate Assistant, DePaul Houses 718-990-2417 [email protected] Joshua Raymond Graduate Assistant, Carey Hall 718-990-2707 [email protected] Resources Living at St. John's Guide (PDF) Footer CTA Visit Give Request Info News Events Admission SignOn (UIS, Email, Blackboard, MS) St. John's Connect Notice of Non-Discrimination, Equal Opportunity Locations Queens Staten Island Manhattan Rome Paris Limerick Resources Safety Information Security and Compliance Employers [email protected] John's Faculty & Staff Directory Human Resources Policies Webmail For Students Career Services Academic Calendar Bookstore Title IX Office of the Registrar Contact Us Admission: 718-990-2000 8000 Utopia Parkway, Queens, NY 11439 Choose Language Select LanguageEnglishAfrikaansAlbanianArabicArmenianAzerbaijaniBasqueBelarusianBengaliBosnianBulgarianCatalanCebuanoCroatianCzechDutchEsperantoEstonianFilipinoFinnishFrenchGalicianGeorgianGermanGreekGujaratiHaitian CreoleHausaHebrewHindiHmongHungarianIcelandicIgboIndonesianIrishItalianJapaneseJavaneseKannadaKhmerKoreanLaoLatinLatvianLithuanianMacedonianMalayMalteseMaoriMarathiMongolianNepaliPersianPolishPortuguesePunjabiRomanianSerbianSlovakSlovenianSomaliSpanishSwahiliTamilTeluguThaiTurkishUkrainianUrduVietnameseWelshYiddishYorubaZulu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn YouTube TikTok © 2022 St. John's University. All rights reserved. St. John’s University admits students of any race, color, national and ethnic origin to all the rights, privileges, programs, and activities generally accorded or made available to students at the University. It does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, national and ethnic origin in administration of its educational policies, admissions policies, scholarship and loan programs, and athletic and other school-administered programs.