Skip to main content Submit Close Give to UH Search About Academics Admissions Campus Life Research Athletics Locations Sugar Land Katy UH Technology Bridge News & Events Giving UH Home Costs & Financial Aid Undergraduate Costs & Financial Aid How to Apply SFA Upload Documents Costs & Financial Aid Undergraduate Costs & Financial Aid How to Apply Determining Your Award Disbursement of Aid Maintaining Eligibility Satisfactory Academic Progress Special Circumstances Withdrawal Policy Fraud Policy Verification TASFA/Senate Bill 1528 SFA Upload Documents Tuition & Fees Types of Aid Scholarships & Financial Aid Forms FAQs Undergraduate Admissions Financial Literacy Graduate Costs & Financial Aid Find your Financial Aid Advisor Payment Information Contact Us Document Upload Instructions Save time. Upload Scholarships and Financial Aid forms via your myUH self-service account! Quick Steps to Upload Step-by-Step Instructions — Coming soon! Tips for Converting Documents to PDFs FAQs: Financial Aid Document Upload Process Quick Steps to Upload a Document Log in to your myUH self-service account. Click on the “Task” tile or the “Financial Aid” tile on your home screen. Click on To Do List Within your To Do List, find the requested To Do List item that you would like to upload. Click on the document, this will take you to the item's description. You should see an "Upload File" button, click on the button to upload a document. The File Attachment page should display, under the “Attach Files” section, click on the ‘Add’ link to upload a file. This will open up a window with information about the upload process and a disclosure. Click "OK." Click the “My Device” icon and then the browse for the appropriate file on your mobile device or computer. To upload a document, it must be in PDF format Once you have located and selected your document, click the "Upload" button. Click “Done.” You can now click on the view link to preview the attachment you uploaded to confirm it is the correct one. If it is incorrect, you can use the “-“ button to delete the attachment and repeat steps 4-7 to attach the correct one. To upload additional documents, click the “+” button and repeat steps 4-7. Once you have confirmed you have added all the files for the particular To Do List item, click on the “Save Uploaded File” button to submit the documents to our office. If you do not click this button, the attachments will not be uploaded or accessible to our office. If you have other documents to upload, return to the “Task” tile To Do List and repeat the process under the appropriate To Do List items. Back to Top Tips for Converting Documents to PDFs For converting .doc file to .pdf: Open the document in Microsoft Word Click the File tab Click Save As In the File Name box, enter a name for the file (file names should be kept short and cannot include brackets, quotations or any special characters) In the Save As type list, choose PDF (*.pdf) Click Save For saving images to pdf: Open a new blank document in Microsoft Word Click the Insert tab Click Picture Choose the image file you want to insert, click "Insert" Adjust the image orientation if required (click on the image, click the Picture Tools tab at the top, choose Rotate and adjust rotation) Click the File tab Click Save As In the File Name box, enter a name for the file (file names should be kept short and cannot include brackets, quotations or any special characters) In the Save As type list, choose PDF (*.pdf) Click Save Files must be uploaded in PDF format only. Scanned images such as .jpg, .bmp or .tiff files, must be converted to PDF before uploading. Maximum file size for each document is 25MB. See instructions below for solutions to size file greater than 25MB. (For converting images and .doc files to PDF, follow the instructions below [an adobe Acrobat writer is required to convert files to .pdf]) If your PDF file size is too big – try one of the following solutions: Scan document at a lower resolution Scan document in Black & White Three Ways to reduce PDF files Back to Top FAQs: Financial Aid Document Upload Process What are the electronic criteria to upload documents? The documents must be in .PDF format only, and the file size limit is 25MB per PDF. If you are using the Financial Aid To Do List, documents comprised of multiple pages should be combined into a single PDF file first, and then uploaded. For example, if your tax transcript consists of 6 pages, please scan all 6 of those pages and save it as one PDF file that you can upload into your tax transcript To-Do List. The orientation of the text should match the orientation of the document file (i.e., portrait/landscape). You can upload multiple PDF files if you are using the Task Tile To Do List option. If you are uploading a verification worksheet form, please ensure that the form is completed in dark ink and is clearly scanned. If you are using the Financial Aid To Do List, once files are uploaded, the documents cannot be edited by the applicant. Ensure that you are submitting the correct documents for the specified To-Do List item. If you have added an incorrect file, you can navigate to the Task Tile Do List and add the corrected PDF file. If you do not have access to a scanner, you may use services on campus. Can all financial aid documents and forms be uploaded using this service? Most of our documents can be uploaded using this feature but we do have some documents that are required to be submitted in person. These will be clearly marked on your To-Do List as not uploadable. Can I include multiple scanned pages within each PDF? If you are using the Financial Aid To Do List, and the documents are in the same group and are comprised of multiple pages, they should be combined into a single PDF file first, and then be uploaded to the appropriate To-Do List item. You can upload multiple PDF files to one To Do List item using the Task Tile To Do List Option. However, if the multiple scanned pages are applicable to multiple To Do List items, you must separate them so that only the correct documents are being uploaded into the appropriate To-Do List item. For example, if you are combining your parents' tax transcript and your tax transcript into one document and uploading it into the Parent Tax Transcript To-Do List item only, this will leave the student tax To-Do List item incomplete. The proper way to address this is to have one PDF file for the parent tax document and another separate PDF file for the student tax documents. What if I accidentally submitted the wrong document? Can I submit another version? All versions of the forms submitted must be stored in our imaging service. However, if you want to be able to upload another PDF for the same To-Do List item, navigate to the Task Tile To Do List and attach the correct PDF file making sure to save. You may also contact our office so that a representative can update your To-Do List item to "Incomplete" status. If your To Do List item is currently in a "Received" status, you can still upload the corrected PDF file(s) to that item via the Task Tile To Do List. How long will my documents take to be processed after I upload them? The processing time for uploaded verification documents are the same as those being submitted via fax, mail and at the Welcome Center counter. This process can take 3 – 4 weeks and may be even longer during peak times throughout the year. These peak times consist of July, August and September. May I use my cell phone application to scan documents and save them as a .PDF? We recommend that students use the most secure and accessible method to scan documents that may contain sensitive information. If the PDF file meets the electronic criteria as listed above, you may use any method to scan the document. UH does not have a list of recommended smartphone apps for document scanning. Back to Top Related Links Scholarships & Financial Aid Forms Frequently Asked Questions Scanners on Campus University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies