Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Undergraduate Admission Student Affairs About News Athletics Events Calendar Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Meadows School of the Arts Areas of Study Admissions About Menu Search Meadows School of the Arts Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Undergraduate Majors and Minors Auditions, Portfolios and the Meadows Application Frequently Asked Questions Visit Meadows School of the Arts Scholarships and Financial Aid 5 Tips for Applying to an Arts School 5 Tips on How to Double Major Why Meadows? Meadows students are energized by life, their passions, their talents and their readiness to make an impact in the world. Meadows School of the Arts offers a robust training ground for the ambitious student seeking to grow their own voice in a conservatory environment complemented by liberal arts education. Guided by industry-respected faculty in small classroom settings, students have ample opportunities for performing and key internships both on and off campus. This powerful combination produces market-ready students prepared to engage the world in the field of their choice. SMU is located in the heart of Dallas, one of the most vibrant cities in the country. As a top-five media market, home to numerous Fortune 500 companies and the nation’s largest urban arts district, there is no better place to stretch your potential, find your voice and make an impact in the world. Check out some examples of the incredible opportunities our students have on our student internships page. If you haven’t yet visited the campus, you can arrange your visit today. Want to meet with Meadows faculty or sit in on a class? Submit our Meadows Visit form. (Music students: Find details about how to arrange a visit here) We offer majors and minors in performing arts, visual arts and communication arts. Learn more about our programs and read about your areas of interest. Questions? Contact your SMU admissions counselor or Meadows recruiter today! Ready to apply? Music, Theatre, Dance, Studio Art and Film and Media Arts B.F.A. applicants: Click here to learn about the admission process for Dual Admit programs The Advertising, Art History, Corporate Communication and Public Affairs, Creative Computation, Journalism and Film and Media Arts B.A. programs are not dual admit programs. Students intending to enter these programs need only apply to SMU and indicate their areas of interest on the application form. Meadows School of the Arts Meadows School of the Arts 6101 Bishop Dallas, Texas 75205 214-768-2000 Mailing Address: P.O. Box 750356 Dallas, Texas 75275-0356 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Apply Now Visit Us Back to top © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Areas of Study Advertising Art Art History Arts Management & Arts Entrepreneurship CCPA Creative Computation Dance Film & Media Arts Journalism Music Theatre Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Scholarships And Financial Aid Internships & Collaborations Visit Meadows Contact Meadows Admission Dual Admission About A Statement of Our Values Mission History Message From The Dean Dean's Executive Council Student Academic Services Academic Affairs Contact SMU Meadows Faculty Directory Faculty/Staff Bio Submission Form Facilities Resources Employment Meadows Graduate Student Council Site Map Report a Web Problem News and Events Art History After Hours Virtual Season Subscribers News Featured Media Our Calendar Performing Arts Season Music Recitals Events Newsletter Meadows Events Parking Directions & Public Transportation Meadows Recognition Ceremony The Movement Mission Ignite Arts Dallas SMU DataArts Meadows Prize Arts Entrepreneurship International Opportunities Interdisciplinary Studies Research and Creativity Alumni Submit Your Information Alumni News Alumni in the Media Alumni on LinkedIn Support Meadows Contact Development The Meadows Scholars Program Meadows Gala Apply NowVisit UsGive Menu Search Search Submit Menu Search