Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu University Libraries About Services Instruction Digital Commons Special Collections Government Publications Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact About University Libraries Staff Directory Meet Our Librarians News & Events Join & Give Library Faculty and Staff Portal Take Action Ask-a-Librarian Interlibrary Loan Reserve Space My Library Account Follow The Libraries InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeBlogsVimeo Home Libraries About University Libraries McWherter Library Floor Plans McWherter Library Map Scroll to see full map First Floor - Social Zone Includes the Check Out Desk, the Learning Commons, the sandbox. creatorspace, Government Publications, and Einstein's Bagels. The Learning Commons includes the Research Assistance Desk (RAD), IT Help Desk, Center for Writing & Communication (CWC), Assistive Technology Lab, Fishbowl Group Study Room, and reference book collection. Computers and printers are in the Learning Commons, the sandbox., and Government Publications. Scanners and guest computers are in the Learning Commons. Second Floor - Social & Quiet Zone Includes the Interlibrary Loan Office (212), Instruction Rooms (225 & 226), the Administration Office (204), the 2nd Floor Commons Area, and the Video Production Studio (215). You can find Mac computers & printer, a large BookEye scanner, copiers, journals, periodicals, and microfilm here. The book stacks (east side) is a Quiet Zone and the 2nd Floor Commons Area (west side) is a Social Zone. The 2nd Floor Commons Area is a group study & reservable event space. Third Floor - Quiet Zone You can find computers & printer, single restrooms (331 A & B), reservable group study rooms, personal study carrels, and book stacks (A-E on the left & F-K on the right) here. Browse our books here. Includes the Audio Production Studio (336), Academic Coaching for Excellence Offices, and Technical Services Staff Office. Fourth Floor - Silent Zone You can find computers & printer, reservable group study rooms, personal study carrels, and book stacks (L-PS on the left & PS-Z on the right) here. Browse our books here. Includes Special Collections (404) and the Presentation Practice Studio (441) Click on a floor to enlarge Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 1/18/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.