Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School Admitted Students & Orientation Guide for Admitted Online Graduate Students Graduate School Skip to Navigation Guide for Admitted Online Graduate Students WHAT TO DO NOW Activate your Brown account Read about financing graduate school Learn more about the Graduate School Submit required health related documentation Health insurance coverage Submit a photo for your Brown Identification Card Submit a final transcript Complete required course on Codes of Academic & Student Conduct Take a Virtual Campus Tour 1) In your App Store: Download "Brown University Guides" by Guidebook. 2) Select and download the Brown University Graduate School Virtual Tour. 3) In the top left corner, click on the three lines and select the Campus Tour or Audio Tour. 4) Or view on a desktop here. PREPARING FOR THE FIRST DAY OF CLASSES Register for courses Pay your tuition bill Important Dates & Deadlines for Graduate Students Complete Asynchronous Orientation for Graduate Students New graduate students will be sent a link via their Brown email address prior to the start of your first semester. Please log into Canvas to access your asynchronous Graduate School orientation course. Complete Asynchronous Program Orientation Your department will provide you with access and notification once you have been enrolled in your programmatic orientation course. Once you have been enrolled, please log into Canvas to review and complete your programmatic orientation modules prior to the start of your first semester. Review The Graduate School Handbook Review your programmatic Student Handbook (if applicable) Not all departments have a separate programmatic handbook. If applicable, your program-specific student handbook can be accessed via your programmatic orientation course. CAMPUS RESOURCES Academic Service, Support & Logistics Community & Living Campus Events Calendar Office of the Registrar Office of Information Technology Information for Graduate Students HEALTH & WELLNESS A full list of resources can be found on the Campus Life Resources website. University Health Services: Students can call 401-863-3953 for questions about symptoms or health concerns or to arrange an appointment via telehealth. Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS): Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) provides a range of mental health services to the Brown community, with services available for all current Brown students, both on or near campus as well as those who will remain away from campus. CAPS also provides services for urgent situations. In those cases, students should access one of the urgent help options immediately, including calling CAPS directly at 401-863-3476. Those who call should follow the prompts to be connected to someone who can help — this is available 24/7, every day of the year, and it can be accessed by Brown students from anywhere. Student Accessibility Services: SAS coordinates and facilitates services for students with physical, psychological and learning disabilities. For new students, the SAS website includes a registration form and information about how to provide documentation. If you have any questions about documentation, please reach out by email or phone 401-863-9588 during weekday business hours. Please review their FAQ and their Graduate Student FAQ. Student Support: Student Support Services deans are available to assist all students with a wide range of issues and concerns. Deans can serve as a sounding board to help students consider their options and can help connect students to the right set of resources at Brown. The Student Support Services team will continue to be available to students via phone, email, and video conferencing during weekday business hours. Please call 401-863-3145 or email [email protected] for assistance. Graduate students may also reach out to the Associate Dean of Student Support in the Graduate School. Chaplains and Religious Life: The Chaplains of the University are holding the Brown community in our prayers and remain fully available to all graduate students. Please check their website for details on programming and meetings. Brown community members may send requests for counsel, support, information, or prayer by email to the Chaplain of the University: [email protected]. Individual members of the OCRL team can also be reached directly at the addresses listed on their website. FINDING COMMUNITY Graduate Student Council: Review their website and sign up for the listservs Brown Center for Students of Color (BCSC) Chaplains and Religious Life Global Brown Center for International Students (GBC) LGBTQ Center Office of Military Affiliated Students Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender KEEP YOURSELF ENTERTAINED Sign up for free New York Times and Wall Street Journal subscriptions through the library Find virtual events to attend on campus at Events at Brown and through the daily [email protected] email Learn something new: Check out LinkedInLearning for expert-led video tutorials on lots of topics, including creative and technology skills (free for Brown affiliates) Learn a new language with RosettaStone online (free for Brown affiliates) Plan your budget and review a GSC-sponsored webinar about Financial Literacy Do some virtual traveling Rhode Island Virtual Tours Virtual Tours of U.S. National Parks A Weekend of Traveling You Can Do From Home Hone your cooking skills: Pantry Cooking with Alton Brown, host of Good Eats Ina Garten's Cooking Playlist Fun, arts, ideas, culture Watch movies through the Brown Library’s free Kanopy streaming service Watch Research Matters! videos from your fellow graduate students Lunch Doodles with Mo Willems - Kennedy Center Education Artist-in-Residence hosts a live daily doodle lesson at 1pm TED Connects: Community & Hope - a free, live, daily conversation series featuring experts whose ideas can help us reflect and work through this uncertain time with a sense of responsibility, compassion, and wisdom. 5 Minutes That Will Make You Love Opera Virtual International Festival of Arts & Ideas Check out Go Providence’s list of Things to do Virtually, including tours, events, food and more Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants