Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Home Ways to give Get involved Alumni and friends Students Parents Faculty and staff Corporations and foundations Recognition Be Boundless Campaign The President’s Circle Cumulative Giving Recognition Henry Suzzallo Society Gates Volunteer Service Award Report to Contributors Contacts Giving FAQs Give now My UW Giving Give to the UW Menu Home Ways to give Get involved Alumni and friends Students Parents Faculty and staff Corporations and foundations Recognition Be Boundless Campaign The President’s Circle Cumulative Giving Recognition Henry Suzzallo Society Gates Volunteer Service Award Report to Contributors Contacts Giving FAQs Give now My UW Giving Home Give to the UW In-kind gifts In-kind gifts Gifts-in-kind are gifts of tangible personal property such as equipment, materials, company products or inventory. Gifts of equipment and material The UW encourages and appreciates gifts-in-kind, such as computer hardware and software, industry equipment, supplies for laboratories, library archive collections, musical instruments, works of art, and other materials that the university would otherwise need to purchase. Through gifts-in-kind, supporters help the university strengthen programs and improve facilities to provide the best possible educational experience to our students. While in-kind donations are often received from businesses and corporations, individual donors also contribute many types of in-kind gifts. Acceptance policy All gifts-in-kind are reviewed, accepted and officially acknowledged. Prior to acceptance, the gift is reviewed to see if it meets campus needs. The UW reserves the right to decline any gift that does not further the university’s goals or may involve special maintenance or other conditions the university would be unable to satisfy. The donor is responsible for making arrangements to deliver the gift. Additional approvals may be required for works of art. Appraisal guidelines The UW does not provide gift valuation. In accordance with Internal Revenue Service regulations, the donor is responsible for determining the value of an accepted gift. If the estimated value of the gift exceeds $5,000, then a qualified appraisal is required by the IRS to substantiate a donor’s charitable deduction for gifts-in-kind. University personnel are not qualified appraisers, and federal regulations do not permit the university to give appraisals or estimates of value. Additional information about appraisal requirements can be found in IRS Publication 561 available here (PDF). For taxation details, see IRS Publication 526 available here (PDF). For more information To discuss gifts-in-kind, please contact the college or office that is the most likely beneficiary. Questions Send an email 1-800-284-3679 or 206-685-1001 UW Office for Planned Giving 4333 Brooklyn Ave. NE Box 359515 Seattle, WA 98195-9504 Search for: University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA