Skip to site alert. Skip to content College of Dental Medicine Students Alumni Faculty Giving Contact Us Search About Us About Us Our Mission History Leadership and Administration Board of Advisors Global Dean's Council News Diversity Community Outreach Global Initiatives Support the College of Dental Medicine Events Calendar Contact Us Columbia Visiting Professorship Program CDM Publications Education Education DDS Program Advanced Standing Program for Foreign Trained Dentists Postdoctoral and Residency Programs Tuition, Fees and Financial Aid Global Programs Visits & Externships Continuing Education Academic Sections/Divisions Academic Calendars Research Research Research Areas Research Labs Research Centers Research Faculty Clinical Trials Research Resources Student Research First International Symposium of Fusobacteria Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Teaching Clinics Patient Resources COVID-19 Safety ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Our Doctors Our Services Our Locations Make an Appointment Make an Appointment Choose between ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry and our affordable Dental Clinics. Para Español, haga clic aquí. Explore Your Options Events News You are here Home > Education > Advanced Standing Program for Foreign Trained Dentists DDS Program Advanced Standing Program for Foreign Trained Dentists Postdoctoral and Residency Programs Tuition, Fees and Financial Aid Global Programs Visits & Externships Continuing Education Academic Sections/Divisions Academic Calendars Advanced Standing Program for Foreign Trained Dentists The Advanced Standing Program for Foreign Trained Dentists is designed for graduates of a recognized foreign dental school who want to practice dentistry in the United States. The two and a half year full-time program accredited by the Commission on Dental Accreditation (CODA) leads to the Doctor of Dental Surgery (DDS) degree. Program Details Length of program: 30 months Application Deadline: August 1 Program start date: January 2 Class size: 15 Degree awarded: DDS How to Apply Please submit your application through ADEA CAAPID. Preference will be given to applicants who are US citizens or US permanent residents who graduated from a recognized foreign dental school. Requirements English Language Proficiency Must be proficient in the English language All applicants must take the TOEFL to be considered for admission We accept internet based TOEFL (iBT) scores only Applicants must submit original TOEFL score report directly to program (not to ADEA CAAPID) A minimum score of 100 on the iBT The institution code for Columbia University College of Dental Medicine is 2094 National Board Dental Examination Requirements Program requires passage of Part I & II NBDE or the INBDE to be considered for admission. Exams are mandatory. Must submit original NBDE I & II or the INBDE score report directly from the ADA to Columbia Admissions Office at cdm-postgradforms@columbia.edu Candidate’s copies will not accepted. Letter of Evaluation Letters of recommendation from one faculty member and the academic dean of the original dental school, as well as one post-doctoral reference, if applicable. Applicants must provide Letters of Evaluation, sent directly to ADEA CAAPID. Transcripts and Evaluations Transcript evaluation- Columbia University College of Dental Medicine requires Advanced Standing applicants to the DDS Program to provide official evaluation of all documents from foreign institutions that are presented as part of the application process. Applicant must submit to ADEA CAAPID a detailed evaluation by ECE. Other things to consider Not a CDM Admissions requirement BUT in order to obtain your NYS Licensure, NYS requires 6 years of education prior to the Advanced Standing program (1 year pre-professional, 5 year professional) During your first semester, drug testing will be required (as is required of all Clinical students at CUMC) After acceptance, deposit of $5,000 will be required Bench test will be administered at the time of interview; interviews are by invitation only Bench Test Preparation Course The College of Dental Medicine (CDM) is please to offer a continuing education course entitled, "Update in Restorative Dentistry". This 5-day course is designed primarily to assist internationally trained dentists to update their skills in operative dentistry and fixed prosthodontics. This non-credit certificate program will include didactic and laboratory hands-on sessions supervised by faculty members in CDM's Section of Cariology and Restorative Sciences, Division of Operative Dentistry. Enrollment will be limited to ten (10) participants which will allow for suitable faculty instruction and supervision. For an application and additional information, please contact: Joseph McManus, DMD, MS, MHA, MBA, FACD Senior Associate Dean of Admissions jmm10@cumc.columbia.edu Application Fee An application fee in the amount of $100 is required. Please read our Privacy Policy before submitting payment All application fees are non-refundable (this includes duplicate payments) Pay with PayPal Please fill out the information below. Applicant Name CAAPID ID Number Contact Ms. Diana Lugo Admissions Officer 212-305-3478 dl2430@cumc.columbia.edu College of Dental Medicine, Admissions Office 630 West 168th Street PH 7 West Room 318 New York, NY 10032 United States Open location in Google Maps Tuition and Fees Information on the cost for the Advanced Standing Program as well as information regarding financial aid can be found at: Tuition, Fees, and Financial Aid Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Education Research Student Life Alumni Faculty Contact Us Intranet Columbia University College of Dental Medicine 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Back to top