Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Office of the Provost About the Provost About the Provost Contact Information About the Office About the Office Leadership Committees Task Forces Contact Academics Academics Schools & Colleges Office of Research & Graduate Education SMU-in-Taos SMU Abroad Guildhall (Hart eCenter) JanTerm MayTerm Centers & Institutes Resources Resources Committees Undergraduate Student Resources Graduate Student Resources Academic Resources Faculty Success Office of Institutional Access and Equity (IAE) Student Academic Engagement and Success (SAES) ☰ Office of Curricular Innovation and Policy Office of Curricular Innovation and Policy Global, Online and Continuing Education Our Programs Our Programs SMU’s Office of Global, Online, and Continuing Education offers a wide-range of programs that fit any learning style... Online Master's Degrees SMU Global and Online (GO) administers a growing list of online master’s degrees from various SMU schools. Our online master’s degree offers identical content to the in-person SMU curriculum, taught by SMU faculty, and features both synchronous and on-demand learning. Browse » Continuing and Professional Education SMU Continuing and Professional Education (CAPE) certificate programs and boot camps equip professionals at all levels to deepen their expertise and reach their career goals. Evening and weekend classes provide flexibility to help students acquire new, in-demand skills to apply immediately. Leading professionals who combine academic prowess with real-world knowledge guide the learning process. Students who complete all required coursework receive a certificate of completion that reflects their expanded knowledge and advanced skill set. Visit CAPE » Short Courses SMU CAPE has offered non-credit learning experiences for the DFW community and beyond since 1953. With flexible scheduling throughout the year and on-demand options, classes offer unlimited opportunities to delve into challenging, engaging subjects for professional development and personal enrichment. Browse » Customized Workshops SMU CAPE workshops are short, intensive learning sessions that focus on a single topic or specific area of study. CAPE also can tailor programs for organizations. Our customized learning and corporate programs help employees and teams gain knowledge and skills to transform their work and organizations. Learn More » Global, Online and Continuing Education Our Programs About Global, Online and Continuing Education Contact Us Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share