Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School About the Graduate School People Dean's Message Graduate School Skip to Navigation Dean's Message Campbell is the fifteenth dean of the Graduate School. His term began July 1, 2016. Read his biography.Thank you for your interest in graduate education at Brown University. Brown’s Graduate School is committed to scholarly excellence and student success. We bring to our work a genuine openness to innovation that cultivates the talents of our scholars and creates a culture that builds community. It is healthy to review and reinvigorate efforts to promote collaboration, student agency and well-being, and interdisciplinary research. As Dean of the Graduate School, my aim is to improve the already significant opportunities for our graduate students to create new knowledge, prepare for careers inside and outside the academy, and address the evolving needs of society. Brown University invests significantly in graduate education and research. We are deeply committed to the work we do in broadening participation in higher education that leads to a more diverse and inclusive scholarly community. Whether you are looking at graduate schools, already headed to Brown for graduate studies, or presently here on campus, I hope that you will make the most of opportunities to expand your knowledge. Best wishes, Andrew G. Campbell Dean of the Graduate School Home About the Graduate School People Dean's Message Directors of Graduate Study Governance: Graduate Council Presidential Fellows Mission & Facts Diversity and Inclusion News & Communications Academic Events & Honors Initiatives in Doctoral Education and Support Graduate Student Resources Maps & Directions Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants