Skip to main content Search Brookings Search About Us Press Room Experts Events Brookings Press WashU@Brookings Careers Newsletters Support Brookings Cart 0 Search Guidance for the Brookings community and the public on our response to the coronavirus (COVID-19) » Learn more from Brookings scholars about the global response to coronavirus (COVID-19) » The Brookings Institution The Brookings Institution Rhode Island innovates: A competitive strategy for the Ocean State Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Print SMS Email More Reddit Climate AI Cities & Regions Global Dev Intl Affairs U.S. Economy U.S. Politics & Govt More Search Menu 0 Series: Advanced Industries Series Report Rhode Island innovates: A competitive strategy for the Ocean State Mark Muro and Bruce Katz Tuesday, January 19, 2016 Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Print SMS Email More Reddit Mark Muro Senior Fellow and Policy Director - Brookings Metro Twitter markmuro1 Bruce Katz Former Centennial Scholar Twitter bruce_katz In the fall and winter of 2015–2016, the Metropolitan Policy Program at Brookings worked in association with Battelle Technology Partnership Practice (now TEConomy Partners, LLC) and Monitor Deloitte to advance a new competitive strategy for the state of Rhode Island. This slideshow summary of the project’s final conclusions finds that Rhode Island possesses unique assets for building an advanced economy that works for all but stands weakened by the decline of its core “advanced industries.” Given that erosion, the slideshow asserts that five advanced industry and two “opportunity industry” growth areas hold out solid potential for growth in the Ocean State and recommends that Rhode Island should embark on a three-part strategy to strengthen its advanced industries and improve its statewide platform for growth. Rhode Island Innovates from Brookings Metropolitan Policy Program Related Topics Cities & Regions More on Cities & Regions The Avenue A new federal program goes local to accelerate regional innovation Mark Muro Tuesday, May 31, 2022 Up Front Did the pandemic advance new suburbanization? Yung Chun, Tyler Haupert, Stephen Roll, Sophia R. Fox-Dichter, and Michal Grinstein-Weiss Monday, May 23, 2022 Demographics & Population Growth, diversity, segregation, and aging in America’s largest metropolitan areas: A 2020 census portrait William H. Frey Friday, May 13, 2022 The Brookings Institution Facebook Find us on Facebook Twitter Find us on Twitter YouTube Find us on YouTube Podcast Listen to our Podcast Browse Newsletters Browse Newsletters RSS Subscribe to our RSS Languages Español 中文 عربي About Us Research Programs Find an Expert Careers Contact Terms and Conditions Brookings Privacy Policy Copyright 2022 The Brookings Institution The Brookings Institution Close Trending Education Topics Climate AI Cities & Regions Global Dev Intl Affairs U.S. Economy U.S. Politics & Govt More About Us Press Room Experts Events Brookings Press WashU@Brookings Careers Newsletters Support Brookings Cart 0 Get daily updates from Brookings Enter Email Close Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address Cancel Post was not sent - check your email addresses! Email check failed, please try again Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.