Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Student Government Association About Branches Senate Cabinet Forms & Documents Travel Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact SGA Executive Branch SGA Judicial Branch SGA Legislative Branch SGA Senators PreviousNext Take Action Join the SGA! SGA Programs Contact the SGA Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Home Student Government Association "The Voice of the Students!" We are so happy that you are interested in learning more about the Student Government Association (SGA)! Throughout our web pages, you will find more information about what SGA does, bills that have been passed through Senate to enhance the student experience, recordings of past Senate meetings, as well as who is representing YOU! We hope that you will get involved with SGA through our freshman council, townhall discussions, tabling initiatives, and connect with us on social media! If you have any questions, concerns, or ideas, please contact any member of SGA. It is our pleasure to represent you and advocate on your behalf as the 'voice of the students'. Student Trustee Information Student E-News View the student e-news archives to catch up on any new uou might have missed. Complimentary access to NYTimes.com The Student Government Association at the University of Memphis is pleased to announce that as of Friday, September, 6, 2019 it will now be providing complimentary access to NYTimes.com, for all faculty, students, and staff at the university. In addition to NYTimes.com access, The University of Memphis will also have access to curricular and co-curricular New York Times learning tools at NYTimesInEducation, which can be used to engage our campus community. This is a great resource for faculty to incorporate into their lesson plans. Faculty must register separately for NYTimesInEducation access. For instructions on how to register to gain access to the above NYTimes websites please visit https://www.memphis.edu/libraries/resources/nyt.php. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/1/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.