Menu Menu Search Search User Login to… MySPC Blackboard Parents & Families Community & Business Donate Now ExpandLogin to… MySPC Blackboard ExpandDegrees & Programs Explore Programs Online Catalog Career Coach Continuing Ed & Workforce Development Dual Credit Evening College Honors Program Texan to Red Raider ExpandStudent Services Admissions & Records ExpandAdvising & Testing Advising Testing Disability Services ExpandHealth and Wellness Health & Wellness Mental Health Resources Instructional Technology Library Orientation ExpandPaying for College Business Office Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fees Cost of Attendance Student Guide Study Abroad Technology Center Tutoring TexBook ExpandCampus Life & Housing Dining Parking Residence Halls ExpandGet Involved Intramurals Clubs & Activities Student Life Star Center Student ID ExpandAthletics ExpandAlumni & Giving Foundation Overview Alumni & Friends ExpandAbout ExpandOffice of the President President's Welcome About South Plains College Board of Regents Board Postings Public Notice of ACEN Review ExpandCollege Overview Overview Financial Information Economic Impact ExpandCampus Safety Emergency Procedures Campus Police Campus Carry Complaints & Incident Reports Sexual Assault & Harassment Parking Regulations Campus Locations News & Events Departmental Directory Faculty & Staff Directory Texan to Red Raider The Texan to Red Raider program is a unique partnership with Texas Tech University. Students will be admitted to the program each fall semester. Students who are denied admission to Texas Tech University are invited to apply for the program. While in the program, students will be concurrenty enrolled at SPC and TTU. Upon successful completion of a minimum of 51 hours of courses and a GPA that meets the requirement for admission to their chosen major at TTU, students will receive guaranteed admission to TTU. At South Plains College, we want you to reach your fullest potential. So we work to support you in clarifying your goals, developing your talents and skills, and challenging you to become an independent, lifelong learner. SPC offers you: More than 100 programs of study Affordable tuition and fees Career programs that prepare you for success in the job market State-of-the-art instructional equipment and hands-on training Small classes and one-on-one training A college with traditions Explore Programs Schedule a Tour Request Information Document1. Apply for AdmissionsExpand 1. Application for Admission Complete a Fall 2022 Texan to Red Raider Admission Application. Application Deadline for program is July 20, 2022. Program Eligibility Requirements (for acceptance into the Texan to Red Raider program) Must have applied to Texas Tech University for the fall 2021 semester and been denied admission Must have no more than 15 hours of dual credit courses completed at an institution other than South Plains College Must meet Texas Success Initiative (TSI) compliance standards in Reading, Writing, and Math. Click here for more information on TSI compliance. 2. Supplemental Documents In addition to an application for admission, students may be required to submit the following before registering for classes: Meningitis Vaccination Record TSI Placement Scores (if not exempt from the TSI Assessment by SAT, ACT, STAAR, or college coursework) Final, Official High School Transcript (with graduation date) Official College Transcript Contact Us admissions@southplainscollege.edu 806.716.2500 Money2. Financial AidExpand Financial Aid Students interested in receiving Financial Aid must complete a FAFSA (Free Application for Federal Student Aid). SPC MUST BE designated as an institution to receive your FAFSA. Aid cannot be awarded to students in the program if SPC has not received the student's FAFSA. Complete 2018-2019 FAFSA at www.studentaid.gov (Requires 2016 tax data) Select South Plains College with school code (003611) Use the IRS Data Retrieval Tool Check DAILY for emails on the student and parent email accounts provided on the FAFSA; including the student's SPC account If selected for Verification, please follow the SPC Verification Process Submit Official High School Transcript with Graduation Date to Admissions and Records If a loan is needed, click here For more information about Financial Aid at SPC, click here. Contact Us finaid@southplainscollege.edu 806.894.9611 ext 3800 Cost of Attendance View this information to learn more about the overall cost of your education.. Learn more >> Pencil3. Advising and TestingExpand Advising The advising system at South Plains College is a continuous process designed to foster the development of the student’s successful educational plan compatible with the unique life goals of the individual student. By practicing a holistic, proactive approach, South Plains College advising creates a student-centered environment from which students emerge as independent life long learners. Speak to an advisor>> Testing The Testing Center is committed to maintain the highest compliance with nationally recognized professional testing standards and practices, safeguarding confidentiality of student records, and creating an optimal testing environment. More>> Graduation Cap4. ScholarshipsExpand Scholarships South Plains College administers a number of scholarship programs that are not limited to a specific major field of study. These scholarships are open to all eligible students. Amounts for each award vary and are dependent upon available funds. Students interested in specific activity scholarships should contact the departments listed in the activity scholarship descriptions concerning interviews, auditions or departmental scholarship applications if applicable. How to Apply A single online scholarship application is used to apply for all scholarships administered by South Plains College. More>> House5. HousingExpand Residence Halls At South Plains College, residence halls are not just a place to eat and sleep; they are an integral part of college life. SPC provides full-time students, carrying 12 or more semester hours, with modern, comfortable and affordable housing. Living in a residence hall provides the opportunity to meet new friends and associate with other students from different cities, states and countries. In the process, students grow and develop as people, capable of taking on the responsibilities of living with others. More>> SPC6. New Student OrientationExpand About Orientation New Student Orientation gives new students the knowledge needed to be successful as a student at South Plains College. In addition, you will meet with an academic advisor and register for classes. Each South Plains College campus has a unique orientation experience. Attend the orientation program at the campus in which you plan to take the majority of your classes. Orientation Registration will open May 1st. More>> New Student Checklist To ensure that you have a useful orientation there are a few things that must be completed before attending. If these items are not complete, you will not be able to register for classes at orientation. View Checklist>> Checkmark7. Online Catalog & Class SchedulesExpand Courses SPC has an outstanding record of academic quality, offering associate's degree programs, certificates and training and technical programs. View programs in our Online Catalog or view Class Offerings. Facebook Twitter Instagram Pinterest ExpandExpand Quick Links Academic Calendar Business Office Bookstore HEERF Funds Report Class Schedule Dual Credit Employee Resources Employee/Faculty Directory Employment Opportunities Final Exam Schedule Fitness Complex IS Help Desk Library Mental Health Resources Net Price Calculator Notice About 2021 Tax Rates Online Catalog Online Institutional Resume Student Consumer Information Sexual Assault or Harassment Reporting State Auditor's Fraud Hotline Tuition & Fees Transcript Request UIL Webmail (Employees) Webmail (Students) Who to Contact Call Us 806.894.9611 South Plains College Official Web Site © 2001-2022 All Rights Reserved. E-mail comments or suggestions to info@southplainscollege.edu South Plains College does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, national origin, sex, disability or age in its programs and activities. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding the non-discrimination policies: Vice President for Student Affairs, South Plains College 1401 College Avenue, Box 5, Levelland, TX 79336, 806-894-9611 Accessibility Statement