Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Tangeman University Center TUC right arrow down arrow Visiting TUC right arrow down arrow Floor Plans Dining right arrow down arrow Catering Convenience Store Vending Services Retail right arrow down arrow UC Bookstores right arrow down arrow Course Materials & Tech Fan Gear For Grads & Alumni, Plus Special Orders Bearcat Card right arrow down arrow Where to Use Your Bearcat Card Terms & Conditions Frequently Asked Questions Information for Merchants PNC Bank & ATMs Convenience Store Services right arrow down arrow Study Spaces MainStreet Connection Center Wepa Print Station Lost & Found Steger Student Life Center (SSLC) Bearcat Promise Career Studio Promotions Request Meetings & Events right arrow down arrow Great Hall Meeting Rooms Other Event Spaces Rates Planning Services Request a Space About TUC right arrow down arrow Larry Elsasser Scholarship & Recipients Video Backgrounds Home » Campus Life » TUC » Retail » Consumer Banking with PNC Set Navigation title in component UC Bookstores Course Materials & Tech Fan Gear For Grads & Alumni, Plus Special Orders Bearcat Card Where to Use Your Bearcat Card Terms & Conditions Frequently Asked Questions Information for Merchants PNC Bank & ATMs Convenience Store PNC Bank & ATMs Full-service banking on campus. Really! The PNC Bank branch in TUC, Level 3 Lobby, makes taking care of financial matters so easy. They know just what students need. pnc branch office hours PNC student banking PNC Workplace Banking for UC employees ATMs on Campus Power Up Your Bearcat Card with PNC Link your PNC Bank account to your Bearcat Card/UC ID to withdraw cash at ATMs using your Bearcat Card/ UC ID. You get the convenience of carrying one card around campus, and you incur no cost for this service. Online Sign in to your PNC Online Banking account, go to the Customer Service tab and click "Link Campus ID Card" under the Account Services section. On the next page, select your school and follow the easy instructions through the rest of the process, including selecting a unique Personal Identification Number (PIN) for your card to use it at ATMs and retail locations that accept STAR. At a PNC Bank Branch Stop by the UC branch located in TUC, Level 3 and speak with one of our representatives. Be sure to select a PIN for your card to use it at ATMs and retail locations that accept STAR. By Phone Call 877-PNC-1000 and ask the representative to link your card over the phone. Don't forget to select a PIN for your card to use it at ATMs and retail locations that accept STAR. Improve Your Financial Knowledge Want to learn more about the Emergency Fund One or the Spending Diet? Come by the PNC branch located in TUC, Level 3 and talk to an associate today! Or check out the PNC Money 101 Guide to learn more about: Budgeting Basics Protecting Your Indentity Building Up Your Credit Learn More About PNC Click image to view video UC Employees Get More with PNC WorkPlace Banking Available to all University employees, the PNC WorkPlace Banking program helps to boost your financial wellness with money-management tools, one-to-one guidance and access to certain benefits, rewards and offers when you hold a qualifying checking account. The PNC WorkPlace Banking team is ready to answer your questions, provide product information, and connect you to tools and resources to help you make the most of your hard-earned money. Once you are onboard, visit our faculty/staff intranet site, Bearcats Landing, for more information on how we can assist you with your financial future. ATMs On Campus find automatic teller machines (ATMs) on a campus map PNC Bank TUC Food Court, Level 2 TUC Level 3, across from Mick & Mack's TUC, Level 3, next to branch - 2 Advanced-function ATMs Edwards 3 Lobby Marian Spencer Hall, OTG entry Steger Student Life Center, Level 1, near Subway Stratford Heights Lobby, Building 16 University Hall - Advanced-function ATM, Level 1 University Pavilion, Level 2 CARE/Crawley Building - Advanced-function ATM, Level E University Hospital UC Blue Ash UC Clermont Fifth Third Bank - Jeanie ATMs TUC, Level 2 entry University Pavilion, Level 2 Fifth Third Arena/Shoemaker Center, East & West Lobbies CARE/Crawley, Level E PNC Bank Campus Branch Main Lobby, Tangeman University Center, Level 3 513-569-4190 Tangeman University Center 2766 UC MainStreet Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-2831 mainstreet@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Tangeman University Center 2766 UC MainStreet Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-2831 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top