Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Bush Center SMU-Bush Center Partnerships Center for Presidential History at SMU Tower Center Resources ☰ The George W. Bush Presidential Center and SMU SMU The George W. Bush Presidential Center and SMU Tower Center Tower Center To me, it’s really a privilege for us and for our students to have a piece of living history on campus. We have the archives of George W. Bush’s presidency, of course, but we also have the legacy of a living president on our campus for students to follow and learn from. Few campuses are able to provide that kind of an opportunity to their students. SMU’s Tower Center in Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences and the Bush Center are partners in research, teaching and programming designed to educate, inspire and foster ethical public service. Recent collaborations include: Tower Fellow Jieun Pyun manages the Bush Center’s Human Freedom Initiative, an innovative educational and training program that equips young leaders with the knowledge and skills they need to succeed during a democratic transition. Tower Center Senior Fellow Matthew Wilson, director of the Center for Faith & Learning at SMU and an associate professor of political science, serves as an instructor with the project. Bush Institute experts participate in a speaker series for Tower Scholars focused on policymaking. Tower Scholars have engaged in research at the Bush Center for their senior year practicums. The two centers co-host panel discussions on a variety of domestic and foreign policy issues that are free and open to the public. The George W. Bush Presidential Center and SMU SMU-Bush Center Partnerships Center for Presidential History at SMU Commencement Addresses Timeline of Bush Center Site Selection Process Tower Center Resources Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share