Skip to main content UCF News | Stories of Impact + Innovation | Orlando, FL Tuesday, May 31, 2022 88ºF Mostly cloudy Sections × UCF News | Stories of Impact + Innovation | Orlando, FL Arts Business Colleges Community Health Opinions Science & Tech Sports Student Life Tuesday, May 31, 2022 88ºF Mostly cloudy arts News Using the Arts to Take a Deep Dive into the Sea Pegasus Professor Stella Sung’s composition Oceana: Sounds of the Sea will invite patrons at UCF Celebrates the Arts into a story they will never forget. Knights Do That: How Music Enhances Your Life Chung Park, director of UCF’s Symphony and Chamber Orchestras, shares his gift and passion for teaching, insight on UCF Celebrates the Arts, and how you can learn to purposefully integrate music into your life. Alum, Local Artist Creates New ‘Elevation’ Mural for UCF Downtown Located in the east wing of Dr. Phillips Academic Commons, the mural intends to uplift each viewer. 11 UCF Alum, Faculty and Student Artworks Featured on Local Billboards As part of a community based outdoor exhibit, the works showcase the diverse talent of Orlando artists. Opera Orlando to Premiere ‘The Secret River’ Composed by UCF Professor Stella Sung The opera, which is based on a story of Central Floridians during the Great Depression, will show at the Dr. Phillips Center for Performing Arts Dec. 17-19. Knights Do That Podcast: Fostering Inclusion Through Arts and LGBTQ+ History Martha Brenckle, writing and rhetoric professor in the College of Arts and Humanities, shares her expertise and love for writing and involvement within the Orlando arts and LGBTQ+ communities. UCF Professor Heralded Among Florida’s Top Artists Robert Rivers was selected as the winner of the Orlando Museum of Art’s 2021 Florida Prize in Contemporary Art. Cinco de Mayo: How a Small Mexican Battle Became a Major U.S. Holiday Often confused with Mexican Independence Day, Cinco de Mayo is an important day in the country’s history, but the party celebrating the date in the United States is much bigger than any observance south of the border. 22 Photos That Capture the Creativity of 2021 UCF Celebrates the Arts Although UCF Celebrates the Arts looked a little different this year, the heart of the annual festival remained the same: the arts are built on community. UCF’s Theatre for Young Audiences Program is Much More than a Niche Field “The Grumpiest Boy in the World,” which will be performed Saturday at Celebrates the Arts, is the latest production out of the TYA program — an important arts education field that provides a range of skills and career opportunities. UCF in the News Sea Turtle Nesting Season off to a Strong Start on Florida’s Atlantic Beaches Orlando Sentinel UCF Calls for More Research Spending, Faculty and Fundraising in Latest Strategic Plan Orlando Business Journal Where No Ice Was Seen Before: UCF Team Designs Lunar Satellite Tools to Hunt for Water Orlando Sentinel UCF, Orlando Health Testing Medical Technology That Could Help Detect Blood Clots Faster WOFL Fox 35 View All Stories about UCF Events at UCF May 31 Alcoholics Anonymous 7:00 pm - 8:00 pm Jun 1 Application Deadline: Peer Mentor for Summer Research Academy 12:00 am - 11:45 pm Jun 1 Application Deadline: Summer Research Academy 9:00 am - 10:00 pm View All Events Resources About UCF Today For the Media News Archive Pegasus Magazine Tell Us What You Think Suggest a Story University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida