Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Clinical Psychology (MA) Request Info Program at a Glance Program Master College(s) College of Sciences Department(s) Psychology In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $369.65 per credit hour $1,194.05 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. The Master of Arts Clinical Psychology Program is a terminal master's program offered at the UCF Sanford/Lake Mary Campus. The program consists of two tracks: Applied Pre-Licensure/Non-Thesis Track: The Master of Arts Clinical Psychology Program is a terminal master's program offered at the UCF Sanford/Lake Mary Campus. The Applied Pre-Licensure/Non-Thesis Track is designed for students interested in delivering clinical services in a variety of settings including community agencies and private practice. After completing the program and after two years of postgraduate supervised clinical experience, graduates are eligible to become Licensed Mental Health Counselors (LMHCs) in the state of Florida. Can you provide an overview of the Pre-licensure Track? This track has been offered for decades. As mentioned in our catalogue description, the primary goal of this track is to train students to become licensed, master’s-level clinicians. More specifically, graduates of this track are eligible to become Licensed Mental Health Counselors (LMHCs) in the State of Florida, and they will likely be eligible for master’s level licensure in most other states. This track includes a full course load (9-12 credits/per semester) for two years. Students in this track complete a practicum (10 hours/week in the first spring in the program) and internship (20 hours/week in the fall, spring, and summer semesters in the second year in the program). A majority of the graduates of this program enter clinical practice and obtain licensure at the master’s level. We usually admit 15 to 16 students into this track each fall term. How do I get licensed? Students in the applied/prelicensure track meet the eligibility criteria for licensure as a Licensed Mental Health Counselor (LMHC) in the State of Florida. Please note that more details about eligibility criteria can be found on the Florida Department of Health website. In addition, our students are also eligible for similar licensure in most other states; however, we are unable to confirm the licensure and certification requirements of other states. Consequently, if you intend to pursue such credentialing outside of Florida, we advise you to contact the applicable state credentialing authority to familiarize yourself with its specific requirements and determine if our program meets its eligibility criteria. Can I get into a doctoral program if I complete the pre-licensure track? Yes! As mentioned above, most students in the pre-licensure track practice at the master’s level upon graduation. Having said that, each year we have a number of graduating students who apply to and get into Ph.D. or Psy.D. programs (usually around 2-4 students out a cohort of 15-16 students). Engagement in research may increase students’ competitiveness when applying to doctoral programs. Can I do research if I am in the pre-licensure track? Yes. Research is not required as part of this track; however, students in the pre-licensure track are often engaged in collaborative research with faculty. It is common for students in this track to present research at scientific conferences, and some of these students become coauthors of peer-reviewed publications in scientific journals. Research/Thesis Track: The Master of Arts Clinical Psychology Program is a terminal master's program offered at the UCF Sanford/Lake Mary Campus. The Research/Thesis Track is designed for students who wish to focus on clinical research and/or are interested in pursuing entry into a doctoral program following the completion of their Master's degree. Students who complete this option are not eligible to become Licensed Mental Health Counselors upon graduation. Can you provide an overview of the research/thesis Track? The faculty developed this track for students who are interested in focusing on research and/or are interested in gaining entry into a research-focused doctoral program. This track is a great fit for students who are not particularly interested in clinical practice at the master’s level upon graduation. In addition to an empirical thesis, we encourage students in this track to engage in other research projects. Students in the thesis track have a reduced course load relative to the prelicensure track, which allows more time for engagement in research. The tradeoff is that students in this track will not be eligible for licensure at the mater’s level when they graduate. We anticipate admitting no more than 5 to 6 students into the thesis track this year. Is it possible to get clinical experience in the research/thesis track? Yes. It is possible for students in the research/thesis track to chose to do a practicum. This experience would be approximately 10 hours/week during one spring semester. Am I guaranteed admission into a Ph.D. program if I am in the research/thesis track? No. The program has the potential to increase a student’s competitiveness when applying to research-focused doctoral programs; however, we cannot guarantee admission into a doctoral program. Please visit the program's website for more information, including a list of program faculty members, and frequently asked questions (FAQs), including additional information about each track: https://sciences.ucf.edu/psychology/graduate/ma-clinical/. Please see the specific admission, application requirement, financial and contact information for the track in which you are interested. This program has potential ties to professional licensure or certification in the field. For more information on how this program may prepare you in that regard, please visit https://apq.ucf.edu/files/Licensure-Disclosure-COS-Clinical-Psychology-MA.pdf. Request Information View Full Description Program Tracks/Options Research/Thesis Applied Pre-Licensure/Non-Thesis Career Opportunities UCF prepares you for life beyond the classroom. Here, you’ll experience a wide range of opportunity, like learning diverse skills from world-renowned faculty to networking with top employers across Central Florida to gaining first-hand experience in internships nearby. Achieve your degree and more as a Knight. Applied Psychology Professor Child Development Professor Clinical Psychology Professor Educational Psychology Professor Human Relations Professor Industrial Psychology Professor Industrial/Organizational Psychology Professor Psychology Professor Degree Search College of Sciences programs Masters Clinical Psychology (MA) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management Request Information × Enter your information below to receive more information about the Clinical Psychology (MA) program offered at UCF. Loading... × The Master of Arts Clinical Psychology Program is a terminal master's program offered at the UCF Sanford/Lake Mary Campus. The program consists of two tracks: Applied Pre-Licensure/Non-Thesis Track: The Master of Arts Clinical Psychology Program is a terminal master's program offered at the UCF Sanford/Lake Mary Campus. The Applied Pre-Licensure/Non-Thesis Track is designed for students interested in delivering clinical services in a variety of settings including community agencies and private practice. After completing the program and after two years of postgraduate supervised clinical experience, graduates are eligible to become Licensed Mental Health Counselors (LMHCs) in the state of Florida. Can you provide an overview of the Pre-licensure Track? This track has been offered for decades. As mentioned in our catalogue description, the primary goal of this track is to train students to become licensed, master’s-level clinicians. More specifically, graduates of this track are eligible to become Licensed Mental Health Counselors (LMHCs) in the State of Florida, and they will likely be eligible for master’s level licensure in most other states. This track includes a full course load (9-12 credits/per semester) for two years. Students in this track complete a practicum (10 hours/week in the first spring in the program) and internship (20 hours/week in the fall, spring, and summer semesters in the second year in the program). A majority of the graduates of this program enter clinical practice and obtain licensure at the master’s level. We usually admit 15 to 16 students into this track each fall term. How do I get licensed? Students in the applied/prelicensure track meet the eligibility criteria for licensure as a Licensed Mental Health Counselor (LMHC) in the State of Florida. Please note that more details about eligibility criteria can be found on the Florida Department of Health website. In addition, our students are also eligible for similar licensure in most other states; however, we are unable to confirm the licensure and certification requirements of other states. Consequently, if you intend to pursue such credentialing outside of Florida, we advise you to contact the applicable state credentialing authority to familiarize yourself with its specific requirements and determine if our program meets its eligibility criteria. Can I get into a doctoral program if I complete the pre-licensure track? Yes! As mentioned above, most students in the pre-licensure track practice at the master’s level upon graduation. Having said that, each year we have a number of graduating students who apply to and get into Ph.D. or Psy.D. programs (usually around 2-4 students out a cohort of 15-16 students). Engagement in research may increase students’ competitiveness when applying to doctoral programs. Can I do research if I am in the pre-licensure track? Yes. Research is not required as part of this track; however, students in the pre-licensure track are often engaged in collaborative research with faculty. It is common for students in this track to present research at scientific conferences, and some of these students become coauthors of peer-reviewed publications in scientific journals. Research/Thesis Track: The Master of Arts Clinical Psychology Program is a terminal master's program offered at the UCF Sanford/Lake Mary Campus. The Research/Thesis Track is designed for students who wish to focus on clinical research and/or are interested in pursuing entry into a doctoral program following the completion of their Master's degree. Students who complete this option are not eligible to become Licensed Mental Health Counselors upon graduation. Can you provide an overview of the research/thesis Track? The faculty developed this track for students who are interested in focusing on research and/or are interested in gaining entry into a research-focused doctoral program. This track is a great fit for students who are not particularly interested in clinical practice at the master’s level upon graduation. In addition to an empirical thesis, we encourage students in this track to engage in other research projects. Students in the thesis track have a reduced course load relative to the prelicensure track, which allows more time for engagement in research. The tradeoff is that students in this track will not be eligible for licensure at the mater’s level when they graduate. We anticipate admitting no more than 5 to 6 students into the thesis track this year. Is it possible to get clinical experience in the research/thesis track? Yes. It is possible for students in the research/thesis track to chose to do a practicum. This experience would be approximately 10 hours/week during one spring semester. Am I guaranteed admission into a Ph.D. program if I am in the research/thesis track? No. The program has the potential to increase a student’s competitiveness when applying to research-focused doctoral programs; however, we cannot guarantee admission into a doctoral program. Please visit the program's website for more information, including a list of program faculty members, and frequently asked questions (FAQs), including additional information about each track: https://sciences.ucf.edu/psychology/graduate/ma-clinical/. Please see the specific admission, application requirement, financial and contact information for the track in which you are interested. This program has potential ties to professional licensure or certification in the field. For more information on how this program may prepare you in that regard, please visit https://apq.ucf.edu/files/Licensure-Disclosure-COS-Clinical-Psychology-MA.pdf. At times, we have prospects who are uncertain as to which is the best track for them: Pre-Licensure or Research Thesis Track. The following information is to help you make a best decision related to your academic and professional aspirations. Pre-licensure Track Can you provide an overview of the Pre-licensure Track? This track has been offered for decades. As mentioned in our catalogue description, the primary goal of this track is to train students to become licensed, master’s-level clinicians. More specifically, graduates of this track are eligible to become Licensed Mental Health Counselors (LMHCs) in the State of Florida, and they will likely be eligible for master’s level licensure in most other states. This track includes a full course load (9-12 credits/per semester) for two years. Students in this track complete a practicum (10 hours/week in the first spring in the program) and internship (20 hours/week in the fall, spring, and summer semesters in the second year in the program). A majority of the graduates of this program enter clinical practice and obtain licensure at the master’s level. We usually admit 15 to 16 students into this track each fall term. How do I get licensed? Students in the applied/prelicensure track meet the eligibility criteria for licensure as a Licensed Mental Health Counselor (LMHC) in the State of Florida. Please note that more details about eligibility criteria can be found on the Florida Department of Health website. In addition, our students are also eligible for similar licensure in most other states; however, we are unable to confirm the licensure and certification requirements of other states. Consequently, if you intend to pursue such credentialing outside of Florida, we advise you to contact the applicable state credentialing authority to familiarize yourself with its specific requirements and determine if our program meets its eligibility criteria. Can I get into a doctoral program if I complete the pre-licensure track? Yes! As mentioned above, most students in the pre-licensure track practice at the master’s level upon graduation. Having said that, each year we have a number of graduating students who apply to and get into Ph.D. or Psy.D. programs (usually around 2-4 students out a cohort of 15-16 students). Engagement in research may increase students’ competitiveness when applying to doctoral programs. Can I do research if I am in the pre-licensure track? Yes. Research is not required as part of this track; however, students in the pre-licensure track are often engaged in collaborative research with faculty. It is common for students in this track to present research at scientific conferences, and some of these students become coauthors of peer-reviewed publications in scientific journals. Research/Thesis Track Can you provide an overview of the research/thesis Track? The faculty developed this track for students who are interested in focusing on research and/or are interested in gaining entry into a research-focused doctoral program. This track is a great fit for students who are not particularly interested in clinical practice at the master’s level upon graduation. In addition to an empirical thesis, we encourage students in this track to engage in other research projects. Students in the thesis track have a reduced course load relative to the prelicensure track, which allows more time for engagement in research. The tradeoff is that students in this track will not be eligible for licensure at the mater’s level when they graduate. We anticipate admitting no more than 5 to 6 students into the thesis track this year. Is it possible to get clinical experience in the research/thesis track? Yes. It is possible for students in the research/thesis track to chose to do a practicum. This experience would be approximately 10 hours/week during one spring semester. Am I guaranteed admission into a Ph.D. program if I am in the research/thesis track? No. The program has the potential to increase a student’s competitiveness when applying to research-focused doctoral programs; however, we cannot guarantee admission into a doctoral program. University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida