Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Forward Arrow Undergraduate Admissions Cost and Aid Admissions Statistics Virtual Engagement Opportunities Contact Undergraduate Admissions Back Arrow Back Graduate School Admissions Visit Forward Arrow Visit Choose Your Tour Visitor Parking and Accommodations Things To Do in Clemson Back Arrow Back Applying to Clemson Forward Arrow Applying to Clemson First-Year Application Process Transfer Application Process International Application Process Counselor Information Veterans Back Arrow Back Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close Admissions Undergraduate Admissions show submenu for Undergraduate Admissions Cost and Aid Admissions Statistics Virtual Engagement Opportunities Contact Undergraduate Admissions Graduate School Admissions Visit show submenu for Visit Choose Your Tour Visitor Parking and Accommodations Things To Do in Clemson Applying to Clemson show submenu for Applying to Clemson First-Year Application Process Transfer Application Process International Application Process Counselor Information Veterans Clemson Home Admissions Applying to Clemson Current: Self-Reported Academic Record Self-Reported Academic Record (SRAR) at Clemson Clemson University requires first-year applicants to self-report their high school transcripts. Students who are admitted to Clemson will be required to send official transcripts prior to enrollment. If you need troubleshooting assistance while completing the SRAR, please contact SRAR Technical Support. What is the Self-Reported Academic Record? The Self-Reported Academic Record (SRAR) is an applicant-completed list of courses and corresponding grades that replaces the high school transcripts used by the Office of Admissions during the application review process. While official copies of transcripts are no longer required during the admissions review process, the SRAR must be completed before a student’s application is reviewed. Who is required to complete the Self-Reported Academic Record at Clemson? All first-year applicants (students who are currently enrolled in high school or have not enrolled in or earned credit at another college or university following high school graduation) are required to complete the SRAR. Students will enter their courses, grades and class rank (if provided on transcript) in the SRAR. Accuracy is critical, so we strongly encourage you to have a copy of your high school transcript available when you complete the SRAR. Home-educated/home-schooled students who have followed an academic curriculum designed after the U.S. system will need to complete the SRAR. If your academic curriculum does not follow the U.S. system, please email us for assistance at apply@admission.clemson.edu. If you have completed a GED, please complete the SRAR, and upload an unofficial copy of your GED certificate in either your Applicant Portal or the SRAR portal. Transfer applicants (students who have attended a regionally accredited college after high school graduation) should not complete the SRAR and must submit final official transcripts from each college previously attended. When do I complete my Self-Reported Academic Record? The Clemson University SRAR is separate from the admissions application and can only be accessed through your Applicant Portal after you have submitted your application. Your application will not be reviewed until your SRAR has been received. December 31 is the deadline for test scores (optional for 2022-2023) and SRARs to be complete for priority consideration for admission and academic scholarships. Once your SRAR is submitted to Clemson, it should show up on your record within 1-2 business days. How do I fill out the Self-Reported Academic Record for Clemson? Log into your Applicant Portal. After submitting your application, log into your Applicant Portal to find the link to the SRAR system. There will be a seamless log-in process between the two systems. If you have already completed a SRAR for another institution, you can select to submit that information to Clemson in the SRAR system. Locate your school in the SRAR system. The SRAR high school name list comes from the College Board. If your school does not immediately appear in the list, use variants of your official school name in the search bar. If you can’t find your high school, please contact the Office of Undergraduate Admissions at apply@admission.clemson.edu or 864-656-2287. Define your school’s grading scale. It is important to enter your grades exactly as they appear on your transcript. If your school uses plusses and minuses, identify the “Grading Scale” section of the SRAR and check the box indicating that your school uses plusses and minuses. You will then see these options when entering grades. Weighted Grades For weighted grades, you will use the course level field on the SRAR to indicate the type of course (honors, AP, dual enrollment, etc.) Only enter college coursework on your SRAR if you participated in dual enrollment, early college high school or attained specific approval from your high school to take college courses for high school credit. Enter your courses and grades exactly as they appear on your high school transcript. SRAR Grade Entry Tips If you have taken high school credit courses prior to ninth grade, indicate those courses in the middle school section. You do not need to include the name of your middle or junior high school. Enter your final grades for all courses completed in grades nine through 11. Choose "In Progress" for 12th-grade courses you have not yet completed. If you have received final grades for 12th-grade courses, please enter the grades received. When entering course credit values, enter the value exactly as it appears on your high school transcript. If the default credit value differs from what appears on your transcript, change it to reflect what is on your high school transcript. Do not add + or – to your grade if it does not appear on your transcript. Reflect the weight of your grades only by designating courses as honors, AP or dual enrollment when applicable. Do not change the format of your grades (such as converting numbers to letters). Do not round your grades or use averages. If your school gives final grades at the end of each year, then enter that grade. If your school gives final grades each term or semester, list each course with its final grade by term or semester. List the same course twice if you repeated it in a different term. If your ninth grade year was part of your middle school/junior high, enter those courses under your high school record. If you do not see your exact course name on the drop-down list, type it in exactly as it appears on your transcript. List all grades, even for courses that you failed or repeated. If you withdrew from a class before receiving a grade, list the course and record the grade as withdrawn. Please do the same for Pass/Fail courses. Enter courses from every high school you attended. If you went to more than one high school, please begin with the transcript from the school where you will graduate. If courses from any of your previous schools show with grades and credits on this transcript, enter them all under that one school. If your previous courses/grades are not listed on your current transcript, you will need to get a copy of your previous transcript and enter that school separately on the SRAR. Edit your SRAR as needed You can pause your work on the SRAR and return to it later by selecting “Save” or “Save Course” (if prompted) before leaving the screen or logging out. If you need to fix a mistake or update your SRAR after submitting it, contact us at apply@admission.clemson.edu or 864-656-2287. Transcript Considerations You are not required to submit an unofficial transcript unless you are applying to the Clemson University Honors College. Honors College applicants are required to complete the SRAR and upload an unofficial copy of their transcript. All applicants have the option to upload an unofficial transcript in addition to completing the SRAR, but it is not required. If you are admitted to Clemson and choose to enroll, you will be required to submit a final official high school and college dual-enrollment transcript (if applicable) to verify the grades entered on your SRAR. The SRAR and your college applications All first-year applicants are required to complete the SRAR, regardless of application platform. You do not have to fill out the coursework section of the Coalition application as a requirement for Clemson University. The coursework section of the Common App is part of the Common App profile and is therefore required for all schools that you apply to through the Common App. Students who apply through the Common App will have to fill out the coursework section to submit the Common App and will also have to complete the SRAR to have a complete application file for Clemson. Self-Reported Academic Record (SRAR) at Clemson What is the Self-Reported Academic Record? Who is required to complete the Self-Reported Academic Record at Clemson? When do I complete my Self-Reported Academic Record? How do I fill out the Self-Reported Academic Record for Clemson? Log into your Applicant Portal Locate your school in the SRAR system Define your school’s grading scale Enter your courses and grades Enter courses from every high school you attended. Edit your SRAR as needed Transcript Considerations The SRAR and your college applications Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson