Powercat chevron double-chevron chat-purple home computer window with a question mark close facebook linkedin menu search twitter youtube apply-purple apply-white chat-white request-purple request-white Jump to HeaderJump to Main ContentJump to Footer Kansas State University Connect Canvas OrgCentral Navigate KSIS HRIS Webmail Sign in Browse A-Z Academics Search Search Interest Areas Our majors and degree programs are unique pathways to hundreds of career options that can be tailored to your individual goals. No matter what you’re interested in, you will have a clear map of common pathways between majors, knowledge areas and skill sets that will prepare you for your dream career. Find your passion. Unleash your curiosity. Whatever path you choose, we are committed to helping you find your passion and empowering your success. Choose an interest area below to see what majors and careers may be the right fit for you! Agriculture, food, and natural resources ﻿ Agriculture, veterinary services, agribusiness, food science, wildlife conservation and more. Architecture, art, and design ﻿ Architecture, architectural engineering, fine arts, graphic design, art history, interior design and more. Aviation ﻿ Aviation maintenance, professional pilot, aviation, unmanned aircraft systems and more. Business ﻿ Accounting, economics, marketing, human resources, training and development, management and more. Communication, media, and marketing ﻿ Journalism, broadcasting, advertising, public relations, social media, technical writing, radio and more. Computer science and information technology ﻿ Software development, web administration, computer systems analysis, network administration, web development and more. Education and leadership ﻿ Teaching, school administration, special education, higher education administration, curriculum development, advising and more. Engineering and construction ﻿ Engineering, construction management, environmental planning, surveying, architecture, community planning and more. Government, law, and social sciences ﻿ Politics, law/legal services, history, economics, public speaking, social work, law enforcement, counseling services, security and more. Health professions ﻿ Healthcare, dietetics, hospital administration, personal training, optometry, veterinary services, medical laboratory services, research and more. Hospitality and tourism ﻿ Event planning, hotel management, tourism, food safety, culinary arts, travel planning and more. Human and social services ﻿ School counseling, social work, student affairs, personal training, mental health services, financial planning, dietetics and more. Humanities, culture, and society ﻿ Teaching, journalism, technical writing, archiving, library science, museum curation, government administration, public relations, law and more. Science and mathematics ﻿ Biotechnology, genetics, healthcare, teaching, economics, physics, research and development, statistics, network systems, information technology and more. Veterinary medicine ﻿ Veterinary services, radiology, internal medicine, pathology, ophthalmology, anesthesiology, emergency veterinary services, teaching and more. Visual and performing arts ﻿ Design and animation, choreography, performing arts, music education, fashion design, dance, editing, music technology, cinematography, production and more. apply-white chat-white request-white How to Apply Request Info Visit Kansas State University Manhattan, KS 66506 785-532-6011 | k-state@k-state.edu Contact Us Emergency Statements and Disclosures Accessibility KBOR Free Expression Statement © Kansas State University Updated Updated: 9/1/21