Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site More Sites Main College College News About Us College Leadership Dean's Message Vision & Mission Strategic Plan College Services Contact Us Academics Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Departments and Programs Honors Programs Dual Degree Programs Cooper Fellows Student Awards and Accomplishments Research & Outreach Centers & Institutes Resources for Researchers Faculty Support Young Scholars Program Research News Resources Find your Advisor Student Life Parents Resources Faculty and Staff A&S Academic Continuity Plan News & Events Events & Calendar Social Media Directory A&S Magazine Faculty Awards and Fellowships New Faculty Give About Us Academics Research & Outreach Resources News & Events Give Search College Leadership Dean's Message Vision & Mission Strategic Plan College Services Contact Us About Us College Leadership Dean's Message Vision & Mission Strategic Plan College Services Contact Us Academics Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Departments and Programs Honors Programs Dual Degree Programs Cooper Fellows Student Awards and Accomplishments Research & Outreach Centers & Institutes Resources for Researchers Faculty Support Young Scholars Program Research News Resources Find your Advisor Student Life Parents Resources Faculty and Staff A&S Academic Continuity Plan News & Events Events & Calendar Social Media Directory A&S Magazine Faculty Awards and Fellowships New Faculty Give More Sites Main College College News College Leadership Dean's Message Vision & Mission Strategic Plan College Services Contact Us About Us Academics Research & Outreach Resources News & Events Giving Home About the College Message from the Dean AAA Message from the Dean College Leadership Dean's Message Vision & Mission Strategic Plan College Services Contact Us Fall, 2021 Dear A&S Faculty and Colleagues, Welcome to the start of the Fall 2021 semester. As COVID-19 continues to disturb our personal and professional lives, we have demonstrated our resiliency and strength during this past academic year. By adjusting to new methods of teaching, remaining dedicated to our students, and maintaining connection with staff, the College has showcased its ability to adapt and transform in times of great disruption. As we start the new semester, we feel a familiar buzz of activity as we welcome students, faculty and staff to campus. In doing so, it is vital that we keep the UM community healthy and safe. We must all continue to work together and follow the University’s COVID-19 guidelines. I am pleased to welcome new leadership in the Dean’s Office. Professor Caleb Everett is serving as Sr. Associate Dean for Academic Affairs. Professor Jennifer Ferriss-Hill is now the Sr. Associate Dean for Faculty Affairs and College Diversity. Professor Kenneth Voss will continue his role as Senior Associate Dean for Research and Graduate Education. Professor Maria Galli Stampino has been selected by the Provost’s Office to become the Dean of Undergraduate Affairs. Please join me in welcoming and thanking them for accepting these new challenges. We are also pleased to welcome twenty-six new faculty, including lecturers and visiting faculty, to the College this year. In addition, almost 1,000 incoming first-year students have become part of the College family. This group of undergraduates – the most selective in our institution’s history – will add to our vibrant student body. We are proud of them and of our new faculty, and we look forward to seeing their contributions to our teaching and learning and to our research and scholarship. We are excited to see the new perspectives they will offer to our academic community. The College’s commitment to teaching, research, and service reaches beyond the campus gate. Together, we are poised to better understand the human condition, solve contemporary challenges, and prepare tomorrow’s leaders. Looking back at the difficulties we have faced collectively, and continue to meet in the coming months, I remain confident for a brighter future ahead. As always, I look forward to sharing a successful year with all of you. Leonidas Bachas University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 College of Arts and Sciences 1252 Memorial Drive Ashe Building - Rm # 227 Coral Gables, FL 33146 305- 284-4117 305- 284-4117 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard WebMail Leave Feedback UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Library Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Contact Us Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices