Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Financial Wellness Traditional Students Non-Traditional Students Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Financial Wellness PreviousNext Take Action Transit @Work Home Financial Wellness Financial Wellness The University of Memphis is pleased to provide access to two courses offered through EverFi. These courses are designed to enhance students financial knowledge and highlight financial behaviors. Traditional Students Where do you see yourself 10 years from now? If you are like most students, you hope to be settled into a career that is both personally and financially satisfying. Do you plan on owning a house? Or a car? Do you plan on taking your dream vacation? What about starting a college fund for your kids? Many of the decisions that you make now impact the answers to those questions. Graduating from college is an incredible accomplishment. Getting there and enjoying your post-graduate life becomes increasingly difficult if you are saddled with debt. Just as with your physical health, taking measures to ensure financial health is vital. No matter your current financial situation, making informed decisions about borrowing, budgeting, and saving now will help you long-term. Whether you need more information about student loans, creating a budget, using a credit card, or opening a savings account, we have tools to help you. You can access an online course that will help you develop the skills to manage your finances and plan for your future. Transit – Financial Wellness: A 1-2 hour course for undergraduate students Empowers students with the skills to successfully manage their finances while in school and beyond, and minimize dropout and student loan defaults through education. Transit equips learners with the knowledge and skills necessary for making responsible financial decisions. To register click on the link above and use registration code: 44000f42 Transit modules are designed to help students make more informed decisions on school expenses, personal expenses, and career/ post-graduation. Modules include: Back to School 2.0 Best Weekend Ever Balancing Act Pay Back Salary Split Best Life Ever Non-traditional Students Getting a degree is a great investment for your future and your family. Finishing school is probably one of many goals that you have set for yourself. Reaching those goals becomes more difficult for anyone feeling immense financial pressure. Figuring out how to pay for school when you have other obligations and responsibilities can be financially and emotionally stressful. Becoming more financially literate can help ease many of those stresses if you have a better understanding of your current financial situation and how to best tackle it. Improving your financial health or maintaining good financial health is critical to your short and long term success and stability. No matter your current financial situation, making more informed decisions about borrowing, budgeting, and saving will help you as you continue to build towards your future. If you are looking to learn the basics or are in need of a refresher, whether you are trying to manage debt or saving for a healthier financial future, we have tools to help you. You can access an online course to gain the skills and knowledge to successfully manage your finances while in school and beyond. EverFi@Work: A 1-2 hour course for adults Many adults feel stress about their finances—owning a home, saving too little, managing debt, funding education, or investing for their future. EverFi@Work helps alleviates this anxiety through a series of short ten-minute learning modules. @Work modules include: Savings & Investments Mortgages Payments & Credit Cards Overdraft Protection Credit Scores & Reports Insurance & Taxes Identity Protection Financing Higher Education Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 8/7/19 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.