Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Research at Brown Show/Hide Home Conducting Research at Brown Centers, Institutes and Libraries Undergraduate Research Assistance How Do I...? Setting Up an Award Negotiating and Accepting an Award All Sponsored awards received on behalf of Brown are reviewed by Pre-Award Grant & Contract Administrators at the Office of Sponsored Projects (OSP). Agreements are negotiated to permit flexible operation under the University’s regular policies and procedures, permit free publication of results, conform to principles of the University Patent and Copyright Policies, permit the University and Principal Investigator to exercise administrative, programmatic and scientific control and responsibility for performance of the activity, and reimburse the University for both direct and facilities & administrative costs of research. Sub-Awards When a new award with subaward(s) is made to Brown, the OSP Grant & Contract Administrator will confirm with the Principal Investigator (PI)/Department Administrator (DA) how the subaward(s) should be issued. The email will also request a Subaward Order Form for each subcontract along with revised budget and SOW as necessary. Once all of the necessary documents are received the subaward(s) information is passed onto the Post-Award Grant/Contract Accountant to create a child account for each subaward internally in Brown’s systems. The Pre-Award Grant & Contract Administrators will then create and, if necessary, negotiate the subaward agreement. Once the terms are agreed upon and the partially executed agreement is received the Grant & Contract Administrator will finalize and issue the subaward sending a receipt of this action to the PI and Department Administrator. For a more comprehensive overview of the subaward process can be found on the Subaward Lifecycle webpage. Award Set Up Pre-Award Staff ensure all the necessary approvals are in place prior to handing the award documentation to Post-Award for setup. Example of approvals needed before an award is setup include, but are not limited to, conflict of interest training, the absence of a Significant Financial Interest (SFI) or an established SFI management plan, IRB approval, IACUC approval, etc. Within twenty-four hours of receiving the award from Pre-Award Staff the Post-Award Contract/Grant Accountant will review the award and enter the award information into Coeus. The information entered into Coeus is integrated into Workday overnight. The award is reviewed in Workday for accuracy with the Coeus record; invoicing and budget(s) are added to Workday. An email notification, including a copy of the Notice of Award, is sent to the Investigator and Department Administrator informing them of the setup and asking for review of the record. For additional assistance, please click here to determine your Pre-Award and/or your Post-Award contact. Notice of Grant Award (NOA) A notice of grant award, NGA, NOA or NOGA, is an award notification from a sponsor. Typically, it contains information about the amount of funds obligated, the time period for performance, and the scope of work. In addition, the notice provides information about the terms and conditions associated with the award. If a Principal Investigator receives an NOA directly, he or she should forward it to the Office of Sponsored Projects for review, negotiation, acceptance, and award setup. See NOA examples listed below: Reading a National Institute of Health (NIH) Notice of Award Reading a National Science Foundation (NSF) Notice of Award Forms University Prior Approval System Form (UPAS) Fabricated Equipment Account Request Subrecipient Profile Questionnaire Subaward Order Form Policies Fabricated Equipment Instructions for Accessing the Basic CITI Program OSP Operating Procedure: ADVANCE ACCOUNT REQUEST Conducting Research at Brown Finding Funding Research Strategy and Development (ORSD) Preparing and Submitting a Proposal Managing an Award Setting Up an Award Fabricated Equipment OSP Operating Procedure: ADVANCE ACCOUNT REQUEST Award Management Closing Out an Award Sponsored Projects (OSP) Research Compliance (IRB, IACUC, COI, Export Control, Research Data Management and Data Use Agreements) Brown Technology Innovations Research Administration Information Systems (RAIS) Research Management Support (RMS) Research Agreements and Contracting International Research & Activities Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR) How Do I...? 2022 Research Achievement Award Winners About the Office Newsletter Forms and Policies Training and Outreach Graduate Student Resources Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Office of the Vice President for Research 350 Eddy Street | Brown University | Box 1937 | Providence, RI 02912 Vice President for Research 401-863-7408 [email protected] Research Strategy and Development 401-863-7999 [email protected] Brown Technology Innovations 401-863-7499 [email protected] Office of Sponsored Projects 401-863-2777 [email protected] Research Administration and Information Systems 401-863-2777 [email protected] Office of Research Integrity 401-863-3050 [email protected] @brownuresearch Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat