Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Emerging Infectious Disease Scholars (EIDS) Program Home For Students COVID-19 | EIDS EID in the News COVID-19 | CDC Seasonal Flu | CDC People Site Navigation Home For Students COVID-19 | EIDS EID in the News COVID-19 | CDC Seasonal Flu | CDC People Wood tick, a common vector for zoonotic diseases. Image: Mike Savaria About Us Emerging infectious diseases are a growing threat and present major challenges to communities worldwide. The Emerging Infectious Disease Scholars (EIDS) program of Brown University recognizes the specialized research and educational needs that are essential to nurture future healthcare providers so they are well equipped to prevent and manage epidemics. The EIDS program is designed to inspire, train, support, and retain students as a community of scholars to become leaders in research and treatment of emerging infectious diseases. Emerging Infectious Disease Scholars participate in a clinical research project guided by a primary mentor. Scholars participate in journal clubs and research seminars with faculty guidance and peer support, as they develop, implement, and publish their research projects. The EIDS program invites guest speakers, offers field trips, and facilitates networking events to build outreach opportunities for scholars. Scholar Track- Potential research stipends are provided to carry out an infectious disease focused mentored research project usually carried out over the summer. For most students stipends are set at $3750. For PCPM students, research stipend costs can be covered by EIDS. Please note for all students, only one research stipend can be awarded at a time. EIDS support can not be combined with other internal Brown research funding (UTRA, SC, SRA, PCPM) Fellowship Track- A limited number of longer-term opportunities to pursue more in-depth research projects are available, with up to one year of support. Eligibility: EIDS is open to AMS medical students, including PCPM, SPH graduate students, PLME students, and 5-year MPH students. Limited slots are available for undergraduate students (concentrators within the Program in Biology or SPH) with a strong interest in infectious diseases. The EIDS program is grant funded through the National Institutes of Health: National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Disease (R25AI140490). Contact For more information about the Emerging Infectious Disease Scholars program or if thinking about applying, please email [email protected]. To apply, all interested students must submit a completed application, letter of support, along with proper CITI certification and IRB documentation, to be reviewed for considerations by the EIDS Executive Committee. Download our latest info pamphlet EIDS Events There are no upcoming events. The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Brown University Providence, RI 02912 Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top