Menu Close Menu Skip to content Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters A to Z index Search for: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Email People Departments Calendar Careers my.harvard Giving About Faculty & Research Admissions & Aid Academics Executive/Continuing Ed News Office of Faculty Affairs Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health > Office of Faculty Affairs > Postdoctoral Research Fellows Office of Faculty Affairs Menu Search for: Welcome Events Faculty Info Information for New Faculty COVID-related Resources for Faculty University and School Benefits for Faculty Faculty Directory Catalyst Faculty Profiles Faculty Appointments (Green Book) Faculty Mentoring Guidelines Sabbaticals, Leaves of Absence, and Clock Extensions Tenured Faculty Sabbatical Unpaid Leave of Absence Paid Parental Leave / Tenure Clock Extension to Meet Child Care Needs Paid Medical Leave for Full-Time Faculty Faculty Retirement Faculty Policies and Procedures (non-Green Book) Harvard Chan CV Template External Academic Activities Policies on Conflicts of Interest and Commitment Times When Faculty Must Be Present Faculty Conduct Grievance Procedures Faculty Meetings and Selected Faculty Committees Research Scientists Titles and Appointment Procedures Research Scientist Titles and Descriptions First Appointment as Research Scientist Reappointing Research Scientists Promotions in Research Scientist Track Research Scientist Review Committee Harvard T.H. Chan School Research Scientist Association (HCRSA) Research Scientist Association Council (2021-22) Newsletters HRCSA Events Awards RSA/PDA Mentorship Program Promoting Diversity Skills Sharing Platform Benefits, Facilities, and Services Paid Time Off for Research Scientists Leave Policies for Non-Faculty Academic Appointees Harvard T.H. Chan School and Harvard Facilities Guidelines for Research Scientists PI Eligibility for Research Scientists For Administrators Postdoctoral Fellows New Postdocs Postdoc and Research Associate Orientation Information Business Cards and Web Pages Benefits Health Insurance Policy Paid Time Off Child Care Leave Policy Stipendee Taxes Salary Guidelines Responsibilities and Guidelines Initial Career Development Plan and Annual Review Process Mental Health and Support Resources Career Resources Workshops and Courses Postdoc Funding Tool-Kit Harvard T.H. Chan School Postdoctoral Association (PDA) Postdoc Advisory Committee For Administrators Yerby Fellows Program Annual Appointees Titles and Appointment Procedures Annual Appointment Titles and Descriptions Annual Affiliate Appointments Annual Appointment Dates Documentation Needed for Annual Appointments, Promotions, and Reappointments Salary and Extra Compensation Time Needed to Process Appointments Terminating Annual Appointments Benefits, Facilities, and Services Postdoc and Research Associate Orientation Information Annual Appointment Benefits Paid Time Off for Annual Appointees Leave Policies for Non-Faculty Academic Appointees Harvard T.H. Chan School and Harvard Facilities Guidelines and Policies for Annual Appointees For Administrators Policies and Guidelines Pertaining to All Academic Appointees Sexual and Gender-Based Harassment (Title IX) Policies and Procedures Financial Conflicts of Interest (fCOI) and Outside Activities & Interests Reporting (OAIR) Parental Leave Policies Forms and Templates Appointment Processing/WASABI for Administrators OFA Contact Information Postdoctoral Research Fellows Welcome, Postdoctoral Fellows! The Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health welcomes you to our community. We appreciate the indispensable role our postdoctoral fellows play in advancing the work of this institution and of public health in general. We hope you will flourish here and hone those skills that will enable you to become accomplished independent researchers. We wish you great success during your time here. This website provides information for prospective and current Harvard Chan School postdoctoral fellows, and lists resources on a wide range of topics of interest to postdocs. As a new annual appointee at the Harvard Chan School, you will be asked to process a lot of information from many sources. This checklist serves as a general guide to all of the tasks that may need to be completed to help you get off to a successful start. To access the checklist, please click HERE. Your appointing department/division administrator may have more specific instructions which you should follow. Some items on this list will not apply to everyone. You are encouraged to participate in the school’s Postdoctoral Association (PDA), which was founded by Harvard Chan School postdocs in 2007. The PDA organizes social events and workshops for postdocs, and works to enhance the postdoc network and overall postdoc experience at the School. Prospective and current postdoctoral fellows may contact the Office of Faculty Affairs at 617-432-1047 or facultyaffairs@hsph.harvard.edu for more information. Photos by Aubrey LaMedica (left) & Emily Cuccarese (right) Share this:FacebookTwitterLinkedInReddit News from the School Congratulations graduates! Probing disease disparities Saving a daughter, starting a career Tackling disparities and stigma around obesity, mental health Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters About Key Facts Renaming the School Office of the Dean Location and Facilities Administrative Offices Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty and Researcher Directory Academic Departments, Divisions and Centers International Research Postdoctoral Research Fellows Office of Faculty Affairs Faculty Searches Office of Diversity and Inclusion Admissions & Aid Why Harvard Chan Degree Programs Non-Degree Programs Financial Aid Student Experience Career Advancement Apply Academics Academic Departments Divisions Research Centers Flagship Initiatives International Research Research Administration and Support Degree Programs Fellowships and Residencies Summer Programs Continuing Professional Education Interdisciplinary Concentrations Academic Calendar Harvard Chan Viewbook Executive/Continuing Ed Program Offerings Custom Programs Request Information News and Resources About ECPE Contact News Featured News Press Releases Student Stories In the News Newsletters HPH Magazine Why Public Health? Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Loading Comments... Write a Comment... Email (Required) Name (Required) Website