Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Accessibility Network Accessibility Network right arrow down arrow Getting Started right arrow down arrow About us Accessibility Commitment and Policy EIT Accessibility Plan FAQ's Accessibility 101 right arrow down arrow Accessibility Definitions Documents right arrow down arrow Microsoft Excel Accessibility right arrow down arrow Guides Checklist Tutorials Microsoft PowerPoint right arrow down arrow Checklist Tutorials Microsoft Word right arrow down arrow Guides Checklist Tutorials PDF Documents right arrow down arrow Guides Checklist Tutorials Websites right arrow down arrow Headers Links Alt Text Color and Contrast Tables Forms Checklists Video & Media right arrow down arrow Ordering & Editing Auto Captions Ordering Professional Captions YouTube Studio Captioning Checklist Purchasing right arrow down arrow Procurement Policy Accessibility Review VPAT Software and Applications Checklist Canvas right arrow down arrow Ally for Canvas Course Syllabus Create an Accessible Canvas Course Checklist Training right arrow down arrow Digital Inclusion Day right arrow down arrow Call for Proposals Schedule of Events Registration Accessibility Compliance Training right arrow down arrow Request Enrollment - Accessibility Compliance Training Home » About UC » Electronic Accessibility » Video & Media » Ordering & Editing Auto Captions Set Navigation title in component Ordering & Editing Auto Captions Ordering Professional Captions YouTube Studio Captioning Checklist Ordering & Editing Auto Captions for Kaltura Videos This guide describes how to order and edit automatic captions for video content created or stored in Kaltura. Please note that the quality of automatic captions varies and will not meet the 99%+ accuracy threshold to be considered accessible. You should always review automatic captions and edit any parts that have not been properly transcribed. Do not use automatic captions for accommodations. Ordering Auto Captions Login and go to My Media My Media can be accessed through UC’s main MediaSpace site, Blackboard, or Canvas. In UC MediaSpace, login, and choose My Media from the options dropdown menu. In Blackboard, login, and under Tools, select My Media. In Canvas, login, go into a course or sandbox, and then select My Media from the navigation menu. Open your video in playback view In the My Media area, locate the video you want to caption. Click on either the thumbnail or the title of the video to open it in playback view. Order captions Scroll down to the Actions dropdown menu and choose Order Captions. IMPORTANT: If you are given a Fidelity option, choose “Mechanical (70-80% accuracy).” Click on the Order Captions button. Automatic captions are ordered and will be automatically returned to your video in Kaltura when they are complete. Check your video for captions It’s remotely possible that automatic captions could take up to seven days to be returned. Typically, automatic captions are returned within minutes. To check your video for captions, return to My Media, locate the video that you requested captions for, and click on the thumbnail or title of the video to open it in playback view. Scroll down to the Actions dropdown menu and choose Caption Requests. Scroll down and you will see the details and status of your request. If the status is “COMPLETE” captions are ready. If you have questions please contact your local instructional designer or technology support or Katheryn Lane in Accessibility Resources. Editing Automatic Captions Automatic captions that are ordered within the My Media area of UC MediaSpace, Blackboard, or Canvas can be edited with Cielo24’s Customer Edit tool. This free tool allows you to edit your captions and timestamps and add speaker identification and sound tags, if needed. To get started When automatic captions are ready, return to My Media, locate the video that you requested captions for, click on the thumbnail or title of the video to open it in playback view. Scroll down to the Actions dropdown menu and choose Caption Requests. If captions are complete, you will see an Edit button beneath the status of the video. Click on the Edit button to open Cielo24’s Customer Edit tool in a new tab. Edit captions Beneath the video player is an editing pane where you will edit your captions. If the video is playing, it will auto-pause any time you click or type into the editing pane and resume automatically a second or two after you stop typing. You can also start and pause video play using the player controls. Under the editing pane is a Save button to frequently save your current work and an Approve button to save and publish the changes back to your source video in Kaltura. Adjust timestamps It is necessary to check the timing of your captions to ensure they are synced with the audio as closely as possible. From the options dropdown menu, near the top left, choose Timestamps to see the start time and end time of each caption. As you listen along with the captions, click into start and end time fields to make timing adjustments. Add speaker identification, if needed It is important to add speaker identification if there are multiple speakers and it is unclear from the captions who is speaking. Adding speaking identification is a two-step process. Step One: Add speaker names Click on the Speakers tab, near the top right, and choose Add New Speaker. Identify the speaker using the same information a hearing viewer has. Enter the speaker’s name if known, or a general term such as “female #1” or “male narrator,” if unknown. Choose gender if known. Repeat to add additional speakers. Step Two: Choose speakers Click on the options dropdown menu, near the top left, and select Speaker IDs. Starting in the first sentence, click on the Choose Speaker button. Choose the speaker. You can change the speaker name in the succeeding sentences if needed. Add sound tags, if needed Meaningful sound effects should be described in brackets, such as [UPBEAT MUSIC] or [DOORBELL RINGING]. Sound tags can be entered manually, or using keyboard shortcuts. Choose the Help tab, near the top right in the Customer Edit window, to see a list of Sound Tag Shortcuts. Resources Cielo24 offers video tutorials detailing each feature of their Customer Edit tool The Described and Captioned Media Program (DCMP) provides guidelines for captioning best practices that are consistent with Federal Communications Commission (FCC) rules and WCAG 2.0 standards. Visit the DCMP’s Captioning Key or Captioning Tip Sheet for guidelines and best practices for captioning educational video. University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top