INDEX A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Contact Us Campus Organizations Accounting Office Staff COA P-Card Expenses Financial Management Forms Income Raffle / Events Registration Scholarship Trademark Info Travel Treasurer Resources Workday Resources Links ISU Confidential Hotline Controller's Department Controller's Department Website Search Welcome to Campus Organization Accounting! Please use this website as a resource for treasurers and advisors to find information on how they can successfully manage their organization's finances, create requests for payments and purchasing cards, and locate form or guide to help them get the job done! To the left there is information on our forms, guides for financial management, a library of the Workday resources we have created, and pages for other topics that may be needed by your organization's fiscal officers. Campus Organizations Accounting (COA) The Campus Organizations Accounting (COA) office is a unit within the Division of Student Affairs. COA specializes in oversight of agency funds which are spent primarily by the multiple student organizations at Iowa State University assisting in adherence to University, State and Federal policies. Our pride comes from assisting student fiscal officers through training and programs which allow student payment processing without utilization of private funds. COA also performs annual audits of the spending of Student Government allocations derived from student activity fees. Treasurer Training: The Campus Organizations Accounting Office is notified when treasurer positions change in the student organizations data base and new treasurers will be enrolled for Treasurer Training in Canvas. How to Contact Us Campus Organizations Accounting Office Iowa State University 1580J Memorial Union 2229 Lincoln Way Ames, IA 50014-1097 Phone: 515-294-1633 coa@iastate.edu Office Hours: 8:00 am to 5:00 pm during the academic year; 7:30 am to 4:00 pm during the summer and breaks. Jamie Emma Benjamin Thanks to everyone who participated in our office’s competitions this year! The staff at COA painted pumpkins in the fall and eggs in the spring- and got any and all visitors to our office to vote for their favorite so the winner could win bragging rights. Congratulations to Jamie and Emma for winning the most votes for their pumpkin and egg! We also thank you for participating in the voting for our newest staff member’s name- and are pleased to introduce Benjamin, “Sea”PA to the COA office! Campus Organizations Accounting Office, 515-294-1633, Copyright © 2006, Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. /HTML>