Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Mathematical Sciences About People Undergraduate Graduate Research News Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Research Applied Statistics Combinatorics Computational Analysis Differential Equations Ergodic Theory Functional Analysis Math Education Current Grants Take Action Student FAQ Cantor Sect Contact Us Home Math Sciences Research Institute of Combinatorics Institute of Combinatorics About the Institute of Combinatorics The combinatorics and graph theory group at the University of Memphis has been a unique, highly productive and active research unit since the early 1970s when the group began a collaborative relationship with Paul Erdős. This collaboration spanned two decades and resulted in the seminal members becoming some of his most frequent coauthors. The momentum continued with the establishment in 1995 of the Jabie Hardin Chair of Excellence in Graph Theory and Combinatorics, together with a rotating visiting senior faculty position. This has lead to an extremely effective group, both in research and in the mentoring of the next generation of students for academic and industry research opportunities in this dynamic field. The Institute of Combinatorics brings together faculty, visitors, postdocs, students, and staff to provide a world class research group in combinatorics and graph theory. Contact Information Tricia Simmons, Project Coordinator for Béla Bollobás, the Jabie Hardin Chair of Excellence in Combinatorics Email: tdsimmns@memphis.edu Phone: 901.678.5610 Fax: 901.678.4481 The Erdős Lecture Series The Erdős Lecture Series is a conference held almost every year at the University of Memphis in honor of the department's long relationship with Paul Erdős. Unfortunately, due to funding difficulties, the 2015 Erdős Lecture Series was cancelled. Links to posters and websites for previous conferences: 2019 Erdős Lecture Series Website 2014 Erdős Lecture Series Website 2012 Erdős Lecture Series Poster 2008 Erdős Lecture Series Poster 2007 Erdős Lecture Series Poster 2004 Erdős Lecture Series Poster 2003 Erdős Lecture Series Poster 2002 Erdős Lecture Series Poster 2001 Erdős Lecture Series Poster Research Focus The main areas of focus are extremal and probabilistic combinatorics, general graph theory, applications of linear algebra to graph theory, and additive number theory. Seminars The Institute of Combinatorics typically holds seminars on Fridays at 3pm. Members Paul Balister, Former Professor Research Interests: Probabilistic combinatorics, random geometric graphs Paul Balister, Béla Bollobás, Robert Morris. The sharp threshold for making squares. Annals of Math. 188 (2018), no. 1, 49–143. Paul Balister, Béla Bollobás, Robert Morris, Julian Sahasrabudhe, Marius Tiba. The Erdős–Selfridge problem with square-free moduli. Paul Balister, Béla Bollobás, Robert Morris, Julian Sahasrabudhe, Marius Tiba. Flat Littlewood Polynomials Exist. Béla Bollobás, Professor; Jabie Hardin Chair of Excellence in Combinatorics Research Interests: Probabilistic Combinatorics, Graph Theory, Functional analysis David Grynkiewicz, Associate Professor Research Interests: Additive number theory, Extremal combinatorics Iterated sumsets and setpartitions. To appear in Ramanujan J. Iterated sumsets and subsequence sums. J. Combin. Theory Ser. A 160 (2018), 136–167. Planar subsets with small doubling. Q. J. Math. 68 (2017), no. 1, 161–192. Chao Liu, Faudree Postdoc Research Interests: Combinatorial Number Theory, Additive Combinatorics Vladimir Nikiforov, Professor Research Interests: Extremal graph theory, applications of linear algebra to graph theory Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/15/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.