Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Communication Sciences and Disorders PhD You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Communication Sciences and Disorders PhD Apply Request More Info Communication Sciences and Disorders PhD Accreditation Admissions Curriculum Departmental Research Scholarships & Financial Aid Communication Sciences and Disorders PhD In the Communication Sciences and Disorders PhD program at Temple’s College of Public Health, students conduct original research; make valuable contributions to the field of communication sciences; and prepare for leadership in academic institutions, administration and clinical services. The program trains students to examine the processes and problems of adult and child language disorders, such as aphasia and childhood apraxia of speech. This small, tight-knit doctoral program offers students individualized attention and close collaboration with faculty members. You will be able to focus on your area of interest, from child language processing to the effects of brain damage, and work with professors in the field to shape your research experience. The department has a team of prestigious faculty members who are at the top of their disciplines—prospective students should know with whom they would like to study and the areas they want to explore. Our graduates most often continue on to positions in academia or research institutions. What sets apart our PhD in Communication Sciences and Disorders? Work with renowned faculty members: Our faculty are recognized experts in aphasia, apraxia, child language processes and problems, and effects of brain damage on language function, among other areas of research. Unique research opportunities: Research is a major component of the Communication Sciences and Disorders PhD, and students partner with faculty members in the department’s multiple labs and facilities. These include the Aphasia Rehabilitation Research Lab; the Cognitive Neurophysiology Lab; the Concepts & Cognition Lab; the Speech, Language and Brain Lab; and others. Interdisciplinary coursework: The program enables students to take elective coursework across the College of Public Health, including in disciplines such as biostatistics, social work and health policy. Students can also take courses across Temple University in psychology, education and other fields. Program Format The PhD is a full-time program that takes place on Temple’s Main Campus. Doctoral students are required to complete 45 credits in graduate coursework related to a defined area of specialization. For more information, view the program handbook (PDF). Specializations include the following areas. Bilingualism Child Language Processes and Problems Contextual Use of Language Effects of Brain Damage on Language Function First or Second Language-Learning Issues See a full list of program courses. Our Advisors The College of Public Health offers personalized advising services to students in each department. PhD candidates may seek academic and program support from their faculty advisors. Jodi Reich PhD Program Director Phone: 215-204-1821 Email: jodi.reich@temple.edu Funding for Doctoral Students The College of Public Health offers all PhD students a competitive level of support, including tuition, stipend and health insurance, for four years. Graduate assistantships sponsored by the College of Public Health are outlined below. Research assistants perform supervised research activities and work with faculty on grant proposals and ongoing research. Through these experiences, you will develop both research and grant writing competencies. Teaching assistants are assigned to assist in teaching courses, including grading exams and papers or teaching lab sections. Teaching assistants learn current pedagogies that prepare them for academic teaching. They can also receive certification in higher education teaching. Highly qualified candidates are nominated for university fellowships, and candidates from minority groups can be nominated for Temple’s Future Faculty Fellow program. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Doctor of Philosophy offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,020.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,398.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. HP-CSCD-PHD Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Communication Sciences and Disorders PhD Accreditation Admissions Curriculum Departmental Research Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info