Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Physics MS You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Physics MS Apply Request More Info Physics MS Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Science in Physics Gain a broad understanding of the foundational areas of physics, including analytical mechanics, electromagnetic theory and quantum mechanics, with the Master of Science in Physics from Temple’s College of Science and Technology. Located in the state-of-the-art Science Education and Research Center (SERC) on Temple’s Main Campus, the Physics MS offers a wide variety of research opportunities to graduate students in the fields of atomic, molecular and optical physics; condensed matter physics; statistical mechanics and theoretical and experimental elementary particle physics. Encouraging students to develop a solid research practice is a major component of the curriculum, and all graduate students perform significant research work under the guidance of an experienced scientist. Learn more about faculty members in the Physics Department and their research interests. In addition to further research and doctoral study, the broad foundation in physics students gain through the master’s program enables them to pursue a wide range of careers outside of academia, including high school science teachers, technical writers or members of a technical support staff. Classes & Curriculum You may select either a thesis or a nonthesis (coursework) track within the MS program. Both options require 30 credits beyond the baccalaureate degree. Students can choose to complete the Physics MS on a part- or full-time basis. Some courses are required, while master’s students should consult their graduate advisor to choose the remaining electives. Some courses included in the program are Analytical Mechanics, Electromagnetic Theory, Many Electron Theory and Teaching in Higher Education: Physics. Students in the coursework track finish their master’s degree with a comprehensive exam covering undergraduate- and master’s-level physics. Students in the thesis track write a master’s thesis based on original research. They do not have to take a comprehensive exam. Learn more about required and elective courses for the Physics MS. Related Graduate Degrees Bioinformatics PSM Bioinnovation PSM Biotechnology PSM Physics PhD Scientific Writing PSM Related Graduate Certificates Scientific Writing Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Science offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,205.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,567.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors Faculty advisors can help you navigate your program and discuss research opportunities. The faculty contact for the Physics Department is Xifan Wu. Phone: 215-2047637 Email: xifan.wu@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Student Clubs & Organizations If you can find the time to participate while meeting the demands of your degree program, student clubs offer valuable opportunities to meet fellow graduate students, researchers, and professionals from science- and technology-related industries. Clubs and organizations for students pursuing a Physics degree include the Alliance for Minority Participation in STEM, which works to increase opportunities for students and help them complete their undergraduate and graduate degrees in STEM. Leadership, Education and Development in Science, an organization that empowers Philadelphia middle school students to form an interest in STEM through science experiments and mentors. the Society of Physics Students, which builds a growing community of students interested in physics through conversations with faculty and volunteer opportunities. Explore the full list of College of Science and Technology student clubs and organizations. Study Away If the demands of your degree program allow it, consider spending a summer or semester overseas building international connections with researchers from other countries. Temple’s study abroad program offers College of Science and Technology students opportunities to spend a summer or semester studying in China, Germany, Italy, South Korea or Taiwan. Learn more about your study abroad options. Accreditation As a division within Temple University, the College of Science and Technology is accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. ST-PHYS-MS Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Physics MS Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info