Skip to main content UCF Online Menu Online Programs Online BachelorsOnline Graduate DegreesOnline MastersOnline Graduate CertificatesOnline DoctoratesOnline Minors Areas of Interest Criminal JusticeEducationEngineeringHealthcareHospitalityLeadership and ManagementNursingPublic Service and Community Support Admissions Transfer AdmissionsGraduate AdmissionsInternational AdmissionsMilitary Admissions Tuition Tuition and CostsFinancial AidScholarshipsFee Waiver Student Support Online Student ResourcesTuition Support ScholarshipsUCF Online Connect CenterLearning OnlineDownloads Criminal Justice Sections Criminal Justice Degrees Criminal Justice Faculty Criminal Justice News Earn Your Criminal Justice Degree Online at UCF Fill out the form below and we'll email you more information about UCF's online Criminal Justice programs. Name* First Last Phone* Email* Degree* Corrections LeadershipCrime AnalysisCriminal Justice, BA/BSCriminal Justice, MSDigital Forensics, MSJuvenile Justice LeadershipLegal Studies, BA/BSPolice LeadershipPolitical Science, BA Email This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. Request Info Privacy Notice Search for a Degree Popular Online Criminal Justice Programs Forensic Science, MS Digital Forensics, MS Criminal Justice, MS UCF Online Criminal Justice Degrees The American criminal justice system faces many unique challenges. From juvenile justice to crime analysis, there is a growing need for innovative, progressive solutions. At UCF Online, students from diverse personal and professional backgrounds prepare for careers in this complex field through our accredited criminal justice degree programs. Empowered with a wide variety of skills, including policy analysis, government relations, ethical management and leadership, graduates emerge from our programs as voices for positive change. UCF Online is proud to support the next generation of criminal justice leaders as they discover and implement effective solutions that protect lives and address their communities’ greatest needs. Online Criminal Justice Programs Criminal Justice, BA/BS Criminal Justice, MS Legal Studies, BA/BS Political Science, BA Online Criminal Justice Leadership Programs Corrections Leadership Juvenile Justice Leadership Police Leadership Online Forensics and Crime Analysis Programs Crime Analysis Digital Forensics, MS Forensic Science, MS Criminal Justice Education at UCF Online Our online criminal justice degree programs are designed with flexibility and excellence in mind. Delivering the same high-quality instruction students receive on campus, our virtual degree programs follow rigorous standards and feature high-caliber curricula taught by an award-winning faculty. Students apply their skills to real-world challenges across a wide range of specific careers in the criminal justice field, from forensic analysis to communication and conflict. Our online format allows busy students to pursue certificate, undergraduate and graduate programs in a way that fits their lives and equips them to step forward as leaders in their field. UCF Online is a great way for students to complete their degree while working in their field. Students don’t have to worry about missing out! The flexible hours allow me to connect with each of them at the time that works best for them.” WILLIAM MORETO, PhD – Criminal Justice Assistant Professor Studying Law and Criminal Justice with UCF Online No matter if you are just starting your career or are searching for a new way to leave an impact on your community, UCF Online has a law or criminal justice program for you. With online classes taught by the same dedicated faculty who teach in face-to-face classrooms, UCF Online gives you the flexibility to study when and where you want without compromising on quality education. If you are early in your educational research journey and unsure what the next steps are, just reach out to one of our dedicated UCF Online coaches who can advise on degree-choice options, admission details, the application process and options available for financing your degree. They can also provide assistance with understanding online pre-law degree options, the best majors for law school, and insight on what it’s like to study law online. Criminal Justice Faculty Jill Viglione, PhD Associate Professor Jennifer Peck, PhD Associate Professor William Moreto, PhD Associate Professor Latest Criminal Justice News What Is Criminal Profiling and What Is Its Role in Law Enforcement? Criminal Justice Skills You’ll Walk Away With After Earning a Master’s in Criminal Justice Careers in Criminal Justice Beyond Policing: A Comprehensive Look at This Growing Industry How to Become a Police Officer: Steps, Requirements and Resources Stages of a Crime Investigation: From Probing the Crime Scene to Prosecuting in the Courtroom What is a Crime Analyst? Examining Their Role from the TV Screen to Reality How to Become a Detective: The Steps to a Dynamic Career in Criminal Justice How to Become a Correctional Officer Juvenile Probation Officer: Salary, Career Outlook and Requirements Digital Forensics: Salary & Career Outlook Legal & Criminal Justice Career Options UCF Online gives students a choice of options to help them on their path to a fulfilling legal or criminal justice career. If you’re considering a career as a legal assistant, paralegal or attorney, our online Legal Studies, BA/BS provides the foundation for understanding the history, processes and procedures of the legal system. For those advancing their career within the forensics field, UCF Online provides graduate-level programs including a Master of Science in Digital Forensics and Forensic Science, as well as a graduate certificate in Crime Analysis. Explore all of the options available for you to advance your law or criminal justice career with UCF Online. Time Time is valuable for all of us, and at UCF Online we believe you shouldn’t have to alter your life in order to advance your legal career through higher education. Whether you work full time, travel often, are a parent, or don’t live close to campus, through UCF Online we bring the ability to study your law or criminal justice degree direct to you. Cost The best investment you can make is in your future. The impact that you will make with your online legal and criminal justice degree shouldn’t come at a great cost to you. That’s why UCF Online offers an affordable alternative to earning a high-quality university degree. Florida residents seeking an online graduate degree can save $42.33 per credit hour. Visit the tuition, fees and scholarships pages for more information. Get Started Advance your law or criminal justice career today with one of our highly ranked, flexible program options available at UCF Online. Get Connected. Contact the UCF Online Connect Center to learn more about the available online programs or for help finding an online degree that works for you. Hours of Operation: Mon – Fri: 8 a.m. – 7 p.m. (ET) Sat: 10 a.m. – 2 p.m. (ET) Closed Sundays & Holidays Call Now Why earn a degree from UCF Online? Access. Innovation. Impact. UCF Online is a community of thinkers, helpers and makers who use bold ideas to challenge the ordinary and devise solutions to solve the world’s most pressing problems. A great university can unleash the potential to change the world. Listed as one of the most innovative universities in the nation by the U.S. News & World Report’s Best Colleges 2021 Guide, UCF specializes in providing high-quality online degree programs for those talented students and working professionals who are unable to physically attend our Orlando main campus or one of our 14 Central Florida locations. Online Degree Programs Online Bachelor’s Online Master’s Online Graduate Certificates Online Doctorates Online Minors Top Online Healthcare Programs Top Online Engineering Programs Top Online Hospitality Programs Top Online Public Service Degrees Top Online Leadership & Management Degrees Top Online Education Degrees Admissions Info Transfer Admissions Graduate Admissions International Admissions Military Admissions Tuition Tuition and Costs Financial Aid Fee Waiver Student Support Online Student Resources UCF Online Connect Center All Student Resources Learning Online Downloads Complaint Submission About UCF Videos Accreditation About UCF News Top Online Degree Rankings Privacy Notice Contact Us Faculty Support 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 Call today • 855-903-8576 Hours of Operation: Mon - Fri: 8 a.m. - 7 p.m. (ET) Sat: 10 a.m. - 2 p.m. (ET) Closed Sundays & Holidays Like us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Find us on Instagram Follow us on YouTube State Restrictions Complaint Resolution © 2022 University of Central Florida