Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu City and Regional Planning About Programs People Research/Outreach Giving Design Collaborative Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Program Resources Master's Degree Dual Degrees Undergraduate Study Study Abroad UofM Graduate Catalog Take Action Apply to Our Master's Program Assistantships and Financial Support Contact Us! SUAPP Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Home Planning Programs Study Abroad with City and Regional Planning Study Abroad with City & Regional Planning Since 2013, the Department of City and Regional Planning has delivered a summer study abroad program in the Simeto River Valley region of Sicily, giving students a unique opportunity to apply their skills while experiencing planning in another culture. The Community Planning and Ecological Design (CoPED) Summer School is jointly hosted and developed by the University of Memphis, the University of Catania, and the University of Massachusetts-Boston. The summer school is not a sight-seeing planning tour; it is a two-week intensive planning workshop, during which American students and faculty work alongside Italian colleagues and grassroots community groups to support an ongoing regional planning effort. Since 2002, active citizens of the Simeto River Valley community have mobilized to promote a new model of local development inspired by principles of environmental sustainability and social solidarity. This model has produced a strategic plan for development, the Simeto River Agreement, which was officially adopted in 2015 by the local municipalities of Adrano, Belpasso, Biancavilla, Centuripe, Motta, S. Anastasia, Paternò, Ragalna, Regalbuto, Santa Maria di Licodia and Troina. Each summer, the CoPED school engages in a participatory planning process to work toward implementation of the elements in the River Agreement in one of these 11 localities. Information about next summer's program will be available in January 2020. Click in the image below to the view the 2019 program. View video summaries from previous programs below. <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/30/20 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.