Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Events Relationship Violence Awareness Month Relationship Violence Awareness Month October is Relationship Violence Awareness Month Every October, Sexual Violence Response recognizes issues of violence in intimate relationships and the impact they have on all of us, issues with particular urgency after nearly two years of unprecedented personal, societal, and economic challenges on a global scale. We ask you join us in observing Relationship Violence Awareness Month (RVAM) as we remember, honor, and celebrate survivors, advocates, and activists through programming and events that offer hope, healing, and inspiration, affirming that relationship violence has no place in the Columbia University community. There is hope that the culture around relationship violence can change and even end. As a community, we can heal from relationship violence and model the different ways healing can happen. Join SVR this October to help inspire open dialogue that expands knowledge and understanding of this issue and create an accountable, compassionate community at Columbia and beyond. Events Expresso Yourself: Navigating Interracial and Intercultural Relationships Available Now Expresso Yourself: Navigating Interracial and Intercultural Relationships This installment of Expresso Yourself features SVR's Executive Director, La'Shawn Rivera, SVR's Assistant Director of Training and Prevention, Debjani Roy, and Psychotherapist Mizuho Kanazawa--who specializes in culturally sensitive counseling, working with 'persons who feel they are between cultures', as well as couples who come from different racial and cultural backgrounds. Questions explored include: How do we begin to talk about cultural differences in our relationships? How do you build trust in an interracial or intercultural relationship? How do we become aware of and confront our own racial/cultural biases in our relationships? How do we talk about trauma experienced at the intersection of identities in our interracial and intercultural relationships? Through all of this, how can we authentically and with vulnerability connect with another person in a relationship? "Wordsmith Wednesday" October 13, 2021 Peace and Presence: Trauma Informed Song-Writing 12:30 - 1:30 PM ET Register in advance for this webinar This workshop works with simple lyric writing prompts in which participants are encouraged to write lists by tuning into their senses, colors around them, tastes, aromas, sounds, etc. This is a highly effective and enjoyable workshop, as each participants' contributions are woven into a song creation. Peace and Presence: Trauma Informed Poetry-Writing 6:00 - 7:00 PM ET Register in advance for this webinar Working within trauma-informed prompts, this poetry workshop creates a safe space that starts with grounding, and connecting to participants with a brief discussion of poetic possibility, and is followed by prompts that are put in a specified amount of time for participants to write. Music is provided during writing phases and affirming connections to participants are provided throughout. A brief poetry reading would complete the workshop. About Peace and Presence Peace & Presence is a Columbia SVR initiative that introduces diverse holistic wellness tools and techniques for survivors of sexual trauma to experience and adapt to their own wellness needs. The program envisions a space where survivors feel held, understood without having to explain themselves, and given space to breathe and connect with one another in profoundly spiritual and experiential ways. Through its multi-faceted approach to mindfulness, movement, and nurturing of one’s body, this program hopes to aid survivors to recognize and cherish their innate capacity to transcend trauma while being connected to a caring community of allies. "Minding Your Trauma" October 21, 2021 | 5:00 - 6:30 PM ET Register in advance for this webinar Maximum: 75 participants Minding Your Trauma will provide participants with an understanding of trauma, trauma responses, and methods for healing and resilience. Acknowledging and attending to personal, communal, or generational trauma can begin a healing and resilience process for those who have experienced, are experiencing, or have witnessed traumatic events. Survivors, co-survivors, and witnesses will gain skills to identify, name, and release trauma. Community members who have not experienced violence directly will be offered key insights to shape how they interact with others who have experienced trauma. Participants will leave this virtual session knowing that they can contribute to a community of care where trauma is an experience to be acknowledged and mindful of, but that it does not define the person affected. This session will be virtual and requires advance registration as participants will need to pick up materials from the SVR table on the Lerner Hall ramp from 11:00 AM – 2:00 PM the Mon. Oct 18 - Wed. Oct 20 (email [email protected] to schedule a different pick-up time). This event is open to all members of the Columbia community and participants do not have to have experienced violence directly to register. *Please note that this session counts for Sexual Respect Initiative (SRI) credit. Moments of Pause Every Wednesday in October at 12:00PM Join the livestream on @columbiahealth on Instagram or @SVR.Columbia on Facebook In light of the continued challenges we face due to COVID-19 that have exacerbated social and economic difficulties, we are inviting the entire Columbia community to take a collective moment of pause every Wednesday at noon throughout the month of October. This pause is intended to create a space to honor survivors, especially at a time where there has been a rise in relationship abuse, but also to grieve what we have lost, acknowledge the changes we have seen and experienced, and reflect on the ways we continue to adapt to the various ways this moment has informed our current ways of being. If there is another moment more convenient for you to pause or another way you choose to reflect on this issue, we hope you will still join us in energy and thoughts. Purple Thursday On Thursday, October 21, you are invited to wear something purple to communicate your support of survivors. If you can't wear purple due to the attire requirements of your role, you can pick up Purple Thursday stickers at Lerner 700. Zoom Backgrounds Download an RVAM Zoom Background: Right-click on the image, click "Save Image As...", and add to Zoom! Image Carousel with 2 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1: Zoom Background (Soft Pink) Slide 2: Zoom Background (White) Zoom Background (Soft Pink) Zoom Background (White) Previous Next About Sexual Violence Response (SVR) SVR aims to end gender and power-based violence through collective community action. SVR creates social change by building a compassionate and accountable community, with a commitment to increasing resources and support for survivors and co-survivors of violence. Read more about the resources SVR offers students. Accessibility Accommodations Columbia University makes every effort to accommodate individuals with disabilities. Please notify us in advance if you require closed captioning, sign-language interpretation, or any other disability accommodations. Alternatively, Disability Services can be reached at 212-854-2388 and [email protected]. Columbia Health Alice! Health Promotion Disability Services Counseling and Psychological Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance and Immunization Compliance Offices Medical Services Sexual Violence Response All Columbia Health offices are closed on University Holidays. Annual Report Columbia Health Annual Report Stay Connected Receive important news and event info from Columbia Health 212-854-2284 [email protected] Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close