Skip to main content UCF News | Stories of Impact + Innovation | Orlando, FL Tuesday, May 31, 2022 88ºF Mostly cloudy Sections × UCF News | Stories of Impact + Innovation | Orlando, FL Arts Business Colleges Community Health Opinions Science & Tech Sports Student Life Tuesday, May 31, 2022 88ºF Mostly cloudy College of Community Innovation and Education News Knights Do That Podcast: Best Moments of Season 1 and 2 Theater student Alex Cumming reflects on his favorite moments as his time as host comes to an end. Season three of Knights Do That launches this fall with a new host. ﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿ Dean Named for the College of Community Innovation and Education Grant Hayes, interim provost and senior vice chancellor for Academic Affairs at East Carolina University, starts at UCF Aug. 1. New Tool from UCF-led Team Shows Homeowners and Renters the True Cost of Disasters The tool can provide disaster readiness reports for 13.3 million addresses in 196 counties along the Gulf of Mexico — including all of Florida, and parts of Mississippi, Alabama, Louisiana and Texas. Former Foster Care Child, Now Mother of 3 Reaches Goal of Becoming Teacher Recent spring graduate Jeanette Marie Reynoso shares her unlikely path to achieving her dream. Graduating Nonprofit Management Student Gives Back by Establishing New Scholarship Sean Farrell and his wife, Valerie, created the Farrell Nonprofit Opportunity Scholarship to help undergraduate nonprofit management students. Mother of 4, Specialized Education Advocate to Graduate from UCF Spring commencement, Mother’s Day, and National Barriers Day fall on the same weekend this year, which is an appropriate way to introduce Christine Parsons ’17. UCF Faculty Offers Teletherapy Sessions to Ukrainian Mental Health Professionals Counselor education associate lecturer Gulnora Hundley ’04MA ’08PhD has provided free group therapy sessions to more than 60 mental health professionals impacted by war in the Ukraine. Finding Your Passion at UCF Through Research Annaliese Bullock expects to graduate this May with a master’s degree in educational leadership with a track higher education/student personnel track 2022 UCF Founders’ Day Honorees The annual celebration honors the academic achievements of our faculty members and students. UCF Reach for the Stars 2022 Honorees Are Pioneers in Their Fields of Study From creating resilient communities that can withstand natural disasters to educating the public through fiction that explains real science, this year’s honorees are using research to help create a brighter future. UCF in the News Sea Turtle Nesting Season off to a Strong Start on Florida’s Atlantic Beaches Orlando Sentinel UCF Calls for More Research Spending, Faculty and Fundraising in Latest Strategic Plan Orlando Business Journal Where No Ice Was Seen Before: UCF Team Designs Lunar Satellite Tools to Hunt for Water Orlando Sentinel UCF, Orlando Health Testing Medical Technology That Could Help Detect Blood Clots Faster WOFL Fox 35 View All Stories about UCF Events at UCF May 31 Alcoholics Anonymous 7:00 pm - 8:00 pm Jun 1 Application Deadline: Peer Mentor for Summer Research Academy 12:00 am - 11:45 pm Jun 1 Application Deadline: Summer Research Academy 9:00 am - 10:00 pm View All Events Resources About UCF Today For the Media News Archive Pegasus Magazine Tell Us What You Think Suggest a Story University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida