Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Conversations with ... Dr. Ashish Jha, dean of the School of Public Health and his guests explore various perspectives on the COVID-19 pandemic. Watch now COVID: What Comes Next with Dean Ashish Jha For this Providence Journal podcast, Dean Jha analyzes the events of the previous days and offers his guidance on what lies ahead. Listen on Spotify School of Public Health Experts on the 2019 Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) Local, national, and international news media call on experts from the School of Public Health to speak on topics related to the novel coronavirus (COVID-19). Below is a selection of articles and videos featuring our faculty. School of Public Health COVID-19 information May 2022 media mentions Study: A third of Colorado's COVID deaths were vaccine preventable May 21, 2022 The Gazette: An analysis released by researchers at Brown School of Public Health and Microsoft AI Health estimates the portion of vaccine-preventable deaths in all U.S. 50 states since COVID-19 vaccines became available in 2021. Read More With COVID cases rising, CDC issues new guidance. What Rhode Islanders need to know. May 20, 2022 The Providence Journal: Associate Professor of Epidemiology Mark Lurie offered commentary on the rise in COVID cases in the country. Read More Pro-Trump counties continue to suffer far higher COVID death tolls May 19, 2022 NPR: An analysis released last week by researchers at Brown School of Public Health and Microsoft AI Health shows a partisan split in how the portion of vaccine-preventable deaths are distributed. States that went most heavily for Trump have among the highest rates of preventable deaths, while states that voted heavily for Biden had among the lowest. Read More Unexpected long-term impacts of COVID-19 could affect male sex hormones May 18, 2022 WJAR: Academic Dean of the School of Public Health Dr. Megan Ranney provided commentary on how COVID affects far more than just the respiratory system. Read More Don't go here even if it's open, Say virus experts May 18, 2022 Eat this, Not That! In this article, academic dean of the School of Public Health Dr. Megan Ranney advises that people should continue using masks in crowded indoor areas to avoid catching COVID. Read More The new, highly transmissible Omicron variant, BA.2.12.1, is dominating in Massachusetts. Now what? May 17, 2022 Boston Globe: Professor of Epidemiology Jennifer Nuzzo offered commentary on the efficacy of rapid antigen COVID-19 tests. Read More US deaths from COVID hit 1 million, less than 2 1/2 years in May 16, 2022 Associated Press: Professor of Epidemiology Jennifer Nuzzo offered commentary on the grim milestone of 1 million COVID deaths. Read More This is how many lives could have been saved with COVID vaccinations in each state May 13, 2022 NPR: An analysis released last week by researchers at the School of Public Health and Microsoft AI Health estimates the portion of vaccine-preventable deaths in each state since COVID-19 vaccines became available at the start of 2021. Read More COVID-19 Cases Rising In W.Va. May 13, 2022 West Virginia Public Broadcasting: An analysis from Brown University School of Public Health shows that West Virginia has the highest per capita, vaccine-preventable deaths. Read More Doctors and grief experts on the milestone of 1 million COVID deaths May 12, 2022 NPR: Professor of Epidemiology Jennifer Nuzzo offered commentary on the grim milestone of 1 million COVID deaths. Read More At the Brown School of Public Health: Dynamic Change to Expand Impact May 12, 2022 New leaders bring global, national expertise and innovation on pandemic response, health systems, and implementation science. Read More It may seem like everyone’s getting COVID. What a local doctor says you should know May 11, 2022 Boston.com: Dr. Megan Ranney, academic dean of the School of Public Health, emphasizes the importance of COVID-19 testing and vaccinations. Read More The lucky few to never get coronavirus could teach us more about it May 8, 2022 The Washington Post: Jennifer Nuzzo, professor of epidemiology, said that studying the genes and other biological traits of people who never catch the coronavirus could shed light on how the virus develops, or how it infects the human body and makes people sick. Read More ‘We don’t want to restrict life’: How to navigate COVID risk at an uncertain time May 5, 2022 Boston Globe: “I think it’s very reasonable not to mask in indoor locations,” because the country has moved to a new phase of the virus, in which case counts are decoupled from the worst outcomes, said Dr. Megan Ranney, academic dean of the School of Public Health. Read More COVID-19 cases rise in the US, with limited impact May 1, 2022 The Wall Street Journal: Academic Dean Megan Ranney offered commentary on the latest COVID-19 wave in the U.S. Read More April 2022 media mentions BA.2, boosters, and the future of COVID-19 vaccination April 28, 2022 AAMC: Dr. Megan Ranney, academic dean of the School of Public Health, offered commentary in this article. Read More Before Washington's 'nerd prom,' lots of risk-benefit calculation April 27, 2022 New York Times: Jennifer Nuzzo, director of the Center for Pandemic Preparedness and Response at the School of Public Health, provided commentary on the risks of attending large indoor events. Read More No adverse booster shot events found in LTC residents; vaccines potent against omicron, studies reveal April 26, 2022 McKnight's Long-Term Care News: A study led by Professor of Health Services, Policy and Practice Vincent Mor found no evidence of adverse reactions to COVID-19 booster shots among residents across 239 Genesis HealthCare long-term care facilities. Read More Postpartum insurance loss decreased during COVID-19 pandemic, study finds April 25, 2022 Brown researchers have found that temporary changes to Medicaid eligibility meant that women who were due to lose coverage 60 days after giving birth were able to stay on their plans. Read More How the decline in lab testing is complicating efforts to track COVID April 22, 2022 Honolulu Civil Beat: Jennifer Nuzzo, director of the Center for Pandemic Preparedness and Response at the School of Public Health, said drive-through collection sites make COVID-19 testing inaccessible to those who don't have a car, and limited testing hours disproportionately affect lower income residents who are unable to take time off work. Read More Maskless flying April 22, 2022 New York Times: Jennifer Nuzzo, director of the Center for Pandemic Preparedness and Response at the School of Public Health, said she is "always more worried about in-airport exposures" to COVID-19 than exposures on an airplane, where there is constant air filtration. Read More 'It's just scaring people, and it's not saving lives' April 19, 2022 The Atlantic: Jennifer Nuzzo, the director of the Center for Pandemic Preparedness and Response within the School of Public Health, said that well-intentioned stories sometimes mislead those who are immunocompromised into thinking the vaccine is ineffective, when in reality it offers them a meaningful layer of protection. Read More How local doctors and experts are reacting to the reversal of airline mask mandates April 19, 2022 Boston.com: Dr. Megan Ranney, the academic dean of the School of Public Health, said she was frustrated by the federal judge's recent ruling and wondered what it would mean for future respiratory pandemics and new COVID-19 variants. Read More Rise in at-home testing means we could be undercounting Covid-19 cases even more than before April 18, 2022 CNN: Jennifer Nuzzo, an epidemiologist and professor at Brown University, thinks more needs to be done to monitor the pandemic to make up for the lack of data. Read More As Philadelphia puts on masks again other cities watch closely April 18, 2022 New York Times: Dr. Megan Ranney, academic dean at the School of Public Health, offered commentary on the easing and re-instating of mask mandates. Read More Psychiatrist advises how to navigate out of pandemic April 18, 2022 WJAR: In this segment, Jud Brewer, director of research and innovation at Brown's Mindfulness Center, offers guidance on how to manage anxiety as pandemic restrictions are loosened. Read More Officials adopt new message on COVID-19 behaviors: It's your call April 17, 2022 Wall Street Journal: “The history of public health has been a constant tension between individual-level and government or community-level intervention,” said Dr. Megan Ranney, academic dean of the School of Public Health. Read More It’s time to think outside the mask mandate April 15, 2022 Vox: In this interview, Professor of Epidemiology Jennifer Nuzzo discusses the breadth of tools that health departments, institutions, and individuals have at their disposal when Covid-19 cases rise — and why different tools might be better than others at getting us through this new phase of the pandemic. Read More Many virus cases go uncounted. Are there better ways to track the pandemic? April 14, 2022 The New York Times: “If we see an increase in cases, it’s an indicator that something is changing — and quite possibly that something is changing because of a larger shock to the system, like a new variant,” said Alyssa Bilinski, an assistant professor of health policy. Read More The CDC’s new Covid-19 guidelines are facing their first test April 13, 2022 Vox: Professor of Epidemiology Jennifer Nuzzo said proliferation of home tests rendered the CDC’s key metrics “almost functionally meaningless.” Read More Covid in the Northeast April 12, 2022 New York Times: Professor of Epidemiology Jennifer Nuzzo offered commentary on a potential rise in COVID-19 cases in Northeastern states. Read More A majority of adults still support masking in public to prevent COVID surges April 7, 2022 Truthout: “Masking works best in all situations if the masking is universal,” said Abdullah Shihipar, a narrative projects director at the People, Place & Health Collective at the Brown University School of Public Health. Read More Jeff says goodbye, Ashish says hello April 7, 2022 Politico: Dean of the School of Public Health Dr. Ashish Jha, who is taking a short-term leave for a temporary assignment at the White House, will officially begin his time as the COVID-19 Response Coordinator on Monday, April 11. Read More Should you get that second booster shot? Here’s what you need to know April 6, 2022 Boston Globe: This article includes commentary from Dr. Megan Ranney, professor of emergency medicine, on who should prioritize getting a second booster shot against COVID-19. Read More Despite warnings, Modi government had let India sleepwalk into the second wave April 3, 2022 The Scroll: Dr. Ashish Jha, dean of the School of Public Health, estimated that the Kumbh Mela was possibly “the biggest superspreader event in the history of the pandemic.” Read More 2022 Media Items 2021 Media Items 2020 Media Items Coronavirus resources School of Public Health Experts on the Coronavirus 2022 Media Mentions 2021 Media Mentions 2020 Media Mentions Brown Takes Care Healthy Brown Brown's COVID-19 Dashboard Rhode Island COVID information School of Public Health Admissions School of Public Health Admissions Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top