Materials Science and Engineering Home About Undergraduate Graduate People Research Alumni Contact MyMSE Toggle navigation Home About Undergraduate Graduate People Research Alumni Contact MyMSE Congratulations MSE Graduates! MSE News COE recognizes four staff members through Engineering Awards for Excellence May 26, 2022 2022 MSE Research May 16, 2022 Professor Roger Narayan elected 2022 MRS Fellow May 11, 2022 Read More News Upcoming Events May 31 All day First Day of Data Science REU Jun 3 Featured Featured 4:00 pm - 6:00 pm NC State REU Kickoff Mixer Jun 23 All day International Women in Engineering Day View Calendar Learn by Doing Our Research Through its state-of-the-art facilities and advanced computer resources, the department integrates education and research, giving our undergraduate and graduate students opportunities to solve real-world problems in classroom, field and laboratory settings. MSE boasts 6 robust areas of research that each have unique challenges and impacts: Structural Materials Soft and Biomaterials Electronic, Optical, and Magnetic Materials Computational Materials Science Materials Characterization Energy Materials Broaden Your World Student Organizations: Choose from our department organizations or other College of Engineering student organizations to network with other students and professionals outside the classroom. Co-op Experience: Gain hands-on job experience while pursuing your degree, and get paid for it, through the Cooperative Education Program. Study Abroad: Engineer without borders. Many employers are looking for graduates with second languages and international exposure. Study Abroad introduces you to global engineering. Giving Donations help the MSE department evolve and keep pace with the latest technology, while giving our students the skills, global awareness and sense of responsibility they need to make a difference in the world. Consider supporting the department today. Follow our Give Now link to donate to the Materials Science and Engineering Enhancement Fund. Give Now Connect with MSE Materials Science and Engineering North Carolina State University | 911 Partners Way | Raleigh, NC | 27695-7907 © 2022 NC State University | Log in | Accessibility | Privacy Back to Top