Menu Close Menu Skip to content Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters A to Z index Search for: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Email People Departments Calendar Careers my.harvard Giving About Faculty & Research Admissions & Aid Academics Executive/Continuing Ed News Prevention Research Center on Nutrition and Physical Activity Prevention Research Center on Nutrition and Physical Activity Menu Search for: Home About People Leadership Staff Collaborators Key Priority Areas Key Research by Setting Products Books & Book Chapters Briefs & Reports Fact Sheets & Handouts Peer-Reviewed Publications Podcasts Teaching Case Studies Tools Visuals Community Engagement Community Advisory Board (CAB) Leaders in Health (LIH) Supporting Community-based COVID-19 Vaccination Outreach COVID-19 Resources for Lynn, MA Residents COVID-19 Resources for Brockton, MA Residents COVID-19 Resources for Springfield, MA Residents COVID-19 Tools & Resources for CBO Leaders & Organizers Guide to Getting Started with Vaccine Outreach Work Apoyando el alcance comunitario de vacunación contra COVID-19 COVID-19 Recursos para los residentes de Lynn, MA COVID-19 Recursos para los residentes de Brockton, MA Apoio à divulgação da vacinação COVID-19 com base na comunidade COVID-19 Recursos para residentes de Lynn, MA COVID-19 Recursos para residentes de Brockton, MA Sipòte sansibilizasyon kap fèt nan kominote a ki baze sou vaksinasyon kont COVID-19 COVID-19 Resous pou moun ki rete nan Lynn, MA COVID-19 Resous pou moun ki rete nan Brockton, MA News & Events Contact Us Follow: Working with communities to improve nutrition and physical activity The mission of the Prevention Research Center on Nutrition and Physical Activity at the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health (HPRC) is to work with community partners to develop, evaluate, implement, and disseminate cost-effective strategies that will improve population nutrition and physical activity, reduce obesity and chronic disease, and improve health equity. Learn more about the HPRC. Core Research Project: Massachusetts CHOICES Project As a CDC-funded Prevention Research Center, the Prevention Research Center on Nutrition and Physical Activity’s Core Research Project is the Massachusetts CHOICES Project. The purpose of the Massachusetts CHOICES Project is to work collaboratively with community partners, the Massachusetts Department of Public Health (MDPH) and the Boston Public Health Commission (BPHC), to develop a playbook of 10-14 top strategies to reduce obesity prevalence and study how cost-effectiveness metrics are used by partners throughout the state. This work builds off of the CHOICES Project. Increasing COVID-19 Vaccine Equity in Three Massachusetts Communities Through the CDC-funded COVID-19 Vaccine Confidence Network project, the HPRC has partnered with grassroots community-based organizations (CBOs) in three Massachusetts cities (Lynn, Brockton, and Springfield) to improve vaccine access, knowledge, and positive norms. Our collaboration with community organizers and leaders drives the types of vaccine outreach and strategies we help to implement and support. Learn more about this project and the resources we are providing to CBOs and residents here. The Prevention Research Center on Nutrition and Physical Activity at the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health (HPRC) is supported by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (U48DP006376). The findings and conclusions are those of the author(s) and do not necessarily represent the official position of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention or other funders. News & Events May 16, 2022 Dr. Angie Cradock to Present at 2022 ACSM Annual Meeting & World Congresses May 3, 2022 New Resource: Fact Sheet on Physical Activity for Young Kids Follow us on TwitterMy Tweets COVID-19 Updates COVID-19 vaccines are safe and effective. Everyone 5 years of age and older is now eligible to get a free COVID-19 vaccination. Learn about the different vaccines available. Information from CDC.gov What is a variant? Viruses constantly change through mutation, and new variants of a virus are expected to occur over time. Learn more about variants of this virus Information from CDC.gov Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters About Key Facts Renaming the School Office of the Dean Location and Facilities Administrative Offices Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty and Researcher Directory Academic Departments, Divisions and Centers International Research Postdoctoral Research Fellows Office of Faculty Affairs Faculty Searches Office of Diversity and Inclusion Admissions & Aid Why Harvard Chan Degree Programs Non-Degree Programs Financial Aid Student Experience Career Advancement Apply Academics Academic Departments Divisions Research Centers Flagship Initiatives International Research Research Administration and Support Degree Programs Fellowships and Residencies Summer Programs Continuing Professional Education Interdisciplinary Concentrations Academic Calendar Harvard Chan Viewbook Executive/Continuing Ed Program Offerings Custom Programs Request Information News and Resources About ECPE Contact News Featured News Press Releases Student Stories In the News Newsletters HPH Magazine Why Public Health? Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Loading Comments... Write a Comment... Email (Required) Name (Required) Website