Skip to Content Menu Search Search Enter the terms you wish to search for. Other ways to search: Events Calendar Campus Map Close Main menu Home About Academics Admissions Research Visit COVID-19 Updates Secondary Menu Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Search Enter the terms you wish to search for. Other ways to search: Events Calendar Campus Map Mobile menu Home About Academics Admissions Research Visit COVID-19 Updates Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Changing lives through discovery Our researchers make discoveries that positively impact people and communities across Colorado, the nation and the world. Research and Creative Work Research at CU Boulder encompasses thousands of scholarly, scientific and creative endeavors at any given time, resulting in new knowledge, technologies and creative work that advance the economy, culture and health of Colorado, the nation and the world. Research Administration 2,000+ undergraduates directly involved in research #1 public university recipient of NASA research 650 faculty and students involved in interdisciplinary bioscience research Top 3% worldwide for scholarly research citations Research Focus Areas Discover how research at CU Boulder is changing the world. Our faculty and students are pioneering innovations in aerospace, biosciences, energy, Earth and environmental sciences, fundamental sciences and other major areas. Aerospace & Space Sciences Aerospace Research #1 public university recipient of NASA research awards The University of Colorado Boulder has created an environment in which our aerospace engineering and Earth and space sciences faculty, students and industrial researchers work together to solve complex problems, envisioning and creating the future for space and Earth systems. Bio/Health Sciences Biosciences Research Translating science into healthier living Biosciences at the University of Colorado Boulder aim to understand processes underlying behavior, function, disease and health at the molecular, cellular and whole-systems levels to develop interventions that improve human health. Climate, Energy & Sustainability Energy Research Transforming energy through discovery and innovation Energy research at the University of Colorado Boulder aims to advance basic and applied energy science, engineering and analysis through research, education and partnerships. Latest Research News Astronauts may one day drink water from ancient moon volcanoes If any humans had been alive 2 to 4 billion years ago, they may have looked up and seen a sliver of frost on the moon's surface. Some of that ice may still be hiding in craters on the moon today. Read more For East Africa’s pastoralists, climate change already fueling violence, hunger For centuries, East African peoples like the Maasai and Turkana have survived by herding cattle, moving these animals across miles of wide-open grasslands to keep them fed. Now, worsening droughts and a host of other challenges are threatening that nomadic existence. Read more Multiple diagnoses are the norm with mental illness; new genetic study explains why A new genetic analysis, using data from hundreds of thousands of people, sheds light on why more than half of people diagnosed with one psychiatric disorder will be diagnosed with a second or third in their lifetime. Read more Read more at CU Boulder Today For Media In-Depth Research Stories Historic Mars mission: accomplished How years of international collaboration led to Hope circling Mars. Read more Keeping it cool at 17,000 miles per hour CU Boulder leads $15M NASA institute making hypersonic entry safer. Read more What the Nose Knows New international network explores how odors lead to actions. Read more Read more Stories Research Reports 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18 2016-17 Grand Challenge From storm-chasing drones to fire-tracking satellites, Grand Challenge projects are boosting our understanding of an evolving planet. Innovation & Entrepreneurship CU Boulder provides opportunities for students, faculty, staff, industry partners and the community to engage in and be exposed to innovative and entrepreneurial experiences and mindsets. Impact Through Research Undergraduate Research Explore your passions–no matter what your major. Our undergrad students work with faculty members to participate in ground-breaking research. Undergraduate Research Opportunities Program (UROP) supports research partnerships between faculty and undergraduate students from numerous academic areas. Biological Sciences Initiative (BSI) Scholars in STEM Undergraduate Research provides an hourly wage to undergraduate students who want to gain research experience. Discovery Learning Apprenticeship Program undergrad engineering students can earn hourly wages while engaging in research with faculty and grad students. Graduate Programs Graduate students are integral to our research endeavors. Each of our nine colleges and schools provides an array of research opportunities for graduate students. We encourage students interested in graduate studies to reach out to a department to learn about specific programs and research opportunities. Graduate Programs The Graduate School serves as the intellectual crossroads of the university, a place where we work to educate the next generation of teachers, scholars and researchers and to develop the fields of knowledge and research within which those leaders will pursue their work. Graduate School Research Institutes & Centers With more than 900 researchers, students and supporting staff, CU Boulder's 12 research institutes account for more than half of all sponsored research dollars at the university, making a major contribution to the university's research and education missions as well as the local and area economy. Research Institutes CU Boulder is home to over 75 research centers housed within academic departments or as subsets of the research institutes themselves. They can be found in all fields of the university, including humanities and the arts, social sciences, natural sciences, engineering, business and law. Research Centers Apply for Admission Visit Campus Support CU Boulder Get Help Safety & Health Services Campus Communications Emergency Alert System New Student & Family Programs Getting Around Campus Map Campus Events Parking & Transportation Visit Information Information for Faculty & Staff Families Journalists Initiatives Business & Industry Collaborations Diversity & Community Engagement Free Speech Innovation & Entrepreneurship International Students Public & Outreach Programs Sustainability Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Pinterest University of Colorado Boulder © Regents of the University of Colorado Contact Us • Privacy • Legal & Trademarks Accessibility • Student Consumer Information • Policies • CU Boulder Jobs Download the Clery Act Annual Security & Fire safety report, or request a paper copy from the CU Boulder Police Department. Return to the top of the page