Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Religious Studies Course Descriptions Major Minor Internships People Resources Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Religious Studies Course Information Courses Semester Course Offerings Take Action Career Paths Interdisciplinary Programs Course Catalog Contact Us! Home RLGN Courses Undergraduate Religious Studies Courses NOTE: *indicates online option available RLGN 1100 - Introduction to Religion* Description: Introduction to the world’s major spiritual traditions from ancient times to the present. RLGN 3001 - Exploring Christian History Description: Exploration of the history and development of Christianity. RLGN 3002 - Studies in Islam and Its Cultures Description: This course provides an introduction to the religion of Islam. Students will explore the various ethnic, theological, and cultural diversity in Islam. The course will cover an introductory history of Islam in America and evidence of early Muslims in the U.S. PREREQUISITE: None RLGN 3100 - Perspectives on Religion Description: Continued study of religion using a range of comparative and theoretical perspectives; exploration of perennial themes in religion, drawing on the different traditions as examples. PREREQUISITE: RLGN 1100 RLGN 3101-3105 - Special Topics in Religious Studies Description: Topics are varied and in online class listings. Repeatable May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours credit. RLGN 4010 - Directed Readings Description: Reading on particular topic in religious studies under the supervision of faculty member. PREREQUISITE: permission of program coordinator. RLGN 4050-4075 - Special Topics in Religious Studies Description: Topics are varied and in online class listings. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours credit. RLGN 4990 - Capstone Project Description: Continues study of religion requiring individual investigation of specific topic in religious studies leading to completion of significant research paper. PREREQUISITE: RLGN 3100 and permission of instructor. AAAS 4251 - African Religions/Diaspora Description: Transplantation of African religions to the Western hemisphere; change in religions over time; African religious thought; retention, adaptation, hybridity in religious movements. CLAS 2481- Mythology* Description: Thematic study of classical myths and their function in ancient literature; emphasis on reading myths in ancient sources in translation. ENGL 4461 - Bible as Literature Description: Survey of both Old and New Testaments. PREREQUISITE: ENGL 1010, 1020, and 2201 or 2202 with a “C-” or better, or their equivalent. HIST 3273 - Islamic History to 1405 Description: Survey of religious, social, political, intellectual, and cultural developoments in Muslim communities from the 7th century until the death of Timur in 1405. Geographical focus is the Midlle East, Asia, and Africa. HIST 3275 - History of Jewish People Description: History of Jewish people from antiquity to present; emphasis on their changing relationships to larger cultures in which they participated. JDST 2850 - Religions of Abraham Description: Survey of development of several Near Eastern religious traditions; consideration of intellectual relationships among them. JDST 3601 - Judaism Description: Fundamental principles of Judaism, its role in the cultural life of the Jewish people, and its influence on human civilization. JDST 3661 - Perspectives on the Old Testament Description: Interdisciplinary examination of portions of Hebrew Bible, Mishnah, Midrash, and other texts along with commentaries. All texts will be read in translation. Cross listing: (Same as LALI 3661) JDST 3801 - Ancient & Medieval Jewish Thought Description: Thinkers and texts that shaped Jewish thought and life in ancient and medieval times; Talmud, the Midrash, the Kabbalah, and such thinkers as Saadia Gaon, Solomon ibn Gabriel, Judah Halevi, Maiminides. JDST 3802 - Modern Jewish Thought Description: Continuation of JDST 3801, from 16th century until modern times; concepts of God, humanity, nature, good and evil, making meaning out of life, and others. JDST 4511 - Holocaust Studies Description: Interdisciplinary study of issues that arise out of the Holocaust; questions of good and evil, divinity and humanity, truth and responsibility. [W, I] Cross listing: (Same as UNIV 4511). JDST 4801 - Jewish Mysticism Description: Fundamental principles of Jewish mystical tradition; development of basic concepts; medieval mysticism, Kabbalah, Lurianic mysticism, Chasidism, modern mystical movements. PHIL 3701 - Human and the Divine Description: Examination of one or more major religious movements with regard to their origins, doctrines, and philosophical significance; contrasting conceptions of deity, worship, and role of religion in how we think about ourselves and our roles in society. PHIL 3702 - Philosophy of Religion Description: Selected religious doctrines and practices from standpoint of philosophy. Topics vary from semester to semester. Sequel to PHIL 3701, but may be taken independently. PHIL 3721 - Asian Philosophy (*formerly Chinese Philosophy) Description: Exploration of the origins and developments of South and East Asian philosophical traditions in India, China and Japan (Brahminism, Confucianism, Daoism, Buddhism, and Shintoism). POLS 3102 - Religion and Politics Description: Survey of role of religion and religious belief in politics; emphasizes role of religious institutions in international arena and national politics and effects of religion on behavior and political beliefs. PREREQUISITE: POLS 1030, or POLS 1101, or POLS 1102, or permission of instructor. SOCI 3860 - Religion and Society Description: This course employs a sociological lens to examine the role of religion in modern society. We view religion as a social institution situated among other social institutions and unpack how religious beliefs, practices, and communities shape our society, both within religious communities and in our world more generally. UNIV 3581 - Faith/Reason/Imagination* Description: Interdisciplinary examination of religious, rationalist, and aesthetic viewpoints as distinctive ways of understanding what is fundamental to human experience. Exploration of historical development of each of these modes of understanding and examination of tensions that exist among them in modern world. PREREQUISITE: ENGL 1010 and ENGL 1020. UNIV 3590 - New Testament Description: Main events, background, characters and teaching of the New Testament and how it relates to the Old Testament and to today. UNIV 3565 - Comparative Christianity* Description: Commonality in Christianity; major turning points in Christian history; the tradition’s variety of subgroups, starting with the three great groupings: Eastern Christianity, Roman Christianity, and Protestant Christianity; examination of future of Christianity. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/13/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.