Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University Transportation Services Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Home Contact Us Vehicle Rentals Vehicle Use/Rental Procedures Making Reservations Student Organization Travel Make a reservation-Agile Rental Types Vehicle Types Vehicle Rates Rate Calculator Services Offered Maintenance Graphics Vehicle Up-fits Van Pool UTS Shuttle Drivers/Airport Travel Fuel Services E-85 Information Wright Express (WEX) Electric Vehicle Charging Titles and Licensing Vehicles for Sale Policies and Training General Policies & Procedures Motor Vehicle Record Checks Driver Training Requirements Van and Trailer Training Trailer Purchases and Inspections Forms Accident Reporting Enterprise Intramural Reimbursement Form RFID Request Form Driver Request Form About Faculty and Staff Frequently Asked Questions Welcome from the Transportation Services team! Keeping ISU on the move. ISU UTS has partnered with ISU Printing to provide graphics for the ISU community. Click here for more information. Vehicles Transportation Services vehicles drove 6.9 million miles FY19. Click to see what vehicles we have to offer. Click here for more details. Previous Next We are the economical choice for Iowa State University business travel for faculty, staff, departments and organizations. Our fleet contains many different vehicle options. Give us a call and our friendly staff would be glad to answer any questions that you may have. Rental Types Make a Reservation Book a Shuttle Driver Fuel Services Customer Corner Always receive prompt and professional customer service. Super friendly. --- Anonymous Really appreciate the responsiveness and overall customer service they provide. Great staff! --- Bryan Whaley The staff at Transportation Services are wonderful! --- Timothy Stewart Excellent service, excellent vehicle. --- Chris Johnsen Thank you for all that you do! --- Lisa Schulte Moore Our Mission Transportation Services' Mission is to provide safe, economical, appropriate transportation to Iowa State University faculty and staff to perform their official duties. To fulfill this mission, Transportation Services has established the following goals: Acquire the type and number of vehicles necessary and appropriate to meet the needs of the faculty and staff to perform their duties. Rent the vehicles to qualified departments on either short or long term arrangements, whichever is most appropriate and economical, for their requirements. Manage the fleet in a manner that ensures the lowest possible operational cost while maintaining consistently high mechanical reliability. Organize a staff and maintain a facility which provides superior service, repair, reservation and dispatch, and administrative support to the University customer. Ensure that the service continues as a financially secure and self-supporting operation as it strives to achieve non-profit or break-even status. Maintain, repair, and dispose of the vehicles in a manner that brings the highest possible return on money spent. Establish policies and procedures that reflect the best way to operate the fleet with the customer in mind. Think independently and competitively to obtain the best ratio of dollars spent to miles driven. Department Newsletters April 2022 March 2022 February 2022 January 2022 Nov/Dec 2021 October 2021 Hours of Operation: Main Location 7:00 A.M. - 4:00 P.M Monday - Friday 919 Haber Road Kiosk is open 24 hours for pickup and returns. Research Park 8:00 A.M. - 4:00 P.M. Monday - Friday 1805 Collaboration Place Transportation Services 919 Haber Rd Ames, IA 50011 transdispatch@iastate.edu 515-294-1882 phone Facebook Instagram Twitter Copyright © 1995-2022 Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information