Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information Neurology Topics Campus News Research Medical School Public Health Cancer Mental Health Infectious Diseases Neurology Neuroscience Education Heart Health Pediatrics View All Topics Search All News Keywords News Subtopics: Alzheimer's Epilepsy Parkinson's Stroke Top Stories Missing Link Between Alzheimer’s and Vascular Disease Found? A gene called FMNL2 may explain why people with hypertension, diabetes, heart disease, or obesity have a greater risk of developing Alzheimer's disease. Topic Alzheimer's Transient Ischemic Attacks May Be Brief But Need Serious Attention A transient ischemic attack (TIA) is a stroke that usually lasts under five minutes and resolves on its own, but just because the symptoms disappear, does not mean a TIA should be ignored. New Initiative to Develop Personalized Therapies for People with Rare Genetic Forms of ALS A new initiative led by Columbia University and the n-Lorem Foundation will develop personalized therapies for individuals with "nano-rare" genetic forms of ALS and treat them for free, for life. Topic Campus News Genetic Testing for Parkinson’s Disease: What You Need to Know Parkinson’s patients and their families are increasingly turning to genetic testing to learn more about their disease or risk of passing it on. But testing is complex, and counseling is advised. Topic Campus News Latest News New Details of Toxic Alzheimer's Protein Revealed February 24, 2020 A new study shows how modifications to the tau protein may influence the different ways it can misfold in the brain, which is closely linked to the type of neurodegenerative disease that develops. Topic Neuroscience The Next President of the American Heart Association Is a Columbia Neurologist February 19, 2020 This July, Columbia neurologist Mitch Elkind will become president of the American Heart Association, only the second time a neurologist has led the organization. Topic Campus News Recommended Diuretic Causes More Side Effects than Similar Hypertension Drug February 18, 2020 Patients taking the recommended diuretic for hypertension experienced more potentially serious side effects than those taking a similar drug, according to a new study from Columbia researchers. Topic Data Science Overactive Brain Waves Trigger Essential Tremor January 15, 2020 The source of essential tremor—involuntary, rhythmic trembling—has been elusive, but a new study points to abnormal electrical activity in the base of the brain. Topic Neuroscience Illiteracy Linked to Higher Risk of Dementia January 2, 2020 Dementia is three times more common in older adults who are illiterate, a new study from Columbia has found. Topic Alzheimer's Will a Treatment for Alzheimer’s Ever Be Found? November 22, 2019 Researchers had high hopes for Alzheimer’s drugs that clear amyloid from the brain, but none of the drugs have slowed the disease. Columbia’s Scott Small says he has new reasons to be optimistic. Topic Alzheimer's Link Between Hearing and Cognition Begins Earlier Than Once Thought November 14, 2019 A new study finds that cognitive impairment begins in the earliest stages of age-related hearing loss—when hearing is still considered normal. Topic Alzheimer's In Blacks with Alzheimer’s Gene, Higher Education May Be Protective November 1, 2019 A new study from Columbia University found that a higher level of education protected against cognitive decline in black people with a gene linked to Alzheimer’s disease. Topic Alzheimer's In MS, Genome Map Shows Many Immune Cells Are to Blame October 21, 2019 A new study suggests that many different immune cells, not just T cells, are involved in triggering multiple sclerosis (MS). Topic Research Are Immune Cells Good or Bad for Parkinson’s Disease? October 2, 2019 Only select neurons die during Parkinson’s disease. Columbia researchers are looking for clues in immune cells to find out what makes these brain cells so vulnerable. Topic Parkinson's Pages first previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … next last Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top