Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School About the Graduate School Academic Events & Honors Events & Series Research Matters! Celebrating New Ideas and Discoveries Tips for a Brief and Compelling Talk Graduate School Skip to Navigation Tips for a Brief and Compelling Talk Your Research Matters! talk should feature your most innovative idea and tell the story of your research project for a non-specialist audience. Think big. Make this your best talk ever. Be you. What makes *you* care about these ideas? Tell a story. Use the power of storytelling: think of specifics and examples rather than abstractions, talk about failures as well as successes. Connect. Make your audience care about your ideas, too. Explain. Strive to capture the complexity of your work in terms that we can all understand. Rehearse. Work in stages: develop your content with a written script that you hone into a strong performance. Be sure to practice in front of friends and peers. Solicit feedback on content, visuals, timing, performance, clarity, and impact. Nominees will be invited to submit the following by March 18, 2022: 350 word description of your talk and research project. Short video: Give us a sense of you speaking about your innovative idea and research project. Can be as short as one-minute, no more than 3 minutes. You can use a smartphone or built-in webcam. Video quality is not the priority, as long as you are audible. We just want to get a brief sense of you as a speaker. Send the video to us by one of two ways: Upload video to your Google Drive and share your file with us at [email protected] with Subject Heading: Research Matters Submission Send a link to a Youtube or Vimeo video. If you are unable to submit a short video, please contact [email protected]. Home About the Graduate School People Mission & Facts Diversity and Inclusion News & Communications Academic Events & Honors Orientation Commencement Awards Events & Series Initiatives in Doctoral Education and Support Graduate Student Resources Maps & Directions Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants