Skip to main content Restrict my search to CASA Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Center for Academic Support and Assessment UH Home CASA CASA Login Tutoring Center Testing Centers Links Employment Privacy Policy Contacts Tutoring Center : Cindy Nguyen Testing Center : Tech Support CASA CASA offers tutoring for mathematics students, and proctored testing for students in all subject areas. The facility was originally designed by the Department of Mathematics for its exclusive use, and opened in the spring of 2004. Since that time, it has expanded to provide testing for students in all classes, and currently, over 21,000 student enrollments use CASA each semester for proctored testing. The CASA Tutoring Center offers tutoring to all students enrolled in undergraduate mathematics courses. It is located in room 222 – Garrison Gym. Students can seek one-on-one tutoring for help with homework and exams preparation for their math classes. Students can also use the workstation with more than 35 computers to access course materials, watch streaming lectures, or take their weekly online quizzes. The CASA Testing center offers faculty the opportunity to have their proctored exams given outside of normal class hours, in one of its three testing locations. The CASA Testing Center at GAR location (CASA-GAR) is located next door to the Tutoring Center in room 221. The second location, CASA Testing Center at CBB location (CASA-CBB), is located in the Classroom and Business Building, room 242. The third location, CASA Testing Center at AAH, is located in room 101 in the Agnes Arnold Hall. The facility is constantly adapting to the needs of its clients to provide a smooth and comfortable testing experience. If you are a student and plan to visit CASA, please familiarize yourself with our rules and regulations. Students seeking employment should check the appropriate link to see if the job openings are available. We hope you find our services helpful. Our aim has always been to help you. Faculty can learn more about CASA’s testing services and schedule testing in CASA by contacting either Minh Nguyen or Samantha Stark. University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies