Skip to content College of Engineering open searchsubmit Menu openAbout Vision and Mission Diversity Administration and Staff Dean's Advisory Board Awards and Honors Internship Guidelines openAcademics Departments Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Joint Doctoral Program Current Students International Programs Dean's List MESA Support Program Clubs & Organizations openResearch Research Opportunities Highlights Institutes and Centers Facilities openCommunity Engagement Prospective Students Faculty and Staff Industry Supporters K-12 Initiatives Design Day Troops to Engineers openGive Support SDSU Engineering Alumni Crowdfunding Philanthropy Alumni Advisory Committee Giving FAQ Engineering Giving Links Endowed Scholarships Endowed Funds Planned Giving Donor Stories openEngineering Links Contact Us Departments Faculty Social Media Job Openings News University Directory Directions and Maps EIS Calendars Engineering IT Support openColleges Arts and Letters Fowler College of Business Education Engineering Graduate Studies Health and Human Services SDSU Library Professional Studies and Fine Arts Sciences Weber Honors College openOther Locations SDSU Georgia SDSU Global Campus SDSU Imperial Valley SDSU Mission Valley College of Engineering youtube twitter facebook instagram In this Section College of Engineering About Academics Admissions Give Community Engagement Research News Contact Us College of Engineering Since its inception in 1961, the College of Engineering has evolved into a top choice for serious engineering students and researchers from all over the globe. We deliver broad-spectrum, world-class engineering education, combined with practical research experience. Our students can choose among seven bachelor's, and a number of master's and joint doctoral degree programs. We're dedicated to innovative education, discovery, and dissemination of knowledge. We equip our students to think with international perspective, to design solutions that meet human and societal needs, and to create economic value that helps sustain the San Diego region and beyond. We're committed to inventing a better future, both for the San Diego region, a hot spot of innovation and technology, and for the global community we all share. That's why we maintain close relationships with San Diego industry that result in extensive partnerships, internships and placement opportunities for our students. Explore Our Programs Aerospace Civil, Construction, Environmental Electrical and Computer Mechanical Message from the Dean "We are dedicated to innovative education, research, and dissemination of knowledge. Student success is at the heart of our mission." Eugene A. Olevsky, Ph.D., FASME, FACerS, FAvH Dean and Distinguished ProfessorRead More Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Quick Facts 3,472 Engineering Students 16% Increase in Research Awards #50 Ranked Aerospace Engineering Program by U.S. NewsFacts at a Glance (pdf) Engineering Spotlight Faculty A Q&A with Two of SDBJ's Top 50 Women of Influence in Engineering SDSU professors Junfei Xie and Natalie Mladenov talk about their SDBJ distinction and the future of women in engineering. Alumni An SDSU Civil Engineering and Soccer Mentorship Steve Doyle ('80) credits SDSU for his personal and career success, and as the reason why he chooses to give back through philanthropy and mentorship. Students NSBE Launches Next Generation of Black Engineers NSBE SDSU serves as a launching pad to a successful career for countless Black engineering students at SDSU. Engineering News College of Engineering Student Council Hosts Solar Electric Vehicle From Aptera Motors J.R. Filanc Construction Engineering and Management Program Thanks Supporters in Inaugural Year Electrical and Computer Engineering Professor Hosts Design Competition via NSF CAREER Award FundingGo to News Welcome to the College of Engineering ApplyVisitSubscribe to Newsletter youtube twitter facebook instagram 619-594-5200 5500 Campanile Drive San Diego, CA 92182 Maps Parking Campus Directory Employment Media Relations Canvas General Contact Network Status Strategic Plan Newsletter Accessibility Document Readers Digital Privacy Statement Campus Safety Reports Feedback © 2022 San Diego State UniversityAll Rights ReservedLast Updated back to top Last Updated 5/23/22