Skip to the main content United States Air Force Academy Go to home page image/svg+xml Page 1 Go to home page Link to home page Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Menu Search the Site Academics A rigorous academic program that balances STEM with the arts and humanities. Academics Core Curriculum Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Registrar Faculty and Staff Directory Academic Success Center Request a Transcript Investigator or Verifications Admissions News Research Learn more about cutting-edge research that supports the Air Force and our global society. Research Office of Research Research Centers Cadet Summer Research STEM Outreach Future Conflict Cadet Life Take a peek into the life of a United States Air Force Academy cadet. Cadet Life Dormitories & Dining Cadet Clubs Cadet Support Services Day in the Life Frequently Asked Questions Military With a focus on innovation and adaptation to the changing world of warfare, we’re setting higher expectations for what it means to serve. Military Basic Cadet Training Squadrons Airmanship Military Careers Wings of Blue Athletics About There’s no limit to what you will achieve here. Academics. Athletics. Military training. We deliver the future leaders of modern warfare. About Leadership Character Development History Awards Traditions Educational Innovation More Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Back To Visitors Tourists & First Timers Getting On Base Places to Eat Self-Guided Tour Wildlife Hunting Fishing Hiking and Biking Trails GETTING ON BASE Entering a military base for the first time may be daunting for visitors, but with a little preparation, getting on base is as easy as 1-2-3. 1. From Interstate-25 take Exit 156 (North Gate) or Exit 150 (South Gate). This entrance is open to visitors from 5:30 am to 10:00 pm every day. 2. When entering the gate, present a valid form of photo identification such as driver’s license or passport. Expired IDs will not be accepted. Children and teens under the age of 18 do not require identification. Visiting foreign nationals with passports must first report to the Pass & Registration Center to obtain a pass to enter the base. The Pass & Registration Center is located outside of the South Gate at Exit 150 on the right side of the road and is open 7:30 am to 3:45 pm Monday through Friday. 3. You may be asked to share additional information such as proof of insurance and vehicle registration. If applicable, have your car rental agreement handy. All vehicles are subject to inspection by security personnel, so we may ask you to pop your trunk. Safety Tips Obey all signs and speed limits, and wear a seatbelt at all times. Watch for wildlife such as deer, elk, and wild turkey. Be mindful of cyclists, joggers, pedestrians and cadet training activities. Firearms and radar detectors are prohibited. Handheld cell phone usage is prohibited. Drivers may use a cell phone only with a hands-free device or if the vehicle is parked. Motorcyclists Motorcyclists are required to wear a Department of Transportation approved helmet, goggles or face shield, protective clothing such as long sleeved shirt/jacket, pants, and full-fingered gloves, as well as over the ankle footwear. Reflective vests are not required, but highly encouraged. Bicyclists Bicyclists must wear helmets and reflective outerwear. Group riders must stay in single file with traffic on base roads. All bicyclists must be off base roads four hours prior to events at Falcon Stadium due to heavy traffic. For additional help accessing the base, contact Security Forces at 719-333-2000. EXPLORE MORE INTERACTIVE MAP ACADEMICS Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Research Centers Faculty and Staff Directory CAMPUS Events Employment Emergency Weather Helping Agencies Apps COMMUNITY AF CyberWorx USAFA Band Force Support Wings of Blue VISIT Visitors Campus Map Facilities Cadet Chapel Planetarium Base Access Contact Us Social Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Flickr © 2022 United States Air Force Academy, All Rights Reserved The appearance of hyperlinks does not constitute endorsement by the Department of the Air Force or the information, products, or services contained therein. For other than authorized activities such as military exchanges and morale, welfare and recreation sites, the Department of the Air Force does not exercise any editorial control over the information you may find at these locations. Such links provided are consistent with the stated purpose of this DOD Web site.