Skip to main content Information For: Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Apply Give to HGSE Search Apply for Degree Programs Apply for Professional Education Donate Give back to HGSE and support the next generation of passionate educators and innovative leaders. Keywords Close Menu Degree Programs Professional Education Faculty & Research Usable Knowledge Keywords About HGSE About the Dean Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Commentary and Media Dean's Office History of HGSE Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Impact Campus and Facilities Office Directory Virtual Tour Gutman Conference Center Reservation Request Form Capacities and Cost Floor Plan Catering Policies Audio Visual Directions, Parking, and Hotels Map of HGSE Directions to HGSE History of HGSE Buildings Faculty & Staff Directory Work at HGSE Title IX Information Doctoral Degree Programs Doctor of Education Leadership Doctor of Philosophy in Education Brochures Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Doctoral Viewbook Master's Degree Program Master's in Education Programs Education Leadership, Organizations, and Entrepreneurship Education Policy and Analysis Human Development and Education Learning Design, Innovation, and Technology Teaching and Teacher Leadership Concentrations Arts and Learning Early Childhood Global, International, and Comparative Education Higher Education Identity, Power, and Justice in Education Literacy and Languages A Personalized Approach Online Master's in Education Leadership Foundations Brochures Academic Catalog Academic Calendar Academic Year 2020-22 Programs Professional Education About Us Programs Early Childhood K-12 Higher Education Online Programs For Organizations Group and Team Enrollment Custom Programs Admissions Payment & Tuition Assistance Refunds & Withdrawals Policies and Accessibility Campus Experience On-Campus Program Health and Safety Policies FAQs Events Contact Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Centers, Projects and Initiatives Faculty Recruitment Faculty Experts Admissions Introduce Yourself Explore Find the Right Program Brochures Life at HGSE Connect Apply Refer a Candidate Frequently Asked Questions Financial Aid HGSE & Harvard University Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Incoming Students Incoming International Students Continuing Students Scholarships, Fellowships & Grants Need-Based Grant Awards HGSE Fellowships Additional Fellowships External Fellowships Student Loans Student Work International Students International Applicant FAQ Funding Sources Students with Families Financial Aid Appeals Presentations & Publications Budgeting & Financial Literacy Budget Calculator Registrar News & Events Harvard Edcast Education Now Askwith Education Forum Upcoming Events Submit an Event Usable Knowledge Ed. Magazine Harvard Education Publishing Group Information for Media Education Now Usable Knowledge Usable Knowledge Harvard EdCast Ed. Magazine HGSE Centennial Community Learning Beyond the Classroom Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Organizations and Initiatives Community Events and Action Resources Teaching and Learning Gutman Library Services Alumni Services Collections Special Collections Request for Library Purchase Library Hours Websites for Educators About the Library Facilities & Equipment Contact Information Coronavirus Response Information Directory Calendar Alumni Network & Connect Get Involved Learn & Grow Benefits & Services my.harvard Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Information For Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Connect with HGSE Facebook Twitter Linked In LinkedIn Symbols Created with Sketch. Instagram Student Handbook Student Handbook: Academic Integrity HGSE is committed to cultivating and maintaining a learning environment characterized by high academic standards and integrity. It is important for students to be familiar with expectations for academic work and to conduct themselves as academic professionals throughout their time and experiences at HGSE. All work submitted to meet course requirements is expected to be the student’s own. In the preparation of all papers and other written work submitted to meet course and degree requirements, students must be careful to distinguish between ideas that are their own and those that have been derived from other sources. Information and opinions drawn from all sources are to be attributed specifically to these sources. It is the student’s responsibility to learn and use the proper forms of citation. Quotations must be properly placed within quotation marks and must be fully cited. All paraphrased material must also be fully cited. In all cases where ideas or material presented are derived from a student’s reading and research, the source used must be indicated. Students who submit work either not their own or without clear attribution to the original source, for whatever reason, face sanctions up to and including dismissal and expulsion. Assistance in Course Work and Writing Students occasionally work with others or receive assistance in various aspects of their course work. Students should be very clear about how they are working with others and what types of assistance, if any, they are receiving. Students should disclose to their professors any plans for outside professional assistance on editing, statistical work, or other matters central to completing their work. The student’s professor may approve only those kinds and levels of assistance that support, rather than supplant, the student’s research, writing and learning. If assistance has been approved, then the student must specify what sort of assistance they received and from whom on the paper in question, upon submission. The goal of this oversight is to preserve the status of the work as the student’s own genuine intellectual product. Students should remember that the Gutman Library Writing and Communications Lab is available to assist them with assessing and editing their own work. This assistance has been sanctioned by HGSE. Dual Submission of Papers A paper may not be used to meet the requirements for more than one course. Students wishing to integrate the work of two separate courses into one paper may do so only if this plan is approved in advance in writing by all instructors involved. If approved, papers submitted for more than one course must show both course numbers on the title page. Students are strongly cautioned against using work for one course in another without fully discussing their plans with all instructors involved. Supports for Academic Writing and Integrity When there are concerns about student progress towards program and degree requirements and/or academic integrity, there are clear processes and supports in place to address the issue(s). Various offices coordinate their work to both address the issue(s) in light of policies, standards, and procedures while also supporting the student’s development and health and well-being. Described in more detail in the next section, the following table demonstrates the key individuals and offices involved in this work. Individual/Office Primary Responsibilities Office of Student Affairs/Student Support Services including academic coaching Provides supports related to individual student needs and challenges during graduate study, manages all requests for formal accommodations, and makes referrals to resources, including counseling and mental health services For accommodations: student self-identifies and discusses needs with office staff office reviews and assess eligibility for accommodations office determines appropriate supports office produces documentation for students to use in discussions with individual faculty Gutman Library Writing and Communications Lab Provides academic writing and project support through individual appointments and workshops Degree Programs Office (Ed.M., Ed.D., Ph.D., Ed.L.D.) May identify need for student support and refer student to the Office of Student Affairs/Student Support Services Works with related offices to oversee student academic progress and supports for students with academic challenges Faculty Program Directors/Co-Chairs and Concentration Co-Chairs May identify need for student support and refer student to the Office of Student Affairs/Student Support Services Teaching Faculty and Teaching Fellows Work with individual students and Office of Student Affairs/Student Support Services to implement accommodations as appropriate for the course and based on student eligibility May identify need for student support and refer student to the Office of Student Affairs/Student Support Services NOTE: Non-HGSE students who are enrolled in HGSE courses are expected to uphold the policies set forth in the HGSE Student Handbook, including without limitation those related to academic integrity and the Code of Conduct. Non-HGSE students include, for example, TAP students, cross-registrants, and voucher holders. HGSE may take any and all actions it deems necessary upon the discovery of a policy violation, including without limitation immediately requiring the non HGSE student to withdraw from the course and notifying the non HGSE student’s home institution, if applicable. Additionally, HGSE may preclude a non-HGSE student who has previously violated HGSE policy from registering in any future HGSE course. Students are expected to comply with all disciplinary rules from matriculation until the conferring of the degree. A degree will not be granted to a student who is not in good standing or against whom a disciplinary charge is pending. All activities under these procedures will be conducted with regard for the legitimate privacy and reputational interests of all parties involved. It is expected that complaints and other activities under these procedures will be confidential, and that the parties will likewise observe this expectation. However, disclosure of otherwise confidential information may be made where necessary to protect the health, safety or well-being of the complainant or others in the HGSE community, to comply with legal obligations of the university, or where, in the judgment of HGSE, certain disclosure would be in the best interest of the parties or the university. Complaints related to personal behavior are reported to the Director of Student Affairs Operations. The complaint should include the name(s) of the party or parties involved; the time, place, and date of the incident(s); and the identities of any witnesses, as well as a detailed description of what occurred. The Director of Student Affairs Operations will refer the case to the Academic Dean for resolution and possible referral to the Committee on Rights and Responsibilities. Process for Responding to an Academic Integrity Concern Every case begins with an allegation in the form of a complaint or report. While virtually anyone could bring a complaint or report, any formal charges that may ensue are made by, and on behalf of, HGSE. The initial complaint or report (for a student in any degree program) is submitted to the Director for Master’s Studies. In all situations where academic dishonesty is suspected, course instructors are required to provide a report to the Director for Master’s Studies which will be included in materials for review by the Academic Dean. This report should include: a confidential memorandum that details the charge; the work in question as submitted by the student, marked/highlighted to indicate all suspicious text; marked/highlighted copies of all corresponding sources from which the student is suspected of plagiarizing; the course syllabus, including all information provided to student regarding appropriate citation process, collaboration, use of sources, etc.; and the course assignment as presented to the student, including copies of all handouts, emails, power point slides, etc., that relate to the assignment in question. As a first step in the review process, the Director for Master’s Studies or their designee will investigate the charge, which generally includes notifying the respondent of the charge, collecting written statements from the respondent and others involved in the incident(s), conducting interviews, and consulting with others as needed. At the conclusion of the investigation, the Director for Master’s Studies or their designee will summarize the facts and circumstances of the case and share relevant materials with the Academic Dean. After reviewing the matter, the Academic Dean may: find no basis to the charge, suggest a resolution between the parties involved, or immediately assign the case to the Committee on Rights and Responsibilities (“CRR”). The CRR will only consider cases referred by the Academic Dean; the Academic Dean ordinarily will refer all cases to the CRR that are not resolved through informal means within 30 days. In the cases of alleged academic misconduct where resolutions are negotiated between the Academic Dean and the faculty member, the sanctions may include failing the assignment, failing the course, or having to redo the assignment. A written record describing the offense and the settlement is filed with the Degree Programs Office. If a second allegation of academic misconduct were to be brought against the student, the initial incident would be taken into account, and the second case would be sent directly to the CRR. Falsification of Admissions Application Occasionally candidates for admission will make inaccurate or misleading statements or submit false material in connection with their application. In most cases, these misrepresentations are discovered during the admission process, and the application is rejected. If a misrepresentation is discovered after a candidate is admitted, the offer of admission is withdrawn. If a misrepresentation is discovered after a student has registered, the offer of admission will be revoked, and the student will be required to leave the School. If the discovery occurs after a degree has been awarded, the degree will be rescinded. The determination that an application is inaccurate or contains misrepresentations rests with the Office for Admissions, which has the authority to resolve the matter outside the student disciplinary process. In this section Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Student Handbook Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Sign up for our newsletters to get the latest from the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Sign Up Now Artboard 1 13 Appian Way | Cambridge, MA 02138 Centennial Contact Us Directory Directions Harvard University ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Linked In Symbols Created with Sketch. Youtube RSS Podcast HGSE Publishing Policies & Disclaimers Digital Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy Trademark Notice