UH Online Programs - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Online Education Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Online & Special Programs About About Us Contact Us State Authorization UH System Online Degree Programs Online Programs Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Hybrid Programs UH Extend Programs Online Minors UH Sessions FAQs Sessions Calendar Summer Sessions Calendar Fall Sessions Calendar Class Search Online Professional Development Professional Training Certificate Programs MOOCS Students Prospective Students Student Types Admissions Cost Online Success Student Resources Current Students Student Resources Online Success Remote Learning Proctoring Services Proctoring Request Form Instructors Class Search Syllabus Search Request Info New Online Programs Through UH Extend ONLINE & SPECIALPROGRAMS The University of Houston has been a leader in distance education since 1953 and now offers more than 1,250+ distance education courses each year to more than 47,000+ students across the nation and globe. 48 ONLINE GRADUATE PROGRAMS 1250+ ONLINE COURSES # 14 RANKED ONLINE GRADUATE EDUCATION PROGRAMS 50+ PROGRAMS 11 ONLINE MINORS ONLINE DEGREES The University of Houston offers online undergraduate and graduate degree programs, as well as online minor and hybrid program options. Choose from a variety of programs and create a flexible schedule that meets your needs. Current students can search from hundreds of online and hybrid courses that fit busy schedules. UH was also ranked in the top 100 out of 4,000 colleges and universities on Forbes’ list for America’s Best Value Colleges. Learn More About Online Degrees Search for Classes Undergraduate Degrees UH currently offers 11 undergraduate degree completion programs. Online degree completion programs are designed for students who have completed at least two years of college and would like to earn a bachelor’s degree online. Graduate Degrees UH offers 48 online graduate degrees. We are committed to helping you reach your goal of completing an advanced degree. Minors Online minors are designed to enhance a bachelor’s degree by adding a related topic. UH currently offers 11 online minors. Hybrid Programs Currently thirteen hybrid degrees are offered. Programs range from an undergraduate degree in retailing and consumer science to a master’s degree in social work. UH SESSIONS UH Sessions gives you options in pursuing your degree by providing a variety of courses to help you get ahead or stay on track. Short sessions courses are offered through a condensed schedule during the regular semester in face to face, hybrid, or online formats. Session 2-6 and mini semester courses are considered short sessions where students can complete courses in a condensed format. Learn More About UH Sessions > PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT UH’s Online & Special Programs is a learning gateway for students who want the flexibility to pursue their academic interests online from the comfort of their own home and at their convenience. You can choose from a variety of programs designed to fit your schedule and enhance your professional development. Learn More About Professional Development Professional Training Engaging courses on hundreds of topics to help you advance your professional goals. Certificate Programs Upgrade your skills and qualifications in professional fields. MOOCs Free self-directed opportunities for professional development. STUDENTS College is a journey with many ups, downs and turns. It can be very challenging, but also incredibly rewarding. We are dedicated to the success of our students from choosing a program to graduation. As a University of Houston Online Coog, you have access to the resources you will need to succeed on your academic journey. Prospective Students Current Students Proctoring Services Class Search University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies