Skip to main content Skip to main navigation School of Engineering and Computer Science Menu Students & Academics Student Services Career Center Student Leadership Learning Resource Center Scholarships List of ECS Scholarships Student Organizations Incoming Students Summer Accelerate Program Summer of Discovery Freshmen Fall Incoming Freshmen Equipment Requirements and Computer Recommendations Transfer Course Recommendations Entrance and Progression Standards ECS Scholars Program Academic Advising Meet with an ECS Advisor Advising Walk-in Hours Course Drops Academic Actions Certification for Graduation ECS Summer Courses Advising Resources Pre-Engineering Requirements ECS Course Repeat Policy Final Exam Policy Teal Residential College ECS ID Management ECS Scholars Program Degree Programs Flow Charts Capstone Meet Our Alumni ECS Digital Brochure ECS Student Organization Fair Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research Bioinformatics Computer Science Electrical and Computer Engineering Mechanical Engineering Engineering Materials Science About Education Materials Science Faculty Get Involved Give Dean's Funding Initiatives Quick Impact Giving Planned Giving Matching Gifts Corporate Collaborations Engineering Corporate Affiliate Program Computer Science Corporate Affiliate Program Cybersecurity Corporate Affiliate Program Alumni ASEE Gulf Southwest Conference 2021 About the ASEE GSW Conference Abstract and Paper Submission Conference Agenda and Program Conference Host Conference Registration Conference Organization About Mission Statement Dean's Welcome Office of the Dean Staff Directory ABET Board of Advocates Board Members Synergy Magazine Synergy Magazine - Archives News Events Admission & Aid Departments Informatics About Us Degree Programs Bachelor of Science in Informatics: Bioinformatics Bachelor of Science in Informatics: Data Science major Research Computer Science About Us ABET Chair's Welcome Degree Programs Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Bachelor of Science in Computer Science: Software Engineering Concentration Bachelor of Science in Computer Science: Cybersecurity Concentration Bachelor of Arts Bachelor of Science with Computer Science Fellows Major Online Master of Science Master of Science Doctor of Philosophy Research Bioinformatics Competitive Learning Cybersecurity & Networking Data Science Human-Computer Interaction Machine Learning Software Engineering VLSI Design Giving Electrical & Computer Engineering About Us ABET Welcome from the Chair eBears Seminars Cadence University Program Programs Bachelor of Science B.S. & M.S. Joint Program B.S. & Master of Engineering Joint Program B.S. & M.S. Joint Program Master of Science Doctor of Philosophy Research Biomedical Computing Engineering and Cyber-Physical Systems Material and Devices Sustainable Energy and Power Systems Wireless & Microwave Circuits & Systems Alumni Giving Open Faculty Positions Mechanical Engineering About Us ABET Welcome from the Chair Programs Bachelor of Science B.S. & M.S. Joint Program B.S. & M.S. Joint Program B.S. & M.E. Joint Program M.S. Ph.D. Research Advance Materials and Additive Manufacturing Biomechanics and Biomedical Engineering Energy Systems Engineering Geriatric Engineering Humanitarian Engineering and Engineering Ethics Sustainable Engineering Thermo-Fluids Engineering Open Faculty Positions Engineering About Us ABET Programs Bachelor of Science B.S. & M.S. Joint Program B.S. & M.E. Joint Program M.B.A. & M.E. Joint Program Master of Science Master of Engineering Research 25th Anniversary School of Engineering and Computer Science Timeline Stories Rick Tullis Kimmie Sandusky Mario Lopez Heather Benoit Jay D. Battershell Denton Wood Videos Marques Jones Heather Benoit Spotlight Timeline Merchandise Baylor>Engineering & Computer Science>Students & Academics>Student Services>Student Leadership Student Leadership Engineering and Computer Science Leadership Opportunities Do you love to serve? Would you like to build your resume and enhance your leadership skills? If the answer is yes, please consider applying for one of these leadership experiences we offer in the School of Engineering and Computer Science (ECS). Applications are now closed for the 2022-23 student leader positions. If you have any questions, please reach out to Sarah Miller, Program Director of Teal Residential College, at Sarah_B_Miller@baylor.edu. Engineering & Computer Science Baylor Line Camp Leader Purpose The Line Camp Leader position is designed to warmly welcome new students to the Baylor and Engineering & Computer Science (ECS) community by serving as a small group leader during Baylor Line Camp. Line Camp Leaders are committed to fostering meaningful relationships with new students and preparing new students to be successful at Baylor as they discover a sense of belonging through their experience at Baylor Line Camp. Expectations Line Camp Leaders will be charged to lead a small group of 10-12 new students through the Line Camp experience. Leaders must possess and develop the ability to facilitate conversations with students about strengths, friendship, tradition, meaningful service, and discovering ones unique calling. Baylor Line Camp Leaders must commit to serving new students through this experience as well as be willing to assist with all activities at camp. In addition, leaders will serve as representatives of the School of Engineering and Computer Science and be expected to communicate the needs, hopes, and desires of the School for its students. Requirements Line Camp Leaders are required to participate in the following: Spring Gathering: April/May TBA Program Training: June 15 - 22 Orientation + Baylor Line Camp: June 22 - June 25 Compensation Student leaders will be paid hourly for their employment. Student leaders will be paid part of their regular wages in cash and part in-kind, based on the value of the lodging and meals provided to him/her without cost. Undergraduate Teaching Fellow for Engineering 1301/1101 Purpose The School of Engineering and Computer Science is looking for engaged Mechanical Engineering, Electrical and Computer Engineering, and/or Engineering majors to serve as mentors and teaching assistants in the Intro to Engineering (EGR 1301) and Engineering New Student Experience (EGR 1101) classes. This position is designed to assist new students through their transition in their first semester engineering classes. It is our hope that these Teaching Fellows will be individuals that incoming pre-engineering students can look to for guidance and support throughout their engineering education in college. Expectations Each Undergraduate Teaching Fellow will be assigned to a specific section of EGR 1301 and EGR 1101 (these classes are linked). Tasks would include assisting with the delivery of course content, helping with in-class activities/labs, grading, and holding evening office/lab hours. Meetings outside of class will also be scheduled with both EGR 1301 and EGR 1101 instructors. In addition, Teaching Fellows will be encouraged to plan several class gatherings throughout the semester to encourage connection, community, and support. Requirements Undergraduate Teaching Fellows are required to participate in the following: EGR 1101 Training: Dates/Times TBAm Attend EGR 1101 Class*: TBD based on UTF schedules Attend EGR 1301 lectures and labs*: TBD based on UTF schedules Evening office/lab hours: TBD based on UTF schedules Meetings with EGR 1301/EGR 1101 instructors: TBD based on UTF schedules *EGR 1301/EGR 1101 times will be discussed in the interview process. Summer Option Applicants will have the option to indicate interest in serving as Teaching Fellow for the summer section of 1301 in addition to the traditional fall course sections. The summer 2022 1301 section is an online synchronous class that takes place full summer (June 3 - August 12). Compensation We anticipate this position to work 8 hours/week at $8/hour for the 15 weeks of the Fall semester. Undergraduate Teaching Fellow for Engineering 1302 Purpose The School of Engineering and Computer Science is looking for engaged Mechanical Engineering, Electrical and Computer Engineering, and/or Engineering majors to serve as a mentor and teaching assistant in the Introduction to Engineering Analysis course, EGR 1302. This position is designed to assist pre-engineering students through their second engineering course in the sequence. Expectations Each Undergraduate Teaching Fellow will be assigned to a specific section of EGR 1302. Tasks would include assisting with the delivery of course content, helping with in-class activities/labs, grading, and holding evening office/lab hours. Meetings outside of class will also be scheduled with the EGR 1302 instructor. Requirements Undergraduate Teaching Fellows are required to participate in the following: EGR 1302 Preparation Meeting: TBD based on instructor/UTF schedule Attend EGR 1302 lectures and lab*: TBD based on UTF schedule Office/lab hours: TBD based on UTF schedule Meetings with EGR 1302 instructor: TBD based on UTF schedule *EGR 1302 times will be discussed in the interview process. Summer Option Applicants will have the option to indicate interest in serving as Teaching Fellow for the summer section of 1302 in addition to the traditional fall course section. The summer 2022 1302 section is an online synchronous class that takes place full summer (June 3 - August 12). Compensation We anticipate this position to work 8 hours/week at $8/hour for the 15 weeks of the Fall semester. Students & Academics Student Services Career Center Student Leadership Learning Resource Center Scholarships List of ECS Scholarships Student Organizations Incoming Students Summer Accelerate Program Summer of Discovery Freshmen Fall Incoming Freshmen Equipment Requirements and Computer Recommendations Transfer Course Recommendations Entrance and Progression Standards ECS Scholars Program Academic Advising Meet with an ECS Advisor Advising Walk-in Hours Course Drops Academic Actions Certification for Graduation ECS Summer Courses Advising Resources Pre-Engineering Requirements ECS Course Repeat Policy Final Exam Policy Teal Residential College ECS ID Management ECS Scholars Program Degree Programs Flow Charts Capstone Meet Our Alumni ECS Digital Brochure ECS Student Organization Fair School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Engineering & Computer Science One Bear Place #97356 Waco, TX 76798-7356 Computer Science One Bear Place #97141 Waco, TX 76798-7141 (254) 710-3890 ECS_Student_Services@baylor.edu Apply Give Questions for Undergraduate Programs Questions for Graduate Programs General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Students & Academics Student Services Career Center Student Leadership Learning Resource Center Scholarships Student Organizations Incoming Students Academic Advising Teal Residential College ECS ID Management ECS Scholars Program Degree Programs Flow Charts Capstone Meet Our Alumni ECS Digital Brochure ECS Student Organization Fair Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research Bioinformatics Computer Science Electrical and Computer Engineering Mechanical Engineering Engineering Materials Science Get Involved Give Dean's Funding Initiatives Quick Impact Giving Planned Giving Matching Gifts Corporate Collaborations Engineering Corporate Affiliate Program Computer Science Corporate Affiliate Program Cybersecurity Corporate Affiliate Program Alumni ASEE Gulf Southwest Conference 2021 About the ASEE GSW Conference Abstract and Paper Submission Conference Agenda and Program Conference Host Conference Registration Conference Organization About Mission Statement Dean's Welcome Office of the Dean Staff Directory ABET Board of Advocates Board Members Synergy Magazine Synergy Magazine - Archives News Events Admission & Aid Departments Informatics About Us Degree Programs Research Computer Science About Us Degree Programs Research Giving Electrical & Computer Engineering About Us Programs Research Alumni Giving Open Faculty Positions Mechanical Engineering About Us Programs Research Open Faculty Positions Engineering About Us Programs Research 25th Anniversary School of Engineering and Computer Science Timeline Stories Rick Tullis Kimmie Sandusky Mario Lopez Heather Benoit Jay D. Battershell Denton Wood Videos Marques Jones Heather Benoit Spotlight Timeline Merchandise