Skip navigation For Alumni For Employers In the Know About Contact LionSHARE Jobs & Internships Jobs Internships Employers We Work With CCE Internship Programs Funding Programs Career Counseling Drop-in Hours Career Counseling Appointments Practice Interviews Programs & Services Career Resources Design Your Next Steps Resumes & CVs Cover Letters Networking Negotiating Interviews Workplace Career Advancement Graduate School Free Premium Resources Career Exploration Majors Industries Arts Business Communications & Media Consulting Education Engineering & Technology Environment & Sustainability Financial Services Government Healthcare International Affairs Law Non-Profits & Social Justice Psychology, Counseling & Social Work Science Sports Startups Student Experiences Career Assessments Connect With Alumni Info For... First-Generation/Low-Income Students International Students Students with Disabilities Veteran Students LGBTQ Students Visiting Students Families Students of Color Women Events Jobs & Internships Jobs Internships Employers We Work With CCE Internship Programs Funding Programs Career Counseling Drop-in Hours Career Counseling Appointments Practice Interviews Programs & Services Career Resources Design Your Next Steps Resumes & CVs Cover Letters Networking Negotiating Interviews Workplace Career Advancement Graduate School Free Premium Resources Career Exploration Majors Industries Student Experiences Career Assessments Connect With Alumni Info For... First-Generation/Low-Income Students International Students Students with Disabilities Veteran Students LGBTQ Students Visiting Students Families Students of Color Women Events Search Career Counseling In line with the University’s guidance, The Center for Career Education (CCE) is operating remotely. We invite you to schedule a career counseling appointment in LionSHARE to meet virtually with our career counselors via phone or Zoom. Drop-in sessions (Quick Questions) are being offered virtually. We offer career counseling appointments and practice interviews to students and graduates from our supported schools. Current students and alumni can meet with a career counselor for 30-minute, one-on-one appointments. Current students can also meet with a career counselor in a 15-minute drop-in session (Quick Questions). Drop-in Hours for Quick Questions Important Notice — Quick Questions service has concluded for the semester. Quick Questions are 15-minute sessions offered Monday — Friday from 2 pm — 4 pm EST. Counseling Appointments We oﬀer career counseling appointments to students and alumni from four schools at Columbia. Current students and alumni can meet with a career counselor for 30 minutes, one-on-one. Practice Interviews Get ready and build confidence and comfort for your interviews through practice. To schedule a practice interview appointment, log into LionSHARE, select “Career Center” on the top right-hand corner, and choose “Appointments.” Programs & Services Whether it’s an internship opportunity, funding for an internship, or a career-related workshop, we offer lots of career-related programs and services to help you make the most of your job search. Share This Facebook Twitter Print HTML Design Your Next Steps Design Your Next Steps, CCE’s Career Planner Our “Design Your Next Steps” career planning guide contains everything you need to jump-start your career beyond Columbia. Read it now! Need guidance? Get in Touch! Log into LionSHARE now to schedule a career counseling appointment. Get to Know CCE Top VISIT US East Campus Building Lower Level 116th & Amsterdam (enter through Wien Courtyard) CALL US (212) 854-5609 Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn OFFICE HOURS Monday-Friday, 9:00 AM – 5:00 PM QUICK QUESTION? Virtual Drop-in Hours offered Monday — Friday from 2 p.m. — 4 p.m. ET during the academic year. ACCESSIBILITY INFORMATION Disability access is available at the southern door of 70-74 Morningside Drive. Ramps provide entrance to the front desk. A sign indicating disability access and Center telephone numbers is posted below the University call box. To ensure the ease of access, it is strongly encouraged that clients call either the front desk at 212-854-5609, Employer and Alumni Relations at 212-854-9167, or visit our Contact Us form prior to arrival. SEARCH JOBS AND INTERNSHIPS To make an appointment, visit LionSHARE. For all inquiries CONTACT US Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York Privacy Policy Notice of Non-Discrimination Terms of Use