Skip Navigation Texas A&M University at Galveston Find info for: Future Students Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Former Students Visitors Veterans University Catalog Phonebook Calendar A-Z List Search MENU About TAMUG Academics Admissions Campus Life Giving Research Search Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Administration Directions A Wave of Change HOWDY Portal Select Web or People Web People Search Menu Home About Academics Administration Admissions Campus Life Giving Research Directions A Wave of Change Phonebook Calendar Info For: Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Former Students Visitors Veterans ‹› History Celebrating over fifty years, the Texas A&M University at Galveston serves as the “ocean oriented campus” of Texas A&M University. The campus offers a unique blend of marine and maritime programs, including majors in science, business, engineering, and transportation. The atmosphere fostered by the faculty, staff, and students emphasizes the intimate relationship between the university and the sea. TAMUG is a branch campus of Texas A&M University. Graduates receive the Aggie Ring and a Texas A&M University diploma. The Texas A&M Galveston is home to the Texas A&M Maritime Academy: the only maritime academy located on the Gulf Coast. In the late 1950s two Galveston marine biologists, Dr. Albert Collier and Dr. Sammy Ray pioneered the Galveston Marine Laboratory, conducting scientific research in oceanography and marine biology at the former Army barracks of Fort Crockett. In 1965, the United States Department of Commerce, Maritime Administration provided a training ship for Texas Maritime Academy cadets. The the U.S. Navy ship, USS Queens, was renamed the Texas Clipper. While training cadets to become officers in the Merchant Marine of the United States, TMA training vessels are operated by the State of Texas under the jurisdiction of MARAD and considered public vessels. Subsequent training ships replacing the Texas Clipper included the 393-foot USN Chauvenet, which was renamed TEXAS CLIPPER II. Then in 2005, the TEXAS CLIPPER II was replaced with the former USNS Sirius and later in 2009 with the former SS Cape Gibson. About TAMUG TAMUG Videos 1-87-SEA AGGIE (877-322-4443) Today the TS General Rudder takes the cadets to sea. She was named in honor of General Earl Rudder, leader of the Army Rangers on D-Day at Normandy. Later as president of Texas A&M University, President Rudder was instrumental in the founding of the maritime academy. TAMUG Timeline 1931 Statute passed by Texas state Legislature that “interested citizens” could establish “in one of the harbors of the State of Texas a Nautical School…” 1952 The Marine Laboratory established. 1957 Marine Laboratory of the oceanography department of Texas A&M College authorized to move to a surplus building on Fort Crockett. 1958 Annual banquet held in Galveston to celebrate National Maritime Day. Committee established to help create a state maritime academy. 1959 Committee confronted with first major challenge: a 28-year-old legislative obstacle to creating a maritime school in Texas. 1961 State funds for the Texas Maritime Academy appropriated. 1962 The Texas Maritime Academy cadets started their first semester ever. 1963 The dedication of Fort Crockett campus postponed because of the assassination of President Kennedy. 1964 Fort Crockett campus dedicated. 1965 Cadets took first cruise aboard the renamed Texas Clipper. George Mitchell donated 100 acres on Pelican Island. 1966 Cadet Charter class graduates. Texas A&M named a Sea Grant institution. 1970 The first structure on the new Pelican Island campus—a docking facility—to be completed. 1971 Everyone moved to Pelican Island and for the first time, freshmen (and sometimes sophomores) didn’t have to stay at the main campus. 1975 The Texas Coordinating Board approved a new bachelor of science program in marine biology. 1976 The first dormitory building and the student union opened. 1978 The first on-campus outdoor athletic facilities officially opened. 1979 TAMU System Board of Regents renamed institution Texas A&M University at Galveston. The $2.4 million classroom laboratory building opened for classes. 1982 Marine Fisheries was added to the campus curricula. 1983 Hurricane Alicia caused half a million dollars in damage to TAMUG. 1984 Propeller of a WWII seagoing tug installed on campus. 1985 First commencement ceremony held in Galveston. 1989 TAMUG in the US News & World Report top-ten rankings for small colleges in the West for the first time. 1990 TAMUG began implementing its merger with the College of Geosciences at Texas A&M University. Enrollment breaks the 1,000 mark. 1995 Anchor from Texas Clipper I was installed in the center of the quadrangle (to make way to the clock tower 8 years later. 1996 The Texas Clipper II embarked on its maiden voyage. 1997 First bachelor of arts program on campus approved. 1999 TAMUG first appeared in the College Guide 2000 Princeton Review, of Time magazine’s top 500 colleges nationwide. 2000 The bachelor of science degree in Ocean and Coastal Resources (OCRE) authorized. 2002 TAMUG offers its first independent graduate degree. 2003 Bracewell Clock Tower erected and dedicated. 2005 Stephen Curley’s history of TAMUG Aggies by the Sea published. 2007 Texas Clipper deliberately sunk off Port Isabel Texas as an artificial reef by Texas Parks & Wildlife. 2008 Sept. 10, TAMUG campus closes for hurricane evacuation. Sept. 12 (Friday), Hurricane Ike hit Galveston directly: Approximately ¾ of Galveston was submerged. TAMUG relocated to College Station for remainder of fall semester, retaining more than 90 percent of its students. 2009 Jan. 20, TAMUG classes resumed in Galveston. 2011 The $42 million, 110,000 square-foot Ocean and Coastal Studies building opened. 2012 TAMUG celebrated 50 years. 2012 The General Rudder arrives. Traditions One of the things Sea Aggies are known for—much like their land-locked counterparts in College Station—are their adherence and loyalty to Aggie traditions. Sea Aggies take part in all the time-honored Aggie traditions like Big Event, the Aggie Ring, Elephant Walk, Howdy, Muster and the 12th Man, but they also have their own traditions: Maritime Ball, The Anchor, SALT Camp, Texas Clipper Training vessel. Celebrating 50 years of Sea Aggies The university’s and maritime academy’s students, professors, scientific findings and the maritime academy’s merchant marine officers, naval officers and reputation continues to grow, passing regional, state and national boundaries. TAMUG professors tend to agree that in a short 50 years, the little university on the coast that no one thought would make it has been part of discoveries and people who have changed the world. About Texas A&M ABOUT TAMUG Links TAMUG at a Glance History of TAMUG Admissions Admissions Links Office of Admissions Scholarships & Financial Aid Texas A&M Maritime Academy Marine Training & Safety Links TAMMA Links About TAMMA Apply to TAMMA Academic Resources Academic Resources Links Majors & Minors Jack K. Williams Library Faculty Resources Research at TAMUG Graduate Studies Center for Academic Learning Support Sea Camp & Outreach Sea Camp Links Sea Camp & Outreach Programs Field Trip Opportunities Administration Administration Links Vice President & Executive Team Office of Academic Affairs Administration & Auxiliary Services Information Technology Diversity at TAMUG Human Resources Make a Gift Title IX Emergency Preparedness Open Records TAMUG Facebook TAMUG Twitter TAMUG Instagram TAMUG LinkedIn TAMUG Youtube Mailing Address: P.O. Box 1675 Galveston, Texas 77553 Physical Address: 200 Seawolf Parkway Galveston, TX 77554 Shipping Address: 1001 Texas Clipper Road Galveston, TX 77554 Phone: 409.740.4400 Back to top Accessibility – Privacy – Legal Notices – Annual Security Report – Annual Fire Safety Report Campus Security Authority Form – Contact us – Contact Webmaster – Mental Health Resources – State of Texas – Texas Homeland Security Statewide Search – Texas Veterans Portal – Texas CREW – Risk, Fraud & Misconduct Hotline – Texas Veterans Commission © 2022 Texas A&M University at Galveston is a member of The Texas A&M University System