Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Nanotechnology (MS) Request Info Program at a Glance Program Master College(s) College of Graduate Studies Department(s) Nanoscience Technology Center In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $369.65 per credit hour $1,194.05 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. The Master of Science in Nanotechnology program provides students with scientific knowledge and research training in nanoscience and nanotechnology. The program prepares students for seeking employment in industry and academia involved in nanotechnology research, product development and commercialization, or to pursue advanced PhD degrees in related areas. The Nanotechnology MS program consists of 30 credit hours of study that covers Fall, Spring and Summer consecutive academic terms. Admissions to the program occur in both the Fall and Spring semester of each year, and students are expected to finish the degree in two years. The program of study includes a balanced course offering including interdisciplinary scientific courses and research training in the field of nanotechnology. The curriculum of courses is delivered via face-to-face instruction. The program includes 3 credit hours of independent study and 6 credit hours of thesis research under the supervision of a faculty at the NanoScience Technology Center. This training will provide students with hands-on research experiences on nanomaterial synthesis, nanostructure fabrication and characterization, and application development in their interested areas. Request Information View Full Description Program Tracks/Options Non-Thesis Application Deadlines Domestic International Spring December 1 Fall July 1 Spring July 1 Fall January 15 Ready to get started? Apply Today Career Opportunities UCF prepares you for life beyond the classroom. Here, you’ll experience a wide range of opportunity, like learning diverse skills from world-renowned faculty to networking with top employers across Central Florida to gaining first-hand experience in internships nearby. Achieve your degree and more as a Knight. Corrosion Control Engineer Mathematical Engineer Optical Engineer Ordnance Engineer Photonics Engineer Salvage Engineer Degree Search College of Graduate Studies programs Masters Nanotechnology (MS) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management Request Information × Enter your information below to receive more information about the Nanotechnology (MS) program offered at UCF. Loading... × The Master of Science in Nanotechnology program provides students with scientific knowledge and research training in nanoscience and nanotechnology. The program prepares students for seeking employment in industry and academia involved in nanotechnology research, product development and commercialization, or to pursue advanced PhD degrees in related areas. The Nanotechnology MS program consists of 30 credit hours of study that covers Fall, Spring and Summer consecutive academic terms. Admissions to the program occur in both the Fall and Spring semester of each year, and students are expected to finish the degree in two years. The program of study includes a balanced course offering including interdisciplinary scientific courses and research training in the field of nanotechnology. The curriculum of courses is delivered via face-to-face instruction. The program includes 3 credit hours of independent study and 6 credit hours of thesis research under the supervision of a faculty at the NanoScience Technology Center. This training will provide students with hands-on research experiences on nanomaterial synthesis, nanostructure fabrication and characterization, and application development in their interested areas. Program Prerequisites Applicants should have obtained an undergraduate degree in one of the following areas: physics, chemistry, biology, or engineering. Application Requirements For information on general UCF graduate admissions requirements that apply to all prospective students, please visit the Admissions section of the Graduate Catalog. Applicants must apply online. All requested materials must be submitted by the established deadline. Applicants should have obtained an undergraduate degree in one of the following areas: physics, chemistry, biology, or engineering. In addition to the general UCF graduate application requirements, applicants to this program must provide: One official transcript (in a sealed envelope) from each college/university attended. The GRE is not required for admission to this program. Résumé or Curriculum Vitae Goal Statement The goal statement should discuss all relevant professional background and any previous research and/or teaching experience. The statement should explain the motivation behind the pursuit of a master's degree in Nanotechnology. Future career goals after the completion of the applicant's master study should be discussed. The goal statement should between 500 and 1,000 words. Three letters of recommendation Applicants applying to this program who have attended a college/university outside the United States must provide a course-by-course credential evaluation with GPA calculation. Credential evaluations are accepted from World Education Services (WES) or Josef Silny and Associates, Inc. only. The acceptance decision will be based on the assessment of the applicant's GPA from previous college/university, past work experience, recommendation letters and the statement of interest and objectives. Additionally, the committee will evaluate other academic indicators such as having completed a senior thesis, authorship on publications, internship, involvement in scientific research projects, and/or presentations at major scientific meetings and non-academic indicators such as evidence of leadership, extracurricular activities, work or military experience, and/or volunteer activities. For applicants that already have had working experiences in STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Mathematics) fields, emphasis will be placed on their past experiences and recommendation letters. Readmission Applicants who are applying for readmission need not resubmit transcripts if the transcripts are previously on file with UCF. However, the following application requirements do need to be current for the new readmission application: Résumé/Curriculum Vitae Goal Statement Letters of Recommendation Application Deadlines Nanotechnology MS *Fall Priority Fall Spring Summer Domestic Applicants Jan 15 Jul 1 Dec 1 International Applicants Jan 15 Jan 15 Jul 1 *Applicants who plan to enroll full time in a degree program and who wish to be considered for university fellowships or assistantships should apply by the Fall Priority date. Financial Information Graduate students may receive financial assistance through fellowships, assistantships, tuition support, or loans. For more information, see the College of Graduate Studies Funding website, which describes the types of financial assistance available at UCF and provides general guidance in planning your graduate finances. The Financial Information section of the Graduate Catalog is another key resource. Fellowship Information Fellowships are awarded based on academic merit to highly qualified students. They are paid to students through the Office of Student Financial Assistance, based on instructions provided by the College of Graduate Studies. Fellowships are given to support a student's graduate study and do not have a work obligation. For more information, see UCF Graduate Fellowships, which includes descriptions of university fellowships and what you should do to be considered for a fellowship. University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida