Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Current Students Faculty Search BC.edu Links Classical Studies Menu Main Nav Classical Studies Classical Studies Contact Back Back Close About Overview Facilities & Opportunities Contact Giving Open Positions People Undergraduate Overview Major Minors Study Abroad Graduate Overview M.A. in Classics M.A. in Latin Courses What is Classics? Close Contact Directory A to Z Listing Search Morrissey College Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Current Students Faculty BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Classical Studies Home Graduate M.A. in Classics Graduate M.A. in Classics M.A. in Latin M.A. in Classics Available here, in addition to a statement of degree requirements, is the reading list for the degree and a supplementary reading list for historical background. Requirements The M.A. in Classics requires ten courses (30 credits) in Greek and Latin at the graduate level, completion of an independent reading list, demonstration of proficiency in a modern foreign language, usually French or German, and comprehensive written and oral examinations. Get Started Request Info Apply Now Course Work Six - advanced language courses a year are normally available to graduate students. Additional courses may be available through the Boston-area consortium and (with departmental permission) classical civilization courses may be taken at BC. Students are encouraged to develop a seminar paper into a conference paper for presentation. Modern Language Proficiency is demonstrated by a one-hour translation test in which the use of a dictionary is allowed. This test does not form part of the comprehensive exams. It should be taken at a student's earliest convenience, the sooner the better. Exams These include written translation exams in Greek and Latin, a two-hour written essay exam in Greek literature, a two-hour written essay exam in Latin literature, and a one-hour oral exam. Each written translation exam, one for Greek and one for Latin, requires the translation of three (out of four) passages. The translation exams are based on the reading list; use of a dictionary is not allowed. The comprehensive exams, one on the Greek side and one on the Roman side, offer four essay topics of which the student will choose three. These essays are an opportunity to demonstrate knowledge of the ancient world by drawing on different authors, genres, and other kinds of evidence to comment on larger thematic issues in the ancient world. The oral exam is open-ended, testing whether a student can engage in an hour long conversation about classical literature, its historical contexts, and its place in the modern world. A supplementary reading list suggests books on political, social, and literary history to help prepare. Summary of Requirements 30 credits of coursework Proficiency test (with a dictionary) in a modern foreign language Written translation exams in the ancient languages Two-hour written essay examination on Greek literature Two-hour written essay examination on Latin literature One-hour oral examination Reading List The reading list lays out the works we expect students to gain familiarity with in the course of their studies. Some of these works will be the focus of our courses while others should be the object of individual and group study. For print purposes see Reading List in pdf format. Print Open All Close All Readings in Greek Readings in Greek Homer: Iliad 1, 9, 16, 22, 24; Odyssey 9–12 Hesiod: Theogony Homeric Hymns: 5 (To Aphrodite) Greek Lyric: Archilochus frr. 6, 7, 60, Cologne Fragment Sappho frr. 1, 16, 31 Tyrtaeus fr. 9 Solon frr. 1, 19 Pindar: Olympian 1 Aeschylus: Agamemnon Sophocles: Oedipus Rex Euripides: Medea Aristophanes: Clouds Herodotus: Histories 1 Thucydides: Selections in B. Nagy, Thucydides Reader Gorgias: 11 (Helen) Plato: Apology Lysias: 1 (On the Murder of Eratosthenes) Apollonius of Rhodes: Argonautica 3 Theocritus: Idylls 11 (Polyphemus to Galatea) Lucian: Alexander the False Prophet Plutarch: Alexander Readings in Latin Readings in Latin Plautus: Pseudolus Terence: Adelphoe Catullus: All Lucretius: De Rerum Natura 1.1-482, 3 Cicero: In Catilinam 1, Stockton’s Thirty-Five Letters Caesar: Civil War 1 Sallust: Bellum Catilinae Vergil: Eclogues 1; Aeneid 1, 2, 4, 6, 12 Horace: Odes 1; Satires 1 Tibullus: Elegies 1 Propertius: Elegies 1 Ovid: Amores 1; Metamorphoses 1 Livy: Ab Urbe Condita 1 Augustus: Res Gestae Tacitus: Annales 14 Pliny: Epistles 6.16, 20; 10.96, 97 Juvenal: Satires 1, 3 Apuleius: Metamorphoses 4.28–6.24 (Cupid and Psyche) Supplementary Reading List Supplementary Reading List As general background to the study of classical antiquity, we strongly recommend that you read some basic works on the political and social history of Greece and Rome, especially if you have never taken a course on those subjects. The books below are recent classics that we like, but there are many available; feel free to make substitutions. For Greece Robin Osborne, Greece in the Making, 1200-479 BC Simon Hornblower, The Greek World, 479-323 BC Loren J. Samons, ed. Cambridge Companion to the Age of Pericles Greek social history: e.g. J.N. Davidson, Courtesans & Fishcakes: The Consuming Passions of Classical Athens For Rome Harriet Flower, Roman Republics Colin Wells, The Roman Empire Ronald Syme, The Roman Revolution Roman social history: e.g. Robert Knapp, Invisible Romans; Potter & Mattingly, Life, Death, and Entertainment in the Roman Empire (esp. good on religion, demography, & spectacles); Michael Peachin, ed. The Oxford Handbook of Roman Social Relations; T. Wiseman, Catullus and His World For literary history Gian Biagio Conte, Latin Literature: A History Tim Whitmarsh, Ancient Greek Literature Back To Top Back To Top Classical Studies Stokes Hall S260 617-552-3661 Facebook Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Gasson Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Contact Departments Art, Art History, and Film Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics Engineering English German Studies History Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Romance Languages and Literatures Slavic & Eastern Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology Give to Classics Apply Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College