Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Alumni Association Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Alumni Clubs Alumni Community Benefits CAA Arts Access Career Resources Events Get Involved News Columbia Alumni Association You are here: Home Intersectionality in Racism and Public Health Events Past Event Intersectionality in Racism and Public Health Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo March 1, 2022 5:30 PM - 7:00 PM America/New_York Online Event Our identities matter. So why does it often seem that language, discourse, and even research, far from naming all the facets of our lived experience, merely reduce us to single categories? We live at the intersection of our many identities, and their meanings are shaped by one another as they interact and combine. What happens when our approach to public health doesn't make room for all of who we are? In this panel discussion, we'll explore intersectionality—the simultaneous effects of race, ethnicity, gender, sexuality, and other social and personal categories of identity. We'll explore the tenets of intersectional theory and the necessity for public health to take an intersectional approach to our research, policy, and practice. Register on Zoom to receive a link to the event. Panel Participants Robert E. Fullilove, EdD (moderator) Associate Dean for Community and Minority Affairs, Professor of Clinical Sociomedical Sciences Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health Dustin T. Duncan, ScD Associate Professor in the Department of Epidemiology Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health C. Virginia Fields, MSW President and CEO of the National Black Leadership Commission on Health Inc. Nesha Z. Haniff, PhD Founder of the Pedagogy of Action (POA) and the Gender Consciousness Project (GCP) Lecturer in the Department of Afro-American and African Studies at the University of Michigan Elinor Tatum Publisher and Editor in Chief of the New York Amsterdam News The Office of Diversity, Culture, and Inclusion at Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health launched the FACE Forward Speaker Series in the fall of 2021. It features panel discussions with renowned public health experts. Through this series, a variety of guests – from local policymakers to community organizers to international public health innovators – share insights on anti-racist practice and engage in a dialogue with faculty, staff, and students. Learn more. Contact Information Leisa A. Herrera, EdD [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Alumni Center 622 West 113th Street, Mail Code 4525 · New York, NY 10025 Phone 212-851-7800 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close