Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University GSAS Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded I am a... Degree Programs Student Guide Graduate Life Our Community Blog Prospective Student Current Student Faculty & Staff Alumna / Alumnus Admissions MA Programs PhD Programs Coronavirus Information for GSAS Students Financing Your Education New Student Guide Policy Handbook Research Teaching The Dissertation Career Development Convocation Diversity and Inclusion GSAS Writing Studio Graduate Student Center Student Life & Well-Being Alumni Network Dean’s Welcome GSAS at a Glance History Publications Staff Contact Us GSAS You are here: Home Student Guide Teaching Teaching The Value of Teaching The experience of teaching as a graduate student is a foundational element of doctoral education, and one of the most significant and vital parts of your professional apprenticeship. A variety of resources will help develop your pedagogical skills, among them the multiple programs available through the Center for Teaching and Learning, as well as the various pedagogical initiatives sponsored by your department. Read More Key Contacts Center for Teaching and Learning 212 Butler Library 535 West 114th Street New York, NY 10027 (212) 854-1692 [email protected] Teaching Toolkit Center for Teaching and Learning CTL partners with faculty, students, and colleagues to support excellence and innovation in teaching and learning. Lead Teaching Fellows The LTF program is a professional development opportunity for doctoral students who are committed to promoting pedagogical practices and conversations among their peers. Innovative Teaching Summer Institute The Innovative Teaching Summer Institute at Columbia University is an intensive, multi-day series of workshops, discussions, and posted reflections all centered on the use of emerging tools to support effective teaching. Teaching Fellows Orientations The CTL offers new teaching assistants a set of orientation sessions designed to supplement department-based orientation and training. Teachers' Lounges Teachers’ Lounges are series of informal discussions about teaching practices and the culture of learning at Columbia. GSAS Teaching Scholars Program This program affords advanced doctoral students the opportunity to design and teach a course in their area of expertise. Graduate Student Teaching Guidelines These guidelines are intended to help graduate students as they embark on the crucial teaching element of their PhD. Teaching and Research Appointments Multi-year fellows are required to participate in the teaching and research programs of their departments. Teaching Opportunities Outside the Department Listed on this page are several teaching opportunities outside academic departments that are available to GSAS doctoral students. Instructional Requirement Students in Arts & Sciences PhD programs must fulfill a one-year GSAS teaching requirement in their first four years of residence (three years for students admitted with advanced standing) or before receipt of the MPhil degree. Handouts See a collation of useful handouts for students and teachers in aid of the academic process. Presidential Teaching Award The Presidential Teaching Awards honor outstanding graduate student teachers. Graduate School of Arts and Sciences109 Low Memorial Library, MC 4306, 535 West 116th Street · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-8903 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close