Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Find: A to Z Index People Directory Learn More: About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Native American and Indigenous Studies Brown About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory m.Brown.edu News Events Visit Campus Life Map Directory Brown Apps Safety About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Native American and Indigenous Studies Initiative NAISI Graduate Fellowship Brown University’s Native American and Indigenous Studies Initiative (NAISI) collaborates with a number of departments across the campus to offer fellowships to students pursuing Master’s degrees. NAISI is dedicated to increasing the understanding and maintenance of the cultural traditions and political experiences of Native American and Indigenous Peoples. This fellowship supports a one- or two-year graduate student working in Native American and Indigenous Studies topics. The student must be enrolled in a full-time Master’s program. We are especially interested in supporting students whose work advocates for and/or engages in scholarship that contributes to the wellbeing of Native American or Indigenous communities. Prospective students should explain in their personal statement how their academic and professional preparation and career goals make them appropriate candidates for this fellowship. We welcome students coming right from college or those who have worked with Native or Indigenous communities or as professionals in a field of interest. Submit your personal statement (no longer than two pages) with your graduate school application and directly to NAISI ([email protected]). The fellow will join the Native American and Indigenous Studies Initiative office and be engaged with a project (or projects) that support engagement with and the growth of NAIS at Brown University, with a Native or Indigenous community or with an organization or institution contributing to the needs of Native American or Indigenous peoples. As part of the NAISI office, the fellow will participate in NAISI events, programming and mentorship of undergraduate students, and work closely with the NAISI Director regarding progress on their MA degree. The student will join an interdisciplinary community of graduate students working in Native American and Indigenous Studies in several departments across the university. The programs collaborating with NAISI to offer this fellowship include: American Studies (A.M.) BioMed/Biotechnology (Sc.M., A.M.) Biomedical Engineering (Sc.M.) Biostatistics (A.M., Sc.M.) Computer Science (Sc.M.) Cyber Security (Sc.M.) Innovation Management and Entrepreneurship (PRIME) (Sc.M.) Integrative Studies (A.M., Sc.M.) Theatre Arts and Performance Studies: Playwriting (MFA) Public Affairs (MPA) Public Health (MPH) Public Health & Public Affairs (dual degree) (MPH/MPA) Public Humanities (A.M.) Social Analysis and Research (Sc.M.) Theater: Brown/Trinity Rep Acting and Directing (MFA) Urban Education Policy (A.M.) This program requires residency in the Providence, R.I., area, with all courses offered on campus. Please check the Graduate School website for application deadlines and more information. For more information about NAISI, please visit the rest of our website. Main menu Home Booking Spaces People NAISI Graduate Fellowship Course Offerings Undergraduate Events Resources NAISI E-Bulletin Archive Funding Requests Research Projects and Community Engagement Stay Informed Annual Reports Brown University Land Acknowledgment Mellon Grant Native American and Indigenous Studies Native American and Indigenous Studies Brown University 67 George Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-5972 Email [email protected] Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Resource Links A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat