Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Okta Outlook More Sign Ons... Iowa State University Inside Iowa State for faculty and staff Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Submit News Announcements Archives Inside Update Inside Iowa State Faculty Senate Updates P&S Council Updates Regents Updates Dec 16, 2021 Calendar Employee Resources About Us Final prep December 16 Students found all kinds of study spaces on campus this week to prepare for final exams. Graduation events return to pre-pandemic formats December 16 More than 1,900 students are scheduled to complete their Iowa State degrees this week. They'll be celebrated during Friday evening and Saturday afternoon ceremonies at Hilton Coliseum. Office custodial services being primed for spring semester December 16 During winter break, an expanding custodial staff will clean spaces that, by necessity, had lower priority during fall semester, including offices and administrative areas. Perry-Fantini Perry Fantini named vice president for diversity, equity and inclusion December 16 She will leave her post as vice provost for equity, access and opportunity and Title IX coordinator at Tiffin University, Ohio, to start Jan. 18 at Iowa State. Catt review committee following up with requesters, others December 16 A broad audience will be able to review a draft report on the request to rename Catt Hall. The committee will invite feedback from the requesters, university units and other stakeholders and set a public period for written comment. What's open and closed during winter break December 16 Winter break begins this weekend and lasts about a month. Many facilities, offices and services close or reduce hours during break, though student services remain available during the online-only winter session. Here's a rundown. Online leadership workshops will start this spring December 16 A series of skills-based leadership workshops for faculty will begin during spring semester. The 90-minute online sessions, announced at the Dec. 15 Faculty Senate meeting, will focus on creating and leading inclusive meetings. Announcements COVID-19: By the numbers Next 'Inside' is Jan. 6 Design's annual postcard print exhibition, silent auction opens Dec. 20 Wednesday afternoon, evening exams moved to Friday Smile and Write sessions continue during winter session Recycle your greeting cards View Archive › Retirements and farewells Farewells Annie Arbuckle, Dec. 17 View Archive › Around campus Overcoming self-doubt to build future in architecture Making prosthetics is a perfect fit Modernized Library 160 rolls out spring semester Family dynamics play key role in talking about health Making it easier to harness the power of the sun Inside tools Print this edition RSS | Twitter Strategic Relations and Communications Inside Iowa State 2420 Lincoln Way Suite 201 Ames, Iowa 50014-8340 inside@iastate.edu 515-294-7958 phone @InsideIowaState Social Media Directory Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Loading...