Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Site Navigation By the Numbers Mission & Values People Our History Accreditation Strategic Plan Wellness Podcasts Service & Community Engagement SPH Policies and Guidelines Events Conversations with ... National Public Health Week 2022 Commencement 2022 2022 Commencement Weekend Overview Community Celebration Undergraduate Awards Graduate Awards Ceremony Program University Commencement Information about Brown University Commencement exercises. Learn More 2020 Graduates Return to College Hill 2020 Master’s class speaker Abdullah Shihipar MPH’20 uses narrative and storytelling tools to document how public health crises like the pandemic are affecting people. Find out more Commencement 2022 Commencement 2022 occurs over Memorial Day Weekend, May 27-29, 2022. Commencement Day is Sunday May 29th. A full schedule for the weekend along with detailed information for students, alumni, and their guests can be found below and at the University's Commencement website. Share your Commencement Weekend with #Brown2022! Please note that the School of Public Health follows all Brown University health and safety protocols to ensure the safety of our in-person events. SPH Commencement Highlights Friday, May 27, 2022 | 4:00 - 6:00 p.m. Public Health Community Celebration Alumni, students, faculty, and staff are invited to kick off Commencement Weekend festivities with the School of Public Health! The 2022 SPH student and alumni award recipients will be honored during a brief ceremony beginning at 4:15 pm, followed by a celebratory reception! Space is limited. Rochambeau House | 84 Prospect Street Friday, May 27 | 9:00 p.m. - 1:00 a.m. Campus Dance Visit the School of Public Health table MB-420 at the Campus Dance where alumni students, families, faculty, and staff will float between the College Green and Simmons Quad, dancing the night away under paper lanterns lighting the skies. College Green and Ruth Simmons Quadrangle Purchase tickets Saturday, May 28 Public Health Commencement Forums Leadership in a Crisis: Beyond and Through the Pandemic Featuring: Nicole Alexander-Scott M.D., MPH’11, former director of the RI Department of Health; senior executive consultant, Association of State and Territorial Health Officials Megan Ranney M.D., MPH’10, professor of emergency medicine and academic dean of the Brown University School of Public Health 11:00 a.m. - 12:30 p.m. | Salomon Center for Teaching | 79 Waterman Street | Room 001 Through the looking glass: What the pandemic teaches us about pathways to health equity Featuring: Moderator Stefanie Friedhoff, associate professor of the practice of health services, policy, and practice in the Brown University School of Public Health John N. Nkengasong MSc, Ph.D., Director of the Africa Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (Addis Ababa, Ethiopia) Zeynep Tüfekçi Ph.D., Associate Professor, UNC School of Information and Library Science (SILS), Principal Researcher at Carolina’s Center for Information, Technology, and Public Life (CITAP) In the US and worldwide, the COVID-19 pandemic has brought the vast inequity of our health systems into sharp focus. It has highlighted that health equity is still not a reality as COVID-19 has unequally affected many racial and ethnic minority groups, putting them at risk of getting sick and dying. But what have we learned? Join our distinguished guests to discuss what the pandemic has exposed and what it has to teach us about how to build a healthier, more equitable future. 12:30-1:30 p.m. | MacMillan Hall | 167 Thayer Street | Room 117 All Commencement Forums Sunday, May 29 | estimated start 2:45 or 3 p.m. (following the University Ceremony) School of Public Health Ceremony The Public Health Ceremony will be held under the tent on the Ruth J. Simmons Quadrangle (Lower Green), behind Sayles Hall. The Ceremony, which will also be livestreamed via Zoom, is estimated to begin at 2:45 pm, immediately following the University Ceremony (see below). Graduating undergraduate public health concentrators are called individually to receive their diploma covers at the Public Health Ceremony. Graduating graduate students are recognized at the University’s Master's and Doctoral Ceremonies. They are called to the stage and acknowledged at the Public Health Ceremony. The Public Health Ceremony will be livestreamed via Zoom Ruth Simmons Quadrangle, behind Sayles Hall University commencement information Commencement FAQ For Degree-Receiving Students Apply to graduate, order regalia, and get ceremony details. Commencement info for all graduates Key Ceremonies on Sunday For details on the following ceremonies, visit Brown’s Commencement Overview. Procession Line-up and start times and locations vary. Graduate School Doctoral Ceremony 10:30 a.m. (estimated) on Pembroke Field Graduate School Master's Ceremony 10:30 a.m. (estimated) in Meehan Auditorium College Ceremony 12:15 P.M. (estimated) senior class assembles on the lawn of the First Baptist Church in America. Family and friends remain on the College Green where large screens offer a continuous view of the proceedings. University Ceremony 1:15 P.M. (estimated) Undergraduate and graduate students unite on the College Green. School of Public Health Diploma Ceremony 2:45 pm (estimated) under the tent on the Ruth J. Simmons Quadrangle (Lower Green), behind Sayles Hall. Other Events & Tips Hotel, travel, and parking information for Commencement Weekend. Reunion Weekend is May 27-29, 2022. Classes ending in 2 and 7 and recent grads are welcome back to campus! Learn more. A professional photographer will be present at the Public Health Diploma Ceremony taking candids of the graduates. Many of the weekend’s Commencement events—including the Baccalaureate Service on Saturday, the procession on Sunday and both the College and University ceremonies on Sunday—will be available via livestream. Campus Dance (tickets required) is one of Brown’s best-loved traditions, the event brings more than 10,000 people to dance the night away on Friday, May 27th under a sky lit with some 600 paper lanterns. The Brown Bookstore carries flowers and fresh flower leis. Pre-order today! If you plan to grab lunch between the Graduate School ceremony and the School of Public Health ceremony, time will be tight due to the number of people on campus. We recommend something very quick on Thayer St., or a food truck within walking distance of the festivities. It will be too rushed for a sit-down lunch. There will be a reception with food and drinks at the School of Public Health ceremony. Packing water and snacks is recommended. There will be several water stations available on campus to fill reusable bottles. Restrooms can be found throughout campus, including on both Simmons Quad and Pembroke Field. Find more answers to your FAQs. Join the celebration by using #Brown2022 Follow Brown Public Health on Instagram 2022 Commencement Weekend Community Celebration Undergraduate Public Health Awards Graduate Public Health Awards Commencement Ceremony Commencement Program About By the Numbers Mission & Values People Our History Accreditation Strategic Plan Wellness Podcasts Service & Community Engagement SPH Policies and Guidelines Events Conversations with ... National Public Health Week 2022 Commencement 2022 School of Public Health Admissions School of Public Health Admissions Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top