Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift President Meet the First Lady, Beth Clements The effervescent first lady of Clemson University and better half of President Jim Clements, Beth the proud mother of four children: Tyler, Hannah and son-in-law Max Kinser, Maggie and son-in-law Tanner Coombs, and Grace. Through Grace’s special needs, Beth found her true passion in helping people who learn differently achieve inclusiveness and independence in their daily lives. As a board member for ClemsonLIFE, a program at Clemson designed for students with intellectual disabilities who desire a postsecondary experience on a college campus, Beth is a passionate advocate for these students. Whether she is fundraising for ClemsonLIFE, which operates solely on private donations and student tuition, or spending time with the students in the program on campus or her family at home, Beth approaches everything she does with a high level of enthusiasm and dedication. Beth graduated from Towson University in Baltimore, Maryland, earning a bachelor’s degree in elementary education and a Master of Education degree in reading. After graduation, she taught school in Baltimore before the birth of her first child, Tyler. After Tyler was born, Beth left teaching to devote her time to raising her family. Faith is a very important aspect of Beth’s life, and she and her family attend NewSpring Church in Clemson. Beth is also a yogi and an avid reader, and she enjoys attending Clemson sporting events with her family. Follow Beth Clements on Instagram and Twitter. Beth in the news Beth Clements: Clemson’s First Lady reflects on her daughter and life’s special moments — article and video (Elysian Magazine) 15 Minutes with Beth Clements (TALK Greenville) Behind the Orange Door (Greenville Journal) Fresh on the Menu Videos Beth Clements & 1826 Bistro, Pendleton SC Contact Information Beth Clements One Parkway Drive Clemson, SC 29634 Linda Wofford President and First Lady’s Home Director of Events One Parkway Drive Clemson, SC 29634 864-903-3694 (cell) Speaking Requests If you would like to have First Lady, Beth Clements speak at an upcoming event, please contact Linda Wofford at least 30 days in advance. Home Biography Meet the First Lady President's Advisory Board President’s Forum for Inclusive Excellence President’s Leadership Institute Presidential Speaking Request Contacts Follow @ClemsonPrez President's News & Announcements Related Links About Academics Athletics ClemsonForward Clemson Forever Outreach Research University Org Chart Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram