Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts Featured News Internationally acclaimed clarinetist Pavel Vinnitsky joins... May 27, 2022 UC College-Conservatory of Music Dean Stanley E. Romanstein has announced the addition of clarinetist Pavel Vinnitsky to the college’s roster of distinguished performing and media arts faculty members. Vinnitsky’s appointment as Associate Professor of Clarinet begins on Aug. 15, 2022. Award-winning cellist Sæunn Thorsteinsdóttir joins CCM’s faculty May 27, 2022 UC College-Conservatory of Music Dean Stanley E. Romanstein has announced the addition of Icelandic cellist Sæunn Thorsteinsdóttir to the college’s roster of distinguished performing and media arts faculty members. Thorsteinsdóttir’s appointment as Assistant Professor of Cello begins on Aug. 15, 2022. Presidential medals honor the 'best of the best' May 26, 2022 The University of Cincinnati honors four undergraduates with the Presidential Leadership Medal of Excellence and two graduate students with the Presidential Medal of Graduate Student Excellence in the annual 2022 celebration at Cincinnati's Queen City Club. Debug Query for this Latest News Keyword topics Select topics Answers Arts & Culture Athletics Bicentennial College bound COVID-19 Diversity Entrepreneurship Experience-based Learning Faculty Staff Health Impact In The News Insights International Must Read Next Lives Here Science & Tech Student Experience Thought Leadership colleges Select colleges College of Arts and Sciences Blue Ash College College of Allied Health Sciences College-Conservatory of Music College of Engineering and Applied Science College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services Clermont College Lindner College of Business College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing Online College of Pharmacy Clear All Filters {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove Internationally acclaimed clarinetist Pavel Vinnitsky joins... May 27, 2022 UC College-Conservatory of Music Dean Stanley E. Romanstein has announced the addition of clarinetist Pavel Vinnitsky to the college’s roster of distinguished performing and media arts faculty members. Vinnitsky’s appointment as Associate Professor of Clarinet begins on Aug. 15, 2022. Award-winning cellist Sæunn Thorsteinsdóttir joins CCM’s faculty May 27, 2022 UC College-Conservatory of Music Dean Stanley E. Romanstein has announced the addition of Icelandic cellist Sæunn Thorsteinsdóttir to the college’s roster of distinguished performing and media arts faculty members. Thorsteinsdóttir’s appointment as Assistant Professor of Cello begins on Aug. 15, 2022. Presidential medals honor the 'best of the best' May 26, 2022 The University of Cincinnati honors four undergraduates with the Presidential Leadership Medal of Excellence and two graduate students with the Presidential Medal of Graduate Student Excellence in the annual 2022 celebration at Cincinnati's Queen City Club. Get to know CCM's new box office manager May 26, 2022 The CCM Box Office is welcoming new leadership this summer: Matthew Wilson will assume the role of box office manager on May 31, 2022. Wilson succeeds longtime box office manager Jeanne Rose, who will retire on July 1 after 18 years of service to CCM. Scenic designer and educator Charlie Calvert joins CCM’s faculty May 26, 2022 UC College-Conservatory of Music Dean Stanley E. Romanstein has announced the addition of Charlie Calvert to the college’s roster of distinguished performing and media arts faculty members. A freelance scenic designer and educator, Calvert’s appointment as Associate Professor of Scenic Design begins on Aug. 15, 2022. NYT: Glyndebourne Opera Festival revives 'The Wreckers' starring... May 24, 2022 The New York Times features the Glyndebourne Festival Opera's revival of The Wreckers by British composer Ethel Smyth, which features UC College-Conservatory of Music alumna Karis Tucker (MM Voice, '16). The mezzo-soprano plays Thurza in the opera, which runs May 21-June 24 at the Festival. WATCH: Ilya Finkelshteyn featured in latest episode of Showcase... May 24, 2022 On this episode of Showcase, Barbara is joined by Cincinnati Symphony Orchestra Cellist Ilya Finkelshteyn to discuss the newly obtained Montagnana Cello. Crafted by master luthier Domenico Montagnana, from Venice Italy, whose work is sought after by orchestras and collectors alike. Ilya talks about the history and impact this cello has on the CSO as well as gives us an exclusive solo performance. Connecting through music May 24, 2022 The University of Cincinnati's College of Medicine and College-Conservatory of Music collaborate on the innovative Dementia and the Arts course and intervention for community members with cognitive disorders and their family members. UC names chief digital officer May 19, 2022 UC President Neville Pinto announces hiring of Bharath Prabhakaran to guide the University of Cincinnati’s digital transformation. Composer/pianist Moni (Jasmine) Guo joins CCM's Commercial Music... May 18, 2022 UC College-Conservatory of Music Dean Stanley E. Romanstein has announced the addition of Moni (Jasmine) Guo to the college’s roster of distinguished performing and media arts faculty members. A classical pianist and contemporary composer who is currently focused on scoring for visual media arts, Guo's appointment as Assistant Professor of Commercial Music Production begins on Aug. 15, 2022. Accomplished violist Ayane Kozasa joins CCM's faculty May 11, 2022 UC College-Conservatory of Music Dean Stanley E. Romanstein has announced the addition of accomplished violist Ayane Kozasa to the college’s roster of distinguished performing and media arts faculty members. Hailed by the Philadelphia Inquirer for her "magnetic, wide-ranging tone" and her "rock solid technique," Kozasa's appointment as assistant professor of viola begins on Aug. 15, 2022. University of Cincinnati names graduate school dean May 10, 2022 Rose Marie Ward will serve as vice provost and dean of the Graduate School WVXU to broadcast CCM Radio Theatre plays on Saturday, May 28 May 10, 2022 Cincinnati Public Radio and the University of Cincinnati College-Conservatory of Music (CCM) have named UC alumnus Cedric Rose winner of the inaugural CCM Radio Theatre playwright competition. The top three winners will receive a cash prize for their work and have their play produced by CCM for broadcast on 91.7 WVXU-FM in spring 2022. CCM launches International Opera Language and Culture Immersion... May 9, 2022 The University of Cincinnati College-Conservatory of Music (CCM) is at the center of a new groundbreaking international program that sends the college’s graduate-level opera students abroad to study language and culture in Italy, Germany or France. CCM Opera’s Language and Culture Immersion Program gives student singers, coaches/accompanists and directors the opportunity to embed themselves abroad to live, work and study with the industry’s leading conductors, directors and opera houses. REVIEW: CCM Prof. Dwight Parry 'soars' in CSO oboe concerto... May 9, 2022 UC College-Conservatory of Music Oboe Professor Dwight Parry received a glowing review after his recent performance with the Cincinnati Symphony Orchestra, giving the world premiere of Guillaume Connesson’s “Les belles heures." Load More Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top