COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Data Science, Major MajorData Science All Programs College of Engineering School of Computing The dual/accelerated Bachelor of Science (BS) to Master of Science in Data Science (MS) will prepare you for a high-paying, high-demand career in fields like machine learning and artificial intelligence—as well as for success in a future Ph.D. program—through a coordinated program leading to both degrees. Undergraduates in the program are allowed to enroll in courses for graduate credit while completing the requirements for a BS. Learn how Data Science is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted to the Barton School of Business, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU’s admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program New facility for the National Institute for Research and Digital Transformation Wichita State University is moving forward on a facility to house the National Institute for Research and Digital Transformation (NIRDT) as part of WSU's Convergence Sciences initiative. Research and partnerships created in the facility will be focused around the convergence of faculty and students from many different WSU departments across the university for the sole purpose of developing research in a broad range of economic sectors, including the high-tech sectors, health sector, manufacturing, defense and logistics while supporting the aviation and aerospace industries. Curriculum Students admitted to the dual/accelerated program are allowed to enroll in courses for graduate credit, including 800-level courses, prior to completing undergraduate degree requirements. View the curriculum Careers Whether you’re pursuing a promotion or preparing for a Ph.D., WSU’s vast industry connections, research opportunities and unmatched facilities create an environment for our engineering students to gain the expertise that leads to dream careers. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Business Analytics (Bachelor's to Master's) Computer Science (Bachelor's to Master's) Computing (Bachelor's to Master's) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©