Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Student Affairs Office of Financial Aid Main Navigation Undergraduate Show Extended Applying FAFSA Dream Act Cost of Attendance Disbursement Parent FAQs Maintaining Eligibility SAP Repeated Coursework R2T4 | Withdrawing Unit Cap Type of Awards Pell Grant FSEOG TEACH Grant Cal Grant California Dream Act Service Incentive Grant California Emergency Grant Chafee Grant SUG EOP Grant MCS Subsidized & Unsubsidized Parent Plus Dream Loan Federal Work Study Scholarships Credential Show Extended Applying FAFSA Dream Act Cost of Attendance Disbursement Parent FAQs Maintaining Eligibility SAP Repeated Coursework R2T4 | Withdrawing Unit Cap Type of Awards Pell Grant TEACH Grant Cal Grant California Emergency Grant Federal Work Study SUG Golden State Teacher Grant Subsidized & Unsubsidized Parent Plus Scholarships Dream Loan Graduate Show Extended Applying FAFSA Dream Act Cost of Attendance Disbursement FAQs Maintaining Eligibility SAP Repeated Coursework R2T4 | Withdrawing Unit Cap Type of Awards Golden State Teacher Grant TEACH Grant SUG Unsubsidized Graduate Plus Federal Work Study Scholarships Dream Loan Special Groups Show Extended Study Abroad Year Round Students Summer Forms & Appeals Contact Us Parent FAQs Consumer Information Disbursement FA Terms & Conditions FAFSA Dream Act Freshmen Guide Transfer Guide CSUF Net Price Calculator Maintaining Eligibility Once you complete your financial aid applications and received aid to help you pay for your educational expenses, you will need to make sure you stay eligible throughout the academic year—and in subsequent years. You’ll need to continue to meet: The basic eligibility criteria Make satisfactory academic progress Complete your financial aid the application -- FAFSA or Dream Act -- every year by the March 2nd as it is a priority deadline Remember, the basic eligibility criteria that allowed you to get financial aid initially continues to apply throughout the time you’re receiving aid—not just when you first fill out the application and are awarded aid. Keep up to date on notifications from both the Office of Financial Aid as well as either the Department of Education or the California Student Aid Commission. Important Note: Please review each eligibility requirement for your understanding, as it is your responsibility to be knowledgeable about your requirements to maintain your financial aid. Throughout the website are the basic eligibility criteria for applying, awarding, disbursement and more. SATISFACTORY ACADEMIC PROGRESS POLICY You need to make satisfactory academic progress in order to continue receiving financial aid. In other words, you have to make good enough grades, and complete enough classes, to keep moving toward successfully completing your academic program. Visit Satisfactory Academic Progress to learn more about how this works at CSUF. REPEATED COURSEWORK POLICY You may not be eligible to get aid if you are repeating a course that you already received financial aid for, visit Repeated Coursework for more information. RETURN 2 TITLE IV POLICY- WITHDRAWAL FROM COURSES Withdrawing and/or dropping classes can impact your financial aid eligibility. Additionally, once you dropped some or all courses you may have to repay the university some or all of the funds you were awarded. UNIT CAPS POLICY Federal regulations require that you complete your academic program within 150% of the standard time frame for your program. Click here to learn more about Unit Caps . This site is maintained by Office of Financial Aid. Last Published 4/8/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact financialaid@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.