Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Italian Studies Home About People Academics Research and Publications Faculty Bookshelf Virtual Humanities Lab (VHL) Italian Studies Colloquium Events Site Navigation Home About People Academics Undergraduate Program Graduate Program Resources Chiasmi Courses Brown in Bologna Semester or Academic Year Abroad Brown in Bologna Summer Program Research and Publications Faculty Bookshelf Virtual Humanities Lab (VHL) Italian Studies Colloquium Events Past Events Virtual Humanities Lab (VHL) Created in 2004 thanks to a two-year grant from the National Endowment for the Humanities, the VHL provides a portal and a collaborative platform for faculty-led digital projects in Italian literature, philosophy, history and history of art and architecture, ranging from the early modern to the contemporary period. Directed by Massimo Riva, in close collaboration with the Center for Digital Scholarship of the Brown University Library, and the Brown Digital Publications Initiative, the VHL also provides a framework for the training of graduate students in the Digital Humanities. Among recent projects, interactive installations of the Garibaldi Panorama on a touch screen were presented in various Italian libraries and museums in Italy, including the Sala del Risorgimento of the Palazzo Pubblico in Siena, on the occasion of the 2011 Sesquicentennial of Italian unification. Decameron Web The recipient of several awards, including two major grants from the National Endowment for the Humanities, the Decameron Web is a collaborative online resource for the study and teaching of Giovanni Boccaccio’s Decameron, considered within its historical context and from contemporary, comparative and interdisciplinary perspectives. Worldwide students of Boccaccio can contribute to interpretations, visualizations and creative adaptations of Boccaccio’s masterpiece in various media. Editors: Michael Papio (University of Massachusetts at Amherst) and Massimo Riva. Visit Pico della Mirandola Project Begun in 2002 as a collaboration among scholars at Brown and the University of Bologna, and later extended to contributing scholars worldwide, the Pico Project provides a resource for the reading and interpretation of Pico della Mirandola’s thought within our contemporary post-humanist context. Scholars participating in the project can use the project’s platform to annotate two of Pico’s most influential texts (the Discourse on Human Dignity and Conclusiones Nongentae, aka Nine Hundred Theses) in a collaborative fashion. The project has produced printed editions of Pico’s works in three languages (English, Italian, and Spanish). Editors: Francesco Borghesi (University of Sydney, New South Wales, Australia), Dino Buzzetti (University of Bologna, Emeritus), Michael Papio (University of Massachusetts at Amherst), Ernesto Priani (Universidad Nacional Autonoma de Mexico), Massimo Riva. Visit The Theatre That Was Rome This selection of documents from the collection of Vincent J. Buonanno '66, and the Brown University Library, brings together digitized printed views, maps, festival prints, architectural treatises and other illustrated books from and about Rome from the 16th-19th centuries. This site will be the repository of Francesca Consagra's research on the de Rossi family print shops in 17th and 18th century Rome to provide a digital humanities resource for the study of printing, book illustration and publishing in early modern Rome. Editor: Evelyn Lincoln. Visit Garibaldi Panorama and the Risorgimento Archive The Garibaldi Panorama & the Risorgimento digital archive aims to provide a multimedia resource for the interdisciplinary study and teaching of the life and deeds of one of the main protagonists of the Italian unification process, Giuseppe Garibaldi (1807-1882). The project focuses in particular on how Garibaldi’s image and his military actions were perceived by foreign public opinion of his time, across Europe and the Americas. At the heart of this archive is a dynamic visualization of the Garibaldi Panorama (1860), a unique survival of a popular form of 19th-century public art, part of the Ann S. K. Brown Military Collection at Brown University. Editor: Massimo Riva. Visit FORTHCOMING -Nicholas Brown and the Roman Republic As the American consul to Rome at the time of the Roman Revolution (1848-49), Nicholas Brown, ignoring the U.S. Secretary of State’s instructions to remain neutral, threw himself into the effort to end “priestly rule” in Rome. His papers ended up in the Brown University archives, including many letters from Giuseppe Mazzini and other key protagonists of that struggle. In an effort to make this resource, largely unknown to the scholarly community, more widely available, the project will provide digitized copies of these rich materials and a variety of features placing them in full historical context. Editor: David Kertzer. Research and Publications Faculty Bookshelf Virtual Humanities Lab (VHL) Italian Studies Colloquium Department of Italian Studies Department of Italian Studies Brown University Box 1942 190 Hope Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-1561 Fax: 401-863-3304 Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top