Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information You are here Home > COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC > COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students > January 19, 2021: Update on COVID-19 Vaccine Distribution COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff January 19, 2021: Update on COVID-19 Vaccine Distribution Dear Colleagues, Vaccinations are continuing today, January 19th. As the patient and community vaccination program at the Armory continues, we would like to offer great appreciation and thanks to all the staff and volunteers who are making this possible. Please note that per NYS as of this morning, vaccinations at the Armory for patients, community members, and non-1A faculty and staff can only include people age 65 and over who live in the state of New York. As of today, over 39,000 faculty, staff, and students at NewYork-Presbyterian, Weill Cornell, and Columbia have received their first dose of the vaccine. There have also been over 10,500 second doses administered. First dose vaccinations include over 24,000 individuals on the Columbia Campus who are working in patient care areas, with over 7,200 of them Columbia employees and students. CUIMC and Columbia University Employees Included in New York State Phases 1a and 1b Phase 1A CUIMC staff included in 1A are individuals who directly interact with patients and for all care team members and staff who provide in-person support to those delivering patient care. It also included those conducting COVID-19 tests, handling COVID-19 specimens, and administering COVID-19 vaccinations. CUIMC staff in these roles should come in to receive a vaccine as soon as possible at the Armory. No appointments are necessary. Please see the hours and locations below. Phase 1B CUIMC and Columbia University employees age 65 and older (category 1B) must make an appointment through Connect, and they will receive vaccinations at The Armory, located at 168th and Fort Washington. CUIMC Employees in Phase 1a Vaccination Locations and Hours for the Remainder of This Week Through 1/22/21 Tuesday 1/19/21 Armory: First dose will be administered without appointment during hours of operation 7 am to 9 pm Myrna Daniels Auditorium: Pfizer second doses only MSCH Tower 103: Pfizer second doses only Wednesday 1/20/21 – Thursday 1/21/21 Armory: First dose will be administered without an appointment during hours of operation 7 am to 9 pm Myrna Daniels Auditorium: Pfizer second doses only MSCH Tower 103: Pfizer second doses only Alumni Auditorium Black Building: Moderna second doses only Friday 1/22/21 Milstein Heart Center Room 3 & 4: First doses will be administered from 6 am - 9 pm (no appointments) only for patient facing and direct support staff. This is a special event. Myrna Daniels Auditorium: Pfizer second doses only MSCH Tower 103: Pfizer second doses only Alumni Auditorium Black Building: Moderna second doses only Saturday 1/23/21 Second doses of Pfizer will be administered in the Myrna Daniels Auditorium in Milstein Hospital and Tower 103 for MSCH staff from 12 - 8 pm. Second doses of Moderna for CUIMC and MSCH staff will be administered in Alumni Auditorium, Black Building, from 12 - 8 pm Columbia employees who work at the Allen Hospital and Lawrence Hospital can be vaccinated there. New York State requires self-attestation that must be signed at the vaccination site attesting that a person is eligible for vaccination based on the current phases of distribution. On site facilities staff have the list of names of eligible people for this week. Sunday 1/24/21 Second doses of Pfizer will be administered in the Myrna Daniels Auditorium in Milstein Hospital and Tower 103 for MSCH staff from 12 - 8 pm. Second doses of Moderna for CUIMC and MSCH staff will be administered in Alumni Auditorium, Black Building, from 6 am - 2 pm Columbia employees who work at the Allen Hospital and Lawrence Hospital can be vaccinated there. New York State requires self-attestation that must be signed at the vaccination site attesting that a person is eligible for vaccination based on the current phases of distribution. On site facilities staff have the list of names of eligible people for this week. Second Dose Vaccinations (Individuals in Phase 1A) Second dose reminders are sent via Connect. For questions about where/when to go for your second dose on each campus, please go to the Employee Information section on the VaccineTogetherNY.org site. Patient and Community Vaccinations at the Armory At this time, per NYS we are vaccinating people age 65 and over who live in the state of New York. If an individual is eligible due to their age, they must produce proof of age and proof of residence in New York. To prove New York residence, an individual must show: One of the following: Statement from landlord: Current rent receipt or lease; Mortgage records; or Two of the following: Statement from another person; current mail; school records. For the who meet these eligibility criteria, appointments can be made through Connect and appointment availability can be checked on the VaccineTogetherNY.org site. Information is also available at 646.697.VACC. Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) The FAQ documents on the CUIMC COVID Vaccine Information page continue to be updated, so please check the site for the latest versions. Below is the Question of the Day: Can I choose to receive either Moderna or Pfizer vaccine? Health care personnel will not be able to choose the type of COVID-19 vaccine they receive. The Pfizer and Moderna vaccines are both mRNA vaccines and have extremely similar efficacy and safety. NYP is receiving both the Pfizer and the Moderna vaccine. There are no recommendations for specific individuals who should get the Pfizer vs. the Moderna vaccine. Thank you and hope you continue to stay safe! Magda Sobieszczyk MD, MPH Chief of Infectious Diseases and Co-Chair of the CUIMC COVID-19 Vaccine Committee Melissa Stockwell MD, MPH Chief of the Division of Child and Adolescent Health and Co-Chair of the CUIMC COVID-19 Vaccine Committee Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top