Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Arts & Culture Inspiration & Enrichment Abound At Princeton, the arts shine across campus. Let your imagination soar, explore and create. Princeton University Art Museum With 100,000 works of art spanning the world of art from antiquity to the present, the Princeton University Art Museum is one of the finest university art museums in the world. Its permanent collection, special exhibitions and educational programming draw year-round crowds. As a student, you'll find extraordinary avenues for the museum to shape and stretch your learning across disciplines. A Student Advisory Board helps students make the most of the museum through lively events, visiting artist talks, and ongoing dialogue inspired by the collection. Visit the Museum Extraordinary Events Opportunities to experience the arts are everywhere at Princeton and animate life on campus. In any given week, the calendar is packed with performances and events with world-class artists. Sit on stage as top string quartets perform as part of Princeton University Concerts and then join a late-night chamber jam with them. Listen to a reading by writer/activist Dacia Maranni and engage in the conversation that follows, led by faculty members Jhumpa Lahiri and Alessandro Giammei. Or enjoy a musical at the McCarter Theatre Center in which actors, directors, producers, and set and lighting designers — all Princeton students — bring audiences to their feet. See Events Calendar Campus Art The arts surround you as you make your way across campus. Princeton is home to one of the country's most significant collections of 20th- and 21st-century sculpture, including works by Henry Moore, Louise Nevelson and Richard Serra. In Jadwin Hall. you'll come across a Louis Comfort Tiffany leaded glass triptych window. The Bloomberg Hall dormitory welcomes residents with the Sol Lewitt painting, "Whirls and Twirls." And the Gothic exteriors of many buildings offer tigers, gargoyles and other hand-carved surprises waiting to be discovered. Princeton's artistic landscape will continue to evolve with the efforts to diversify campus art and iconography in order to present a more comprehensive interpretation of Princeton's history. Learn More Artist Profiles Yuri Boguinia, Composer . Yuri Boguinia, a Ph.D. candidate in music composition, values that some of the best ensembles in the world are invited to campus to work with Princeton composers. Learn More Julia Peiperl, Costume Designer . Julia Peiperl, Class of 2017, is honing her skills and process as a costume designer for numerous Princeton productions and hopes to pursue an MFA in costume design. Learn More Oge Ude, Director . Oge Ude, Class of 2016, draws on her theater directing and dance choreography talents, depending on the story she wants to tell. Learn More Study the Arts The fall 2017 opening of the complex for the Lewis Center for the Arts and Department of Music takes the arts to new heights campus-wide. Opening Celebration Lewis Center for the Arts Department of Music Arts & Culture at Princeton Explore arts and culture at Princeton University. Princeton University Art Museum Student Performing Arts Council Princeton University Concerts University Ticketing One Community Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice