Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Student Affairs Career Center Main Navigation Students Show Extended Virtual Career Center Titan Connection: Jobs & Internships Workshops & Information Sessions Networking Career Fairs & Expos Resumes & Cover Letters Interviewing Titan Takeover: Career Exploration Program Career & Major Exploration Graduate & Professional School College Specific Resources Online Recorded Webinars I Am First Titan Career Ambassadors Resources for Diverse Populations Parker Dewey: Micro-Internships Alumni Show Extended Alumni Career Services Help a Titan Hire a Titan Recruiters Show Extended Post Positions On Titan Connection Recruiting Calendar On-Campus Interviewing (OCI) Connect With Students Employer Partnerships Learn About Our Diverse Students Titan Takeover: Career Exploration Program Parker Dewey: Micro-Internships Faculty & Staff Show Extended Meet your Career Specialist Career Center Commercial (4 minutes) Request a Workshop Get a Titan Connection Account Post a Position Faculty Development Certificate Workshops & Info Sessions Career Fairs & Expos Online Career Guide Reports Schedule Appointment About Us Blog Post Positions On Titan Connection Recruiting Calendar Virtual Campus Interviewing (OCI) Connect With Students Employer Partnerships Learn About Our Diverse Students Titan Takeover: Career Education Program Parker Dewey: Micro-Internships Employer Recruitment Guidelines and Policies Privacy and Usage Policies - For Employers & Students Marijuana/Cannabis Industries: CSUF will not accept postings for employment, internships, or similar positions with companies that are involved in the production, possession, distribution, marketing or use of marijuana. Marijuana remains a Schedule I controlled substance under federal law; as a recipient of federal funds, CSUF must comply with federal law, including the Drug-Free Schools and Communities Act and Drug Free Workplace Act. How to Post a Position Video Tutorial <p>Your browser does not support frames.</p> Post Positions on Titan Connection CSUF Affiliates: Please note that as of October 2021 all non-academic ON-CAMPUS positions must be posted through HRDI's CHRS Recruiting Tool. First Time User Returning User Titan Connection allows you to: Post positions online at no charge Create a customized profile of your company, including a link to your website Sign up for career fairs/expos and employer events Schedule on-campus interviews Set-up academic internships. For more information visit the Center for Internships & Community Engagement . Titan Connection is confidential and only viewable by CSUF students and recent grads. We encourage you post your positions and build a virtual presence on our campus! To Recruit Business Majors ONLY click on this link to access Handshake: https://fullerton.joinhandshake.com/login For questions regarding Handshake and/or recruiting business students ONLY please contact recruitbusiness@fullerton.edu or visit https://business.fullerton.edu/Career-Services/Employers Top Ten Facts for Posting Positions on Titan Connection Titan Connection is a self-post, online job board provided as a service to students, alumni, and employers. Titan Connection is FREE to employers. (A paid fee to Symplicity is necessary when posting for more than one school in the Symplicity System.) All job and internship listings are posted on Titan Connection at the discretion of the Career Center, and we reserve the right to choose not to post a position if it does not appear to support the best interests of students, alumni, and/or CSUF. Titan Connection is a password-protected site available for viewing 24/7 by students or alumni of CSUF. Employers may also utilize Titan Connection 24/7. Titan Connection allows students to forward their resume directly to employers while providing a job search engine. Hosting a posted position for an employer does not imply endorsement of the positions by the University. The Career Center serves the entire CSUF student population and we will not advertise positions or sponsor organizations that restrict consideration to specific populations, i.e., Latinos, older students, women, etc. We will not post positions that appear to discriminate against applicants on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, age, national origin, veteran status, sexual orientation, disability, or gender We will not post positions that require an investment of cash or other purchases by the prospective employee. The only exception to this will be necessary and appropriate personal safety clothing and gear or equivalent. We will not post anonymous ads or positions submitted by third party recruiters who do not identify themselves as such in their job announcements or who do not provide the CSUF Career Center with client contact information if requested. Any or all Commission-based salaries for paid positions MUST CLEARLY STATE “COMMISSION ONLY” in the description and the salary fields. (“COMMISSION ONLY” Internships will not be accepted). We will not accept “Teaching Overseas” positions. All other “Non-US Headquarters Organizations with Non-US Locations” employers will not be accepted. Internships which are UNPAID must offer academic credit and be listed as an “ACADEMIC INTERNSHIP” in the posting. All Academic Internships are approved by the CSUF Center for Internships and Community Engagement (CICE) - fullerton.edu/cice/ (657) 278-3746. All other internships must be paid following California state labor wage laws and minimum wage standards. For general recruiting guidelines, salary data, and information on successful hiring practices we recommend consulting the NACE (National Association of Colleges and Employers) website at www.naceweb.org. Need More Information About Employer Relation Services? Stephanie Reyes, M.S. – Associate Director, Employer Relations sreyes@fullerton.edu (657) 278-2244 Halee Harrell – Career Educator and Employer Relations Specialist hharrell@fullerton.edu (657) 278-8134 This site is maintained by Career Center. Last Published 4/28/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact careercenter@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.3.5 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.