Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Office of the Student Experience Orientation and Transition Programs Orientation and Transition Programs Mustang StartUp Stampede First 5 Leadership Programs Leadership Programs Leadership Development & Training Programs Leadership Experiences Leadership Framework Parent and Families Parent and Families Parent and Family Resources About Us ☰ Mustang StartUp Office of the Student Experience Orientation and Transition Programs Mustang StartUp Mustang StartUp: Your Virtual Orientation Experience Registration for Mustang StartUp, your virtual orientation experience, opens on April 13. Incoming students who have paid their deposit will receive an email with a link to register. Completing registration will ensure new students are ready to begin their SMU Orientation experience! Campus Life Online Orientation Modules These interactive modules will introduce you to the SMU Academy, Spirit, People, Campus, and Community. Deposit-paid students can begin completing the Campus Life modules on May 5. All new students are required to complete these modules by August 1. Health History Form and Meningitis Vaccination Requirement New students are required by law to submit the SMU Health History Form, which includes your Meningitis vaccination documentation, before you can gain access to The PACC (Pre-Advising Canvas Course). Please review the vaccination requirements here. You may complete the form through the SMU Health Portal and upload your proof of vaccinations. Click the "Electronically Sign & Submit the Health History Form" button at the provided link to start the process. Pre-Advising Canvas Course (The PACC) The PACC prepares you for your advising and registration experiences and walks you through important aspects of the SMU Common Curriculum. You must complete The PACC prior to setting up an advising appointment and registering for class. For transfer students, The PACC opens May 10, 2022. For first year students, The PACC opens on May 24, 2022. Advising and Course Enrollment You will sign up for a virtual advising appointment with your Academic Advisor following completion of The PACC. Your Advisor will guide you through the enrollment process and help you plan for your SMU academic career! New Student Requirements A lot goes into being prepared to be a Mustang! Work through the New Student Checklist to make sure you have completed all of these items on time so you are ready for Stampede! Additional Resources Click here for resources dedicated to you, our first-year and transfer students. The contact information on this page include important resources that will help answer questions you may have coming to SMU. If you have not already, please: Activate your my.SMU account online at smu.edu/activate and find answers to common my.SMU questions here. Set up Duo Multi-Factor Authentication- you will need this to access all of your SMU accounts. Make sure to use your own personal contact information for authentication! Our whole Mustang family is so excited to start your SMU journey with you. We look forward to seeing you soon! If you have any questions, please contact orientation@smu.edu or call 214-768-4560. Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share