Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Philosophy PhD You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Philosophy PhD Apply Request More Info Philosophy PhD Admissions Careers & Opportunities Curriculum Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Philosophy PhD Acquire a breadth of professional knowledge in philosophy while emphasizing depth of understanding through intensive work in specific philosophical issues with the Doctor of Philosophy in Philosophy in Temple University’s College of Liberal Arts. This 42-credit doctoral degree stresses early development of professional writing standards, requiring students to complete two preliminary essays in their second and third years to gain experience in research, collegial cooperation and publishing strategies. As a Philosophy PhD student, you can teach courses under the guidance of the department's Teaching Mentoring Program. Students are also encouraged to pursue Temple’s Teaching in Higher Education Certificate, offered through the Center for the Advancement of Teaching. The Philosophy Department’s acclaimed faculty offers extensive expertise in aesthetics, early modern philosophy, epistemology, European philosophy, feminist philosophy, philosophy of language, philosophy of medicine, philosophy of mind, philosophy of race, philosophy of science and political philosophy. Temple’s Philosophy Department has a rich history and continuing presence in the field of aesthetics. Former faculty members include American philosophers Monroe Beardsley and John Fisher. Temple’s Philosophy PhD also ranks among American philosophy programs with the most women graduates. The Greater Philadelphia Philosophy Consortium The Greater Philadelphia Philosophy Consortium provides expanded course options for graduate work in philosophy. Students enrolled in the Philosophy PhD program at Temple may take graduate courses at the University of Pennsylvania and Villanova University. PhD in Philosophy/MA in Urban Bioethics Dual Degree The Department of Philosophy and the Center for Bioethics, Urban Health and Policy at the Lewis Katz School of Medicine offer a dual degree program combining a PhD in Philosophy with an MA in Urban Bioethics. The aim of the dual degree program is to provide Philosophy PhD students with specialized training in the ethics, politics and values of health in our increasingly diverse society, and Urban Bioethics students with a broader understanding of the philosophical underpinnings of contemporary bioethics. The program blends the missions and values of philosophy and urban bioethics, and it will prepare students with the depth of training and expertise necessary for future leadership roles in academia, healthcare and other public spheres. Learn more about Philosophy PhD dual degree options. Interdisciplinary Approach The Philosophy PhD program permits students to take a limited number of courses in non-Philosophy programs at Temple. Many students take courses in African American Studies, Art History, English and/or Psychology. Students may also earn the Graduate Certificate in Gender, Sexuality and Women’s Studies in conjunction with the PhD in Philosophy. Our Community The College of Liberal Arts at Temple comprises many disciplines and research areas. Now more than ever, an interdisciplinary liberal arts education is invaluable for your future pursuits. It offers the opportunity to further push your drive to create real change in the world, here at Temple and beyond. In this graduate program, you’ll work closely with diverse faculty members who are highly esteemed in their field and with a curious, passionate community of peers. Program Format & Curriculum Classes for the Philosophy PhD are offered in-person on both Temple’s Main Campus and its Center City campus, with classes largely offered before 4:30 p.m. The degree program may be completed on either a full- or part-time basis. It culminates in two original research papers, as well as a dissertation. Students may take up to seven years to complete the Philosophy PhD. Courses you are likely to take as part of the Philosophy PhD curriculum include Aesthetics, Ethics, Feminist Epistemology and the Philosophy of Science, Kant/post-Kantian European Philosophy, Philosophy of Medicine, Political Philosophy, and Theory of Knowledge. Learn more about Philosophy PhD courses. Related Graduate Degrees Criminal Justice PhD Psychology PhD Religion PhD Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Doctor of Philosophy offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $966.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,329.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors College of Liberal Arts academic advisors help you navigate your curriculum and potential career paths throughout your time at Temple. Colin Chamberlain is the graduate advisor. Phone: 215-204-0122 Email: colin.chamberlain@temple.edu Program Contact For more information about the Philosophy PhD, contact the following staff member. TJ Cusack is the administrator in the Philosophy Department. Phone: 215-204-0472 Email: tjc@temple.edu The following staff members lead the Philosophy Department. Espen Hammer is the chair of the Philosophy Department. Email: ehammer@temple.edu Sonia Lawson is the graduate coordinator in the Philosophy Department. Email: claphilo@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Supplement your Philosophy PhD coursework and enhance your graduate education experience through student clubs and organizations. You’ll meet and network with other students, become involved with the community, and build invaluable skills to help you realize your personal and professional goals. The following clubs and organizations are available to Philosophy PhD students. The Center for the Humanities offers grants and associate positions to faculty and advanced graduate students pursuing interdisciplinary work. The center works to bridge the divide between departments and colleges by promoting broad, humanities-based conversations that connect scholars from multiple academic fields. The Center for the Advancement of Teaching promotes the value and practice of teaching that facilitates student learning and growth. The center’s programs and resources support evidence-based teaching and provide opportunities for faculty and graduate student TAs to learn from the experience and expertise of their colleagues. Learn more about Temple’s student clubs and organizations. Study Away Temple’s study away programs offer you the opportunity to spend an academic year, semester or summer abroad. Complete graduate coursework, participate in internships or collaborate in research while immersing yourself in the culture, history and people of your host city. Learn more about your options for studying away. Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-PHIL-PHD Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Philosophy PhD Admissions Careers & Opportunities Curriculum Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info