Skip to Main Content Brown University Graduate Programs Search Menu Graduate Programs Theatre: Brown/Trinity Rep Acting and Directing MFA school Graduate School department Theatre Arts and Performance Studies Inquire Apply All Graduate Programs Navigate This Page Navigate This Page About the Program Admission Information Financial Aid Completion Requirements Alumni Outcomes Leadership Contact and Location Conservatory training with an Ivy League degree at a Tony Award-winning regional theater. The Brown/Trinity MFA Acting and Directing Programs are dedicated to training total theatre artists who will possess the technical skill, creative imagination, and intellectual bravery to be leaders in the profession and the field. We offer a unique focus on cross-disciplinary study and collaboration; actors take Directing studios, directors study Acting, and all of our students take at least one year of Playwriting. Rigorous classroom training and extensive performance experience provide a course of study that combines the best aspects of conservatory training with the practical experience of a three-year relationship with a professional theatre. Additional Resources Brown's special collections: Harris Collection of American Drama, the Sidney Albert Shaw Collection, the Smith Magicana Collection, three theaters, eight studios, departmental library, Harvard Theatre Collection, easily accessible resources throughout New England and in New York City, as well as downtown Providence theater spaces. Admission Information Inquire Apply Information about the audition process is available on the Brown/Trinity Rep website. All applicants interested in financial aid must fill out the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). Admission Requirements GRE Subject: Not required GRE General: Not required Writing Sample: A writing sample is required for the Director's program (please see the Brown/Trinity Rep website for details). Resume/CV: Required Additional Materials: Photo Additional Requirements: Private audition. Applicants are not required to respond to the questions regarding published articles or books and fluency in a foreign language in the Graduate School application. Dates/Deadlines Admission Deadline January 4, 2022 Financial Aid Full tuition and health and dental insurance are provided to all students in the Brown/Trinity Rep MFA Programs. Actors are offered partial living stipends based on demonstrated financial need. Students earning an MFA in Directing will be offered teaching assistantships and proctorships, through which they will receive stipend support. Completion Requirements MFA Acting Completion Requirements The core curriculum consists of daily acting, voice, and movement classes, supplemented by frequent workshops in specialty areas. Technique work continues throughout the program, but there is a progressive shift in emphasis from the acquisition and refinement of skills to their practical application. In the final semester, through individual and group sessions, the student focuses strongly on showcase presentations and thesis work. In addition to classroom training, assignments in the Consortium and/or Trinity Rep Company productions will be an important component of training. Students will be expected to participate in a variety of studio and mainstage productions. Understudy duties on mainstage Trinity productions may also be assigned; the combination of understudy and performance work will give the graduating student enough candidate weeks to be awarded their Equity card upon graduation. MFA Directing Completion Requirements Directors are given the opportunity to develop their own vision, in collaboration with actors, by creating new work and re-imagining existing texts. Each year Brown/Trinity Rep admits two emerging directors who bring their curiosity, imagination, and humanity to engage in a rigorous three-year course of study and practice. The work sharpens their individual voices as artists, developing a personal articulation of intention, purpose, and vision. As contemporary creative leaders, directors must be well versed in the practical aspects of rehearsal and production, and inspire and synthesize the work of their colleagues. They must possess a broad-based critical foundation, a knowledge of historical and political context, and the capacity to envision beyond the present. The resources of Trinity Rep, Brown University, and Providence, Rhode Island provide a dynamic, fertile laboratory setting in which to grow these skills. Alumni Careers Learn More Leadership Director Brown/Trinity MFA Programs in Acting and Directing Angela Brazil Angela_Brazil@brown.edu Department Chair Patricia Ybarra patricia_ybarra@brown.edu Director of Graduate Study Shura Baryshnikov shura_baryshnikov@brown.edu Contact and Location Department of Theatre Arts and Performance Studies Mailing Address Brown University Box 1869 jjann@trinityrep.com 401-521-1100, ext. 271 Visit the Brown | Trinity Rep M.F.A. Programs in Acting and Directing Resources Program Faculty Program Handbook Graduate School Handbook Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Graduate School School of Engineering School of Professional Studies School of Public Health Warren Alpert Medical School This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Theatre: Brown/Trinity Rep Acting and Directing Open details for Theatre: Brown/Trinity Rep Acting and Directing Bookmark this Page