Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of the Arts Department of Theatre and Dance (Theatre) Main Navigation About Us Show Extended Contact Facilities Faculty & Staff Directory Students Show Extended Academic Roadmaps Admissions Advising (Current Students) Advising (New Students) Areas of Study (Theatre) Audition for Spring 2022 Musical Theatre productions Clubs & Organizations Scholarships Student Payments Student Success Center University Catalogue (2022-2023) BFA Acting - Freshman Auditions BFA Acting - Transfer Student Auditions BFA Devised Theatre - Freshman Auditions BFA Devised Theatre - Transfer Student Auditions BFA Musical Theatre - Freshman Auditions BFA Musical Theatre - Transfer Student Auditions Events Show Extended All Theatre and Dance productions Clayes Performing Arts Center Box Office Flextix Subscriptions Visitor Information "What the Constitution Means to Me" Alumni & Friends Show Extended MAMM Alliance Equity and Inclusion Art Dance Music Purchase Tickets Get Connected Donate Now Welcome to the Department of Theatre & Dance • College of the Arts Contacts Do you have a suggestion of a play for next season? Our play submission committee would love to hear from you! Play submission survey The faculty, staff, and administration in the Department of Theatre & Dance at California State University, Fullerton are fully committed to the health and well-being of every student in our program, as well as to the quality and outcomes of our instruction and curriculum. We believe that every one of our students is an important member of the Titan Family, and we strive to empower our them while also acting for the greater good of every citizen, regionally and nationally. The Department of Theatre & Dance is ready to meet the challenges, and we remain committed to offering innovative academic solutions and unique co-curricular experiences for our students. Although many theatre and dance courses require students to interact and collaborate in close proximity, our faculty have created creative and dynamic ways to engage learning on all platforms by incorporating new technologies into their curriculum while also being mindful of the potential need for continued social distancing practices in accordance with health and safety guidelines set by the Chancellor's office and CSUF President Fram Virjee. As Titans of the Arts, we know the importance of flexibility, creative thinking, entrepreneurialism and, above all, resiliency. We are all in this together, and we are 100% committed to you and your educational goals during this period of uncertainty. You are the actors, designers, performers, dancers, choreographers, and more who will shape the arts of tomorrow in ways we have yet to imagine. Move forward towards your future this fall and join us for a semester of possibility. For the latest information and for specific announcements regarding curricular instruction, visit our Theatre and Dance websites often. Encouraging Social Change Through Theater Prof. Heather Denyer coordinated the "What the Constitution Means to Me" readings as a catalyst to discuss attacks on women’s, LGBTQ+, and voting rights in the United States. read more professor brings modern methods to theater education Prof Amanda Rose Villarreal’s experiences as an immersive artist and intimacy choreographer provide a clear picture of what CSUF theater majors should expect. read more Former Broadway Star Fulfills Dream of a Theatre Degree Carol Smith Sparkman ('21) is graduating cum laude, and credits theatre and dance faculty for broadening her awareness as a theater maker. read more Theatre and Dance Students Produce Pandemic Podcast A group of theatre and dance majors have produced a new podcast series that examines life during the pandemic and finding community inside and outside of Zoom. read more Land Acknowlegement The Department of Theatre and Dance acknowledges our presence on the traditional, ancestral and unceded territory of the Gabrielino/Tongva Nation. We pay our respects to the Indigenous land caretakers past, present, and emerging. For more information please visit the Gabrielino-Tongva Tribe website This site is maintained by College of the Arts. Last Published 4/27/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact jbussell@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.