Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Graduate Student Government Grad Student Government right arrow down arrow About us right arrow down arrow GSG Executive Board GSG Constitution right arrow down arrow GSG Bylaws GSG Member Groups List Awards right arrow down arrow Group Budget Awards Group & Community Grant Awards Conference Awards GSG Excellence Awards right arrow down arrow Graduate Student Risk Management Awareness Award GSG Research Fellowship Awards Presidential Medal of Graduate Student Excellence Talk to Us Programs right arrow down arrow Graduate Student Orientation and Welcome right arrow down arrow GSA Officer Orientation Home » Campus Life » Graduate Student Government » Awards » GSG Research Fellowship Awards Set Navigation title in component Group Budget Awards Group & Community Grant Awards Conference Awards GSG Excellence Awards Graduate Student Risk Management Awareness Award GSG Research Fellowship Awards Presidential Medal of Graduate Student Excellence GSG Research Fellowship Awards The Graduate Student Government (GSG) Research Fellowship is an award designed to help graduate students further their research interests. This award may be used to fund research related expenses including, but not limited to, research related travel, workshops, conferences, field trips, performances, exhibitions, lab equipment and so on. We award up to $1,700, or $2,000 for interdisciplinary projects or projects that intend to advance diversity. The Research Fellowship is made possible by the generous support of the Graduate School and the UC Office of Research. The Research Fellowship is not intended for conference travel. However, application to, and receipt of, a GSG Conference Travel Award does not exclude a student from consideration for the Research Fellowship. If you have received the maximum funds allowed for the Conference Travel Award and wish to attend other conferences directly related to your research, you can apply for the Research Fellowship. COVID Restrictions: Due to University guidelines and travel restrictions, please be aware that the request for the use of Research Fellowship funds for conference attendance is discouraged. If you are awarded the funds and then purchase a plane ticket with the expectation of using it after the lifting of the travel ban, please know that Research Fellowship funds cannot be used to reimburse the ticket or accommodation charges if the travel ban is extended to a date that encompasses your travel plans. Please check the UC Stay Safe guidelines, especially concerning travel, as well as consult with your advisor to make sure your application is COVID-compliant. Please note: Due to University policies, the Research Fellowship may not be used: to purchase electronic items such as laptop, PC, iPad, Kindle, mobile device etc. (purchase of software/GPU/lab equipment maybe allowed depending on the strength/need of the application) to fund survey awards/gifts, or to pay for tuition A student must satisfy all the following criteria to be considered for the Research Fellowship: Must be registered for at least 1 credit hour every semester (except summer). Must be a member of a properly registered and active GSA group. Must be a degree seeking graduate student with at least 12 credit hours earned. All research proposals will be considered and are not required to align with thesis or dissertation projects. The Research Fellowship is a once-per-degree award. If a student graduates after receiving a Research Fellowship and returns to the University of Cincinnati to complete another degree, they may be eligible for another Research Fellowship. Research funds will remain available to the awardee until their date of graduation. Funds are disbursed via the department through a business or financial manager. Research Fellowship Application Deadline (Extended): January 21st, 2022 at 5pm Research Fellowship Application procedure To fill the online Research Fellowship Application you will need the following application materials, and signatures from your Department and affliated GSA. All materials can be uploaded via the online application form. After successfully submitting the online application you will receive a confirmation email. Please look for this email in spam/other folder as well. Statement of Purpose right arrow down arrow Maximum 3 pages double-spaced, with no less than 1″ margins and 12pt font. If the Research Fellowship will be used for travel, the location and dates must be mentioned here. The Statement of Purpose should detail your research project for a non-specialized audience. Please answer: Your research area and topic, how you’re doing the research, who is involved, and in what locations. The current status of your research. Applications must be for continuing research. The relevance of your research to related fields and the contribution that your research will add. Goals and future plans for the project (such as conference presentation, publication, etc.). How your research will benefit the University and the UC community. Detailed description of how you plan to spend your Research Fellowship funds and justifications for your spending plan. Curriculum Vitae right arrow down arrow Your CV should be a maximum of 2 pages Proof of current semester enrollment right arrow down arrow You can find your current proof enrollment wihtin your Catalyst account. Current Semester UC Billing Statement right arrow down arrow You can find your current semester billing statement via your Catalyst account. Unofficial UC Transcript right arrow down arrow You can find your Unofficial UC Transcript via your Catalyst account. One letter of recommendation right arrow down arrow The letter must be on UC letterhead and must identify the recommended student by name and college. The letter must come from a faculty member who is familiar with the applicant’s research. They should describe your research activity and your ability to accomplish the tasks put forward in your proposal. The letter must be signed. (If applicable) Essay for Research Fellowship for the Advancement of Diversity or Interdisciplinary Research right arrow down arrow If you are applying for the Research Fellowship for the Advancement of Diversity or Interdisciplinary Research, please detail how your research supports these initiatives in a short essay, not exceeding one page. This essay should include the reasons why you are specifically applying for this fellowship and why you believe your research can be characterized as tackling topics on diversity or exemplifying interdisciplinary research. Acknowledgment Signatures ( Department and GSA officer) right arrow down arrow On the application form, there are spaces to enter the affiliated Department Head or Graduate Director name and email address, as well as the affiliated GSA representative's name and address. Upon application submission, these two parties will receive verification emails. They will need to follow directions and submit a simple verification to GSG, confirming the applicant's affiliations. We recommend that you contact these email recipients before you complete the application so that they know to look out for the email. Please ask them to check for this email in their spam or other folders. The email is titled " Approve/Verify [Applicant's] GSG Research Fellowship Application ..." Please note: If you are a current GSA officer applying for this Fellowship, do not sign your own application but instead have another officer sign for you. The Research Fellowship Review Committee will select proposals and notify recipients by the end of January 2021. Applicants will be assessed on organization and coherence of the statement of purpose, usage of references, originality of the proposal, sensitivity to the reader’s awareness, framing of future goals, and proposed benefit to the academic community. Incomplete applications will be not be reviewed by the committee. If, after having read these guidelines you still have questions, please contact the GSG Vice President. Graduate Student Government 683 Steger Student Life Center University of Cincinnati PO Box 210193 Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-6101 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Graduate Student Government 683 Steger Student Life Center University of Cincinnati PO Box 210193 Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-6101 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top