Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions Faculty & Research Faculty Research Featured Topics Academic Units …→ Harvard Business School→ Faculty & Research→ Faculty Faculty Positions Talia B. Gillis Doctoral Student Doctoral Student Read more Talia Gillis is a doctoral student in Business Economics, a joint program with Harvard Business School and the Department of Economics. She received her LLB in Law and Economics from the Hebrew University and then went on to pursue a graduate degree in law at Oxford University (BCL) which she completed with distinction. Prior to her graduate studies, Talia served as a law clerk at the Supreme Court of Israel. Her research interests are primarily household financial decision making and mental accounting, with a focus on the regulation of consumer finance. Talia is also pursuing a doctorate in law as a SJD student at Harvard Law School. Less +1 →Send Email Contact Information Send Email Publications Teaching Awards & Honors Journal Articles Journal Articles Gillis, Talia B., and Joshua Simons. "Explanation < Justification: GDPR and the Perils of Privacy." Journal of Law & Innovation 2 (2019): 71–99. View Details Gillis, Talia B., and Jann Spiess. "Big Data and Discrimination." University of Chicago Law Review 86, no. 2 (April 2019): 459–487. View Details Gillis, Talia B. "Putting Disclosure to the Test: Toward Better Evidence-Based Policy." Loyola Consumer Law Review 28, no. 1 (2015): 31–105. View Details Book Chapters Book Chapters Jackson, Howell E., and Talia B Gillis. "Fiduciary Law and Financial Regulation." In The Oxford Handbook of Fiduciary Law, edited by Evan J. Criddle, Paul B. Miller, and Robert H. Sitkoff. New York: Oxford University Press, 2019. View Details All Publications Talia Gillis is a doctoral student in Business Economics, a joint program with Harvard Business School and the Department of Economics. She received her LLB in Law and Economics from the Hebrew University and then went on to pursue a graduate degree in law at Oxford University (BCL) which she completed with distinction. Prior to her graduate studies, Talia served as a law clerk at the Supreme Court of Israel. Her research interests are primarily household financial decision making and mental accounting, with a focus on the regulation of consumer finance. Talia is also pursuing a doctorate in law as a SJD student at Harvard Law School. Journal Articles Gillis, Talia B., and Joshua Simons. "Explanation < Justification: GDPR and the Perils of Privacy." Journal of Law & Innovation 2 (2019): 71–99. View Details Gillis, Talia B., and Jann Spiess. "Big Data and Discrimination." University of Chicago Law Review 86, no. 2 (April 2019): 459–487. View Details Gillis, Talia B. "Putting Disclosure to the Test: Toward Better Evidence-Based Policy." Loyola Consumer Law Review 28, no. 1 (2015): 31–105. View Details Book Chapters Jackson, Howell E., and Talia B Gillis. "Fiduciary Law and Financial Regulation." In The Oxford Handbook of Fiduciary Law, edited by Evan J. Criddle, Paul B. Miller, and Robert H. Sitkoff. New York: Oxford University Press, 2019. View Details Teaching Overview Teaching Fellow for the following courses: “Behavioral Development Economics”, Professor Gautam Rao (Spring 2017) “Applying Behavioral Insights to the Design of Public Policy”, Professor Brigitte Madrian (2016) “Inside Government”, Professor Cass Sunstein and Larry Summers (2016) “Psychology and Economics”, Professor David Laibson and Tomasz Strzalecki (2014) Awards & Honors Received the Terence M. Considine Fellowship in Law and Economics, Harvard Law School, 2013-2018. Area of Study Negotiation, Organizations and Markets Area of Study Negotiation, Organizations and Markets ǁ Harvard Business School Soldiers Field Boston, MA 02163 →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College