Skip to content I want to Schedule an Appointment Get a Second Opinion Get Driving Directions MyCHOP Patient Portal Refer a Patient to CHOP Make a Donation Pay a Bill Request Medical Records Find Clinical Trials Volunteer Sign up for Newsletters Get an Estimate for Services Understand My Charges Know My Rights About Surprise Medical Bills Provide Feedback About My Hospital Visit Ways to Give Research International Healthcare Professionals Diversity Careers HOW CAN WE HELP? 1-800-TRY-CHOP Children's Hospital of Philadelphia Menu Search I want to Schedule an Appointment Get a Second Opinion Get Driving Directions MyCHOP Patient Portal Refer a Patient to CHOP Make a Donation Pay a Bill Request Medical Records Find Clinical Trials Volunteer Sign up for Newsletters Get an Estimate for Services Understand My Charges Know My Rights About Surprise Medical Bills Provide Feedback About My Hospital Visit Main menu mobile navigation Find A Doctor Departments Conditions Locations Your Visit King of Prussia Campus Philadelphia Campus Primary Care Centers Specialty Care Centers Urgent Care Centers Utility menu mobile navigation Ways to Give Research International Healthcare Professionals Diversity Careers Find A Doctor Departments Conditions Locations Your Visit King of Prussia Campus Philadelphia Campus Primary Care Centers Specialty Care Centers Urgent Care Centers Make a Gift Search Susan Furth, MD, PhD Susan Furth, MD, PhD, is Chief Scientific Officer, Executive Vice President and an attending physician at Children's Hospital of Philadelphia. Areas of Expertise: Chronic kidney disease and its complication in children, Hypertension, Nephrotic syndrome, Glomerulonephritis Locations: Main Hospital Patient Ratings: ★★★★★ ★★★★★ | Appointments and Referrals: 1-800-TRY-CHOP (1-800-879-2467) Background Susan L. Furth, MD, PhD, is Chief Scientific Officer, Executive Vice President and is an attending physician at Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia. She’s Professor of Pediatrics and Epidemiology and was formally appointed as holder of the Edmond F. Notebaert Endowed Chair in Pediatric Research effective July 1, 2021 related to her role as Chief Scientific Officer. She is past president of the Society for Pediatric Research, and was named in 2017 to the Johns Hopkins Society of Scholars. Dr. Furth completed her undergraduate training at the University of Pennsylvania, where she graduated summa cum laude and Phi Beta Kappa with a major in English. She also received her MD from the University of Pennsylvania before doing her internship, residency and fellowship at Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore. She earned her PhD (clinical investigation) from the Bloomberg School of Hygiene and Public Health at Hopkins in 1999, earning research awards from the American Society of Transplantation and the Johns Hopkins Comprehensive Transplant Center. Following fellowship, she joined the faculty at Johns Hopkins where she rose through the ranks to become a Professor status before being recruited in 2010 as Division Chief to Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia. Dr. Furth is the principal investigator of The Chronic Kidney Disease in Children Study, sponsored by the National Institutes of Health. Now in its 17th year, this is the largest study of children with chronic kidney disease ever conducted in North America. With more than 1,000 children enrolled, the goal is to define risk factors for kidney disease progression in children and characterize the effect of kidney function decline on other aspects of child development. She is also the principal investigator of the Pediatric Center of Excellence in Nephrology Award recently given to CHOP to promote clinical trials in children with kidney disease. Dr. Furth lectures national and internationally on chronic kidney disease in children. Her clinical interests include chronic kidney disease, hypertension, nephrotic syndrome and glomerulonephritis. Education and Training Medical School MD - University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, Philadelphia, PA Internship Pediatrics - Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore, MD Residency Pediatrics - Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore, MD Fellowship Pediatric Nephrology - Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore, MD Board Certification Pediatric Nephrology Graduate Degree PhD in Clinical Investigation - Johns Hopkins University School of Hygiene and Public Health, Baltimore, MD Titles and Academic Titles Attending Physician Executive Vice President Chief Scientific Officer, Research Institute Edmond F. Notebaert Endowed Chair in Pediatric Research Professor, Department of Pediatrics and Epidemiology, Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania Conditions Treated Acute Kidney Injury (AKI) Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD) Congenital Anomalies of the Kidneys and Urinary Tract Hematuria Hemolytic Uremic Syndrome in Children Nephrotic Syndrome in Children Polycystic Kidney Disease Protein in Urine (Proteinuria) Urinary Tract Infection (UTI) Departments and Services Pediatric Kidney Transplant and Dialysis Program Division of Nephrology Department of Pediatrics Dialysis Unit Cell and Gene Therapy Collaborative Research Interests Chronic Kidney Disease in Children Study (CKiD) Neuroimaging in Chronic Kidney Disease Study (NiCK) Teen Adherence in Kidney Transplantation Effectiveness of Intervention Trial (TAKE-IT) Publications Papers National Library of Medicine Bibliography Abstracts 2010 Dodson J, Yenokyan G, Diener-West M, Gearhardt J, Furth S. Health related quality of life in adolescents with bladder exstrophy-epispadias as measured by the Child Health Questionnaire- Child Form 87 [abstract]. American Academy of Pediatrics 2010 National Conference and Exhibition; 2010 Oct 2-5; San Francisco, CA. Brady T, Schneider M, Flynn J, Cox C, Kimball T, Furth S, Warady B, Mitsnefes M. Correlates of carotid artery intima media thickness in children with chronic kidney disease: a report of the Chronic Kidney Disease in Children Cohort Study [oral platform presentation]. 15th Congress of the International Pediatric Nephrology Association; 2010 Aug 29-Sep 2; New York, NY. Books Chapters 2012 Askenazi D, Smith L, Furth SL, Warady B. Acute and chronic renal failure. In: Devaskar SU, Gleason CA. Avery's diseases of the newborn. 9th ed. Philadelphia: Elsevier; 2012. 2011 Furth SL, Gerson A. Quality of life of children on dialysis. In: Warady BA, Alexander SR, Schaefer F. Pediatric dialysis. 2nd ed. New York: Springer Science and Business Media; 2011. 2009 Furth SL, Fadrowski JJ. Clinical investigation. In: Avner ED, Harmon WE, Niaudet P, Yoshikawa N, editors. Pediatric nephrology. 6th ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott, Williams and Wilkins; 2009. 2008 Gerson A, Harrison C, Furth SL. Psychological and ethical issues in chronic kidney disease. In: Geary D, Schaefer F. Comprehensive clinical nephrology. Philadelphia: Mosby, Inc.; 2008. Tan J, Furth S. Nephrology. In: Johns Hopkins Hospital, Custer J, Rau R, Lee C, editors. The Harriet Lane handbook. 18th ed. Philadelphia: Mosby, Inc.; 2008. 2007 Wong CS, Furth S. Epidemiology of renal disease in children. In: Kher KK, Schnaper HW, Makker SP, editors. Clinical pediatric nephrology. 2nd ed. London (England): Informa UKK Ltd.; 2007. p. 63-70. Furth SL, Amaral S. Themes across renal disease and renal failure: anemia. In: Molony D, Craig J. Evidence based nephrology. Oxford (UK): Blackwell Publishing; 2007. 2006 Wong C, Furth SL. Epidemiology of chronic kidney disease in children. In: Clinical pediatric nephrology. 2nd ed. Kher K, Makker SP, Schnaper HW. London (UK): Dunitz & Parthenon Publishing; 2006. 2005 Furth SL, Levin A, Schwartz G. Normal kidney function and choice of laboratory studies. In: Hogg RJ, editor. Kidney disorders in children and adolescents: a practical handbook. London (UK): Taylor & Francis; 2005. 2004 Furth SL, Gerson A. Quality of life of children on dialysis. In: Warady BA, Fine RN, Alexander SR, Schaefer F. Pediatric dialysis. Norwell: Kluwer Academic Publishers; 2004. 2003 Furth SL, Fadrowski JJ. Clinical investigation. In: Avner ED, Harmon WE, Niaudet P, editors. Pediatric nephrology. 5th ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott, Williams and Wilkins; 2003. 2000 Furth S. Therapy in nephrology and hypertension — a comparison to Brenner and Rector's: the kidney. In: Brady HR, Wilcox CS. Philadelphia: Saunders; 1990. Posters and Presentations 2010 Blydt-Hansen T, Pierce C, Zack R, Schwartz G, Benador N, Hmiel P, et al. Anticipating treatment needs and complexity in children with CKD [poster presentation]. 15th Congress of the International Pediatric Nephrology Association, 2010 Aug 29-Sep 2; New York, NY. Blydt-Hansen T, Pierce C, Zack R, White C, Moxey-Mims M, Dharnidharka V, et al. Association of CKD stage and glomerular disease with medication use in children with CKD [poster presentation]. 15th Congress of the International Pediatric Nephrology Association; 2010 Aug 29-Sep 2; New York, NY. Abraham AG, Zack RM, Mak RH, Mitsnefes MM, Furth SL, Warady BA. Protein energy wasting in children with chronic kidney disease [poster presentation]. 15th Congress of the International Pediatric Nephrology Association; 2010 Aug 29-Sep 2; New York, NY. Rodig NM, Schneider MF, Hotchkiss HM, Yadin O, Seikaly MG, Warady BA, Furth SL. Height impairment and pubertal delay in children with chronic kidney disease (CKD): a report from the Chronic Kidney Disease in Children (CKiD) Cohort Study [poster presentation]. 15th Congress of the International Pediatric Nephrology Association; 2010 Aug 29-Sep 2; New York, NY. Lo M, Salisbury S, Furth S, Warady B, Mitsnefes M. Predictors of adiponectin in CKiD [poster presentation]. 15th Congress of the International Pediatric Nephrology Association; 2010 Aug 29-Sep 2; New York, NY. Lo M, Furth S, Warady B, Mitsnefes M. Low-molecular weight adiponectin is associated with left ventricular mass index [poster presentation]. 15th Congress of the International Pediatric Nephrology Association; 2010 Aug 29-Sep 2; New York, NY. Minnick ML, Ndirangu J, Boynton S, Jerry-Fluker J, Furth S. Healthcare utilization in the Chronic Kidney Disease (CKiD) in Children Cohort Study [poster presentation]. 15th Congress of the International Pediatric Nephrology Association; 2010 Aug 29-Sep 2; New York, NY. 2009 Mitsnefes M, Pierce CB, Furth S, Warady BA. Adiponectin and cardiovascular risks (CV) in children with chronic kidney disease (CKD): report from the Chronic Kidney Disease in Children (CKiD) Cohort Study [poster presentation]. American Society of Nephrology 2009 Annual Meeting; 2009 Oct 27-Nov 2; San Diego, CA. Schwartz GJ, Abraham A, Dharnidharka V, Warady BA, Furth SL, Moxey-Mims M, et al. Particle enhanced nephelometric immunoassay (PENIA, Dade Behring) cystatin C measurement improves the height/screatinine estimate of GFR in children with CKD compared to particle enhanced turbidometric assay (PETIA, DAKO) [poster presentation]. American Society of Nephrology 2009 Annual Meeting; 2009 Oct 27-Nov 2; San Diego, CA. Schwartz GJ, Abraham A, Maier PS, Furth SL, Dharnidharka V, Hellerstein S, et al. Particle enhanced nephelometric immunoassay (PENIA, Dade Behring) cystatin C is superior to particle enhanced turbidometric assay (PETIA, DAKO) as an endogenous biomarker for GFR in children with CKD [poster presentation]. American Society of Nephrology 2009 Annual Meeting; 2009 Oct 27-Nov 2; San Diego, CA. Dodson JL, Gearhart JP, Yenokyan G, Alcorn K, Diener-West M, Wu AW, et al. Health related quality of life among adolescents with abnormal bladder function as measured by the CHQ-PF50 [poster presentation]. American Society of Nephrology 2009 Annual Meeting; 2009 Oct 27-Nov 2; San Diego, CA. Omoloja AA, Jerry-Fluker J, Abraham A, Furth S, Warady B, Mitsnefes. Smoking and second hand smoking in adolescents with chronic kidney disease: a report from the Chronic Kidney Disease in Children (CKiD) Cohort Study [poster presentation]. American Society of Nephrology 2009 Annual Meeting; 2009 Oct 27-Nov 2; San Diego, CA. Lande M, Gerson A, Hooper S, Cox C, Wentz A, Gipson D, et al. Elevated BP and neurocognitive function in children with chronic kidney disease [poster presentation]. American Society of Nephrology 2009 Annual Meeting; 2009 Oct 27-Nov 2; San Diego, CA. Greenbaum LA, Schneider MF, Kaskel FJ, Askenazi DJ, Hotchkiss H, Jenkins R, et al. Abnormal birth history and height in children with CKD [poster presentation]. American Society of Nephrology 2009 Annual Meeting; 2009 Oct 27-Nov 2; San Diego, CA. Flynn JT, Miller E, Pierce C, Charleston J, Samuels J, Kupferman J, et al. Reliability of resting blood pressure (BP) measurement and classification using an oscillometric device in children with chronic kidney disease (CKD) [poster presentation]. American Society of Nephrology 2009 Annual Meeting; 2009 Oct 27-Nov 2; San Diego, CA. MacDonald RN, Schneider MF, Hotchkiss HM, Yadin O, Seikaly MG, Furth SL, et al. Growth failure in children with chronic kidney disease: a report from the Chronic Kidney Disease in Children (CKiD) Cohort Study [poster presentation]. American Society of Nephrology 2009 Annual Meeting; 2009 Oct 27-Nov 2; San Diego, CA. Lestz RM, Fivush BA, Furth SL. Achievement of albumin targets in pediatric dialysis patients by underlying diagnosis, gender and race [poster presentation]. American Society of Nephrology 2009 Annual Meeting; 2009 Oct 27-Nov 2; San Diego, CA. Lestz RM, Fivush BA, Neu AM, Atkinson MA, Furth SL. A comparison of achievement of hemoglobin and albumin targets in pediatric patients with urologic vs. non-urologic disease [poster presentation]. American Society of Nephrology 2009 Annual Meeting; 2009 Oct 27-Nov 2; San Diego, CA. Atkinson M, Fadrowski J, Pierce C, White C, Schwartz G, Abraham A, et al. Anemia, iron stores, and CRP in children with chronic kidney disease [poster presentation]. Pediatric Academic Societies 2009 Annual Meeting; 2009 May 2-5; Baltimore, MD. Gorman GH, Fivush B, Neu A, Furth S. Growth velocity and clinical outcomes in pediatric hemodialysis patients [poster presentation]. Pediatric Academic Societies 2009 Annual Meeting; 2009 May 2-5; Baltimore, MD. Greenbaum LA, Kaskel FJ, Askenazi D, Jenkins R, Hotchkiss H, Schneider M, et al. High prevalence of abnormal birth history in children with chronic kidney disease [poster presentation]. Pediatric Academic Societies 2009 Annual Meeting; 2009 May 2-5; Baltimore, MD. Furth SL. The CKiD Study: what have we learned so far? [poster presentation]. Pediatric Academic Societies 2009 Annual Meeting; 2009 May 2-5; Baltimore, MD. Gorman G, Fivush B, Neu A, Furth. Growth velocity and clinical outcomes in pediatric hemodialysis patients [poster presentation]. Pediatric Academic Societies 2009 Annual Meeting; 2009 May 2-5; Baltimore, MD. Editorial and Academic Positions Editorial positions 2010 - present, Associate Editor, Clinical Journal of the American Society of Nephrology 2009 - present, Reviewer, New England Journal of Medicine 2008 - present, Reviewer, Clinical Journal of American Society of Nephrology 2007 - present, Reviewer, American Journal of Transplantation 2007 - present, Reviewer, Urology 2007 - present, Reviewer, American Journal of Epidemiology 2007 - present, Reviewer, Nephrology, Dialysis, Transplantation 2006 - present, Reviewer, International Journal of Infectious Disease 2006 - present, Reviewer, Pharmacia 2006 - present, Reviewer, American Journal of Medicine 2005 - present, Reviewer, Journal of Pediatrics 2005 - present, Reviewer, Pediatric Transplantation 2004 - present, Reviewer, Drugs 2004 - present, Reviewer, Medical Care 2004 - present, Reviewer, Journal of American Society of Nephrology 2004 - present, Reviewer, Kidney International 2003 - present, Reviewer, Pediatrics 2003 - present, Reviewer, JAMA 2002 - present, Reviewer, Pediatric Nephrology 2007 - present, Editorial Board, Journal of American Society of Nephrology 2003 - present, Editorial Board, Advances in Chronic Kidney Disease Academic positions 2011-present, Department of Pediatrics, University of Pennsylvania Operating Plan, Committee on Mentorship 2010-present, External Advisory Board, Einstein-Montefiore Institute for Clinical and Translational Research 2008-2009, Chair, Selection Committee for Johns Hopkins KL2 Clinical Research Scholars Program, Johns Hopkins Medical Institutes, Institute for Clinical and Translational Research (ICTR) 2006-2010, Member, Selection Committee for Johns Hopkins K12 Clinical Research Scholars Program, Johns Hopkins Medical Institutes, Institute for Clinical and Translational Research (ICTR) 2006-2010, Member, Executive Committee, “Multidisciplinary Clinical Research Career Development Program” K12, Johns Hopkins Medical Institutes, Institute for Clinical and Translational Research (ICTR) 2005-2010, Member, Clinical and Translational Science Award Application: Training and Education Workgroup, Johns Hopkins Medical Institutes 2005 – 2010, Member, Clinician Scientist Award Committee – Johns Hopkins School of Medicine Selection committee for Junior Faculty salary support award applications Patient Experience Ratings About the Patient Experience Rating System The Patient Experience Rating is an average of all responses to the care provider related questions shown above from our nationally-recognized Press Ganey Patient Satisfaction Survey. Patients that are treated in outpatient or hospital environments may receive different surveys, and the volume of responses will vary by question. Responses are measured on a scale of 1 to 5 with 5 being the best score. We are committed to true transparency. However, to ensure the comments are fair and correctly attributed, we review each one before posting to the website. We exclude entire comments that disclose patient's protected health information, are off-topic, or include other confidential or inappropriate content. Comments will appear on provider bios only if providers have a minimum number of comments. Comments are shared internally for education purposes to ensure that we are doing our very best for the patients and families for whom we are privileged to care. The comments are submitted by patients and families and reflect their views and opinions. The comments are not endorsed by and do not reflect the views of Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia. Footer Navigation 3401 Civic Center Blvd. Philadelphia, PA 19104 Twitter Instagram Facebook YouTube Directory Appointments & Information 1-800-879-2467 Foundation 267-426-6500 Research 215-590-3800 Referring Physicians 1-800-879-2467 Explore Conditions & Diseases Doctors Locations Departments & Services Our Organization About CHOP News Room Giving Research For Healthcare Professionals Careers Financial Assistance Policy I want to Schedule an Appointment Get a Second Opinion Get Driving Directions MyCHOP Patient Portal Refer a Patient to CHOP Make a Donation Pay a Bill Request Medical Records Find Clinical Trials Volunteer Sign up for Newsletters Get an Estimate for Services Understand My Charges Know My Rights About Surprise Medical Bills Provide Feedback About My Hospital Visit ©2022 The Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia Terms of Use Privacy Policy HIPAA Notice of Privacy Practices Ethics & Compliance Questions and Feedback Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia is a charitable 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization. Language Assistance Available: English Español 繁體中文 العربية বাঙালি Deitsch اردو Türkçe 日本語 ગુજરાતી Deutsch हिंदी Italiano Bahasa Indonesia Tagalog Polski Tiếng Việt Français Português नेपाली ខ្មែរ 한국어 Русский Why not?