Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Student Leadership & Involvement Student Engagement Leadership Community Engagement Fraternity & Sorority Life Student Organizations Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Student Engagement Registered Student Organizations Join an RSOStart/Manage an RSOAccountability StatusHazing PreventionAdvise an RSOPLATiger ZoneCorq App Spirit Initiatives Student Event Allocation What is SEA?How to Submit a ProposalUpcoming Events Student Activities Council About SACSAC CommitteesEvent CalendarJoin SAC Fraternities & Sororities About FSA Potential Members Member Resources Information for Parents Interfraternity Council (IFC) National Pan-Hellenic Council (NPHC) Panhellenic Council (PAN) Involvement Ambassadors Report a Concern about a Student Take Action Register for Recruitment Register for Frosh Camp Tiger Zone About Us Follow SLI Online InstagramFacebooktwitter Home Student Leadership & Involvement Student Engagement Student Involvement - Interfraternity Council (IFC) Interfraternity Council The Interfraternity Council at the University of Memphis is the governing body for 7 men's fraternities. The Interfraternity Council is dedicated to the academic and social development of its respective fraternities and their members. Members in IFC organizations are active in every aspect of campus. With a diverse array of fraternities, each with its own unique qualities, there is a perfect fit for each individual looking to join a fraternity in the council. Chapter List Kappa Alpha Order Kappa Sigma Lambda Chi Alpha Phi Gamma Delta Sigma Chi Sigma Phi Epsilon Zeta Beta Tau Pillars of Excellence Chapters participate in an annual assessment and awards program, Pillars of Excellence. As part of this process, chapters have the ability to earn designations that range from 4 Pillar status to Does Not Meet Minimum Standards based on their overall chapter performance. Below are the current standings for chapters in the Interfraternity Council: 4 Pillar: Lambda Chi Alpha 3 Pillar: Sigma Phi Epsilon 2 Pillar: Zeta Beta Tau, Sigma Chi, Kappa Sigma 1 Pillar: Kappa Alpha Order IFC Executive Board The IFC Executive Board serves as the liaison between the IFC chapters and the University, as well as the other councils and organizations on campus. IFC President - Coleby S. IFC@memphis.edu Contact about: attending IFC meetings, collaboration efforts, general IFC inquiries. Executive Vice President - Zack R. Contact about: Junior IFC, fraternity housing, educational workshops. Vice President, Recruitment - Hayden B. Contact about: fraternity recruitment, summer community-wide events. Vice President, Finance - Jacob M. Contact about: IFC dues, philanthropic efforts. Vice President, Public Relations - Jackson G. Contact about: marketing, social media, community-wide programming. Vice President, Scholarship - Alex W. Contact about: academics, IFC scholarships, incentive programs. Executive Secretary - Coby H. Contact about: IFC meeting minutes, past IFC records. Chief Justice - Preston R. Contact about: risk management workshops, IFC Judicial Board, IFC infractions Recruitment Information Potential New Member Orientation All students interested in joining any fraternity or sorority must attend one Potential New Member Orientation session. Information coming soon! Recruitment Information & FAQs Click to Register for IFC Formal Recruitment How does recruitment work? The primary way men join our IFC community is through formal recruitment, which will be held September 19-23, 2022, with a mandatory Potential New Member Orientation prior to the start of recruitment rounds on the 19th. This is the process through which a man can join Kappa Alpha Order, Kappa Sigma, Lambda Chi Alpha, Phi Gamma Delta, Sigma Chi, Sigma Phi Epsilon, and Zeta Beta Tau. During this time, potential new members will have the chance to meet each of our fraternities, with the week culminating with IFC Bid Day. Formal Recruitment registration will open in May 2022 and close in September 2022. Do I have to visit every chapter? Yes. Since the fraternity recruitment process is formal, you will have the opportunity to visit all our fraternity chapters before accepting a bid of membership. That said, we do encourage you to keep an open mind during these visits to determine where you best fit. Do grades matter? A 2.50 GPA is required to participate in the formal recruitment process at the UofM. However, each fraternity has a grade point average requirement specific to their organization standards. Academic performance is a standard within the fraternity community; therefore grade point averages are a significant factor in the membership selection process. However, academics are only one of those factors. What happens when I receive a bid? It is possible that you may receive multiple bids of membership to different fraternities. After you accept a bid, you will be added on the chapter's roster. Once that form has been submitted, you are ineligible to receive a bid from a different chapter until the following semester, should you decide to remove yourself from the chapter you join. How will I know which group is right for me? Each fraternity has its own mission, creed and values. All IFC organizations strive to provide members with friendship, opportunities for personal growth/development, and fun. In order to choose a chapter that is right for you, you should participate in one of the formal recruitment processes, either during the fall or spring. This process will allow you and the chapters to decide on the best fit. As you go through the process, be sure to keep an open mind, ask questions, and be yourself! What is the new member process like? Each fraternity has its own new member education program. The purpose of a new member program is to educate a new member on his organization's values and its history. Typically, the programs are fun and interesting and lead up to initiation into the organization. Do the fraternities haze their new members? Neither the IFC nor the University of Memphis condone hazing in any form. Each of the groups have banned hazing in all of their chapters and have policies in place stating so. If you have concerns about hazing, please contact Fraternity/Sorority Affairs (901-678-8679), where all reports will be handled with discretion. Hazing can be reported online using this form. How hard is it to balance fraternity life and academics? Everyone is different when it comes to time management. Many fraternity men are able to manage fraternity responsibilities, jobs or internships, academics and involvement in other campus organizations. If you are interested in being involved in a variety of organizations during your time at Memphis, feel free to ask members during recruitment about balancing their time! How much does it cost to be in a fraternity? Being in a fraternity is like all other membership organization and does require a payment of dues. This money is used to fund the operations, social events, and programming for the chapter. It also allows the inter/national organization to continue to provide resources and support for the chapter. The costs of fraternity membership vary from chapter to chapter. Typically the first semester is the most expensive, including one-time fees (badge fee, initiation fee, etc.). Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/25/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.