Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of Nationally Competitive Awards NCA right arrow down arrow About NCA right arrow down arrow Programs and Events Understanding Fellowships Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us News Awards right arrow down arrow Core Awards right arrow down arrow Fulbright U.S. Student Program Gaither Junior Fellows Program right arrow down arrow Gaither Info Session Goldwater Scholarship right arrow down arrow Goldwater Info Session Marshall Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Mitchell Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Rhodes Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Truman Scholarship right arrow down arrow Truman Info Session Udall Scholarship right arrow down arrow Udall Info Session Priority Awards right arrow down arrow Boren Awards right arrow down arrow Boren Info Session Critical Language Scholarship right arrow down arrow CLS Info Session Fulbright UK Summer Institutes right arrow down arrow Fulbright UKSI Session Gates Cambridge Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Knight-Hennessy Scholarship National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship Paul & Daisy Soros Fellowships for New Americans Schwarzman Scholarship right arrow down arrow Schwarzman Scholarship Info Session Other Awards right arrow down arrow International Studies International Students Underrepresented and Minority Students Specific Interests or Disciplines Applying right arrow down arrow Deciding to Apply Preparing Your Application right arrow down arrow Recommendation Letters Essay Strategies Developing as a Candidate The Leadership Essay Student Spotlight right arrow down arrow 2021–22 Award Winners 2020–21 Award Winners 2019–20 Award Winners 2018–19 Award Winners NCA Ambassadors Fulbright@UC right arrow down arrow Info Session Recordings UC Fulbright Winners Fulbright Boot Camp Aspire Scholars For Faculty Home » Campus Life » Office of Nationally Competitive Awards » Awards » Core Awards » Rhodes Scholarship Set Navigation title in component Core Awards Fulbright U.S. Student Program Gaither Junior Fellows Program Gaither Info Session Goldwater Scholarship Goldwater Info Session Marshall Scholarship UK Awards Info Sessions Mitchell Scholarship UK Awards Info Sessions Rhodes Scholarship UK Awards Info Sessions Truman Scholarship Truman Info Session Udall Scholarship Udall Info Session Priority Awards Boren Awards Boren Info Session Critical Language Scholarship CLS Info Session Fulbright UK Summer Institutes Fulbright UKSI Session Gates Cambridge Scholarship UK Awards Info Sessions Knight-Hennessy Scholarship National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship Paul & Daisy Soros Fellowships for New Americans Schwarzman Scholarship Schwarzman Scholarship Info Session Other Awards International Studies International Students Underrepresented and Minority Students Specific Interests or Disciplines Rhodes Scholarship The oldest international fellowship in the world, the Rhodes Scholarship provides support for graduate study at the University of Oxford. The Rhodes Trust aims to identify and develop exceptional young people who are impatient with the way things are and have the courage to act. The combination of a collaborative and dynamic environment, intensive and challenging education, and a focus on character, service, and leadership prepares them to make a positive impact on the world. This award requires university endorsement through a competitive campus process. In order to apply, you must contact NCA by the Intent to Apply Deadline. Having trouble writing an essay on your leadership skills? Prestigious scholarships often ask for a leadership essay, but what does such an essay entail? NCA has recorded a webinar full of tips to help you craft a compelling leadership narrative for your application. Please watch our 30-minute Leadership Essay Webinar (be sure to view as a Slide Show for audio narration). Closed captions are available. Deadlines Campus Deadline: April 25, 2022 Applications Opens: July 2022 National Deadline: October 3, 2022 @11:59PM EST Please note that these deadlines are for the U.S. Rhodes competition. International candidates may need to apply on a different timeline. Award Details right arrow down arrow Each year, 32 Americans are chosen from a pool of 800-1,000 applicants who first have been endorsed by their university. The scholarship covers two years at Oxford, including tuition, fees, and an annual stipend. The award also covers roundtrip airfare. Who Should Apply right arrow down arrow Eligibility Criteria Rising seniors or recent alumni may apply U.S. citizen, permanent resident, or resident with DACA status by April 15 of application year (Note: international students may apply for a Rhodes Scholarship through a different process. See International Student Awards for more information.) At least 18 but not yet 24 years of age at time of application (i.e., the applicant must still be 23 on October 1 in the year of application). Minimum GPA of 3.7 (no rounding) Please refer to the Rhodes website for a detailed description of the eligibility criteria. Selection Criteria The Rhodes Scholarship is looking for candidates who exhibit academic and scholarly excellence; strength of character; the vision and skills needed to be a leader in their field; a genuine regard for others; and a commitment to improving the lives of those around them. Rhodes Scholars must exhibit: literary and scholastic attainments energy to use one’s talents to the full truth, courage, devotion to duty, sympathy for and protection of the weak, kindliness, unselfishness and fellowship moral force of character and instincts to lead, and to take an interest in one’s fellow beings Please refer to the Rhodes website for a detailed list of the selection criteria. Application Components right arrow down arrow Background information Official transcripts List of principal activities Personal statement (1000 word max) Academic statement of study (750 word max) Letters of recommendation (5-8) Read more about the application components. How to Apply right arrow down arrow In the spring, attend an NCA Learning Series session on the Rhodes Scholarship. This year, the Learning Series took place on February 22nd and 23rd via Zoom. Please email nca@uc.edu to request a recording of the session. Schedule an advising appointment with Dr. Jenny Hyest through My Bearcat Network. In advance of that appointment, please: Carefully review the Information for Candidates. Complete two NCA forms: Intake form Records Release Form and submit to nca@uc.edu Complete NCA Campus Endorsement Application by April 25, 2022. Launch your online application. (Application opens July 2022) Endorsed candidates submit revised application by National Deadline: October 3, 2022 @11:59PM EST Helpful Links, Tips, and Reminders right arrow down arrow Please note that you are prohibited from receiving feedback on your Personal Statement. No one—NCA, family, friends, writing center—may comment on or edit your essay. Remember the Rhodes Scholarship is a means to an end—and that end is an Oxford education. Spend time researching life at Oxford and your chosen degree program. Though you cannot receive feedback on your essay, the Rhodes House does provide helpful videos that address aspects of the application process, including the personal statement. Information on this page is intended to supplement, not supplant, your own careful review of the official Rhodes website. If you find any discrepancy between the two, the Rhodes website takes precedence. UC’s Student Code of Conduct applies to this application process. Recent Awardees right arrow down arrow Chinmay Bakshi - Rhodes Scholarship Finalist, 2021 Mohamed Elzarka - Rhodes Scholarship Finalist, 2019 Juliana Madzia - Rhodes Scholarship Finalist, 2017 Office of Nationally Competitive Awards 707A Swift Hall 513-556-1003 nca@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Office of Nationally Competitive Awards 707A Swift Hall 513-556-1003 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top