Skip to main content Information and resources related to COVID-19 Protect Texas Together The University of Texas at Austin Menu Header Helpful Links Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Families & Visitors Search Search Maps Directory UT Direct Give Apply Search Search About Academics Academic Experience Areas of Study Extended Campus Cockrell School of Engineering College of Education College of Fine Arts College of Liberal Arts College of Natural Sciences College of Pharmacy Dell Medical School Graduate School Jackson School of Geosciences LBJ School of Public Affairs McCombs School of Business Moody College of Communication School of Architecture School of Information School of Law School of Nursing Steve Hicks School of Social Work School of Undergraduate Studies Admissions & Aid Be a Longhorn What Starts Here Changes the World. It's more than a motto. It’s what we prove each and every day, as Texas and its Exes advance discovery and innovation on a global stage. Join us. Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions School of Law Admissions Dell Medical School Admissions Tuition & Costs Financial Aid Campus Visits Campus & Community Explore Your Passions Thousands of events, from concerts and film screenings to readings and lectures. More than 1,100 student organizations. Incredible facilities and special attractions. And it's all set in the heart of one of the world's greatest cities. Welcome home. Arts & Culture Campus Destinations Entrepreneurship & Innovation Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Austin Report Misconduct Safety & Security Student Involvement Longhorn Resources Research Change the World Longhorns are passionate about making the world a better place, united by the belief that creating and sharing knowledge can save lives and transform society. Come explore our vast research enterprise — or better yet, create, innovate and discover with us. Overview Student Research Units & Centers Off-Campus Research Sites Libraries Experts Guide Athletics News What starts here changes the world Pause button Pause button Emmanuel Acho Delivers Commencement Address Meet Grace Farley, UT22 Senior UT for Me UT News Texas Today Calendar What Starts Here Campaign A University of the First Class We started with a constitutional mandate to be “a university of the first class.” Since 1883, we’ve been refining and updating what that means, but we’ve never stopped pursuing that ideal. We say, “What starts here changes the world.” But, what makes here so special? Here, First Class is Public Texas means top national programs with a public mission, an affordable cost, and a culture that welcomes talented, diverse students with unlimited potential. 156 Undergrad Degree Programs 237 Graduate Degree Programs 12 12 thousand plus Courses A UNIVERSITY OF THE FIRST CLASS Here, We Do High-Impact Research At Texas, we’re contributing to technological revolutions and a safer and healthier future. Here, our faculty and students are working to find energy solutions, to increase national security, and to deepen our sense of history and culture. 786 U.S. & INTERNATIONAL PATENTS SINCE 2008 6237 EXTERNALLY SPONSORED PROJECTS 652 TOTAL RESEARCH EXPENDITURES 652 million dollars FOCUSED ON HIGH-IMPACT RESEARCH Here, We’re Transforming Health Care Health care costs too much and moves too slowly. We’re attacking these and other problems with the urgency they deserve. Whether you’re in medicine, engineering, business or design, you can be part of the solution. UT has an amazing combination of scientists and engineers addressing critical challenges in human health. The technology being developed at UT will not only save lives but transform patient care and medicine.” Assistant Chemistry Professor Livia S. Eberlin Inventor of the MasSpec Pen, 2018 MacArthur Fellow CHANGING THE GAME FOR HEALTH CARE Here, We Create a More Vibrant Texas UT was built by and for the people of Texas to make this a more vibrant state culturally, scientifically and economically. When you place that in America’s No. 1 city to live, you have The University of Texas at Austin. What starts here changes the world. UT Austin strengthens the Texas economy 8.8 8.8 billion dollars PER YEAR OUR IMPACT ON TEXAS Be a Leader. Be a Longhorn. Earn a Bachelor’s Degree Discover your possibilities with an undergraduate degree from Texas. Life at TEXAS Eating, sleeping, working, playing. What is life like at Texas’ premier university? Tuition and Costs Get a world-class education at an affordable cost. Visit TEXAS Everything you need for a successful campus visit. Earn a Graduate Degree Come to Texas a grad student. Leave an international expert. Diversity at UT We're creating an inclusive campus culture that engages diverse people, ideas, and perspectives to create a vibrant learning and working environment. Search for Faculty Jobs A university is only as good as its faculty, so we want the best. Search Search Connect with UT Austin Subscribe to our newsletter Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Starts With You Footer Helpful Links Access Course Syllabi and Instructor CVs Campus Carry Contact Counseling and Mental Health Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan Diversity, Equity, and Disability Resources ♿ Emergency Information Fraud, Waste, or Abuse Hazing Prevention and Response HEERF/CARES Act Compliance Jobs Online Institutional Resumes Public Forum On Campus Site Policies State of Texas Statewide Search Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Title IX Reporting (Sexual Misconduct) UT System Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy © The University of Texas at Austin 2022