Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Study Abroad right arrow down arrow Explore Programs right arrow down arrow Steps to Study Abroad Program Types Student Experiences Understand Funding right arrow down arrow Financial Aid UC International Scholarship Other Scholarships Budgeting for Study Abroad Social Media Ambassadors Apply to Study Abroad right arrow down arrow Faculty-Led Programs Long-Term Programs (Exchange / External) right arrow down arrow Credit Approval Co-op & Internships Minors Non-Academic Travel COVID-19 Travel Restrictions Prepare for Travel right arrow down arrow Passports & Visas Pre-Departure Orientation Health & Insurance Abroad right arrow down arrow Insurance Safety Emergencies Return to Campus right arrow down arrow Outreach Project Faculty Leaders right arrow down arrow Faculty-Led Toolkit right arrow down arrow Propose a Program Design Guide Before you go While Abroad After Travel Grants and Opportunities right arrow down arrow Program Development Grant Mentoring Grant Teach Abroad With USAC Health and Safety Emergencies and Incidents Contact Us Home » Campus Life » Study Abroad Study Abroad Every year, the University of Cincinnati sends over 1,700 students abroad to more than 50 countries. From one week to one year, programs are designed for students from every major and background. Make the world your classroom as you earn credit for coursework abroad. Find a Study Abroad Program Attend an Info Session Why study abroad? Study abroad is known for being a "life-changing" experience, but studies have shown there are real and tangible benefits to study abroad. In addition to personal growth, students report that study abroad positively affects their academics as well as their career prospects after graduation. Academic Benefits right arrow down arrow Students are able to explore their major from an international perspective or study something they would not have had the opportunity to at home. Besides learning in the classroom, students will benefit from experiential learning opportunities as they explore their new enivonment. Professional Benefits right arrow down arrow Employers are looking for students with a global worldview and the ability to communicate across cultures. In a world that is becoming more globally connected every day, study abroad is a way for students to gain valuable cross-cultural experience that they can apply to many career paths. Personal Benefits right arrow down arrow Study abroad teaches students to be resilient. Traveling to a place with a different culture, language, food, and customs can be challenging, but students almost universally express appreciation for their personal growth as they put to test their problem-solving and communication skills. If you’re looking to grow in some way, you will most likely experience that if you study abroad. Kalea Lucas 8-time study abroad student Find an advisor The UC International Programs team is a group of international education professionals dedicated to the advancement of study abroad at UC. Our team seeks to support students throughout the study abroad journey. This includes providing information sessions, advising students on program selection, managing applications, supporting credit transfer and financial aid processes, assessing and managing risk abroad, and facilitating safe and impactful programs for our students. Contact a Study Abroad Advisor Get updates If you're thinking about studying abroad, stay in touch! Our office frequently updates interested students with program and scholarship information through social media and email. Follow our social media accounts Sign up for our listserv UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 global@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top