Skip to main content Boise State University Home Search Menu Boise Global Navigation Apply Visit Give Menu Ready to take the next step? Plan your virtual visit. Search Search Concerns in the Classroom In the unfortunate event that a student believes that they have been mistreated or discriminated against in an academic setting, there are multiple options for reporting their concerns. Students may file an academic grievance, or report a violation of Boise State’s non-discrimination and anti-harassment policy online, by phone, or in person with the Office of Institutional Compliance and Ethics. Though students may report anonymously, the university prohibits retaliation against any individual who files a complaint alleging bias, harassment or a violation of law or policy. For additional information about reporting options, please see below. Report Academic Bias Academic Grievance Process A visual guide Academic Grievance Process A visual guide Report Discrimination and Harassment Options for reporting Report Discrimination and Harassment Options for reporting Academic Grievance Policy University policy Academic Grievance Policy University policy Non-Discrimination and Anti-Harassment Policy University policy Non-Discrimination and Anti-Harassment Policy University policy Submit a CARE Report Campus Assessment Resource and Education (CARE) Submit a CARE Report Campus Assessment Resource and Education (CARE) Boise State University +1 (208) 426-1000 1910 University Drive, Boise, Idaho 83725 - Idaho's Metropolitan Doctoral Research University Follow Us Follow us on Twitter Follow us on Facebook Follow us on Instagram Follow us on Youtube Secondary Navigation myBoiseState Safety, Security and Support Career Opportunities Boise State Public Radio Albertsons Library Transportation and Parking Partner with Us Morrison Center Alumni Bronco Shop and Bookstore University Administration ExtraMile Arena Broncos Logo Athletics Follow us on Facebook Follow us on Instagram Follow us on Twitter Follow us on Youtube Accessibility Privacy Classroom Concerns Policies Contact Boise State © 2022 All Rights Reserved. Boise State University This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to collect information about how you interact with our website and allow us to remember you. We use this information in order to improve and customize your browsing experience and for analytics and metrics about our visitors both on this website and other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Statement. Close Message