Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Information Technology Main Navigation About IT Services Show Extended Students Faculty / Staff CEDA Software Show Extended Students Faculty / Staff Events & Projects IT Strategic Plan IT Advisory Committee Purpose The Information Technology Advisory Committee is responsible for providing strategic, technical, and operational advice to the Vice President for Information Technology/CIO, Amir Dabirian, and campus senior leadership. The committee will provide strategic leadership, establish campus-wide IT priorities and policies and ensure transparency and accountability to the University community with regards to all IT activities on campus. Additionally, the committee ensures that the campus IT's strategic goals and efforts are aligned with the University's Strategic Plan and goals. Meetings The IT Advisory Committee meets 2 times per semester Membership Amir Dabirian, Vice President for Information Technology / CIO, Chair Jim Donovan, Director of Athletics, Co-Chair Kristin Stang, Associate Vice President, Faculty Affairs and Support Su Swarat, Associate Vice President, Institutional Effectiveness Lisa Kirtman, Dean, College of Education Arnold Holland, Interim Dean, College of Arts Charles (Chuck) Grieb, IT Senate Committee Chair / Professor, Visual Arts Loretta Donovan, Professor, College of Education Josh Mitchell, ASI President Angela North, Director of Strategic Initiatives, Administration and Finance Tara Garcia, Chief of Operations, Human Resources, Diversity, and Inclusion Elizabeth Zavala-Acevez, Associate Vice President, Student Affairs Ellen Treanor, Associate Vice President, Strategic Communications & Brand Management Berhanu Tadesse, Associate Vice President for IT Rommel Hidalgo, Associate Vice President for IT Willie Peng, Assistant Vice President for IT Joseph Luzzi, Assistant Vice President for IT Mike Hirad, Information Security Architect This site is maintained by Division of Information Technology. Last Published 4/5/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact helpdesk@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.