Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search Harvard Museums of Science & Culture | HARVARD.EDU Join Subscribe Shop Rent Press Search Visit Exhibitions Programs Education Support About HOME / Plan Your Visit The Harvard Museum of Natural History is one of the four Harvard Museums of Science & Culture. We encourage you to read our Know Before You Go policies. Hours Open daily from 9:00 am to 5:00 pm Closed Thanksgiving Day, December 24, December 25, and January 1 General Admission General admission gives access to all exhibits including the internationally acclaimed Glass Flowers Gallery. The museum is connected to the Peabody Museum, and admission to one museum admits you to both during regular hours. Adults: $15.00 Seniors (65+): $13.00 Harvard ID Holders: Free +1 guest Non-Harvard students with I.D.: $10.00 Youth ages 3–18: $10.00 Youth under 3: Free Free for members Special Free Admission (with valid ID) Free to holders of a current Harvard ID; Harvard Museums of Science & Culture members, and Harvard Art Museums members. Free to Massachusetts residents every Sunday morning (year-round) from 9:00 am to 12:00 pm and on Wednesdays from 3:00 pm to 5:00 pm (September through May). Proof of residency required. This offer is not available to commercial groups. Free to Massachusetts Teachers (K-12). Free to Massachusetts residents who present Electronic Benefits Transfer (EBT) cards at the admission desk with up to 5 guests. ASTC Travel Passport Program Free to members of institutions participating in the ASTC Travel Passport Program. Local restrictions apply, please review the guidelines and restrictions (PDF) before your visit. National Endowment for the Arts Blue Star Museums Program Free to active duty military with their families in collaboration with the National Endowment for the Arts Blue Star Museums Program. Year-round free admission is offered to the Peabody Museum and Harvard Museum of Natural History using the Blue Star Museums guidelines. Discounted Admission (with valid ID) Library Passes Library patrons can reserve discount passes through their local, Massachusetts-based, library to visit our museums! Library pass admission includes entry to the Harvard Museum of Natural History, the Peabody Museum of Archaeology & Ethnology, the Harvard Museum of the Ancient Near East, and the Collection of Historical Scientific Instruments. Please be prepared to show the physical library pass and proof of Massachusetts residency. Are you a library looking to offer passes to your patrons? Learn more about our Library Membership Program. Save With CityPASS Spend less, Experience more! Save 47% on admission to top Boston’s top 4 attractions, including Harvard Museum of Natural History. Visit the attractions at your own pace, in any order, over a 9-day period. CityPASS guests require advance reservations. Purchase CityPASS online for immediate, paperless mobile ticket delivery. Group Visits Advance reservations are required. Learn about admission rates and registration information for group visits and prepaid museum passes for educational institutions. School Visits Click here for program descriptions and rates. Please call (617) 495-2341 for information and reservations, or email hmnhreserve@hmsc.harvard.edu. Museum Policies Enjoy your visit, and please help us keep the museum safe and comfortable for other visitors. No eating or drinking in the galleries Our passages are narrow; keep them accessible for other visitors. Do not lean on glass cases; they are fragile. Cell phones are permitted for phone calls in the ground and third floor lobbies. Personal photography is allowed; however, the use of flash and tripods is not permitted in the galleries. Commercial photography or video cameras are not permitted without written permission. Information on photography and videography requests for commercial use can be found here. Drawing is encouraged in the galleries, but the use of clay, paints, pastels, and chalk is not permitted. Please do not block passageways; keep them accessible to other visitors. Harvard Museums of Science & Culture Map Explore the galleries of the Harvard Museum of Natural History, Peabody Museum, Harvard Museum of the Ancient Near East, and the Collection of Historical Scientific Instruments. All four Harvard Museums of Science & Culture are within a five-minute walk. Plan Your Visit Directions and Parking Groups Accessibility The Shop at HMNH Make a Day of It: Harvard Square Location The museum is located at 26 Oxford Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts, just past Harvard Yard. 0c780acd9669ab3fdf7718a51d53794c Email Updates Sign up for our newsletter. Your privacy: we do not share our list. Harvard Museum of Natural History 26 Oxford Street |Cambridge, MA 02138 (617) 495-3045 |hmnh@hmsc.harvard.edu Plan Your Visit 70cd81739d5e358583752680d7d39323 Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement