Skip to main content University of Pennsylvania School of Arts and Sciences Penn A-Z Penn Calendar Search form SearchSearch Department of Anthropology Department of Anthropology About Welcome to Penn Anthropology History Events News Directions to the Department Contact Land Acknowledgement Intellectual Life Graduate PhD Program MD/ PhD Program Masters Program How to Apply FAQ Grad Corner Handbook Graduate Student Accomplishments Undergraduate Major Minor Research Undergraduate Research Award Anthrofest Courses and Registration FAQ Independent Study Course Courses by Concentration Past Program Information Contacts Courses Courses Anthropology Course Catalog Courses by Concentration People Faculty Faculty By Interest Alumni Graduate Students Staff COVID-19 FAQ Community & University Help Graduate FAQ Mental and Physical Health Remote Teaching Resources Undergraduate FAQ Colloquium Series Statement on Anthropology, Colonialism, and Racism Statement on the MOVE bombing human remains SearchSearch What does it mean to be human? The key to the contemporary curriculum. ‹ › Undergraduate Graduate People What is Anthropology? Anthropology is the key to the contemporary curriculum. Our courses are cross-listed in a variety of other departments: disciplinary, such as English, History, Linguistics, Biology, Psychology, and Religious Studies; areal, such as East Asian Studies, Latin American and Latino Studies, Near East Studies, African Studies, Africana Studies, and South Asian Studies; and professional schools and centers, such as Education, Design, Law, Wharton, Annenberg, Medicine, Nursing, Social Policy and Practice, and Public Health. We have joint degree programs with several departments and schools. Read more about Penn Museum Founded in 1887, the Penn Museum has always been one of the world’s great archaeology and anthropology research museums, and the largest university museum in the United States. With roughly one million objects in our care, the Penn Museum encapsulates and illustrates the human story: who we are and where we came from. Tweets by UPennAnth Colloquium May 02 Anth Colloquium - Tri Phuong (UVIC) - "Scent of Secrets" Apr 25 Anth Colloquium - Miyako Inoue (Stanford) - "Who is Speaking? Stenography and the Cultural Technique of the Liberal Subject in Modern Japan" Apr 18 Anth Colloquium - Jill Weber (UPenn) - "Skeletons and Scent" more events... Meet Our Faculty Kristina Lyons Assistant Professor of Anthropology Richard Leventhal Professor of Anthropology Greg Urban Arthur Hobson Quinn Professor of Anthropology More Facebook Twitter Contact University of Pennsylvania Penn Museum 3260 South Street Philadelphia, PA 19104 215.746.0419 Penn WebLogin © 2022 The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania