Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About BC Overview President's Message Mission & History Facts & Figures Notable Alumni Campuses, Maps & Directions Trustees & Leadership Related Links Diversity BC Fact Book Office of University Communications BC Media & Publications Office for Institutional Diversity Admission Overview Apply Questbridge Applicants International Applicants Homeschooled Applicants Transfer Applicants Transfer Credit Veteran and ROTC Applicants Test-Optional Policy 2022-23 Early Decision vs. Regular Decision First-Year Admission Profile Visit Discover BC Hotels, Directions, and Parking Contact Admission Affordability Majors & Minors Morrissey College Majors Choosing BC Related Links Undergraduate Tuition & Financial Aid Financial Aid Office Graduate Admission Offices Academics Overview Schools & Colleges Majors & Minors Libraries Professional & Continuing Education Excellence & Innovation Academic Advising Related Links Academic Calendar Office of the Provost Academic Advising Center Core Curriculum Student Services Campus Life Overview Diversity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Student Organizations Sports & Recreation Arts & Culture Related Links Student Affairs McMullen Museum Robsham Theater Research Overview Research Centers & Institutes Undergraduate Research Opportunities Faculty Awards & Grants Graduate Fellowships Research Support Related Links Vice Provost for Research Sponsored Programs Research Integrity and Compliance Technology Transfer and Licensing Jesuit, Catholic Overview Catholic Intellectual Tradition Jesuit Resources Related Links Division of Mission & Ministry Campus Ministry Center for Student Formation The Church in the 21st Century Center Close Directory A to Z Listing Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Maps and Directions HOME About BC Campuses, Maps & Directions In This Section About BC Overview President's Message Mission & History Facts & Figures Notable Alumni Campuses, Maps & Directions Trustees & Leadership Maps and Directions Plan your trip to Boston College Step inside Gasson Hall, cheer on the Eagles at Alumni Stadium, or take a stroll down Linden Lane. Our main campus is located in the picturesque Chestnut Hill neighborhood of Newton, just a short drive from downtown Boston and accessible by public transportation. This campus houses the University’s oldest buildings, most of its academic and residence halls, athletic facilities, and dining locations. Other Boston College campuses include: Newton Campus Located one mile west of the Chestnut Hill Campus, the Newton Campus is home to the Boston College Law School, athletic fields, and several freshman residence halls. Brighton Campus Located across Commonwealth Avenue from the Chestnut Hill Campus, our Brighton Campus is home to the School of Theology and Ministry, the McMullen Museum of Art, administrative offices (Human Resources, University Advancement, Information Technology Services, and University Communications, to name a few), and several new athletics fields. The University also includes the Connors Family Retreat and Conference Center in Dover, Mass., the Weston Observatory in Weston, Mass., and several other properties in the area. Places to Stay Transportation & Parking MBTA Trip Planner Maps Driving Directions Parking Chestnut Hill Campus Map Brighton Campus Map Newton Campus Map Weston Observatory Map Getting to Campus by Car From points north and south Take Interstate 95 (Route 128) to Exit 24. Proceed east on Route 30, also known as Commonwealth Avenue, and follow for about five miles to Boston College. From points west Take the Massachusetts Turnpike (Route 90) to Exit 17. At the first set of lights after the exit ramp, take a right onto Centre Street. Follow Centre Street to the fourth set of lights, and turn left onto Commonwealth Avenue. Follow Commonwealth Avenue 1.5 miles to Boston College. From downtown Boston Take the Massachusetts Turnpike (Route 90) to Exit 17. Take a left over the bridge after passing the Crowne Plaza Hotel. Take the first right onto Centre Street. Follow Centre Street to the fourth set of lights, and turn left onto Commonwealth Avenue. Follow Commonwealth Avenue 1.5 miles to Boston College. Parking on Campus and GPS Navigation Despite our name, Boston College is located in the Chestnut Hill neighborhood of Newton, Massachusetts. Our campus is approximately six miles west of downtown Boston. Therefore, it is important that you put the correct town and/or zip code when you are entering our address into GPS navigation or Google Maps. Once you have parked, please remember to take your parking ticket with you so that a member of our staff can validate your parking ticket. Undergraduate Admission visitors should park in either the Commonwealth Avenue Garage or the Beacon Street Garage, above level three, unless otherwise instructed by a gate attendant. For the Beacon Street Garage Use 1103 House Road, Chestnut Hill, MA 02467. The Beacon Street Garage is connected to Alumni Stadium, the University’s football stadium. Map it Once parked, exit the parking garage towards campus. Take a left on Campanella Way towards Middle Campus (Alumni Stadium will be on your left). Climb the Higgins Stairs and the Office of Undergraduate Admission will be at the top in Devlin Hall. It is approximately a 5-8 minute walk once outside the parking garage. Map it For the Commonwealth Avenue Garage Use 140 Commonwealth Avenue, Chestnut Hill, MA 02467. Use the intersection of St. Thomas More Road and Commonwealth Avenue. From St. Thomas More Road, take a right onto Campanella Way to the Commonwealth Avenue Garage. Map it Once parked, take the elevator to the 7th floor of the parking garage. Take a left off the top of floor of the garage onto Middle Campus. The Office of Undergraduate Admission will be located across O’Neill Plaza in Devlin Hall. It is approximately a two minute walk from the top floor of the parking garage. Map it Visitor Parking Info Back To Top Back To Top 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Jobs at BC Give Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College