Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Financial Aid Menu Search TTU Financial Aid Home Common Loan Definitions & Glossary Acceleration: Demand for immediate repayment of the entire unpaid balance of the loan. Accrued Interest: Amount of interest that accumulates on an unsubsidized, Graduate PLUS or Parent PLUS loan while in school, grace and forbearance periods. Borrower: Person responsible for repaying a loan that has signed and agreed to the terms of the promissory note. Capitalized Interest: Unpaid accumulated interest added to the loan principal. Capitalizing interest increases the principal amount of the loan and, therefore, the total cost of the loan. Charge Off: A debt that a creditor has written of as a loss, but that is still subject to collection action. Consolidation: The process of combining one or more Federal student loans into a single new loan. Default: Failure to repay a loan in accordance with the terms of the promissory note. Deferment: The temporary postponement of loan payments. Delinquency: This occurs when payments are late or missed, as specified in the terms of the promissory note and the selected repayment plan. Disbursement: When the school pays loan proceeds to the student or the parent borrower, or posts the funds to the student's account. Discharge (Cancellation): The release of a borrower from their obligation to repay their loans. A borrower must meet certain requirements to be eligible for discharge. Disclosure Statement: Statement of the actual cost of the loan, including the interest costs and the loan fee. Endorser: An endorser is someone who does not have an adverse credit history and agrees to repay the loan if the borrower does not repay it. Entrance Counseling: A mandatory information session which takes place before you receive your first federal student loan that explains your responsibilities Exit Counseling: A mandatory information session which takes place when you graduate or attend school less than half-time that explains your loan repayment responsibilities and when repayment begins. FSA ID: Your electronic identifier to allow access to personal information in various U.S. Department of Education systems and acts as your digital signature on some online forms. Federal Direct Loan Program: The William D. Ford Federal Direct Loan Program, referred to as Direct Loan Program, is a federal program that provides loans to student and parent borrowers directly through the U.S. Department of Education. The loans are Federal Direct Stafford/Ford Loans, Federal Direct Unsubsidized Stafford/Ford Loans, Federal Direct PLUS Loans, and Federal Direct Consolidation Loans. Forbearance: An arrangement to postpone or reduce a borrower's monthly payment amount for a limited or specified period, or to extend the repayment period. The borrower is charged interest during forbearance. Grace Period: A specified period of time before the first payment must be made on a loan. Typically, the grace period starts the day after a borrower ceases to be enrolled at least half time. In Collection: A debt that has been placed with a collection agency by a creditor or that is subject to more intensive efforts by a creditor to recover amounts owed from a borrower who has not responded satisfactorily to the demands routinely made as part of the creditor's billing procedures. Interest: A loan expense charged by the lender and paid by the borrower for the use of borrowed money. The expense is calculated as a percentage of the principal amount (loan amount) borrowed. Loan: Money that must be repaid. Loan Fee: An expense of borrowing deducted proportionately from each loan disbursement. Loan Principal: The sum of money borrowed. Master Promissory Note (MPN): The Master Promissory Note (MPN) is a promissory note that can be used to make one or more loans for one or more academic years (up to 10 years). There are two types of MPNs in the Direct Loan Program: one for student loans and one for parent PLUS loans. National Student Loan Data System (NSLDS): A centralized database which stores information on federal grants and loans. NSLDS contains information on how much aid you've received, your enrollment status, and your loan servicer(s). You can access NSLDS using your FSA ID. Prepayment: Any amount paid on a loan by the borrower before it is required to be paid under the terms of the promissory note. Promissory Note: A legally binding contract between a lender and a borrower. The promissory note contains the terms and conditions of the loan, including how and when the loan must be repaid. Servicer: A company that collects payments on a loan, responds to customer service inquiries, and performs other administrative tasks associated with maintaining a loan on behalf of a lender. Contact TTU Contact Contact TTUContact Contact TTU News News for NewsNews for News Events EventsEvents Financial Aid Like Financial Aid on FacebookLike Financial Aid on Facebook Follow Financial Aid on twitterFollow Financial Aid on twitter Subscribe to Financial Aid on YouTubeSubscribe to Financial Aid on YouTube Follow Financial Aid on InstagramFollow Financial Aid on Instagram Address Texas Tech University | Student Financial Aid & Scholarships | West Hall 301 | P.O. Box 45011, Lubbock, TX 79409 Phone P: 806.742.3681 | F: 806.742.0880 Email finaid.advisor@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityJan 13, 2020 1:02 PM Financial Aid Cost to Attend Tech Financial Aid Cost to Attend Tech Back Calculating Costs Financial Aid Cost to Attend Tech Back Cost to Attend Net Cost Calculator Find My Financial Aid & Scholarship Advisor Red Raider Guarantee Study Abroad Types of Aid Financial Aid Types of Aid Back Scholarships Financial Aid Types of Aid Scholarships Back For Continuing Students Incoming Freshmen Incoming Transfer External Scholarship Search Grants Financial Aid Types of Aid Back Federal Pell Grant Federal Supplemental Education Opportunity Grant (SEOG) Iraq and Afghanistan Service Grant (IASG) Children of Fallen Heroes Scholarship Texas Public Education Grant (TPEG) TEXAS Grant TTU Grant Federal TEACH Grant Student Employment Loans Financial Aid Types of Aid Back Federal Direct Loan Federal Direct PLUS Loan for Graduate/Professional Students Federal Direct PLUS Loan for Parents College Access Loan Texas B-On-Time Loan Private Education Loan Student Athletes Requirements & Forms Financial Aid Requirements & Forms Back Verification Forms Financial Aid Requirements & Forms Back Financial Aid Forms Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) Texas Application for State Financial Aid (TASFA) Special Circumstances Financial Aid Requirements & Forms Back Special Circumstances Dependency Change Cost of Attendance Review Satisfactory Academic Progress View/Accept Financial Aid Borrower Resources Financial Aid Borrower Resources Back Loan Options Financial Aid Borrower Resources Loan Options Back Federal Direct Loan Federal Direct PLUS Loan for Graduate/Professional Students Federal Direct PLUS Loan for Parents College Access Loan Texas B-On-Time Loan Private Education Loan Understanding Loans Financial Aid Borrower Resources Understanding Loans Back Borrowed Assistance Financial Awareness Counseling Understanding Interest Leave of Absence or Graduation Grace Period Loan Servicer Common Loan Definition & Glossary Repayment Options Financial Aid Borrower Resources Repayment Options Back Federal Loan Exit Counseling Repaying your Loans Deferment & Forbearance Cancellation & Forgiveness Loan Consolidation Avoiding Default Consumer Information Financial Aid Back Consumer Information Planning and Assessment Policy and Procedure U.S. Department of Education's College Affordability & Transparency Center Contact Us Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index