Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Canvas Menu Getting Started Support Canvas Instructor Guide Student Guide Instructor Orientation Video Student Orientation Video On-Demand Video Guides Canvas FAQs Suggesting Improvements Mobile Apps LTI Integrations Canvas Release Notes Canvas Access Guidelines Kaltura Respondus Zoom Turnitin Bongo Learn All Other Software System Status Training Request Forms Canvas Training Request Form Demo Course Request Form Feature Request Form Organization Request Form Outside User Request Form Promotional Request Form Image Examples SI Leader Course Request Form Template Request Form Syllabi Resources News Canvas Login Baylor>Canvas>News>Canvas Features and Updates in April Canvas Features and Updates in April April 10, 2022 Instructure will be introducing some minor but interesting features that will be available beginning on April 16, 2022. We have chosen to highlight a few of them for you here. Please feel free to reach out to Instructure Support with any questions. Assignment Default Due Time Field Faculty will be able to set a default due time for assignments in a course. Currently, the default due time for assignments is always 11:59pm. The due time can still be changed for each assignment, but this will allow instructors to set a different default time course wide. Instructure has recognized many faculty prefer due times just prior to the start of class and have decided to give faculty this option. Note: This will not change previously created assignments. It will only apply to newly created assignments. To find out more, feel free to look at the Assignment Default Due Time release note here. Apply Score to Ungraded Assignments This minor feature from Instructure allows a score to be applied en masse across ungraded submissions in an assignment group and/or total column in the Canvas Gradebook. This will make short work of having to manually apply a certain grade to a student(s). Instead of seeing the hyphen, faculty can quickly apply a specific grade at the click of a button. To find out more, feel free to look at the Apply Score to Ungraded Assignments release notes here. RCE Icon Maker One exciting update in Canvas is the Icon Maker. Instructure will provide faculty the ability to create and save icons for their courses using the Rich Content Editor. Additionally, faculty and students will have the ability to convey messages using emojis as visual indicators along with written comment using the Emoji Picker. To find out more, feel free to look at the RCE Icon Maker release notes here. Are you looking for more News? All NewsArchives News General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Getting Started Support Canvas Instructor Guide Student Guide Instructor Orientation Video Student Orientation Video On-Demand Video Guides Canvas FAQs Suggesting Improvements Mobile Apps LTI Integrations Canvas Release Notes Canvas Access Guidelines Kaltura Respondus Zoom Turnitin Bongo Learn All Other Software System Status Training Request Forms Canvas Training Request Form Demo Course Request Form Feature Request Form Organization Request Form Outside User Request Form Promotional Request Form Image Examples SI Leader Course Request Form Template Request Form Syllabi Resources News Canvas Login