Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Mechanical Engineering Programs Students Faculty Research News Accreditation Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact ME Program Undergraduate Program Apply Now! Graduate Program Apply Now! ME Degrees Offered Rankings Take Action Herff College of Engineering Contact Us Apply to Our Undergraduate Program Apply to Our Graduate Program Home Mechanical Engineering ME Program Graduate Catalog Mechanical Engineering Graduate Catalog Mechanical Engineering Ali Fatemi, PhD Chair Room 312, Engineering Science Building (901) 678-2173 TEONG E. TAN, PhD Coordinator of Graduate Studies E-Mail: ttan@memphis.edu I. The department of Mechanical Engineering offers a graduate program leading to the Master of Science degree with a major in Mechanical Engineering. Program objectives are: (1) ability to apply advanced knowledge of mathematics, physical sciences, and engineering principles to the solution of practical engineering problems; (2) meet or exceed the needs and expectations of public and private sector employers for MS graduates; and (3) preparation to pursue additional advanced studies if so desired. All graduate students must comply with the general requirements of the Graduate School and the program requirements of the degree being pursued. II. MS Degree Program A. Program Admission The Herff College of Engineering has established uniform admission criteria that identify the pool of master’s level applicants from which the department evaluates and recommends qualified applicants to be admitted. B. Program Requirements A more detailed description of the information listed below will be given by the Coordinator of Graduate Studies to students admitted into the Mechanical Engineering MS program. Thesis Option: Successful completion of 30 semester hours to include 6 hours in MECH 7996 for thesis and 3 hours each in MECH 7341 and 7342. Of the remaining 18 hours, no more than 9 hours of 6000-level MECH courses or collateral courses may be used in satisfying degree requirements. Only courses in mathematics, the physical sciences, or another engineering discipline may serve as collateral courses; each course must receive prior approval by the departmental graduate coordinator for it to be used in satisfying degree requirements. With prior approval, up to 3 hours of 7000-level collateral courses may be used in satisfying degree requirements. Non-Thesis Option: Successful completion of 33 semester hours total to include 3 hours each in MECH 7341 and 7342. Of the remaining 27 hours, no more than 9 hours in 6000 level MECH or collateral courses may be used in satisfying degree requirements. Only courses in mathematics, the physical sciences, or another engineering discipline may serve as collateral courses; each course must receive prior approval by the departmental graduate coordinator for it to be used in satisfying degree requirements. With prior approval, up to 3 hours of 7000-level collateral courses may be used in satisfying degree requirements. With prior approval, up to 3 hours of MECH 7992 may be used in satisfying degree requirements. The department's graduate coordinator may approve transfer credit of up to 12 credit hours previously earned at another institution. For these hours to be used in satisfying degree requirements, appropriate documentation must be provided by the student, and approval granted, not later than the end of the student’s second semester of enrollment. Students selecting the thesis option will be required to complete an independent research project culminating in a masters thesis. Upon completion of the thesis, the student must successfully pass an oral examination to assess mastery of the thesis topic and to evaluate the student’s knowledge in mechanical engineering. Students should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before beginning to write. Students selecting the non-thesis option must pass an oral comprehensive examination to demonstrate mastery of mechanical engineering topics commensurate with the degree to be awarded. Graduate Assistants must enroll for at least 12 credit hours per semester. A limited number of graduate assistantships are available; contact the departmental graduate coordinator for applications. Students who wish to take mechanical engineering courses must receive approval to register after consultation with the departmental graduate coordinator or with the faculty advisory committee. C. Retention Policy A student must maintain a GPA of 3.00 or higher throughout the program. If a student's GPA is below 3.0, that student will be on probation during the following semester. Failure to improve the GPA above 3.0 by the end of the probationary semester will result in dismissal from the program. D. Graduation Requirements Refer to "Minimum Degree Requirements--Masters Degrees" for University graduation requirements. III. PhD Degree Program All doctoral students must take MECH 8341 and MECH 8342. See the following link for information about the doctoral program in Mechanical Engineering. Doctoral Program in Mechanical Engineering More detailed description of the information will be given by the Coordinator of Graduate Studies (Dr. Tan) to students admitted into the Mechanical Engineering concentration. IV. Graduate Certificate in Packaging Engineering The objectives of the certificate program are: (1). For local practitioners in the packaging and distribution industry to refine their knowledge in packaging engineering, (2). For other professionals with no prior packaging knowledge to look for a career change, (3). For current full time graduate students to expand their engineering knowledge or specialize their skills in packaging, and (4). For students with an undergraduate degree for a transition into graduate school. A. Admissions Requirements The certificate program in packaging engineering can be pursued concurrently with other graduate programs at the university. Applicants must have completed a bachelor’s degree with a cumulative grade point average of at least 2.5 and satisfy admission requirements of the Graduate School with the classification of “Graduate Certificate.” To apply for admission, the applicant must submit: Transcripts of undergraduate degree program and any prior graduate study to Graduate Admissions; A letter describing intent to pursue the certificate and its relevance to career goals to the Graduate Coordinator, Department of Mechanical Engineering; Two letters of recommendation describing pertinent professional work experience when seeking to waive a course prerequisite to the Graduate Coordinator, Department of Mechanical Engineering. B. Program Requirements Successful completion of 9 hours of graduate credits distributed as follows, maintaining a GPA of at least 3.0 and completing the program within three academic years, Required courses, 6 hours: MECH 6342, Introduction to Packaging Engineering MECH 7391, Packaging Dynamics/Distribution Packaging Research Project, 3 hours, registered under one of the listed courses and with approval of the program director: MECH 7990, Engineering Practicum; MECH 7391, Research Proposal; MECH 7992, Research Project; MECH 7994, Independent Study, with a grade of B or better. All 9 credit hours may be shared with a Master’s program in the Department of Mechanical Engineering upon the approval of the Advisory Committee. C. Graduation Requirements: Student must file “Intent to Graduate” with Graduate School at beginning of the semester in which he/she will complete the 9-semester hour requirement; A minimum grade of “B” or “S” in each course applicable to the certificate is required; Student must also submit a Candidacy Form to the Mechanical Engineering Graduate Coordinator in order to verify information and collect approvals and signatures required for the Graduate School. V. Accelerated B.S.M.E./M.S. Program in Mechanical Engineering This program allows outstanding undergraduates to begin the coursework for the Master of Science in Mechanical Engineering during their senior year. Students are encouraged to begin planning to enter the Accelerated B.S.M.E./M.S. program early in their undergraduate career, in consultation with their advisor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering. Working with the undergraduate and graduate academic coordinators, undergraduates selected into this program begin a carefully tailored course of study which will allow them to complete their B.S.M.E. degree while they also begin the coursework toward their M.S. To apply, students must have a minimum 3.25 grade point average, and must submit two reference letters and a copy of their transcript to the Mechanical Engineering department. Each applicant will complete an interview with the graduate academic coordinator in mechanical engineering. Students must also apply to the Graduate School for the accelerated B.S.M.E./M.S. program, which allows them to take graduate courses in mechanical engineering. To continue in the program past the B.S.M.E., students must apply for full admission into the Graduate School and into the Mechanical Engineering department's M.S. program. Only in ABM programs, up to 9 hours of graduate course work may be applied to both the undergraduate and graduate programs. However, any graduate coursework will not apply to undergraduate GPA. MECHANICAL ENGINEERING (MECH) NOTE: Students taking Engineering courses will be charged an additional $25 per credit hour. In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: MECH 6990-6998. Special Topics in Mechanical Engineering. (1-3). Topics are varied and announced in the online class listings. MECH 7901-7909–8901-8909. Special Topics in Mechanical Engineering. (1-3). Topics are varied and announced in the online class listings. MECH 6305 - Fluid Mechanics II (3) Continuation of MECH 3331. Introduction to various topics in advanced fluid mechanics, including flow over immersed bodies; compressible fluid flow; turbomachinery; measurements in fluid mechanics; and inviscid flow. PREREQUISITE: MECH 3331. MECH 6309 - Gas Dynamics (3) Concepts in compressible flow, including topics such as isentropic flow, varying area flow, normal and oblique shockwaves, Fanno flow,and Rayleigh flow. PREREQUISITE: MECH 3312, 3331. MECH 6313 - Heat Transfer II (3) Principles of boiling, condensation, and radiation heat transfer; fundamentals of heat exchanger design. PREREQUISITE: MECH 3351. MECH 6315 - Principles of HVAC Systems (3) Psychometric analysis, heating and cooling loads of buildings and analysis of air conditioning systems. PREREQUISITE: MECH 3351. MECH 6320 - Mechanics of Materials II (3) Stress-strain analyses of thin-walled cylinders and spheres, springs, laterally loaded struts, struts with initial curvature, rotating disks and cylinders; plastic yielding of beams and shafts; introduction to energy methods. PREREQUISITE: MECH 3320, 3322. MECH 6324 - Computer Meth/Design (3) Application of computer-aided analysis software to the design of mechanical components and systems; introduction to fundamental concepts and principles of finite element methods; design problems and project assignments using finite element analysis package. MECH 6325 - Adv Mech Materials (3) Biaxial stresses, torsion, unsymmetrical bending of beams, shear centers, contact stresses, failure theory, and other selected topics. PREREQUISITE: MECH 3322. MECH 6326 - Biomedical Sy Anly-Mech (3) Introduction to concepts used in analyzing living systems; simulation of body functions with mechanical and computer models; familiarization with the design of mechanical bioengineering devices such as heart valves, heart-lung machines, renal analysis machines. PREREQUISITES: MECH 2332, 3322. MECH 6330 - Intro To Composite Mat (3) Introduction to fiber reinforced composite materials; mechanical behavior, strength, design methodology, and implementation of computer aided design. PREREQUISITES: MECH 3320, 3322. MECH 6331 - Turbomachinery (3) Basic principles of fluid mechanics and thermodynamics as applied to rotating machinery; ideal and actual operating characteristics of pumps, fans, turbines and compressors; design of real systems. PREREQUISITE: MECH 3331. MECH 6333 - Aerospace Proplsn Syst (3) Fundamentals of air-breathing and rocket propulsion devices; principles of combustion thermodynamics, gas turbine operation, solid and liquid propellants, performance evaluation, and atmospheric and space mission propulsion requirements. PREREQUISITE: MECH 4331. MECH 6337 - Internal Combustion Engines (3) Principles of Otto, Diesel, and Brayton cycle engines; effects of various fuels and fuel delivery systems, air induction systems, ignition systems, and pollution control techniques on engine performance. PREREQUISITES: MECH 3312, 3331. MECH 6339 - Appld Computational Fluid Dyna (3) Introduction to fundamental mathematical models and computational methods for simulating the physics of fluid flow and heat transfer; identify limitation of simulation approach, recognize sources of error, evaluation of solution quality. PREREQUISITE: MECH 3341, 3351. MECH 6340 - Manufacturing Processes (3) Fundamentals of mechanical behavior of materials, manufacturing properties of materials; casting, bulk deformation, sheet metal forming; material removal processes; processing of polymers, ceramics, and glasses composite materials; powder metallurgy; fastening and joining processes; nontraditional manufacturing processes; economics of integrated design and manufacturing processes. PREREQUISITES: MECH 3320, 3322. MECH 6342 - Intro/Packaging Engineering (3) Fundamental study of functions of packaging, packaging material, container type, processes, technology and equipment employed to protect goods during handling, shipping and storage. MECH 6344 - Mechanical Controls (3) Fundamental classical control concepts; modeling of linear mechanical control systems; transient, accuracy and performance analyses and design of control systems using root locus sketch, Nyquist diagrams and Bode plots. PREREQUISITE: MECH 3321. MECH 6345 - Design Of Mechanisms (3) Graphical and analytical mechanism synthesis techniques for path generation, function generation, rigid body guidance, and optimization of force transmission characteristics. PREREQUISITES: MECH 3321, 3323. MECH 6346 - Adv Mechanical Controls (3) Advanced modeling of mechanical control systems; review of digital and optimal control systems, and simulation of control systems. PREREQUISITE: MECH 4344. MECH 6350 - Prin Of Biomechanics (4) (7308). Biomechanics of tissues and structures of the musculoskeletal system (bone, cartilage, tendons, ligaments, peripheral nerves, and muscle), biomechanics of all joints; applications of statics, mechanics of materials, and linear viscoelasticity. PREREQUISITES: MECH 3320, 3322. MECH 6360 - Selection of Engr Materials (3) Detailed study of main classes of materials and their properties and uses; design criteria for various failure modes and selected environment case studies, technical tutorials and design exercises. PREREQUISITE: MECH 3320, 3322. MECH 6369 - Process Engineering (3) Application of fundamental principles of fluid mechanics, heat transfer, and thermodynamics to the analysis and design, fabrication and construction of process equipment and facilities which include physical and/or chemical transformations. PREREQUISITE: MECH 3351. MECH 6371 - Mechanical Vibrations (3) Kinematics of harmonic and non-harmonic vibrations; systems of one and several degrees of freedom, free and forced vibrations; self-excited vibration. MECH 6383 - Nondestructive Test I (3) Introduction and overview; visual and optical methods; radiographic methods; ultrasonic testing; acoustic emission; magnetic methods; eddy current method; penetrant testing; standards, training, and certification issues; case studies, projects. PREREQUISITES: MECH 3320, 3323, 3341. MECH 6384 - Nondestructive Test II (3) Nuclear radiographic methods; acoustic and dynamic techniques; magnetic resonance testing; volatile liquid testing; thin-layer chromatography; thermoelastic stress analysis; research techniques, case studies, projects. PREREQUISITE: MECH 6381. MECH 6393 - Appld Finite Element Analysis (3) (Same as BIOM 6393). Fundamental topics associated with use of finite element analysis in mechanical and biomedical engineering applications; introduction to finite element theory, model generation, CAD interfacing, post-processing of results and validation. PREREQUISITE: BIOM 2810 or MECH 3322. MECH 7302 - Theory Continuous Media (3) (Same as BIOM 7-8103). Analysis of stress and deformation at a point; derivation of the fundamental equations in Cartesian tensor notation by application of the basic laws of conservation of mass, energy, and momentum in mechanics and thermodynamics. PREREQUISITES: MECH 3322, 7341-8341. MECH 7303 - Advanced Dynamics (3) Formulation of three-dimensional nonlinear dynamical equations of motion for particles and rigid bodies; modeling of dynamic systems; numerical integration. PREREQUISITES; MECH 3321, 7341-8341. MECH 7305 - Inviscid Flow Theory (3) General equations of fluid mechanics; equations of two-dimensional inviscid flow; stream function and velocity potential definitions; irrotational flow; Laplace s equation in various flow fields and geometries; combined flows and superposition. PREREQUISITES: MECH 3312, 3331, 7341-8341. MECH 7306 - Viscous Flow (3) Advanced introduction to physical principles governing viscous fluid flow; fundamental equations developed from first principles and topic include: flow kinematics, derivation of Navier-Stokes equations, exact solutions of N-S equations for internal and external flows, dimensional analysis, creeping flows, Vorticity dynamics, flow control. MECH 7307 - Adv Viscous Flow (3) Advanced topics in viscous flow including incompressible and compressible boundary layer theory, free shear flows, stability analysis, turbulent flow modeling, approximate N-S solutions, non-Newtonian flows. MECH 7323 - Conduction Heat Transf (3) Fundamentals of steady-state and transient heat conduction; applications of Fourier series, Laplace transforms, finite differences, and finite elements to conduction problems. PREREQUISITES: MECH 4311, 7341-8341. MECH 7324 - Radiation Heat Transf (3) Fundamentals of radiation properties of surfaces and radiation exchange between surfaces; black, gray, and non-gray surfaces; integral and numerical techniques employed in radiation problems. PREREQUISITES: MECH 4311, 7341-8341. MECH 7325 - Convective Heat Trnsfr (3) Fundamentals of free and forced convection heat transfer using differential and integral formulation of laminar and turbulent boundary layers for flow over internal and external surfaces; influence of temperature-dependent properties; convective heat transfer at high velocities. PREREQUISITES: MECH 4311, 7341-8341. MECH 7332 - Prin Of Propulsion (3) Introduction to principles of rocket propulsion and space mechanics; topics include liquid, solid, and ion rocket motors, and orbital maneuvers employed in typical space missions. MECH 7341 - Engineering Analys I (3) Analysis of engineering systems using closed form solutions; application of Fourier series and transforms, Laplace transforms, power series methods, vector calculus, ordinary and partial differential equations. PREREQUISITE: MATH 3391. MECH 7342 - Engineering Analys II (3) Continuation of MECH 7341. Theoretical and numerical analysis of engineering systems, and other advanced topics as applied to mechanical engineering problems. Engineering applications of probability and statistics, and hypothesis tests. MECH 7355 - Engineering Optimizatn (3) Practical aspects of optimization methodology with emphasis on techniques and procedures relevant to engineering applications in design, operations, and analysis; engineering case studies. PREREQUISITES: MECH 4322, 7342-8342. MECH 7361 - Mech Bhvr Of Materials (3) Performance of materials at elevated temperatures; statistical aspect of brittle fracture; advanced treatment of fatigue failure; linear elastic fracture mechanics; friction and wear; ductile failure; strengthening mechanisms; embrittlement modes; case studies in materials selection. PREREQUISITE: MECH 3320. MECH 7363 - Fracture Mechanics (3) Linear elastic analysis; elastic-plastic analysis, dynamic and time-dependent fracture; microstructural aspects of fracture; environment-assisted cracking; fatigue crack growth and propagation; analysis of engineering failures; case studies. PREREQUISITES: MECH 3320, 3322, 3323. MECH 7365 - Corrosion (3) Fundamental causes and mechanisms; corrosion control; study of specific corrosion problems. PREREQUISITE: MECH 3320. MECH 7371 - Adv Mech Vibrations (3) Modeling of linear and nonlinear vibrational systems; control, measurement, and stability of vibrational systems. PREREQUISITES: MECH 6371, 7342-8342. MECH 7378 - Intro Comptnl Fluid Dyn (3) Introduction to computational fluid mechanics and heat transfer, finite difference and finite volume methods, stability consideration, basics of numerical computation and analysis of model equations and fluid dynamics equation. MECH 7379 - Adv Comptnl Fluid Dyn (3) Advanced introduction to state-of-the-art computational fluid dynamics; advanced grid generation, numerical schemes, and numerical boundary conditions; numerical computation of compressible inviscid and viscous flows, turbulence modeling, skill of post data process. MECH 7381 - Finite Element Methods (3) General principles and modeling of engineering systems using the finite element method; applications in fracture mechanics, hydrodynamics, and thermal conduction. PREREQUISITES: MECH 3341, 7341-8341. MECH 7382 - Software Develop (3) (Same as CIVL 7124-8124). Systematic investigation of application of good software engineering principles applied to development of computationally intensive software; best practices and methodologies developed in last two decades applied with context of a numerical problem. MECH 7391 - Packaging Dyn/Distr Pack (3) Introduction of package development process, packaging test and evaluation methods, stands, and equipments. Review of governmental regulations affecting packaging. PREREQUISITE: MECH 6341. MECH 7900 - Seminar (1) Graduate students must attend seminars regularly organized by the department. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. MECH 7979 - Contemp Issues In Mech (1-3) Detailed critical reviews of the literature or supervised work on one or more contemporary issues in the field; formal report(s) required. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. This course does not count toward a degree program. MECH 7990 - Engineering Practicum (1-3) Studies of related practical mechanical engineering problems as an integral part of the established curriculum under the instruction and supervision of a faculty member. Written and oral reports are mandatory. Grades of S, U, or I will be given. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. MECH 7991 - Research Proposal (1-3) Exhaustive literature search and presentation of both written and oral proposals on engineering topics under supervision of instructor. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. MECH 7992 - Research Project (1-6) Independent research investigation of engineering problem under supervision of instructor for students in non-thesis option; both written and oral reports required. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. MECH 7994 - Independent Study (1-3) Independent study in Mechanical Engineering on topic selected in conjunction with instructor. Oral and written reports required. May be used for curricular training as a part of an internship program. Only 3 credit hours can be applied to a degree program. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. MECH 7996 - Thesis (1-6) Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. MECH 8302 - Theory Continuous Media (3) (Same as BIOM 7-8103). Analysis of stress and deformation at a point; derivation of the fundamental equations in Cartesian tensor notation by application of the basic laws of conservation of mass, energy, and momentum in mechanics and thermodynamics. PREREQUISITES: MECH 3322, 7341-8341. MECH 8303 - Advanced Dynamics (3) Formulation of three-dimensional nonlinear dynamical equations of motion for particles and rigid bodies; modeling of dynamic systems; numerical integration. PREREQUISITES; MECH 3321, 7341-8341. MECH 8305 - Inviscid Flow Theory (3) General equations of fluid mechanics; equations of two-dimensional inviscid flow; stream function and velocity potential definitions; irrotational flow; Laplace s equation in various flow fields and geometries; combined flows and superposition. PREREQUISITES: MECH 3312, 3331, 7341-8341. MECH 8306 - Viscous Flow (3) Advanced introduction to physical principles governing viscous fluid flow; fundamental equations developed from first principles and topic include: flow kinematics, derivation of Navier-Stokes equations, exact solutions of N-S equations for internal and external flows, dimensional analysis, creeping flows, Vorticity dynamics, flow control. MECH 8307 - Adv Viscous Flow (3) Advanced topics in viscous flow including incompressible and compressible boundary layer theory, free shear flows, stability analysis, turbulent flow modeling, approximate N-S solutions, non-Newtonian flows. MECH 8323 - Conduction Heat Transf (3) Fundamentals of steady-state and transient heat conduction; applications of Fourier series, Laplace transforms, finite differences, and finite elements to conduction problems. PREREQUISITES: MECH 4311, 7341-8341. MECH 8324 - Radiation Heat Transf (3) Fundamentals of radiation properties of surfaces and radiation exchange between surfaces; black, gray, and non-gray surfaces; integral and numerical techniques employed in radiation problems. PREREQUISITES: MECH 4311, 7341-8341. MECH 8325 - Convective Heat Trnsfr (3) Fundamentals of free and forced convection heat transfer using differential and integral formulation of laminar and turbulent boundary layers for flow over internal and external surfaces; influence of temperature-dependent properties; convective heat transfer at high velocities. PREREQUISITES: MECH 4311, 7341-8341. MECH 8332 - Prin Of Propulsion (3) Introduction to principles of rocket propulsion and space mechanics; topics include liquid, solid, and ion rocket motors, and orbital maneuvers employed in typical space missions. MECH 8341 - Engineering Analys I (3) Analysis of engineering systems using closed form solutions; application of Fourier series and transforms, Laplace transforms, power series methods, vector calculus, ordinary and partial differential equations. PREREQUISITE: MATH 3391. MECH 8342 - Engineering Analys II (3) Continuation of MECH 7341. Theoretical and numerical analysis of engineering systems, and other advanced topics as applied to mechanical engineering problems. Engineering applications of probability and statistics, and hypothesis tests. MECH 8355 - Engineering Optimizatn (3) Practical aspects of optimization methodology with emphasis on techniques and procedures relevant to engineering applications in design, operations, and analysis; engineering case studies. PREREQUISITES: MECH 4322, 7342-8342. MECH 8361 - Mech Behvr Of Materials (3) Performance of materials at elevated temperatures; statistical aspect of brittle fracture; advanced treatment of fatigue failure; linear elastic fracture mechanics; friction and wear; ductile failure; strengthening mechanisms; embrittlement modes; case studies in materials selection. PREREQUISITE: MECH 3320. MECH 8363 - Fracture Mechanics (3) Linear elastic analysis; elastic-plastic analysis, dynamic and time-dependent fracture; microstructural aspects of fracture; environment-assisted cracking; fatigue crack growth and propagation; analysis of engineering failures; case studies. PREREQUISITES: MECH 3320, 3322, 3323. MECH 8365 - Corrosion (3) Fundamental causes and mechanisms; corrosion control; study of specific corrosion problems. PREREQUISITE: MECH 3320. MECH 8371 - Adv Mech Vibrations (3) Modeling of linear and nonlinear vibrational systems; control, measurement, and stability of vibrational systems. PREREQUISITES: MECH 6371, 7342-8342. MECH 8378 - Intro Comptnl Fluid Dyn (3) Introduction to computational fluid mechanics and heat transfer, finite difference and finite volume methods, stability consideration, basics of numerical computation and analysis of model equations and fluid dynamics equation. MECH 8379 - Adv Comptnl Fluid Dyn (3) Advanced introduction to state-of-the-art computational fluid dynamics; advanced grid generation, numerical schemes, and numerical boundary conditions; numerical computation of compressible inviscid and viscous flows, turbulence modeling, skill of post data process. MECH 8381 - Finite Element Methods (3) General principles and modeling of engineering systems using the finite element method; applications in fracture mechanics, hydrodynamics, and thermal conduction. PREREQUISITES: MECH 3341, 7341-8341. MECH 8382 - Software Develop (3) (Same as CIVL 7124-8124). Systematic investigation of application of good software engineering principles applied to development of computationally intensive software; best practices and methodologies developed in last two decades applied with context of a numerical problem. MECH 8391 - Packaging Dyn/Distr Pack (3) Introduction to package development process, packaging test and evaluation methods, stands, and equipments. Review of governmental regulations affecting packaging. PREREQUISITE: MECH 6341. MECH 8979 - Contemp Issues in Mech (1-3) Detailed critical reviews of the literature or supervised work on one or more contemporary issues in the field; formal report(s) required. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. This course does not count toward a degree program. MECH 8990 - Engineering Practicum (1-3) Studies of related practical mechanical engineering problems as an integral part of the established curriculum under the instruction and supervision of a faculty member. Written and oral reports are mandatory. Grades of S, U, or I will be given. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. MECH 8991 - Research Proposal (1-3) Exhaustive literature search and presentation of both written and oral proposals on engineering topics under supervision of instructor. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. MECH 8994 - Independent Study (1-3) Independent study in Mechanical Engineering on topic selected in conjunction with instructor. Oral and written reports required. May be used for curricular training as a part of an internship program. Only 3 credit hours can be applied to a degree program. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. MECH 9000 - Dissertation (1-12) Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/28/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.