Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Licensing Licensing right arrow down arrow I'm On Campus right arrow down arrow Internal Requests Sponsorships Fundraising Internal Consumption Policy NIL Requests I'm Off Campus right arrow down arrow University Sponsorship Policy Crafter's Program Licensees right arrow down arrow Code of Conduct Artwork Do's and Don'ts Policies FAQs Find Bearcats Gear right arrow down arrow Look for the Label Home » About UC » Licensing » Policies Policies Discrimination Policy UC’s trademarks may not be used in any way that discriminates or implies discrimination against any persons or groups based on age, ancestry, belief, color, creed, disability, national origin, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation or veteran status, or in any other way that would be a violation of UC’s anti-discrimination policies or practices. Endorsement Policy UC trademarks may not be used in any manner that suggests or implies University of Cincinnati’s endorsement of other organizations, companies, products, services, political parties or views, or religious organizations and beliefs. If an outside organization would like to sponsor a University college, department, organization, or event, please refer to the University's Sponsorship Request Process for appropriate approval. Flag Policy The University of Cincinnati Trademarks & Licensing Program recognizes that on some occasions it may be desirous to incorporate a patriotic theme with University trademarks. Out of utmost respect for our nation's flag and those who serve to protect it, we have adopted a licensing policy which mirrors the U.S. Code on "Respect for the Flag", below is that code provision. U.S. Code, Chapter 10, Section 176 Respect for Flag (g) The flag should never have placed upon it, nor any part of it, nor attached to it any mark, insignia, letter, word, figure, design, picture, or drawing of any nature. (i) The flag should never be used for advertising purposes in any manner whatsoever. It should not be embroidered on such articles as cushions or handkerchiefs and the like, printed of otherwise impressed on paper napkins or boxes or anything that is designed for temporary use and discard. Advertising signs should not be fastened to a staff or halyard from which a flag is flown. (j) No part of the flag should ever be used as a costume or athletic uniform. However, a flag patch may be affixed to the uniform of military personnel, firemen, policemen, and members of patriotic organizations. The flag represents a living country and is itself considered a living thing. Therefore, the lapel flag pin being a replica, should be worn on the left lapel near the hear. For other information regarding flag usage, please refer to the U.S. Code. Internal Consumption Policy All uses of UC’s trademarks on products require prior approval from the Office of Trademarks & Licensing, even if the proposed uses do not involve the sale of a product; e.g., promotional items for conferences or meetings, items for fundraisers, items for giveaways, gifts, etc. Items produced for an employee or organizational unit for internal consumption may be exempt from royalties. Promotional items purchased using university funds must use a design that is date or event specific and follow appropriate branding guidelines to be exempt from royalties. All requests for the use of university marks must be submitted to the Office of Trademarks & Licensing for review and approval prior to production. UC organizational units, groups, and registered student organizations may not assign rights or otherwise grant permission to any other entity for use of UC’s trademarks for any purpose without prior review and approval by UC’s Office of Trademarks & Licensing. The C-Paw and spirit marks are approved for use only by the Athletics Department and on a case-by-case basis for athletics-related events. Official student organizations and clubs recognized by the Office of Student Activities and Leadership Development also have access to the spirit marks, subject to the review and approval by the Office of Trademarks & Licensing. All products bearing UC’s trademarks must be produced from companies licensed by the University of Cincinnati through our agent, the Collegiate Licensing Company (CLC). A complete list is available at the Office of Trademarks & Licensing website. UC trademarks may not be used in conjunction with the name or trademark(s) of any other entity without the prior written permission of that entity and the Office of Trademarks & Licensing. Approval of any such dual use of UC’s trademarks will be limited to instances of compelling institutional priority for allowing such a use. UC trademarks may not be used in any manner that suggests or implies University of Cincinnati’s endorsement of other organizations, companies, products, services, political parties or views, or religious organizations and beliefs. UC’s trademarks may not be used in any way that discriminates or implies discrimination against any persons or groups based on age, ancestry, belief, color, creed, disability, national origin, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, or veteran status, or in any other way that would be a violation of UC’s anti-discrimination policies or practices. No one other than the University of Cincinnati may claim copyright or trademark rights or seek to register any design that uses University of Cincinnati trademarks. All uses of UC trademarks on products will incorporate the appropriate trademark designation symbols (i.e., ® or TM). The University of Cincinnati will not approve the use of UC trademarks in connection with products or designs that present an unacceptable risk of liability or could be harmful to the mission or image of the institution. Risky Products Policy The University of Cincinnati will not approve the use of UC trademarks in connection with products or designs that present an unacceptable risk of liability or could be harmful to the mission or image of the institution. Some of these include, but are not limited to the following: Products that could be used to injure or kill; Alcohol products; Tobacco-related products; Illegal drug-related products; Sexually suggestive products or language; Art depicting or implying the use or endorsement of: illegal drugs; tobacco products; firearms or other weapons; racist, sexist, hateful, demeaning or degrading language or statements; profanity; sexual acts; statements impugning other universities. Sponsorship Policy Sponsorship Approval All sponsorships require prior written approval from the Office of Trademarks & Licensing, even if the sponsorship does not involve the sale of a product (e.g., premium promotional items, items for fundraisers, or giveaways, gifts, endorsements, etc.). Sponsorships that imply the university’s support of any political party or view, or religious organization or belief will not be approved. Sponsorships that present an unacceptable risk of liability or could be harmful to the mission or image of the university will not be approved. A list of examples can be found at the Office of Trademarks & Licensing website. It is the general policy of the university to refrain from endorsing any particular entity, product, or service. Accordingly, sponsorships should recognize the entity, product, or service’s support of the university rather the university’s support of the entity, product, or service. In limited circumstances, when a compelling institutional reason exists, as determined by a committee chaired by the Director of Trademarks & Licensing with the following members Sr. VP for Administration & Finance, Executive VP President’s Office, VP of Finance, VP of Student Affairs, VP of Legal Affairs & General Counsel, Director of Athletics, VP for Advancement, and Chief Innovation Officer, a sponsorship may be approved that evidences the university’s support of the entity, product, or service. University Trademark Usage in Sponsorships A sponsorship will often include the use of a university trademark. The following rules apply to the use of university trademarks in sponsorships: The C-Paw and other spirit marks may only be used in connection with sponsorships related to UC Athletics through the university’s media rights partner, currently Learfield - IMG College. All products bearing UC’s trademarks may only be produced by entities licensed by the university through its agent, currently the Collegiate Licensing Company (CLC). A complete list is available at the Office of Trademarks & Licensing web site. All products bearing UC’s trademarks are subject to royalties. All uses of UC’s trademarks on products must incorporate the appropriate trademark designation symbols (i.e. ® or TM). UC’s trademarks may not be used in any way that discriminates or implies discrimination against any persons or groups based on age, ancestry, color, disability, gender identity or expression, genetic information, military status (including veteran status), national origin, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, parental status (including status as a foster parent), pregnancy, or any other status protected by law, or in any other way that would be a violation of UC’s anti-discrimination rules or policies. Student Athlete Policy Any and all uses of the names, numbers, and/or images of UC student athletes must comply with University policies and NCAA regulations. Questions should be directed to the Trademarks & Licensing Office, who will consult as appropriate with UC Athletics. University of Cincinnati Trademarks & Licensing 51 Goodman St. 320 University Hall Cincinnati, OH 45221-0089 513-558-1063 licensing@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati Trademarks & Licensing 51 Goodman St. 320 University Hall Cincinnati, OH 45221-0089 513-558-1063 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top