0 Skip to Content Home Artists Yasi Alipour David Altmejd Gregory Amenoff Ghada Amer & Reza Farkhondeh Polly Apfelbaum Korakrit Arunanondchai Fia Backström Sanford Biggers Jennifer Bornstein Cecily Brown Phong Bui Klaus Bürgel Ernesto Caivano William Cordova William Cordova and Lee Quiñones Ann Craven Mark Dion Rochelle Feinstein Eric Fischl Jonathan Safran Foer Fab Five Freddy Lee Friedlander Carl Fudge Barnaby Furnas Ellen Gallagher Tim Gardner Dylan Graham Elliot Green Valerie Hammond Trenton Doyle Hancock Dana Hoey Yun-Fei Ji Alfredo Jaar Jasper Johns Michael Joo Brad Kahlhamer William Kentridge Dr. Lakra Dinh Q. Lê Leigh Ledare Nicola López Edward Mapplethorpe Jonas Mekas Ohad Meromi Sam Messer Sam Messer and Jonathan Safran Foer Kayla Mohammadi LeRoy Neiman Shirin Neshat Lee Quiñones Alexis Rockman Thomas Roma Dana Schutz David Shapiro Arlene Shechet Dasha Shishkin Shahzia Sikander Kiki Smith Sarah Sze Rirkrit Tiravanija Tomas Vu John Walker Kara Walker Heimo Wallner Paula Wilson Terry Winters Su Xinping Craig Zammiello Fellows Current Neiman Fellows Past Neiman Fellows About History Collections Visit LeRoy Neiman Gallery News Exhibitions Artist Interviews Alumni Interviews Publications Press Open Menu Close Menu Home Artists Yasi Alipour David Altmejd Gregory Amenoff Ghada Amer & Reza Farkhondeh Polly Apfelbaum Korakrit Arunanondchai Fia Backström Sanford Biggers Jennifer Bornstein Cecily Brown Phong Bui Klaus Bürgel Ernesto Caivano William Cordova William Cordova and Lee Quiñones Ann Craven Mark Dion Rochelle Feinstein Eric Fischl Jonathan Safran Foer Fab Five Freddy Lee Friedlander Carl Fudge Barnaby Furnas Ellen Gallagher Tim Gardner Dylan Graham Elliot Green Valerie Hammond Trenton Doyle Hancock Dana Hoey Yun-Fei Ji Alfredo Jaar Jasper Johns Michael Joo Brad Kahlhamer William Kentridge Dr. Lakra Dinh Q. Lê Leigh Ledare Nicola López Edward Mapplethorpe Jonas Mekas Ohad Meromi Sam Messer Sam Messer and Jonathan Safran Foer Kayla Mohammadi LeRoy Neiman Shirin Neshat Lee Quiñones Alexis Rockman Thomas Roma Dana Schutz David Shapiro Arlene Shechet Dasha Shishkin Shahzia Sikander Kiki Smith Sarah Sze Rirkrit Tiravanija Tomas Vu John Walker Kara Walker Heimo Wallner Paula Wilson Terry Winters Su Xinping Craig Zammiello Fellows Current Neiman Fellows Past Neiman Fellows About History Collections Visit LeRoy Neiman Gallery News Exhibitions Artist Interviews Alumni Interviews Publications Press Open Menu Close Menu Home Folder: Artists Back Yasi Alipour David Altmejd Gregory Amenoff Ghada Amer & Reza Farkhondeh Polly Apfelbaum Korakrit Arunanondchai Fia Backström Sanford Biggers Jennifer Bornstein Cecily Brown Phong Bui Klaus Bürgel Ernesto Caivano William Cordova William Cordova and Lee Quiñones Ann Craven Mark Dion Rochelle Feinstein Eric Fischl Jonathan Safran Foer Fab Five Freddy Lee Friedlander Carl Fudge Barnaby Furnas Ellen Gallagher Tim Gardner Dylan Graham Elliot Green Valerie Hammond Trenton Doyle Hancock Dana Hoey Yun-Fei Ji Alfredo Jaar Jasper Johns Michael Joo Brad Kahlhamer William Kentridge Dr. Lakra Current Page: Dinh Q. Lê Leigh Ledare Nicola López Edward Mapplethorpe Jonas Mekas Ohad Meromi Sam Messer Sam Messer and Jonathan Safran Foer Kayla Mohammadi LeRoy Neiman Shirin Neshat Lee Quiñones Alexis Rockman Thomas Roma Dana Schutz David Shapiro Arlene Shechet Dasha Shishkin Shahzia Sikander Kiki Smith Sarah Sze Rirkrit Tiravanija Tomas Vu John Walker Kara Walker Heimo Wallner Paula Wilson Terry Winters Su Xinping Craig Zammiello Folder: Fellows Back Current Neiman Fellows Past Neiman Fellows Folder: About Back History Collections Visit LeRoy Neiman Gallery Folder: News Back Exhibitions Artist Interviews Alumni Interviews Publications Press Dinh Q. Lê Prints by Dinh Q. Lê Dinh Q. Lê was invited to the Neiman Center in 2011 to collaborate with former Neiman Center Shop Manager, Gregory Santos, on an edition of prints inspired by the September 2011 Occupy Wall Street movement, along with other concurrent international protest movements. The result is Fragile Springs, a portfolio of 10 screenprints with varnish in a laser-engraved aluminum box. Ten countries are the subjects of Fragile Springs: Burma, Iran, Iraq, Libya, Thailand, Tibet, Tunisia, Ukraine, Vietnam, and Yemen. In a conversation with Moira Roth, Lê described his time in New York during his collaboration: “Occupy Wall Street was in the air and the revolutions and protest in the Middle East were still happening and Libya had finally gotten rid of Gaddafi. In Vietnam the young people were learning how to protest again and to make their voices heard. I spent time that weekend browsing around on the Internet and became intrigued by how each revolution had been assigned a name and a color. There was the Orange Revolution in Ukraine, the Green Revolution in Iran, the Pink Revolution in Yemen, the Red Revolution in Thailand, and the Saffron Revolution in Burma. It was interesting to see how the use of a single color gave such a collective sense to each movement. But I also kept asking myself: Who are the people in the crowd? Whom do I look for that I can connect to somehow? When you look at a crowd, you always look for the one person whom you connect to.” Dinh Q. Lê (b. 1968, Vietnam) is a Vietnamese-American photographer. He received a BFA in photography from the University of California, Santa Barbara and a MFA at the School of Visual Arts in New York. His artwork includes installation, video, sculpture, urban intervention and prints. He lives and works in both Vietnam and Los Angeles. Lê’s work can be found in the collections of the Museum of Modern Art, New York and the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art. Learn more about this artist: PPowGallery MoMA Rice Gallery View fullsize Iraq from Fragile Springs, 2013 Portfolio of 10 screenprints with varnish in a laser engraved aluminum box Sheet and image: 14 x 17 inches, each Paper: Rising Stonehenge Edition: 21 $6,000 for the set View fullsize Iran from Fragile Springs, 2013 Portfolio of 10 screenprints with varnish in a laser engraved aluminum box Sheet and image: 14 x 17 inches, each Paper: Rising Stonehenge Edition: 21 $6,000 for the set View fullsize Tunisia from Fragile Springs, 2013 Portfolio of 10 screenprints with varnish in a laser engraved aluminum box Sheet and image: 14 x 17 inches, each Paper: Rising Stonehenge Edition: 21 $6,000 for the set View fullsize Libya from Fragile Springs, 2013 Portfolio of 10 screenprints with varnish in a laser engraved aluminum box Sheet and image: 14 x 17 inches, each Paper: Rising Stonehenge Edition: 21 $6,000 for the set View fullsize Yemen from Fragile Springs, 2013 Portfolio of 10 screenprints with varnish in a laser engraved aluminum box Sheet and image: 14 x 17 inches, each Paper: Rising Stonehenge Edition: 21 $6,000 for the set View fullsize Thailand from Fragile Springs, 2013 Portfolio of 10 screenprints with varnish in a laser engraved aluminum box Sheet and image: 14 x 17 inches, each Paper: Rising Stonehenge Edition: 21 $6,000 for the set View fullsize Burma from Fragile Springs, 2013 Portfolio of 10 screenprints with varnish in a laser engraved aluminum box Sheet and image: 14 x 17 inches, each Paper: Rising Stonehenge Edition: 21 $6,000 for the set View fullsize Tibet from Fragile Springs, 2013 Portfolio of 10 screenprints with varnish in a laser engraved aluminum box Sheet and image: 14 x 17 inches, each Paper: Rising Stonehenge Edition: 21 $6,000 for the set View fullsize Ukraine from Fragile Springs, 2013 Portfolio of 10 screenprints with varnish in a laser engraved aluminum box Sheet and image: 14 x 17 inches, each Paper: Rising Stonehenge Edition: 21 $6,000 for the set View fullsize Vietnam from Fragile Springs, 2013 Portfolio of 10 screenprints with varnish in a laser engraved aluminum box Sheet and image: 14 x 17 inches, each Paper: Rising Stonehenge Edition: 21 $6,000 for the set Sign up to receive news and updates. Email Address Sign Up Thank you! About | Purchase | Visit