Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Coronavirus Updates Guidelines Masks on Campus Info For... Vaccine Testing Case Report Communications FAQs Resources HEERF Reporting Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Take Action Review Guidelines Daily Self-Checker Testing Center View Cases on Campus Report CARES Act Home Coronavirus Updates Plans & Guidelines Campus Plans & Guidelines Current Status As we have done throughout the course of the pandemic, the University of Memphis has followed latest national (CDC), state and local guidelines and directives for our campus. Classes will resume as originally scheduled on Tuesday, January 18. The University has proceeded with a regular on-campus schedule as of July 1, 2021. (Employees should work with supervisors and HR on requests for accommodations.) Buildings are open only to University of Memphis community members with appropriate access. Residence Halls are open to residents only. Updated Safety Protocols Based on the latest CDC guidelines and Tennessee state law (14-2-104), campus guidelines are updated as follows effective January 12, 2022: Masks are strongly recommended to be worn by all persons while indoors and in places where maintaining appropriate social distancing is not possible. Faculty who are delivering on-campus instruction may remove their face mask/covering to teach, provided they are located within a delineated teaching area that is no less than 6 feet from students. All students, faculty and staff are strongly encouraged to receive the COVID-19 vaccine. Learn more > Do not come to campus if you are experiencing symptoms, are in isolation or quarantine due to positive test results or exposure, pending test results, or have reason to believe you have come in contact with the virus. Daily symptom monitoring and self-reporting of positive test results are required. View requirements and instructions > We will continue to monitor the community conditions and heed all recommended CDC guidelines and Shelby County Health Department directives. Updates will be provided on a regular basis. Policies & Procedures Work Groups > COVID-19 Health & Safety Policy Review policies related to health and safety procedures. (Last updated 1/14/22) Review the full policy > Guiding Principles Our guidelines will be rooted in safety for our faculty, staff and students. See our guiding principles > Tennessee Department of Health COVID-19 FAQs for Universities FAQs related to preventative measures, quarantine guidelines, tracking and other protocols. Explore the FAQs > Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 1/14/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.