Menu Close Menu Skip to content Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters A to Z index Search for: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Email People Departments Calendar Careers my.harvard Giving About Faculty & Research Admissions & Aid Academics Executive/Continuing Ed News Center for Biostatistics in AIDS Research (CBAR) Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health > Center for Biostatistics in AIDS Research (CBAR) Center for Biostatistics in AIDS Research (CBAR) Menu Search for: About CBAR Collaborative Research Networks Methodological Research Career Opportunities Center for Biostatistics in AIDS Research (CBAR) The Center for Biostatistics in AIDS Research (CBAR) is located within the Department of Biostatistics at the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health. CBAR’s mission is to foster statistical science in clinical trials and other research studies in infectious diseases particularly HIV. CBAR pursues this mission by promoting innovative strategies for the design, data monitoring, analyses, and reporting of research studies, and by providing education and training relevant to statistical aspects of infectious disease research. CBAR in the News Statisticians lend critical expertise to infectious disease research: A positive HIV test result was once a near-certain death sentence, with more than 75% of people infected with the virus in the 1980s dying from AIDS. Today, HIV can be managed with antiretroviral medication, and a cure doesn’t seem quite so out of reach—thanks in part to a group of statisticians and epidemiologists at Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health. Connect with Us: News from the School Congratulations graduates! Probing disease disparities Saving a daughter, starting a career Tackling disparities and stigma around obesity, mental health Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters About Key Facts Renaming the School Office of the Dean Location and Facilities Administrative Offices Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty and Researcher Directory Academic Departments, Divisions and Centers International Research Postdoctoral Research Fellows Office of Faculty Affairs Faculty Searches Office of Diversity and Inclusion Admissions & Aid Why Harvard Chan Degree Programs Non-Degree Programs Financial Aid Student Experience Career Advancement Apply Academics Academic Departments Divisions Research Centers Flagship Initiatives International Research Research Administration and Support Degree Programs Fellowships and Residencies Summer Programs Continuing Professional Education Interdisciplinary Concentrations Academic Calendar Harvard Chan Viewbook Executive/Continuing Ed Program Offerings Custom Programs Request Information News and Resources About ECPE Contact News Featured News Press Releases Student Stories In the News Newsletters HPH Magazine Why Public Health? Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College