COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Social Work, Major MajorSocial Work All Programs Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences School of Social Work Wichita State’s Bachelor of Social Work (BSW) is a fully accredited program combining quality curriculum with applied learning opportunities in community and state agencies throughout Kansas’ largest city. As a graduate, you’ll be prepared for professional practice as a generalist social worker—and ready to pursue an advanced degree. Learn how social work is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted into the Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU’s admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Social work project lets students learn firsthand about homeless veterans Students pursuing a degree in social work can help make an impact in our local community. A collaboration between the School of Social Work and the Robert J. Dole VA Medical Center gave social work students the opportunity to learn more about the plight of homeless veterans in Wichita. The project, which was part of the Creative Empowerment in Helping Professions class, culminated in a public art exhibition that displayed the work of homeless and formerly homeless veterans. Curriculum To complete the degree, you’ll take 45 credit hours of required social work courses, including practicum placements with a diverse range of urban and rural agencies. View the curriculum Careers A degree in social work from Wichita State opens doors to high-demand careers in a wide range of settings, from mental health clinics and schools to community development corporations and hospitals. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Aging Studies Health Management Psychology Sociology Social Work and Child Welfare (Undergraduate Certificate) Social Work and Addiction (Undergraduate Certificate) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©