COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Organizational Leadership and Learning, Major MajorOrganizational Leadership and Learning All Programs College of Applied Studies Organizational Leadership and Learning Program Wichita State’s Bachelor of Applied Science in Organizational Leadership and Learning (OLL) is an innovative and flexible degree that emphasizes applied learning, developing soft skills, and preparing students to be leaders in a range of organizations. Students receive individualized degree plans and the opportunity to work hand-in-hand with industry leaders. Three concentrations are offered: Education and Innovation Emergency and Public Service Leadership Hospitality Management Organizational Leadership and Learning is also offered as part of the WSU at McConnell program. Learn how this degree is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted into the workforce leadership and applied learning program, you must first be admitted to Wichita State and the College of Applied Studies. For WSU’s admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Your technical and military training can get you closer to a degree The Bachelor of Applied Sciences in Organizational Leadership and Learning and is one of a few, select degrees chosen to partner with McConnell Air Force Base. Faculty work alongside active-duty military personnel in order to prepare them for careers within and outside of military service. The degree concentrations allow active firefighters, emergency medical services, security / law enforcement and other public safety professionals to utilize industry specific courses from their community college, technical school or other certified training programs to be applied toward a bachelor's degree program. Curriculum The Organizational Leadership and Learning degree is 120 credit hours and emphasizes on-the-job training with 21 hours of experiential learning credit, such as internships or apprenticeships. Additionally, the degree requires 21 credit hours of courses, which help develop students’ soft skills, such as communication, leadership, diversity and creativity. A departmental honors track is also available for this major. View the curriculum Careers A degree in Organizational Leadership and Learning from Wichita State will equip you with the knowledge, skills and professional connections that’ll prepare you for diverse roles. Graduates are active military personnel and work as firefighters, emergency medical services and technical rescue members, law enforcement and more. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Exercise Science Exercise Science (Minor) Sport Management (Minor) Physical Education: PreK-12 Communication - Integrated Marketing Communication Communication - Journalism 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©