Skip to main content Menu Discover Majors and Careers Admissions and Aid Campus Life Spirit and Traditions Athletics Raleigh, N.C. Apply Visit Give About NC State 101 Chancellor Rankings and Facts Think and Do Education Undergraduate Graduate Online Colleges and Departments Innovation Research Partnerships Centennial Campus Entrepreneurship Community Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Global Engagement Outreach and Extension Philanthropy and Giving Apply Visit Give Information For: Students Faculty and Staff Parents and Families Alumni NC State Resources Colleges and Departments Find your perfect fit among our nationally recognized academic programs. NC State’s colleges collectively offer more than 300 undergraduate and graduate degree programs through 68 departments. Explore the list below for more information about the academic programs we offer. Find department or program: View by: College | Alphabetical List College of Agriculture and Life Sciences The College of Agriculture and Life Sciences discovers, teaches and applies knowledge to disciplines that effect safe, affordable supplies of food and fiber, a cleaner environment and better health for people and animals. Agricultural and Human Sciences Agricultural and Resource Economics Agricultural Institute Animal Science Applied Ecology Biological and Agricultural Engineering Crop and Soil Sciences Entomology and Plant Pathology Food, Bioprocessing, and Nutrition Sciences Horticultural Science Molecular and Structural Biochemistry Plant and Microbial Biology Prestage Department of Poultry Science Back to top College of Design The College of Design has a long and distinguished record of producing skilled professionals in design-related disciplines. Offering programs that range from landscape architecture to industrial design, its goal is to develop the student-designer’s perception, knowledge, skills and problem-solving abilities. Architecture Art + Design Graphic Design Industrial Design Landscape Architecture and Environmental Planning Back to top College of Education The College of Education prepares teachers, administrators, counselors, researchers and analysts for careers in education from K-12 to postsecondary. It emphasizes global cultural awareness and the use of technology for enhanced learning. Educational Leadership, Policy, and Human Development Science, Technology, Engineering, & Mathematics Education Teacher Education and Learning Sciences Back to top College of Engineering The College of Engineering ranks among the best in the nation in innovation, research and the number of undergraduate and graduate degrees awarded across traditional and cutting-edge engineering disciplines. Biological and Agricultural Engineering Biomedical Engineering Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Civil, Construction and Environmental Engineering Computer Science Edward P. Fitts Department of Industrial & Systems Engineering Electrical and Computer Engineering Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Nuclear Engineering Back to top College of Humanities and Social Sciences The College of Humanities and Social Sciences provides education, research and extension services in traditional humanities fields including literature, communications and political science. The college also focuses on public policy, global perspectives and other rapidly emerging disciplines such as rhetoric, film studies and digital media. Communication English Foreign Languages and Literatures History Interdisciplinary Studies Philosophy and Religious Studies Political Science [in the School of Public and International Affairs] Psychology Public Administration [in the School of Public and International Affairs] Social Work Sociology and Anthropology Back to top College of Natural Resources The College of Natural Resources is a world leader in sustainability and stewardship and is recognized as a top educator and researcher in forestry, environmental sciences, wood, paper, pulp, parks, recreation and tourism. The college believes that nurturing the environment and engineering sustainable products go hand in hand with helping communities and enterprises thrive. Forest Biomaterials Forestry and Environmental Resources Parks, Recreation and Tourism Management Back to top Poole College of Management The Poole College of Management is at the forefront of business education, providing experiential learning that prepares career-ready graduates. Its accounting, business management and economics programs are global in scope, giving students the opportunity to resolve real-world challenges while putting theory into practice. Accounting Business Management Economics Management, Innovation and Entrepreneurship Back to top College of Sciences The College of Sciences connects people and programs in the biological, physical, chemical, mathematical, statistical and earth-system sciences. With departments and faculty members ranked among the best in their fields nationally, the college’s focus on multidisciplinary collaboration builds a foundation of experience that prepares students for the real world. Biological Sciences Chemistry Marine, Earth, and Atmospheric Sciences Mathematics Physics Statistics Back to top Wilson College of Textiles The Wilson College of Textiles is the world’s leading program for textile education. The college prepares innovative, adaptable students and advances research in areas of study ranging from traditional manufacturing to medical textiles, nonwovens and marketing and supply chain management. Textile and Apparel, Technology and Management Textile Engineering, Chemistry and Science Back to top College of Veterinary Medicine The College of Veterinary Medicine is among the top teaching environments of its kind in the nation. With comprehensive classroom instruction, outstanding laboratory facilities and a veterinary teaching hospital, it provides state-of-the-art medical care while training veterinarians and researchers in the latest technologies and practices. Clinical Sciences Molecular Biomedical Sciences Population Health and Pathobiology Back to top The Graduate School The Graduate School offers programs in more than 160 areas, plus numerous minors, certificate programs and interdisciplinary options. Many of these programs are ranked among the nation’s best, providing dynamic research opportunities with an emphasis on interdepartmental collaboration to give graduate students an outstanding education. Advanced Analytics Back to top University College University College is an incubator for interdisciplinary programs designed to engage every undergraduate student. Explore academic minors and programs in the arts, health and wellness, military studies, and leadership alongside a variety of high-impact learning experiences and academic support services. Air Force ROTC Army ROTC Dance Program Exploratory Studies Health and Exercise Studies Music Naval ROTC Theatre Back to top Undergraduate Programs Browse our complete catalog of majors and minors for undergraduate students. Graduate Programs Learn about our master’s and doctoral programs, as well as certificate offerings. Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Campus Map Academic Calendar Accessibility Apply Contact Copyright COVID-19 Updates Directory Emergency Information Free Speech Jobs Libraries MyPack Portal Policies Privacy Statement Resources Strategic Plan Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.