Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu President Breadcrumb Home News from Brown News Search Subscribe to our weekly newsletter 41 Results based on your selections. News and Events With advice from Pelosi, Paxson and peers, Brown’s Class of 2022 celebrates Commencement May 29, 2022 A weekend packed with graduation ceremonies and alumni reunions offered a return to normalcy and a chance to experience Commencement and Reunion in-person, for both first-timers and graduates from across generations. Read Article Open details for With advice from Pelosi, Paxson and peers, Brown’s Class of 2022 celebrates Commencement University Initiatives Brown adopts land acknowledgment, additional commitments to Native and Indigenous communities May 24, 2022 The acknowledgment is part of a set of commitments aimed at building a better understanding of the relationship between the University community, Indigenous peoples of the region and the land on which Brown is situated. Read Article Open details for Brown adopts land acknowledgment, additional commitments to Native and Indigenous communities University Initiatives In partnership with Providence’s Building Futures, Brown jump-starts careers in construction May 6, 2022 Over 15 years, more than 320 apprentices from Building Futures have trained at dozens of construction sites on Brown’s campus — providing them with the training they need to secure stable, well-paying careers. Read Article Open details for In partnership with Providence’s Building Futures, Brown jump-starts careers in construction Health and Medicine Celebrating 50 years of medicine at Brown, by honoring the past and embracing the future April 29, 2022 Members of the Warren Alpert Medical School community, including graduates from classes ranging from 1972 to 2022, gathered to commemorate the history and look to the future of Rhode Island’s first and only medical school. Read Article Open details for Celebrating 50 years of medicine at Brown, by honoring the past and embracing the future Social Sciences Facebook whistleblower kicks off William R. Rhodes ’57 Lecture Series on Ethics of Capitalism April 27, 2022 Frances Haugen told an audience of Brown students, faculty and staff that algorithms governing social media are the root of technology’s challenges — and that social media can be a positive force to keep people connected. Read Article Open details for Facebook whistleblower kicks off William R. Rhodes ’57 Lecture Series on Ethics of Capitalism News and Events College Day at Brown gives Providence high schoolers a glimpse of academic and campus life April 14, 2022 With an eye toward fueling interest in post-secondary education, faculty, staff and students across Brown gave city students a chance to experience classes, community engagement opportunities, social activities and more. Read Article Open details for College Day at Brown gives Providence high schoolers a glimpse of academic and campus life News and Events U.S. Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo at Brown: ‘We better get to work innovating’ March 15, 2022 In an Ogden lecture at Brown, the commerce secretary and former Rhode Island governor shared insights on her efforts to grow the American economy, strategically sanction Russian leadership and ease U.S. supply-chain woes. Read Article Open details for U.S. Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo at Brown: ‘We better get to work innovating’ News and Events Amid crisis in Ukraine, Brown community unites to provide support, host discussions March 3, 2022 Scholars and others at Brown are joining together to provide support for Ukrainian scholars and people directly affected in the country, and to convene scholarly discussions about the unfolding war with Russia. Read Article Open details for Amid crisis in Ukraine, Brown community unites to provide support, host discussions News and Events U.S. Commerce Secretary, former R.I. governor Gina Raimondo to visit Brown on March 15 February 28, 2022 In the Ogden Memorial Lecture, Raimondo will share ideas on how the United States can continue to compete globally by creating an economy that works for all Americans. Read Article Open details for U.S. Commerce Secretary, former R.I. governor Gina Raimondo to visit Brown on March 15 University Initiatives Together, Brown, Vartan Gregorian Elementary are designing, creating hands-on ‘STEAM room’ for kids December 8, 2021 Staff at Brown University are working with the Providence public school to transform an empty classroom into an engaging, interactive space where students can conduct experiments and work on creative projects. Read Article Open details for Together, Brown, Vartan Gregorian Elementary are designing, creating hands-on ‘STEAM room’ for kids News and Events 9/11 at 20: Brown community members gather in memorial to lives lost September 10, 2021 At a memorial marker on Wriston Quad that honors the six Brown alumni killed on 9/11, students, faculty and staff honored each of those graduates and reflected on the defining two-decade impact of the attacks. Read Article Open details for 9/11 at 20: Brown community members gather in memorial to lives lost At its 258th Opening Convocation, Brown officially commences 2021-22 academic year September 6, 2021 University President Christina H. Paxson and Professor of Africana Studies Noliwe Rooks looked to Brown’s history for lessons on how to center truth and advance knowledge amid a challenging global moment. Read Article Open details for At its 258th Opening Convocation, Brown officially commences 2021-22 academic year News and Events Letter from President Paxson: In support of Brown’s DACA community July 21, 2021 President Christina H. Paxson wrote to the campus community about the University's unwavering support for students and employees who benefit from the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program. Read Article Open details for Letter from President Paxson: In support of Brown’s DACA community News and Events Values should guide leadership, decision-making in crisis, Paxson says in Chronicle discussion June 21, 2021 Brown President Christina H. Paxson discussed leadership and innovation in a virtual Chronicle of Higher Education event focused on the COVID-19 pandemic, anti-Black racism and threats to democracy in 2020-21. Read Article Open details for Values should guide leadership, decision-making in crisis, Paxson says in Chronicle discussion News and Events With support from Brown, Providence’s Hope High School opens 21st-century library and media center June 7, 2021 Backed by $150,000 from the Fund for the Education of the Children of Providence, the transformed space offers students reimagined study areas, new technology and furniture, and an expanded collection of books and periodicals. Read Article Open details for With support from Brown, Providence’s Hope High School opens 21st-century library and media center News and Events Joint $500,000 gift from Brown, R.I. Foundation, Partnership for R.I. to support Nonviolence Institute May 27, 2021 For two decades, the Nonviolence Institute has been an instrumental force in preventing violence and providing support to victims in Rhode Island; the joint contribution will support its work amid a surge in gun violence. Read Article Open details for Joint $500,000 gift from Brown, R.I. Foundation, Partnership for R.I. to support Nonviolence Institute University Initiatives Brown awards $474,000 to support academic excellence, equity initiatives in Providence schools April 27, 2021 With its first payout since reaching $10 million in endowed funds, the Fund for the Education of the Children of Providence will support critical initiatives outlined in the Turnaround Action Plan for Providence Public Schools. Read Article Open details for Brown awards $474,000 to support academic excellence, equity initiatives in Providence schools News and Events Letter from President Paxson: Justice for George Floyd; our work continues April 20, 2021 Following the conviction of Derek Chauvin, Brown President Christina H. Paxson wrote to the community about the justice many have hoped for since the murder of George Floyd and the need for continued action to confront anti-Black racism. Read Article Open details for Letter from President Paxson: Justice for George Floyd; our work continues News and Events Passages: Brown University President Emeritus Vartan Gregorian April 17, 2021 The University’s 16th president from 1989 to 1997, Gregorian was an accomplished scholar, historian and transformative leader for Brown, the New York Public Library and the Carnegie Corporation of New York. Read Article Open details for Passages: Brown University President Emeritus Vartan Gregorian News and Events Letter from President Paxson: Plans for a more traditional Fall 2021 April 6, 2021 Brown is planning to return to a two-semester academic calendar, standard course enrollments, mostly in-person operations and normal student residence occupancy for 2021-22, President Christina H. Paxson wrote to campus. Read Article Open details for Letter from President Paxson: Plans for a more traditional Fall 2021 News and Events Letter from President Paxson: Confronting anti-Asian bias and violence March 18, 2021 As the nation confronts incidents of violence against Asian and Asian American community members, Brown's president conveyed the University's firm stance against discrimination, racism and hate. Read Article Open details for Letter from President Paxson: Confronting anti-Asian bias and violence News and Events Brown launches Lemley lecture series with spring speakers Jennifer Doudna, Isabel Wilkerson February 25, 2021 The Nobel Prize-winning scientist and Pulitzer Prize-winning writer will join the Brown community virtually in separate March and April events as the inaugural speakers in the Lemley Family Leadership Lecture Series. Read Article Open details for Brown launches Lemley lecture series with spring speakers Jennifer Doudna, Isabel Wilkerson News and Events Letter from President Paxson: Plans for Commencement and Reunion 2021 January 21, 2021 Given the state of the public health situation, Brown will host Commencement events for Class of 2021 graduates in person, but families and guests will attend virtually, and all alumni Reunion events will be held virtually. Read Article Open details for Letter from President Paxson: Plans for Commencement and Reunion 2021 University Initiatives For the Brown community, honoring the values of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. January 18, 2021 In the face of enduring systemic racism and profound political divisiveness, Brown President Christina H. Paxson urged students, faculty and staff to uphold the values that define King’s legacy. Read Article Open details for For the Brown community, honoring the values of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. News and Events Federal Reserve Board appoints Brown president chair of Boston Fed board January 6, 2021 Christina H. Paxson, an economist, higher education leader and president of Brown University, will serve as chair of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston's board of directors, effective Jan. 1, 2021. Read Article Open details for Federal Reserve Board appoints Brown president chair of Boston Fed board Arts and Humanities Online and on-site, Brown and its partners ‘top off’ future Performing Arts Center December 10, 2020 To celebrate the topping-off of its future hub for performing arts scholarship, University leaders joined construction workers and key project partners for a live-streamed virtual ceremony complete with on-site drone footage. Read Article Open details for Online and on-site, Brown and its partners ‘top off’ future Performing Arts Center News and Events Juliet Hooker to deliver Presidential Faculty Award lecture at Brown November 30, 2020 Hooker, a professor of political science, will draw from the work of Ida B. Wells and Harriet Jacobs to examine how Black communities can fight for change while also finding ways to thrive in the midst of loss. Read Article Open details for Juliet Hooker to deliver Presidential Faculty Award lecture at Brown News and Events Final week of fall courses at Brown will be conducted remotely November 17, 2020 With increasing COVID-19 cases in Rhode Island and nationally, and an uptick of positive cases on campus, Brown will move to online-only instruction for undergraduate and graduate students for the final six days of classes. Read Article Open details for Final week of fall courses at Brown will be conducted remotely News and Events Paxson to chair association of America’s leading research universities October 27, 2020 Brown President Christina H. Paxson will chair the board of directors for the Association of American Universities, which helps to shape national policy for higher education, science and innovation. Read Article Open details for Paxson to chair association of America’s leading research universities News and Events Letter from Brown’s senior leaders: Update on actions to address racial injustice September 1, 2020 The crucial fight to do away with systemic racism requires the deep-rooted, long-term commitment of all members of the Brown community, University leaders noted. Read Article Open details for Letter from Brown’s senior leaders: Update on actions to address racial injustice University Initiatives Letter from President Paxson: Supporting Brown’s International Students July 8, 2020 President Christina H. Paxson wrote to the campus community about University opposition to new federal guidance on the Student and Exchange Visitor Program and how Brown can best support its international students. Read Article Open details for Letter from President Paxson: Supporting Brown’s International Students News and Events Letter from President Paxson: Track and field and cross country June 9, 2020 Brown will reinstate the varsity status of its men’s track and field and cross country teams; the move does not alter other decisions to reduce the number of varsity sports as part of the Excellence in Brown Athletics Initiative. Read Article Open details for Letter from President Paxson: Track and field and cross country News and Events Paxson tells U.S. Senate stakes are high as universities seek to safely reopen June 4, 2020 Testifying before the U.S. Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions, Brown President Christina H. Paxson detailed the complex decisions facing university leaders as they assess how to deliver education safely this fall. Read Article Open details for Paxson tells U.S. Senate stakes are high as universities seek to safely reopen News and Events Letter from Brown’s senior leaders: Confronting racial injustice June 1, 2020 As communities confront ongoing anti-black racism, University leaders wrote to the Brown community to express deep sadness and anger regarding incidents that continue to cut short the lives of black people. Read Article Open details for Letter from Brown’s senior leaders: Confronting racial injustice News and Events Paxson in New York Times: Colleges have a duty to reopen campuses, safely, as soon as possible April 26, 2020 Students, and local economies, will depend on the efforts of colleges and universities to marshal the resources and expertise to make it possible to safely reopen, Brown’s president argues. Read Article Open details for Paxson in New York Times: Colleges have a duty to reopen campuses, safely, as soon as possible News and Events Letter from President Paxson: Healthy Fall 2020 Task Force April 13, 2020 Brown President Christina H. Paxson charged a committee of faculty, staff and students with developing a public health plan for the University that charts a path to the safe reopening of campus in Fall 2020. Read Article Open details for Letter from President Paxson: Healthy Fall 2020 Task Force News and Events Letter from President Paxson: Brown’s commitment to Providence and Rhode Island April 3, 2020 New food security and research funding initiatives will augment the many ways in which Brown students, faculty and staff are already supporting the University’s home city and state during the COVID-19 pandemic. Read Article Open details for Letter from President Paxson: Brown’s commitment to Providence and Rhode Island News and Events Letter from President Paxson: Brown’s Commencement and Reunion Weekend March 24, 2020 With no signs of the global coronavirus pandemic ending soon, the University will postpone its Commencement and Reunion Weekend until a new date for the celebration can be determined. Read Article Open details for Letter from President Paxson: Brown’s Commencement and Reunion Weekend News and Events Letter from President Paxson: Maintaining community, reuniting for Commencement and Reunion March 17, 2020 Brown President Christina H. Paxson wrote to students, faculty, staff, parents and alumni on March 17 about maintaining a strong sense of community, even in the face of COVID-19’s impact on campus and beyond. Read Article Open details for Letter from President Paxson: Maintaining community, reuniting for Commencement and Reunion University Initiatives Letter from President Paxson: Brown’s actions on climate change March 4, 2020 President Christina H. Paxson wrote to the campus community on March 4 with an update on Brown’s efforts to confront climate change through net-zero GHG initiatives, halting investments in fossil fuel extraction in the University’s endowment and other efforts. Read Article Open details for Letter from President Paxson: Brown’s actions on climate change News and Events Brown Corporation extends President Paxson’s contract to 2025 February 11, 2020 Chancellor Samuel M. Mencoff announced to the Brown community that the early extension reflects confidence in Christina H. Paxson’s leadership and excitement for sustained momentum. Read Article Open details for Brown Corporation extends President Paxson’s contract to 2025 Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search President Open details for President Bookmark this Page