Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of the Provost Provost right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow Meet the Provost right arrow down arrow Event Request Form Leadership Committees Next Lives Here Initiatives right arrow down arrow COACHE Textbook Affordability UC Women Lead Program Dual Career Assistance Program Strategic Hiring Opportunity Program Decanal Searches Faculty right arrow down arrow Reappointment, Promotion, and Tenure right arrow down arrow eRPT Collective Bargaining Agreement Resources right arrow down arrow Faculty Retention Program Proposal Process right arrow down arrow Distance Learning Programs Adjunct Resources Leaves of Absence Associations right arrow down arrow Latino Faculty Association right arrow down arrow About Members Resources Events & Photo Gallery News Emeriti Association right arrow down arrow Membership LGBTQ Faculty and Staff Association Black Faculty Association right arrow down arrow About Resources Events and News Committees Photo Gallery The Academy of Fellows - AFTL right arrow down arrow Members, Eligibility & Benefits Journal for Research & Practice in College Teaching Faculty Enrichment Center right arrow down arrow Programming and Resources Colleges and Offices right arrow down arrow Colleges Offices right arrow down arrow Faculty Affairs & Academic Personnel Enrollment Management Graduate School The Office of Institutional Research right arrow down arrow Facts & Dashboards College Financial Reporting Survey Research & Consulting Resources Contact Us UC International IT @ UC Student Affairs Undergraduate Studies right arrow down arrow Affiliated Offices Integrated Core Learning (ICL) General Education Core Contact Us Awards right arrow down arrow All-University Faculty Awards Home » About UC » Office of the Provost » Initiatives » Textbook Affordability Set Navigation title in component COACHE Textbook Affordability UC Women Lead Program Dual Career Assistance Program Strategic Hiring Opportunity Program Decanal Searches Textbook Affordability The University of Cincinnati is proud to do all we can to lower costs to students. Aligned with the Ohio Department of Higher Education to reduce the cost of education for college students, UC has developed and shared strategies with other Ohio institutions to improve the learning experience of students all over the state. The Office of the Provost finds opportunities in using new technology, open educational resources, and the collective buying power of our students to reduce costs, improve delivery, and better serve scholarly needs. Through collaboration with faculty and offices here at UC, we have identified specific, effective practices for finding affordable textbooks. We work to share those practices with our faculty and students, to find savings in every possible way. Textbook Affordability Initiatives Textbook Affordability Committee UC has created a partnership, led by UC’s Office of the Provost, that includes UC Faculty, Faculty Senate, Student Government, UC Libraries, CET&L, UC Bookstore, IT@UC, Campus Services, the Office of Undergraduate Affairs and the Division of Administration and Finance. Together, we are utilizing multiple strategies to reduce student spending on course materials. Volume Discounts When large numbers of students are required to purchase the same materials, and used copies are not available, UC may be able to leverage student buying power, yielding a lower price for everyone. UC’s includED® model - the campus’s ‘inclusive fee’ program - saves students 40%, on average, by leveraging student buying power and streamlining the purchasing process for students. Students are charged a course fee for these materials. During the 2017-2018 Academic year, more than 11,000 students participated in IncludED®, for a total savings over $1.3M through nearly 18,000 registrations across 41 includED® courses. Price Match Guarantee If a UC student finds a lower price on an identical textbook for rent or purchase locally or online, the UC Bookstores will match the price right at the register. While some restrictions apply, this program is showing great potential in continuing to reduce the cost of course materials to students. Home-Grown Ebooks The Center for Excellence eTextbook Author Project supports instructors to develop their own interactive textbooks using iBooks Author, avoiding the high cost of going through a publisher. These either supplement the materials used in courses or replace them altogether. UC Library E-Resources A growing array of articles, books, audio tracks, and other learning materials are available online for free. By visiting UC Libraries Digital Collections, you can find additional resources online such as ACLS Humanities, CRCnetBASE, Ebrary, Gutenberg-e Database, Naxos Music Library, Safari Books Online, SpringerLink, and the Wiley Online Library. Please contact Debbie Tenofsky for questions about any particular collection. Rent-a-Text University of Cincinnati Bookstores’ Rent-A-Text Program provides savings up to 80 percent off the price of new textbooks. The program saved students more than $475,000 during the 2017-18 school year. UC SmartBooks UC SmartBooks is the University of Cincinnati’s standard platform for digital course materials. For students, materials are available on the UC SmartBooks app, Bookshelf. By using a single platform, we provide students with a familiar interface for interacting with digital print materials across all of their courses and on all of their devices, lessening their learning curve while creating the possibility to search across all materials and notes from a single search field. Bookshelf was selected as our standard digital course materials platform because of its powerful teaching and learning tools. The standardized platform makes it possible to use the book as a pedagogical tool through shared notes, direct linking to chapters, sharing of supplemental materials, and much more. For more information on how to get started with UC SmartBooks, visit the Knowledge Base Office of the Provost 2614 McMicken Cir, Cincinnati, OH 45219 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Office of the Provost 2614 McMicken Cir, Cincinnati, OH 45219 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top