Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Forms and Guidelines Accommodation Letter Request Form Accommodation Letter Request Form September 08, 2020 Accommodation letters provide official notification of your registration with Disability Services and your eligibility for specific accommodations. Accommodation letters issued by Disability Services (DS) are for undergraduate students and serve to inform faculty of a student’s registration with DS. Graduate students must contact their school’s Disability Services Liaison prior to or during the first week of classes to begin the process of notifying faculty (in lieu of accommodation letters). Important Information: Remember that the Letter of Accommodations is just the first step in implementing your accommodations. You may still need to complete other request forms (e.g. notetaking request form) in order to receive those specific accommodations. The letters include all of the course accommodations that have been granted for an individual student. Instructors are not obligated to provide these accommodations until they receive your current letter of accommodation. Accommodations are not applied retroactively. Given the online format for Fall 2020 undergraduate courses, accommodation letters will be emailed directly to professors. Undergraduate Accommodation Letters/Faculty Notification Process: Submit the Undergraduate Accommodation Letter Request Form to DS prior to or during the first two weeks of each semester Within three business days, later DS will email your professor(s) a copy of your accommodation letter. Webform Student's Name UNI Email Faculty to receive accommodation letters Send accommodation letters to all of my faculty (as per my current class registration in SSOL) Only send accommodation letters to selected faculty. Please list the faculty/courses you would NOT like to receive an accommodation letter at this time. By submitting this form, I acknowledge and understand the following: I am authorizing the Disability Services to e-mail my faculty an accommodation letter listing my accommodations for this semester without any changes. Submit Document Categories Forms Document Topics Disability Services Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close