Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps Prospective Cadets Cadre Photo Gallery Scholarships Resources & Links Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact What is Cross-Town agreement? You can participate in our program here at The University of Memphis while still attending full-time at one of the local participating colleges What does Air Force ROTC offer? An opportunity to develop leadership and teamwork skills that will serve you well for the rest of your life Instruction in Aerospace Studies has been an important phase of the curriculum at The University of Memphis since 1951. PreviousNext Take Action DET 785 Brochure Careers and Pay Privacy and Security Notice Contact Us Follow Us Online Facebook Home Air Force ROTC DETACHMENT 785 Flying Tigers Welcomes You The Department of Aerospace Studies provides a four-year program of instruction for all qualified U.S. citizens, male and female, divided into two phases, each of two years duration. The first, termed the General Military Course, offers instruction in the foundation of leadership and Aerospace-age citizenship. Secondly, termed the Professional Officer Course, builds upon these foundations in developing upperclassmen who are to become Air Force officers and serve on active duty upon graduation and commissioning. Instruction in Aerospace Studies has been an important phase of the curriculum at the University of Memphis since 1951. Active duty Air Force personnel, approved by the University president, are detailed by the Department of the Air Force to administer the instructional program. Air Force officers serve under appointment by the University as Professor or Assistant Professor of Aerospace Studies. Please call for information regarding local scholarship opportunities within our Detachment. Please take a moment and explore our website, and for more information visit the websites below: The Official Home Page of the U.S. Air Force The Official Home Page of the U.S. Space Force U.S. Air Force Jean M. Holm Center - Air University U.S. Air Force ROTC Official Website Freedom of Information Act Feel free to contact us if you have any questions! Air Force ROTC-Detachment 785 Phone: 901.678.2681 (Current as of: 1 Oct 2021) Email: afrotc@memphis.edu Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/14/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.