Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University Robert J. & Nancy D.Carney Institute for Brain Science Search Brown University Home Research Research Projects Where Brain Science Happens BRAINSTORM Program Centers & Core Facilities Center for Alzheimer's Disease Research Center for Computational Brain Science COBRE Center for Neuromodulation Center for the Neurobiology of Cells and Circuits Center for Translational Neuroscience Center for Vision Research COBRE Center for Central Nervous System Function Research Projects Research Cores Behavior and Neuroimaging Core Design and Analysis Core MRI Research Facility Carney Human Testing Space The Bioluminescence Hub COVID-19 Resuming Research Plan Training Undergraduate Students Concentrations Graduate Study Postdocs Executive Committee Carney Summer Scholars Training Programs ICoN - Interdisciplinary Training Interdisciplinary Vision Training Program TPCP - Training Program People Institute Team Executive Committee Affiliated Faculty Community Spotlights Center Directors Scientific Advisory Board News & Events News Upcoming Events Past Events BrainExPo Seminar Series Carney Conversations Methods Meetups Resources Funding Opportunities Research Toolbox Brain Facts Education & Outreach Research & Educational Resources About Our Impact Affiliated Units Where Brain Science Happens FAQ Partner With Us Give To Carney Give To Carney Home Research Training People News & Events Resources About Partner With Us Search Carney Institute for Brain Science Partner With Us Corporate and Foundations Partnerships The Carney Institute for Brain Science establishes partnerships with companies and colleagues in industry to support our research mission, to propel innovation and commercialization, and to develop intellectual property into startup companies and applications of all kinds. Carney welcomes conversations that advance mutual interests and priorities. The Carney Institute has a track record for such partnerships. Faculty members have founded companies that are, for example, developing brain-machine interfaces for paralyzed individuals (Cyberkinetics) and a new therapeutic for Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy (Tivorsan Pharmaceuticals). Other opportunities include: seed funds; early-stage investment; unrestricted research program support; sponsored research; support for undergraduate and graduate students; equipment funds and discounts; and opportunities to connect with faculty and students through conferences, lectures and workshops. For more information about industry partnerships and licensing opportunities, contact Brown Technology Innovations at [email protected]. Philanthropy Become our partner in scientific discovery Explaining the extraordinary capacity of the brain to control all that we do, and all that we are, is one of the most exciting challenges of our time. At the Carney Institute, 200 scientists come together across Brown University departments and its affiliated partners to foster innovative and ground-breaking research, including: mapping cells and connections, decoding signals and mimicking and repairing the complex functions of the nervous system. The research is bold, pushing past this last frontier of biomedicine to produce fascinating new insights into how we think, feel and behave. Support from our generous donors helps to sustain and expand our work and impact. In April 2018, a transformative $100 million gift from Brown University alumnus Robert J. Carney and Nancy D. Carney set the institute on a new path, providing our researchers with the tools and resources necessary to compete with some of the best-funded institutions in the country. The Carneys’ generous and timely support will help to drive our ambitious research agenda: to advance knowledge, develop novel treatments and identify cures to some of the world’s most devastating diseases, such as ALS and Alzheimer’s. Partner with us in scientific discovery. Help solidify Brown’s position as one of the best institutions for the study and training of the next generation of brain scientists. Support the Carney Institute for Brain Science For information about specific giving opportunities, contact: Nicole Peters Sisson Senior Director of Development, Carney Institute for Brain Science +1 (401) 863-9877 [email protected] Robert J. & Nancy D. Carney Institute for Brain Science Robert J. & Nancy D. Carney Institute for Brain Science Brown University Box 1901 164 Angell St., 4th Floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-7421 Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top