Skip to main content Contact Us Provost's Office Join Email List Center for Teaching & Learning Home Contact CTL Staff Programs and Services Resources for Teaching at Penn Teaching Practices and Strategies Events University of Pennsylvania's Center for Teaching and Learning (CTL) works to help instructors at Penn excel in their teaching, to enhance the culture of teaching at the university, and, in turn, to increase the quality of education at Penn. COVID-19 and Teaching at Penn The University has issued new guidance and FAQs for Summer 2022 on COVID-19 policies. Of most importance is that masks are no longer required in classrooms; however, instructors can choose to require that students wear them. Below are resources that can help instructors adapt the courses to account for a variety of different challenges: noun_star_2222674.png Combining Structure and Flexibility: ideas for setting and communicating expectations to help students understand how to stay on track and to support them when they cannot do so. noun_star_2222674.png Practices for Teaching Students Living with Stress and Trauma: ways to help students as they continue to experience stress from the pandemic. noun_star_2222674.png Helping Students Stay on Track When They Have to MIss Class: ideas for helping students who have to miss class keep up with the work. Please visit the University’s Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information and Resources website for the latest information about Penn’s measures related to the Coronavirus. CTL Offerings: Returning to In-Person Teaching This page offers a guide to help faculty plan their in-person classes and think about adding structure and flexibility to their classes. Faculty Programs Faculty and instructors at all levels can participate in CTL programs including teaching workshops, conversations and individual consultations. Graduate Student Programs CTL works with graduate students to help them improve their teaching at Penn and prepare to become faculty in the future. Information about Teaching at Penn Penn has a number of policies about teaching and resources to support the classroom. This section includes information for new faculty as well as information about teaching grants, technology in the classroom, course evaluations and academic integrity. Resources for Online Teaching Teaching a fully online course asks instructors to rethink and revise how they teach. These pages provide resources, tools and strategies for thinking through how to create a new online course or adapt a pre-existing one. Teaching Practices and Strategies The links in this section focus on teaching practices such as SAIL and open online teaching. There are also sections on inclusive teaching and a connection to Talk About Teaching and Learning where Penn faculty share ideas and suggestions about teaching. How to Get Here The Center for Teaching and Learning is located on the first floor of Van Pelt Library. Walk west from the front entrance to the library and about halfway through the Weigle Information Commons. Turn right at diner booths 5/6 toward the elevators. Immediately after the elevators turn left and CTL is through the double glass doors. Teaching Certificate in College and University Teaching for Graduate Students Talk about Teaching and Learning Teaching Awards If you have trouble accessing our website or online materials, please reach out to us either by email at ctl-help@lists.upenn.edu. Office of the Provost Center for Teaching and Learning First floor Van Pelt-Dietrich Library 3420 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-6206 Phone: (215) 746-3613 Email: ctl-help@lists.upenn.edu Report accessibility issues and get help