Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Research Main navigation About Our Research Welcome What we do Research Enterprise Current Initiatives Research Expertise Commission on Research Next Who we are Leadership EVPR Organizational Chart Organization Team Directory Engage with Georgia Tech Engage with Georgia Tech Research & Development Services Interdisciplinary Research Institutes Partnerships & Co-Locations Commercialization & Tech Transfer Talent Acquisition & Prof Development Tech Startups & Entrepreneurship Industry & Business Services Join Our Research Team National Laboratories GT Community Georgia Tech Community For Researchers Research and Covid-19 Guidance Research Development Funding Opportunities Researcher Resources Resources Index For Students Apply to Georgia Tech Undergraduate Research Graduate Research Find a Mentor Impact Georgia Tech's Impact Economic Impact Creating the Next Research Report News News Federal Appointments Research Podcasts Events Contact Us Contact Us Research Contacts Open Search Search Search HELP Didn’t find what you are looking for? We'd like to help! GT Community Inquiries Contact: Office of EVPR Team All Other Inquiries Contact: Georgia Parmelee, Director of Research Communications Breadcrumb Home Interdisciplinary Research Interdisciplinary Research We aim to leverage the strengths of faculty and researchers across the Institute to address research problems that cannot be solved without a transdisciplinary focus. Through our 10 Interdisciplinary Research Institutes, the Pediatric Technology Center, the Global Center for Medical Innovation, the Novelis Innovation Hub, and the Center for Advanced Brain Imaging, Georgia Tech students and faculty address questions in areas such as: Sustainability, climate and energy Living systems Human health and activity Materials and products Computation, artificial intelligence, and machine learning Current Initiatives The office of the Vice President for Interdisciplinary Research (VPIR) strives to galvanize the research strengths of faculty across Georgia Tech and advance collaboration with the National Labs, other colleges and universities including Minority-Serving Institutions, corporate partners, community organizations, and local, state and federal governmental agencies. The VPIR’s team helps develop research collaborations across Georgia Tech and supports the translation of fundamental research to meet societal needs and accelerate technology and knowledge transfer. The office of the VPIR works closely with the office of the Vice President for Research Development and Operations and the office of Federal Relations to identify federal funding opportunities and guide faculty responses to them. Many of Georgia Tech’s faculty are engaged in interdisciplinary research that tackles national and international challenges and questions related to climate change and clean energy; public health; biotechnology and the bioeconomy; artificial intelligence; quantum information science; advanced manufacturing; and semiconductors. To that end, the VPIR also supports the administration of interdisciplinary research at Georgia Tech, including supporting IRI programming and fiscal management, prioritizing career development for research faculty and staff; and amplifying the impact of IRI-led research with proactive communications and representation in national thought leadership roles. Interdisciplinary Research Institutes Interdisciplinary Research Institutes (IRIs) enable researchers to achieve goals that cannot be met within other structures at Georgia Tech. Faculty and students from all six colleges and 28 schools as well as GTRI participate in IRI activities, combining their different sources of expertise, interests, and approaches to pose new research questions, respond to existing challenges, and advance technology to improve the human condition. Please visit the 2021 Highlights page to learn more about some of the IRIs' recent accomplishments. IRI Mission Interdisciplinary Research Institutes bring together researchers from different disciplines to address topics of strategic importance to Georgia Tech. Each IRI mobilizes faculty to address the needs of external stakeholders (federal, state and local entities, corporations, foundations, communities) by fostering an institute-wide innovation ecosystem around a specific focus. IRIs translate research into specific outcomes such as technology transfer, education, and outreach. They make faculty more competitive for extramural funds by providing equipment, space, and staff support to develop bold new approaches to critical problems, and they provide students with hands-on, experiential learning in a research environment. IRIs represent long term GT priorities. Bioengineering and Bioscience The Parker H. Petit Institute for Bioengineering and Bioscience (IBB) tackles complex bio research problems by bringing together engineers, scientists, and clinicians to turn discoveries into game-changing solutions. Data Engineering and Science The Institute for Data Engineering and Science (IDEaS) pursues grand challenges in data science foundations and in data-driven discovery in engineering and sciences through interdisciplinary multi-investigator endeavors. Electronics and Nanotechnology The Institute for Electronics and Nanotechnology (IEN) facilitates innovation in micro/nano-enabled electronics and photonics by catalyzing and translating research, connecting researchers to industry, and preparing the workforce of the future. Energy The Strategic Energy Institute (SEI) serves as a conduit for integrating, facilitating, and enabling Institute-wide programs in energy research and development. Manufacturing The Georgia Tech Manufacturing Institute brings together industry leaders, government partners and top researchers to collaborate and find solutions for the greatest challenges facing U.S. industry today. Materials Materials research at Georgia Tech is comprehensive, addressing the major technologies that can improve our lives in the next century and beyond. People and Technology The Institute for People and Technology (IPaT) researchers support research, engage students, and collaborate with industry, government, and non-profit partners. Renewable Bioproducts The Renewable Bioproducts Institute (RBI) delivers innovation in converting biomass into value-added products, developing advanced chemical and bio-based refining technologies, and advancing excellence in manufacturing processes. Robotics The Institute for Robotics and Intelligent Machines (IRIM) serves as an umbrella under which robotics researchers, educators, and students from across campus come together to advance many diverse robotics activities. Sustainable Systems The vision for the Brook Byers Institute for Sustainable Systems is to create knowledge and technologies that will improve environmental, social, and economic outcomes. Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Accessibility Download PDF Reader Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN