Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Email Print Commencement events for Class of 2022 and on-campus Commencement details for Class of 2020 by the Office of Communications May 12, 2022, 10:53 a.m. Photo by Nick Donnoli, Office of Communications Princeton University is celebrating the accomplishments of undergraduate and graduate degree candidates during 2022 year-end events Sunday through Tuesday, May 22-24. The University also will host an on-campus Commencement ceremony for the Class of 2020 on Wednesday, May 18. Tickets are required to attend. Events also will be live streamed on the Princeton University homepage and MediaCentral website, as well as on Facebook and YouTube. Professional photos will be posted to the University’s Commencement website in June and may be downloaded free courtesy of the University. The following is a summary of graduation events for undergraduate and graduate degree candidates. More information for students and their guests is available on the University’s Commencement website, including directions and parking, departmental and residential college receptions, and COVID-19 guidelines for guests. Visitors attending indoor events must complete an attestation of vaccination status. An attestation is not required for outdoor events, such as ceremonies held in Princeton Stadium and on Cannon Green. The University continues to monitor public health conditions, and policies may evolve if public health or community conditions warrant a change. Class of 2020 The Class of 2020 Commencement ceremony is 10 a.m. Wednesday, May 18, in Princeton Stadium. The event is for graduating students in the undergraduate Class of 2020 and their guests, as well as graduate alumni who received a final master’s degree or Ph.D. in the 2019-20 academic year and their guests. The University previously held a virtual Commencement for the Class of 2020 on June 1, 2020, because of the COVID-19 pandemic. Class of 2022 The Baccalaureate service is 2 p.m. Sunday, May 22, in the University Chapel. Seniors are seated inside the chapel (which is just large enough to accommodate the class). The ceremony is simulcast on large screens on Cannon Green for guest viewing. In case of rain, indoor simulcast locations near the chapel are available and are ticketed. The Baccalaureate speaker is Teach for All CEO and co-founder Wendy Kopp, Class of 1989. The Class Day ceremony is 10:30 a.m. Monday, May 23, on Cannon Green. Guests must be seated by 10 a.m. when the senior class procession begins. In case of rain, seniors are seated in the University Chapel and guests are seated in simulcast locations near the chapel. The Class Day speaker is Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases. The Hooding ceremony for advanced degree candidates will begin at 4:30 p.m. Monday, May 23, on Cannon Green. The ceremony is for master’s and doctoral students earning their degree during the 2021-22 academic year and their guests. Princeton’s 275th Commencement is 10 a.m. Tuesday, May 24, in Princeton Stadium. The academic procession will begin at 9:40 a.m. The ceremony is for graduating students in the undergraduate Class of 2022 and their guests, as well as graduate students who received a final master’s degree or Ph.D. in the 2021-22 academic year and their guests. Seniors receive their diplomas in their residential colleges following the ceremony. The ROTC Commissioning ceremony is 3:30 pm. Tuesday, May 24, in the Faculty Room of Nassau Hall. The ceremony is for members of the Class of 2022 commissioning in the Army, Navy or Air Force ROTC, and their guests. Commencement 2022 View All News Connect with #Princeton22 Instagram Facebook Twitter GIPHY YouTube LinkedIn 2022 Commencement website After Princeton graduation, ROTC students are commissioned as U.S. Army and Marine Corps officers University News: Read more ‘The value of persistence’: Princeton Class of 2022 celebrates Commencement University News: Read more 2022 Commencement Salutatio by Frances Mangina (Latin and English) University News: Read more 2022 Valedictory remarks by Natalia Orlovsky University News: Read more Class of 2022 Commencement Address by President Eisgruber — 'The Value of Persistence' University News: Read more Four faculty members recognized for outstanding teaching Award: Read more Princeton awards five honorary degrees Award: Read more Four outstanding N.J. secondary school teachers honored at Princeton Commencement Award: Read more At Hooding, a ritual celebration of extraordinary scholarly accomplishment University News: Read more Dr. Fauci to Princeton seniors on Class Day: ‘It is our collective responsibility not to shrug our shoulders’ or to accept ‘the normalization of untruths’ University News: Read more Students honored for leadership and service at 2022 Class Day Award: Read more Princeton University Class of 2022 Class Day remarks by Dr. Anthony S. Fauci University News: Read more Baccalaurate speaker Wendy Kopp ’89: The path to happiness is to align our lives with our values University News: Read more 2022 Princeton Baccalaureate address by Wendy Kopp University News: Read more Reunited: Princeton alumni return to campus for the first in-person Reunions since the start of the pandemic University News: Read more Phi Beta Kappa chapter honors Alexander Davis, Casey Lew-Williams with teaching awards Award: Read more Watch: Princeton's Class of 2022 Commencement ceremony Tuesday, May 24 University News: Read more Alumni returning for Reunions 2022 this Thursday through Sunday Campus Life: Read more Graduate students honored for excellence in teaching Award: Read more Four faculty members honored for excellence in mentoring graduate students Award: Read more Natalia Orlovsky named Princeton valedictorian, Frances Mangina selected as salutatorian Award: Read more Dr. Anthony Fauci will speak at Princeton’s 2022 Class Day University News: Read more Teach For All co-founder and CEO Wendy Kopp named Baccalaureate speaker University News: Read more Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice