Campus Prevention - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to COVID-19 Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search COVID-19 Information for... Students Faculty & Staff Guidelines & Protocols Face Coverings on Campus Potential Exposure to Coronavirus COVID-19 Diagnosis Completion of Self-Quarantine / Isolation Campus Prevention Travel Guidelines Event Guidelines Campus Cleaning Protocols COVID-19 Information Coronavirus Symptoms Positive Case Reporting On-Campus Testing COVID-19 Vaccine Information Communications FAQs UH Home COVID-19 Guidelines & Protocols Campus Prevention Guidelines & Protocols Face Coverings on Campus Potential Exposure to Coronavirus COVID-19 Diagnosis Campus Cleaning & Safety Practices Completion of Self-Quarantine/Isolation Campus Prevention Travel Guidelines Event Guidelines Reporting COVID-19 Diagnosis/Symptoms Reporting Potential COVID-19 Exposure Request to Return to Campus Inquiries: Inquiries regarding a positive case or exposure: UH COVID-19 Case Support Helpdesk 832-84C-OVID or 832-842-6843 10:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m., Monday through Friday covid19coordinator@uh.edu Campus Prevention The best way to prevent illness is to avoid being exposed to the coronavirus and to implement practices that reduce its spread. This can best be accomplished by: COVID-19 Vaccination The COVID-19 vaccination is recommended and strongly encouraged. Stay up-to-date with your vaccines Avoid Close Contact Put distance between yourself and other people. Remember that some people without symptoms may be able to spread the virus. Avoid gathering in groups. Stay out of crowded places and avoid mass gatherings. Keeping distance from others is especially important for people who are at higher risk of getting sick. Use of Face Masks The use of well-fitting face masks are encouraged on campus, especially if you are NOT up-to-date on COVID-19 vaccinations, but they are not required. Frequent Handwashing Wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds especially after you have been in a public place, or after blowing your nose, coughing or sneezing. If soap and water are not readily available, use a hand sanitizer that contains at least 60% alcohol. Cover all surfaces of your hands and rub them together until they feel dry. Avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth with unwashed hands. For more information, visit CDC Handwashing webpage. Practice Respiratory and Cough Etiquette Remember to always cover your mouth and nose with a tissue when you cough or sneeze or use the inside of your elbow. Throw used tissues in the trash. Immediately wash your hands with soap and water for at least 20 seconds. This should be done often, especially after blowing noses, coughing, or sneezing, or having been in a public place. If soap and water are not readily available, clean your hands with a hand sanitizer that contains at least 60% alcohol. Follow Other Good Hygiene Practices Make sure to avoid touching your eyes, nose and mouth with unwashed hands and avoid personal contact with sick people. Avoid sharing food, cups or utensils. To the extent possible, avoid touching high-touch surfaces in public places and minimize handling cash, credit cards, and mobile or electronic devices. Clean and Disinfect Clean and disinfect frequently touched objects and surfaces. Follow CDC cleaning recommendations. Learn more by reviewing FAQs on Cleaning. Awareness Be aware of your health and if you feel the onset of Coronavirus Symptoms, contact your health care provider. Be generally aware of who you are in close contact with, especially for extended periods of time, so that contact tracing can be performed if you become symptomatic. Provide information, as needed, to allow contact tracers from the University and the Health Department to conduct tracing. *Clinical areas will have additional site-specific protocols with which to comply. Reporting COVID-19 Diagnosis Potential COVID-19 Exposure Request to Return to Campus COVID-19 Inquiries Teach Remotely Deliver your classes online. Learn About Teaching Online >> Technology Guide for Faculty >> Learn Remotely Attend classes online. Learn About Learning Online >> Technology Guide for Students >> Do You Need a Laptop? >> Work Remotely Make a flexible workplace arrangement. COVID-19 Telecommuting Form >> Technology Guide for Staff >> Reporting COVID-19 Diagnosis Reporting Potential COVID-19 Exposure Request to Return to Campus University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies