Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links UW Leadership Regents President Vice presidents Invite the president Provost Vice provosts Deans and chancellors Invite the provost Foundation Initiatives Population health Race & equity Innovation imperative Husky experience Teaching & learning in the 21st century Transforming administration program Institutional assessment effort Community engagement Tri-campus Leadership at the UW Leadership Menu UW Leadership Regents President Vice presidents Invite the president Provost Vice provosts Deans and chancellors Invite the provost Foundation Initiatives Population health Race & equity Innovation imperative Husky experience Teaching & learning in the 21st century Transforming administration program Institutional assessment effort Community engagement Tri-campus Home Leadership President and executive vice presidents The president of the University of Washington is appointed by the Board of Regents to lead the University in advancing its mission as one of the world’s leading public research universities. The president is assisted in this effort by a range of leaders across the institution, including two executive vice presidents. University of Washington president Website | Blog | Email Ana Mari Cauce is the 33rd president of the UW. A professor of psychology and member of the UW faculty since 1986, she was named president in October 2015. Under her leadership, the UW is advancing all areas of its academic, research and service missions, with initiatives focused on innovation, race and equity, and population health. Vice presidents University of Washington provost and executive vice president for academic affairs Website | Email Mark Richards joined the University of Washington as provost and executive vice president for academic affairs in July 2018. A geophysicist, Richards also holds a faculty appointment in the College of the Environment’s Department of Earth and Space Sciences. As provost, he is the University’s chief academic and budget officer. Vice provosts Deans and chancellors University of Washington executive vice president for medical affairs Website | Email Dr. Paul G. Ramsey is the CEO of UW Medicine, executive vice president for medical affairs and dean of the School of Medicine. He has served as the senior executive leader of UW Medicine since June 1997. UW Medicine includes the UW School of Medicine, four hospitals, a network of primary care clinics, a large physician practice plan and a fixed wing and helicopter air ambulance service. Vice presidents UW leadership organization chart As approved by the president by authority of the Board of Regents, this chart (PDF) reflects the reporting relationships of UW leadership. University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA