Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Division of Research Regulatory Research safety, integrity and security are paramount to our mission to generate and disseminate new knowledge for the benefit the world. The Division of Research works with the Clemson community to promote a safe research environment that is in compliance with all federal and state regulations. Visit the appropriate office below for more information on research safety, compliance and security. RESOURCES Guidance for Managing International Relationships and Activities BioRAFT digital system for managing research safety Required Responsible Conduct of Research training Report Research Misconduct Office of Research Safety The Office of Research Safety provides expertise in chemical, radiological, biological, hazardous waste management, and hazardous materials shipping/transportation. The office also coordinates and provides a broad range of training programs to assist in working safely and meeting training compliance requirements. Office of Research Compliance The Office of Research Compliance administers federally-mandated programs to ensure enterprise-wide compliance with regulations and policies that promote ethical conduct in research involving vertebrate animals, recombinant DNA, hazardous materials, and human subjects. The office provides expert advice and customer service with a focus on facilitating research, education and service activities. The office also handles research misconduct reports and offers Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR) training which provides RCR credits required by federal funding agencies. Export Compliance and Research Security Federal regulations restrict overseas shipping, transmission or transfer of certain categories of information, technologies and items to protect research integrity. The office of Export Compliance and Research Security can help faculty navigate complex federal policies and regulations in order to manage successful international research engagements and activities. Home Leadership R-Initiatives Research Funding Industry Collaboration Core Facilities Regulatory Research Policies Contact Us Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram