Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home All Services Religious and Spiritual Concerns Religious and Spiritual Concerns All of the professionals at Counseling and Psychological Services are qualified to address the full range of concerns students bring to counseling. However, our counselors do have various areas of special interest or experience. Our psychiatrists focus on medication consultation and management. Initially, students ordinarily meet with a social worker, psychologist, or postdoctoral psychology fellow. If together with your counselor you decide you would like to evaluate whether medication may be useful, you will then have the option of meeting with one of our psychiatrists, and may, if you like, request one of the psychiatrists listed below. Again, however, if your situation is urgent, we recommend you do not delay seeking psychiatric assistance. Below is a list of our social workers, psychiatrists, and psychologists who may be especially good matches for students with religious or spiritual concerns as well as for students who wish to see a counselor with a specific interest in the intersection of psychotherapy and spirituality. Expand all Collapse all Religious and Spiritual Concerns Team Debra Domenech, Senior Psychologist Debra has long been attentive to the place of religion and spirituality in psychotherapy and emotional wellbeing, and has co-facilitated training on this subject. She has worked with many students who struggle with the role of religion and spirituality in their lives. Victoria Grosso, Senior Psychologist Victoria views mind/body and spiritual life as interrelated. She has experience discussing spiritual matters with Columbia students of various religious backgrounds, including some who need to be validated in their beliefs or find encouragement to reconnect with their religious community, and others who are conflicted about their religious beliefs or practices. She has experience with different meditation practices and integrates mindfulness into psychotherapy. Wardeh Hattab, Licensed Senior Social Worker Wardeh helps students utilize their spirituality in coping with grief and loss. She also has experience working with persons questioning beliefs as a result of living in regions with sectarianism. Wardeh enjoys working with students navigating their spirituality as they face struggles with existential questions, identity, and purpose. She can understand Arabic at a basic level. Adam Johnson, Psychologist Adam has experience incorporating spirituality into therapy and has worked with people from a variety of religious and spiritual backgrounds. Adam works with individuals to help make meaning of difficult existential questions such as questioning a higher power, issues related to life/death, grappling with multiple identifies that may be in conflict with one’s religious/spiritual beliefs, and finding one’s life purpose. His dissertation focused on implementing customized rituals in coping with losses. Adam frequently incorporates mindfulness and meditation into his work. Regina Lara, Psychiatrist Regina provides consultations to students who may benefit from medication. She was raised Catholic and is open to including discussions about faith and spirituality with all students, including the role of faith for students in the LGBT community. Shirley Matthews, Senior Psychologist Shirley worked closely with the priest community at Seton Hall University for twelve years. She was a comparative religion teacher at her Unitarian Universalist congregation's Sunday school and has long been involved in a personal exploration of faith and religion. Annette Santiago España, Associate Director for Eating Disorders Team Annette did her graduate training in a program based on a philosophy that promotes the balanced development of the mental, physical, social, cultural and spiritual aspects of human nature. She is actively involved in teaching seminars and facilitating discussions in churches on self-esteem, stress management, maintaining a healthy balance, and the intersection of vocation and faith. She enjoys working with individuals of all religious and spiritual backgrounds and recognizes the importance of respecting the uniqueness of each individual's experiences. Related Resources Office of the University Chaplain Religious Life Advisors Health Unit Counseling and Psychological Services Clinical Specialty Counseling Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close