Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home All Services Multicultural Concerns Multicultural Concerns Expand all Collapse all Weiyen Chung, Psychologist Weiyen is a first generation Korean Chinese woman raised in Hong Kong. Having been a "broad definition" international student herself, she understands the challenges that come with leaving home, establishing connections, and managing academic demands all during a formative time in one's life. Her interests include acculturation, the intersections of race/ethnicity/gender in identity formation, and racial/ethnic microaggressions. Her dissertation explored ways of coping with racial/ethnic microaggressions in recent Chinese immigrants. Andrew Colitz, Psychologist Andrew seeks to establish a cooperative and safe environment to help students navigate their place within a larger cultural context and family system. He has experience working with people from a variety of racial, ethnic and socioeconomic backgrounds and has led psychotherapy groups with international teenagers and young adults who have lost family members through terrorist acts. Andrew is conversational in Spanish. Debra Domenech, Senior Psychologist Debra is a New York-born Puerto Rican woman, for whom issues of cultural and racial identity, bilingualism, and acculturation have been a lifelong interest. Implications for personality development and self-esteem are at the forefront of Debra’s clinical curiosity when working with ethnically diverse populations. The relationship and integration of these variables into one’s mental health, especially during different developmental phases, are central to her clinical practice. Jennifer Dunbar, Licensed Clinical Social Worker Jennifer was born to parents who immigrated to the United States from Liberia. Her bicultural upbringing gave her a special understanding of the challenges that come with navigating two different cultures and the impact on one’s identity and sense of belonging. She uses her own experience and clinical training to work with students on integrating their unique cultures and identities into their therapeutic experience. Motoni Fong-Hodges, Senior Psychologist As a person of Chinese ancestry born and raised in Japan, and as an Asian living in the United States, Motoni has been interested in the intersections of race, ethnicity, and immigrant life experiences, with a particular interest in the individual’s experiences of marginalization, as well as the experiences of “Third Culture Kids”. She has worked extensively with Asian American and Asian international student populations, and has conducted therapy in Japanese and Mandarin Chinese. She appreciates how the landscape of therapy is transformed and enriched through the incorporation of one’s native language, nonverbal communication, and distinct cultural customs. Victoria Grosso, Senior Psychologist Victoria identifies as Latina, was born in Uruguay, grew up in Argentina and Uruguay, and emigrated to the United States as a young adult. She is fluent in Spanish and is very familiar with the diversity within Latino culture. Victoria has travelled extensively throughout the Americas and the Mediterranean, and lived and worked in Spain for a time. She has worked in community settings with Puerto Rican, Dominican, and African American individuals and families. She is fluent in Spanish. Doreen Han-Faver, Psychiatrist Doreen is a first generation immigrant who grew up in Taiwan and New York. She worked for many years in a mental health clinic in Chinatown helping children, adolescents, and their families bridging cultural and generational differences. She understands the challenges many students face in reconciling between their families and cultures of origin and the more main stream American college culture. Doreen is fluent in Mandarin. Wardeh Hattab, Licensed Senior Social Worker Wardeh identifies as a biracial Arab-American. Her background includes cross-cultural therapy in work with immigrants and children of immigrants navigating American culture. She also has experience in working with refugees and asylum-seekers in New York and Jordan. Wardeh incorporates affirmative approaches in validating each student’s different cultural values around being openly part of the LGBTQ+ community. She can understand Arabic at a basic level. Aisha Holder, Psychologist Aisha was born and raised in Brooklyn, New York to parents who immigrated to the United States from Barbados. Her interest in multicultural counseling was initially informed by her experience of being Black and female, two identities that are historically marginalized. As a psychologist, Aisha is keenly aware of the importance and privilege of contributing to a process that helps give voice to people’s lived experiences, uncovers and deepens their inner wisdom and honors their humanity. She is committed to understanding how cultural variables impact human development and change and identifying ways to address institutional barriers in education and the workplace. In a previous career working for a large financial institution, Aisha developed first-hand expertise in addressing racial microaggressions in corporate environments, a subject on which she has published extensively. Regina Lara, Psychiatrist Regina’s work with acculturation issues is informed by the personal experience of moving from the Philippines to the United States. She is fluent in Filipino. Shirley Matthews, Senior Psychologist Shirley sees herself first and foremost as a generalist who is deeply interested in the developmental issues of young adults. Additional areas of focus include positive psychology, the intersection of faith and wellness, and the developmental and acculturation issues of students of color, especially those who are first generation students and veterans. Diana Morrobel, Senior Psychologist Diana is a bilingual (English/Spanish), bicultural, Latina psychologist who believes therapy must include exploration of the client’s cultural context and identity, and their impact on the cultural lens used to understand the client’s experience. She has years of experience in providing services to diverse communities including recent immigrants. Diana has trained counselors in the provision of psychotherapy to ethnic and linguistic minorities struggling with managing psychological concerns and acculturative stress and has taught graduate courses on the impact of race and culture in psychotherapy. Sherina Persaud, Psychologist Sherina is a first-generation American from a South Asian and Caribbean background. She has extensive experience working with people from diverse cultural backgrounds and aims to help patients integrate the various parts of themselves into their unique racial and cultural identity. She is interested in issues related to immigration and acculturation, bilingualism and code switching, and cultural competence. Sherina is fluent in Spanish. Yaniv Phillips, Senior Psychologist As an adult, Yaniv emigrated from Israel to New York City, and since then he has had special interest in the impact of immigration and the establishment of a bicultural and bilingual life on adult development. He often works with people from diverse cultural backgrounds who are in the process of establishing or managing such a bicultural identity, and is especially attuned to questions of belonging and self-esteem that relate to experiences of biculturalism and dislocation. Having pursued years of advanced training and study in the dynamics and treatment of couples, Yaniv often works with couples and individuals whose intimate relationships are impacted by cultural and ethnic differences. Yaniv is fluent in Hebrew. Annette Santiago-España, Associate Director for Eating Disorders Team Annette is Latina and a native Spanish speaker with a deep understanding of multicultural issues. She has enjoyed presenting on culturally competent and sensitive practices with Latinos and teaching multicultural counseling and intergroup dialogue courses. Her dissertation explored the impact of acculturation, depression, and body satisfaction on disordered eating among Latinas. Nicole Vigoda Gonzalez, Psychologist In her clinical work, Nicole uses a primarily psychodynamic approach, while striving to create an individualized treatment that best fits the needs of the student. As a bicultural, bilingual woman, originally from Bogota, Colombia, Nicole pays particular attention to aspects related to cultural identity that may impact the treatment. In addition to English, she is fluent in Spanish. Addette Williams, Senior Psychologist Addette has a broad range of professional interests that include the mental health of people of color, in particular, the intergenerational transmission of trauma, and issues unique to first generation college students. She is sensitive to the range of experiences and issues within cultural groups, and how these are informed by socioeconomic class, education and appearance. Support Groups When there is sufficient student interest, we offer a variety of support groups that may be of interest, including a Crossing Cultures group, International Students Workshop, Men of Color Support Group, Women of Color Support. For the time being, support groups are held as virtual support spaces. Need help with weekend or late night distress? Check out our Coping Tools page for various digital services, mobile apps, and online resources outside our regular hours of operation. Our limited podcast series, Invisible and On Stage, provides an open conversation around racism-related stress, identity, and community, and the way they impact mental health. Listen now! The entire Columbia Health team, photographed in Lerner Hall. Click the image to see a larger version. Columbia Health Alice! Health Promotion Disability Services Counseling and Psychological Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Immunization Compliance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response All Columbia Health offices are closed on University Holidays. Annual Report Columbia Health Annual Report Stay Connected Receive important news and event info from Columbia Health Columbia Health Events Join us for workshops, panel discussions, skill-building opportunities, and other events! Accessibility Accommodations Columbia Health makes every effort to accommodate individuals with disabilities. If you require disability accommodations to attend an event sponsored by Columbia Health, or by the University, contact Disability Services at 212-854-2388 at least 10 days in advance of the event. 212-854-2284 [email protected] Health Unit Counseling and Psychological Services Clinical Specialty Counseling Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close