Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Email Print Four faculty members honored for excellence in mentoring graduate students By Jennifer Altmann for the Office of Communications May 13, 2022, 11:13 a.m. Four Princeton University faculty members have been named recipients of the Graduate Mentoring Awards by the McGraw Center for Teaching and Learning and will be honored during the Graduate School’s Hooding ceremony at 4:30 p.m. Monday, May 23. The award winners are Anna Arabindan-Kesson, assistant professor of art and archaeology and African American studies; Mark Brynildsen, associate professor of chemical and biological engineering; Curtis Callan, the James S. McDonnell Distinguished University Professor of Physics; and Natasha Wheatley, assistant professor of history. The mentoring award recognizes Princeton faculty members who nurture the intellectual, professional and personal growth of their graduate students. Graduate students nominate faculty members for the award, and they serve on the committee that selects the winners together with faculty members, senior staff from the McGraw Center and the deputy dean of the Graduate School. The award honors faculty in each academic division (engineering, humanities, natural sciences and social sciences) and includes a $1,000 prize and a commemorative gift. Anna Arabindan-Kesson Photo by John Blazejewski Anna Arabindan-Kesson Anna Arabindan-Kesson, a faculty member since 2015, studies Black Diaspora and British art, with an emphasis on histories of race, empire and medicine. “Her enthusiasm for art history is infectious,” one student said. “Anna has empowered me to articulate my own ideas in relation to the field and has encouraged me to be bolder about my research.” Another student commented that when he arrived on campus, Arabindan-Kesson was on leave in a time zone 12 hours ahead of Princeton, “yet she still managed to find time to connect with me and ensure I was taking the most helpful courses and tackling projects from productive angles.” He also valued her feedback on his work, citing one essay for which she reviewed numerous drafts as an example of the way her mentorship “enabled me to develop this nugget of an idea into a fully fledged article that is rigorous but also broadly accessible.” Students were especially appreciative of how supportive Arabindan-Kesson was of them, both personally and professionally, especially during the trying days of the pandemic. “Her passion for education and mentorship is reflected in the community of care that she created in her classroom,” one student commented. Mark Brynildsen Mark Brynildsen Photo by Denise Applewhite, Office of Communications A faculty member since 2010, Mark Brynildsen studies biomolecular engineering as well as cellular and tissue engineering. Students were grateful for the weekly meetings he holds with all advisees. One student remarked that the meetings provided not only direct feedback from Brynildsen, but also a valuable opportunity to learn from fellow students. “I am certain that I have grown in confidence as a researcher more quickly than I otherwise would have been able,” the student said. “Mark stands out as a mentor because he truly trusts me as a researcher,” another student said. “Under Mark’s guidance as my adviser, I have enormously improved my ability to problem-solve, critically assess data and draw conclusions from observations.” One student observed that graduate school “is filled with highs and lows, and many points when you feel like you are spinning your wheels.” After each meeting with Professor Brynildsen, “I’ve always left with a new sense of invigoration and a path forward.” Curtis Callan Photo by Rick Soden, Department of Physics Curtis Callan Curtis Callan joined the faculty in 1972. He is a theoretical physicist who has worked on developing the quantum theory of fundamental constituents of matter and the theory of “living matter.” Students say Callan is a highly collaborative researcher who made them feel comfortable sharing their ideas. “He nurtured growth, self-reflection and confidence in his students, while rigorously instilling the practical skills we needed to succeed in the research community,” one student remarked. Callan mentored students by demonstrating how to do high-quality work, connecting them to others who could help their development and taking an active interest in their careers beyond their time at Princeton, according to students. “To say Curt was available as an adviser would be a gross understatement,” another student said. “Not only was his door always open for me to wander through if I had a question, but he invited me to share his office in Icahn and work alongside him.” Callan was “unfailingly respectful, supportive and patient,” he added. Natasha Wheatley Photo by Nina Subin Natasha Wheatley Natasha Wheatley, who has been at Princeton since 2017, is an historian of modern European and international history. Wheatley’s commitment to building community among the students earned her praise, as did the detailed comments Wheatley provided on their work. “Her substantive feedback for drafts I have submitted have reached half the length of the actual paper,” one student said. “I can clearly see how Professor Wheatley’s advising has made me a stronger writer and more creative thinker.” Students were also thankful for her collegiality. “Professor Wheatley treated me as a colleague while also mentoring me in the practice of undergraduate teaching,” one student said. “I had a once-in-a-lifetime role model and mentor.” “Professor Wheatley has a way of getting to the analytic and thematic heart of any project, even if it lies way outside her area of expertise,” another student observed. “This speaks to her intellectual generosity and curiosity, arguably the two most important qualities of any academic mentor.” Commencement 2022 View All News Connect with #Princeton22 Instagram Facebook Twitter GIPHY YouTube LinkedIn 2022 Commencement website After Princeton graduation, ROTC students are commissioned as U.S. Army and Marine Corps officers University News: Read more ‘The value of persistence’: Princeton Class of 2022 celebrates Commencement University News: Read more 2022 Commencement Salutatio by Frances Mangina (Latin and English) University News: Read more 2022 Valedictory remarks by Natalia Orlovsky University News: Read more Class of 2022 Commencement Address by President Eisgruber — 'The Value of Persistence' University News: Read more Four faculty members recognized for outstanding teaching Award: Read more Princeton awards five honorary degrees Award: Read more Four outstanding N.J. secondary school teachers honored at Princeton Commencement Award: Read more At Hooding, a ritual celebration of extraordinary scholarly accomplishment University News: Read more Dr. Fauci to Princeton seniors on Class Day: ‘It is our collective responsibility not to shrug our shoulders’ or to accept ‘the normalization of untruths’ University News: Read more Students honored for leadership and service at 2022 Class Day Award: Read more Princeton University Class of 2022 Class Day remarks by Dr. Anthony S. Fauci University News: Read more Baccalaurate speaker Wendy Kopp ’89: The path to happiness is to align our lives with our values University News: Read more 2022 Princeton Baccalaureate address by Wendy Kopp University News: Read more Reunited: Princeton alumni return to campus for the first in-person Reunions since the start of the pandemic University News: Read more Phi Beta Kappa chapter honors Alexander Davis, Casey Lew-Williams with teaching awards Award: Read more Watch: Princeton's Class of 2022 Commencement ceremony Tuesday, May 24 University News: Read more Alumni returning for Reunions 2022 this Thursday through Sunday Campus Life: Read more Graduate students honored for excellence in teaching Award: Read more Commencement events for Class of 2022 and on-campus Commencement details for Class of 2020 University News: Read more Natalia Orlovsky named Princeton valedictorian, Frances Mangina selected as salutatorian Award: Read more Dr. Anthony Fauci will speak at Princeton’s 2022 Class Day University News: Read more Teach For All co-founder and CEO Wendy Kopp named Baccalaureate speaker University News: Read more Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice