By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home About In this Section Leadership Vision & Mission Facts, Figures and Rankings Consumer Information Plan Your Visit Campus Map Campus Shuttle History News Community Engagement Partnerships Work at Syracuse Campus Store Social Media Brand Help & Contacts The Office of University Counsel University Ombuds Our Powerful Network Now Needs You Lifetime of Impact About Syracuse University New information and technology. New worldviews and attitudes. New breakthroughs and challenges. It’s all happening right now. And we’re in the middle of it all. In a world undergoing extraordinary transformation, leadership and innovation are more critical than ever. Our students work alongside leading scholars and have access to hands-on research and learning opportunities—all of which prepare them to shape their communities and become the change-makers of tomorrow. of Syracuse University students receive some form of financial support totaling more than $411 million. of graduates are employed or enter graduate school, service programs or the military within six months of graduation* of graduates who entered the workforce are in positions related to their career goals* * Based on Class of 2021 data A Tailored Academic Experience With 13 schools and colleges, 200 customizable majors and 100 minors, and online degrees and certificates, Syracuse University provides limitless educational pathways. New interdisciplinary areas ranging from social justice and artificial intelligence to energy and environment provide hands-on research experiences that broaden perspectives and prepare students for the careers of tomorrow. Syracuse University has five award-winning study abroad centers and international programs in 60 countries to choose from where our students gain global perspectives that last a lifetime. Life at Syracuse There are nearly 22,000 students from all over the world taking part in clubs, athletics and gatherings of all kinds. With over 300 student organizations, you'll have plenty of opportunities to explore interests, pursue passions and engage with the Syracuse University community. Our Powerful Network Being Orange is about more than just a color, a place or a degree. It embodies a lifelong connection to a global network of innovators, thinkers and creative solution finders. Syracuse University students and alumni celebrate tradition, connections and being part of something bigger. You’ll be part of a network that helps you discover new paths forward and stays with you, wherever your path takes you. Facts, Figures and Rankings Link Syracuse is recognized as a student-focused, global research university renowned for academic rigor, richly diverse learning experiences, and a spirit of discovery. Plan Your Visit Link The Syracuse University community looks forward to welcoming you to campus, and has provided information to make your visit enjoyable and convenient. Celebrating 150 Years of Firsts at Syracuse University Link As we mark our first century and a half, we look back at our fearless firsts that changed the Syracuse community, our region and the world. Now we stand at the forefront of what's next. Vision and Mission Link Syracuse University’s Vision and Mission reflect our history and strengths, while leveraging opportunities highlighted by Chancellor Kent Syverud. Leadership Link What's next for you is first priority for us. This commitment is reflected in the University's mission, which is to both attract and engage the best students from around the world, and support them with a personalized and academically rigorous experience. Campus Map Link Here you'll find comprehensive campus maps to academic buildings, residence halls, parking, directions and more. Campus Store Link The University's campus store is a primary resource for textbooks, course materials, general interest books, art and office supplies, and even a custom framing shop. But it's also home to a full Apple retailer (and plenty of PC resources), a Clinique counter, small grocery store a late-night market and grocery store, coffee bar, and plenty of apparel; all the essentials to make living here a little more like home. Community Engagement Link The Office of Community Engagement provides students, faculty and staff with authentic engagement opportunities that allow them to interact with the world around them. Partnerships Link With campuses and centers across the nation and the world, we seek, nurture, and maintain partnerships that provide real-world opportunities and benefits for students, faculty, businesses, organizations, and communities. Connect with Us Stay up-to-date with news and events on campus and discover some of the people, programs, and research that fuel Syracuse's undeniable spirit. News Events Syracuse Stories Social Media Directory Also in this Section Link Help and Contacts Link We're here to help. Contact us with general inquiries, or questions regarding admissions, campus visits, computing, employment, and more. Student Consumer Information Link Access important information about Syracuse University policies pertaining to financial aid, health and safety, and more. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy