Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Center for Alcohol and Addiction Studies Home About People Postdoctoral Training Research Find a Study News Site Navigation Home About Our History Our Mission People Core Faculty Affiliated Faculty Adjunct Faculty Research Staff Administrative Staff Postdoctoral Training Didactics Diversity People Core Faculty Trainers Affiliated Trainers Current Fellows Alumni - 2016 to present Alumni - 1989 - 2015 Application Benefits/Stipend Research Alcohol HIV/AIDS Prevention Health Disparities/Health Equity Marijuana & Other Drug Use Nicotine Find a Study Alcohol research studies HIV research studies Marijuana research studies Tobacco research studies Studies for adults Studies for teens News CAAS Rounds speakers View our upcoming speakers. Learn More CAAS Rounds The mission of CAAS Rounds is to bring together scientists from different disciplines and perspectives (e.g., psychologists, physicians, health care professionals) in order to stimulate expansive thinking, foster social interaction, and promote new collaborations at Brown. CAAS Rounds is a highly-regarded and well-attended series that welcomes the participation of staff, students, trainees, and faculty at Brown and its affiliated hospitals. Ways to Get Involved Help us help the community Read More Schedule of Talks Future speakers Read More Committee Leadership Our committee Read More Information for Speakers What you need to know Read More CAAS Events There are no upcoming events. Location CAAS Rounds takes place virtually on Fridays at noon (almost every week) during the academic year. If you are not on the listserv and would like to receive links, please email Kelli Scott ([email protected]). Social Justice Statement The CAAS rounds committee is committed to elevating the voices of underrepresented minority populations through speaker representation and content. We will prioritize research that focuses on health disparities, especially the impact of Substance Use Disorders/substance misuse in underrepresented populations. We are always looking for recommendations for researchers, at all career levels (i.e., postdoctoral fellows, early career, and established), who identify as part of an underrepresented minority group and/or conduct research with underrepresented minority populations. We enthusiastically accept self-nominations. Anti-Racist Content Statement The CAAS rounds committee urges all presenters to discuss issues of social justice and representation in their presentations. We will also actively work to condemn anti-black racist rhetoric or behavior at CAAS rounds and to critically critique our social justice efforts. Raffle Each week, CAAS Rounds also offers the opportunity for attendees to be entered into a drawing to win a raffle prize. Virtual prizes this semester will be Amazon gift cards! Center for Alcohol and Addiction Studies Center for Alcohol and Addiction Studies Brown University Box G-S121-5 121 South Main Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-6600 Fax: 401-863-6697 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top