Faculty and Research Skip to content Skip to primary navigation Skip to search box Skip to admissions quick links Skip to breadcrumb TC Menu Search for people, news & websites Go Resource Links Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Columbia Library myTC Directory Apply Now Request Info Search Bar Primary Navigation About Academics Admission & Aid Faculty & Research News Give to TC TC Faculty and Research Our Faculty Teachers College is home to some of the world’s most influential faculty in the fields of Education, Psychology, Health and Leadership. Our work ensures that we build knowledge and enhance its impact through engagement with policymakers and practitioners who put our research to use. Faculty Profiles Our comprehensive faculty directory Read More Arches in Teachers College. Faculty Experts Guide Locate a faculty member by their area of expertise Read More Centers, Institutes & Labs Teachers College leads the way in scholarship for all the fields of learning that impact the well-being of students, families, schools and communities. Our centers, institutes, and laboratories further advance our research and work to transform our findings into actionable practice for use in the classroom and other settings. Centers & Institutes Read More Shelf with various cameras, robots, and lights. Research Labs Read More Reflection of Teachers College through glass. Faculty News & Media Mentions View As View as grid View as list More Faculty & Research News In the Media The Los Angeles Times Op-Ed: Why our response to school shootings is all wrong Louis Klarevas, Sonali Rajan and Charles Branas outline the public policy that reseasrch shows can curb gun violence, paritcularly in schools. Truthout New Laws Make It Hard for Some Educators to Discuss Buffalo Shooting in Class As some educators face restrictions that limit classroom discussion of current events and race, Prerna Arora weighs in on the potential harms to student mental health – and how teachers can still help. Scientific American U.S. Kids Are Falling behind Global Competition, but Brain Science Shows How to Catch Up Kimberly Noble's landmark research on how poverty affects brain development is cited in this examination of how American policy can better support the education and success of youth. New York One To Prevent Racist Extremism, Parents Must Engage Teens, Experts Say Amra Sabic-El-Rayess comments on how social dynamics in the classroom may play a role in the radicalization of youth. View All Media Mentions Faculty & Research Support News & Notes Research@TC Institutional Review Board Office of Sponsored Programs Office of the Provost & Dean of the College Office of Grants & Contracts Accounting Contact Us Teachers College, Columbia University 525 West 120th Street New York, NY 10027 Tel: +1 (212) 678-3000 Map & Directions Directory Ask a Question Resources Admission & Aid Student Life Courses Academic Calendar Office of the Registrar Office of Teacher Education TC NEXT Employment Legal Consumer Information / Student Right to Know Legal Notices Policy Library Non-Discrimination Title IX Compliance Ethics Reporting Public Safety GDPR Notice Make a Gift to TC Diversity Work at TC TC Facebook TC Twitter TC Instagram TC Youtube TC LinkedIn © 2022, Teachers College, Columbia University, New York, NY 10027. Back to skip to quick links