Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Academic Affairs Faculty Affairs and Records Main Navigation Evaluations Show Extended RTP - Tenure-Track Faculty RTP - Tenured Faculty (Promotion) Post Tenure Reviews (PTRs) Lecturer Evaluations - Part Time Lecturer Evaluations - Full Time Range Elevations COVID-19 Information Evaluation Documentation Show Extended DPS Documents DSLF Documents SOQs Tutorials Leaves Show Extended Sabbaticals DIPs Events Faculty Handbook PAF Request Contacts Evaluations Home Page Departmental Personnel Standards (DPS) Department Standards for Lecturer Faculty (DSLF) SOQ Information Reviewers Home Page Probationary Faculty Tenured Faculty Post Tenure Reviews (PTRs) Full-time Lecturers Part-Time Lecturers Range Elevations Sabbaticals DIPs COVID-19 Title IX PLEASE SEE OUR COVID-19 PAGE WITH DETAILS ON CHANGES TO OUR NORMATIVE EVALUATION PROCESSES Welcome to FAR! Welcome to Faculty Affairs and Records (FAR). The mission of our office is to provide services and support to faculty, administrators, and staff on the implementation of campus policies and procedures for the evaluation of academic employees. It is our goal to administer academic employment processes effectively and efficiently and to serve as a resource for faculty throughout their Cal State Fullerton careers. FAR coordinates the following academic employee processes: Retention, Tenure, and Promotion (RTP); Temporary Faculty (Lecturer) Evaluation; Post-Tenure Review; Range Elevation; Student Opinion Questionnaires (SOQs); Sabbatical and DIP Leaves; and Records Retention and Disposition. FAR is the official repository of the Personnel Action Files for the full-time faculty and safeguards documentation pertaining to employment, reappointment, tenure, promotion, and the evaluation of faculty performance. FAR is housed in the division of Faculty Support Services along with the Faculty Development Center , the Academic Technology Center , and Online Education and Training . We also work in collaboration with Human Resources, Diversity and Inclusion to provide faculty with support for successful academic careers. Our dedicated staff looks forward to working with you! Ed Collom, Ph.D. Director of Faculty Affairs and Records Upcoming Events This page uses Ajax which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled. This site is maintained by Faculty Affairs & Records. Last Published 4/13/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact far@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.