Skip to main content Submit Close Give to UH Search About Academics Admissions Campus Life Research Athletics Locations Sugar Land Katy UH Technology Bridge News & Events Giving UH Home About UH University Offices Enrollment Services Office of the University Registrar Office of the University Registrar Academic Forms Curricular Services Transcripts Delegated Access Schedule Planner NCAA Certification Enrollment FAQs Contact the University Registrar's Team RELATED LISTINGS Academic Catalogs Academic Calendar Class Schedule Final Exam Schedules Academic Forms General Petition Get Help Office of the University Registrar × Virtual appointments are now available via the Navigate app. Learn more here. Summer 2022 Hours We are here for YOU – in several ways! Our representatives are available by email, phone, virtual (video) appointment, or by seeing us in person at the Welcome Center. You can reach a representative at (713)-743-1010 or uhour@uh.edu. Learn more about contacting OUR staff and scheduling virtual advising appointments here. View Welcome Center Hours Monday- Thursday 8:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Friday 9:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. View Call Center Hours Monday- Thursday 8:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Friday 9:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. View Scheduled Virtual Appointments Hours Monday- Thursday 8:30 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Friday 9:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. The Office of the University Registrar (OUR) keeps the official university records of enrollment and academic standing. OUR is also charged with finalizing and publicizing schedules and procedures related to enrollment, final exams and course listings. Mission OUR supports institutional excellence, student access, and success by maintaining the integrity of academic policies and official student educational records, ensuring compliance with state and federal rules and regulations and certifying students for graduation, athletic eligibility, veteran educational benefits and other purposes. Mailing Address University of Houston Office of the University Registrar Houston, TX 77204-2027 Contact Information Phone: 713-743-1010, option 7 Fax: 713-743-9050 Fax: 713-743-8342 Areas of Responsibility Registration and Enrollment Academic Records, including Diplomas Grades Change of major Residency Transcripts Enrollment verification Graduation Application—ONLINE via myUH Classroom Scheduling - Ad Astra Training Resources Catalog and Curriculum Management Final exam schedule University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies