COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Dr. Sheree Utash Ed.D. Section Menu Office of the President Dr. Richard Muma bio Presidential Inauguration Presidential Priorities University Leadership President's Staff Task Forces Organizational Chart First Gentleman Rick Case Newsletters and Podcast Share Your Thoughts Dr. Sheree Utash Ed.D. President of WSU Tech and VP of Workforce Development for WSU (316) 677-9505 sheree.utash@wichita.edu WSU Tech Overview Dr. Sheree Utash has served as president of Wichita Area Technical College (WATC) since 2015 and has overseen the transition of the college to the WSU Campus of Applied Sciences and Technology (WSU Tech). Prior to that she served eight years at the college as vice president of academic affairs. With 6,500 students, WSU Tech is the largest technical college in Kansas and acts as managing partner for the National Center for Aviation Training. Dr. Utash offers a unique blend of teaching, administrative and leadership experience in both higher ed and private industry. She has provided administrative oversight for the college's academic programs, with emphases in manufacturing, aviation, design, IT, specialized trades, health care and general education. Dr. Utash has overseen faculty, grants management, adult literacy, academic planning and resource management. Her role involved the formation and leadership of the lead institution for the National Aviation Consortium, a $15 million grant project with direct working relationships with two-year colleges in five states. Additionally, Utash has managed and facilitated the college’s last self-study with its major accrediting body, the Higher Learning Commission, North-Central Association. Utash earned her Ed.D. in Community College Leadership at National American University, a Master of Arts in Liberal Studies in Communication / Education / Sociology from Wichita State University and a Bachelor of Science in Journalism / Marketing from Kansas State University. Office contact Paula Pitts, ppitts@wsutech.edu 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©