Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Moody Prospective Students Prospective Students Degrees Offered Graduate Admissions Guide Application Deadlines Graduate School Resources International Applicants Diversity Visit SMU Current Students Current Students Forms and Policies Graduation Graduate Writing Center Graduate Student Lounge Career Development Graduate Student Organizations Student Services Events Events Events Calendar Research and Innovation Week Orientation Professional Development Three Minute Thesis Student Life Funding Funding Meet our Ph.D. Fellows Ph.D. Health Insurance Graduate Student Travel Grant Dedman Graduate Student Assembly About About Mission and History Moody Foundation Gift Charter Administrative Handbook Dean's Office Messages from the Dean Graduate Council Graduate Student Advisory Board Contact Us Admissions Contacts Blog ☰ The Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies SMU Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Welcome to the Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies SMU's Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies is proud to offer doctoral and master’s degrees in a wide variety of fields across four different colleges and schools: the Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences, the Lyle School of Engineering, the Meadows School of the Arts, and the Simmons School of Education and Human Development. These programs help students to pursue their passions and make significant contributions in both academia and industry. Prospective Students Current Students Request More Information Contact Us Previous Next pause play hide show Guide to Graduate Admissions Guide to Choosing and Applying to Ph.D. Programs Ready to begin? Start here. Learn About SMU SMU Degrees Offered Financial Support Diversity Plan a Visit Request More Information Read our blog: Advancing the Field Plan Your Application Guide to Graduate Admissions Graduate Program Application Deadlines International Grad Student Applicants Apply! When you're ready, begin the application process. Apply Now Apply for Lyle School of Engineering 32 Doctoral degrees 120+ Masters degrees 47 Fully-funded Ph.D. fellows See All Fellows Graduate Admissions Take the first step towards your future at SMU by learning how to prepare your application to one of our graduate programs. READ MORE Living in Dallas Location plays a role in your graduate student success. Dallas offers you educational, professional, and personal outlets for creativity and growth. GET OUR GUIDE TO LIVING IN DALLAS Funding Options SMU recognizes outstanding Ph.D. students through two fellowships awarded at the time of admission. LEARN MORE The Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Apply School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share