Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links About COVID-19 Stories UW Medicine stories Media coverage Experts for journalists FAQ Stories All stories News releases UW News blog UW Notebook Official notices UW in the media Multimedia Video stories Soundbites/b-roll Interactives Experts Directory Expert quotes COVID-19 experts Speakers Bureau Media contacts For Journalists For researchers Media Training Data and Reports UW News Menu About COVID-19 Stories UW Medicine stories Media coverage Experts for journalists FAQ Stories All stories News releases UW News blog UW Notebook Official notices UW in the media Multimedia Video stories Soundbites/b-roll Interactives Experts Directory Expert quotes COVID-19 experts Speakers Bureau Media contacts For Journalists For researchers Media Training Data and Reports Home UW News Expert quotes Expert quotes May 3, 2022 Rolling back abortion rights is ‘democratic backsliding,’ UW political scientist says Sophia Jordán Wallace, associate professor of political science at the University of Washington, explains the implications the draft Supreme Court ruling that would overturn the constitutional right to an abortion would have on democracy, abortion rights and the midterm elections. Read more UW nursing, midwife experts address abortion issue in light of leaked SCOTUS opinion Two University of Washington nursing and midwife experts in maternal health have provided the following quotes on the issue of restricting abortion or making it illegal — seen as increasingly likely due to the Supreme Court draft opinion, leaked to Politico on Monday. Molly Altman is an assistant professor in the UW School of Nursing… Read more April 28, 2022 Professor Margaret O’Mara on contextualizing Elon Musk’s Twitter purchase and the future of online speech University of Washington history professor Margaret O’Mara says Elon Musk’s acquisition of Twitter has renewed debate about freedom of online speech, online content moderation and the power of billionaires to shape public conversation. Read more April 21, 2022 Q&A: Making Earth-friendly electronics Three researchers in the University of Washington College of Engineering are exploring ways to make electronics more Earth-friendly. Read more March 21, 2022 UW expert: Ketanji Brown Jackson confirmation hearings ‘will hold a mirror up to this nation’ LaTaSha Levy, assistant professor of American ethnic studies at the University of Washington, and Elizabeth Porter, interim dean of the UW School of Law, offer perspectives on the nomination and confirmation process of Ketanji Brown Jackson to the U.S. Supreme Court. Read more March 4, 2022 Ukrainian American professor shares insights on ‘gut-wrenching’ events in Ukraine Laada Bilaniuk is a professor of anthropology at the whose expertise is Ukrainian culture and society. The daughter of Ukrainian Americans, she shares insights on the Ukrainian people who are resisting, how the conflict relates to the use of language and the perspective of the local Ukrainian community. Read more February 28, 2022 UW authors in IPCC report emphasize threats to human health and well-being Two University of Washington experts in climate change and health are lead authors of the latest report from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). The new report titled Climate Change 2022: Impacts, Adaptations and Vulnerability, published Monday morning, details in over three thousand pages a “dire warning” about the consequences of inaction on reducing… Read more January 11, 2022 Q&A: Bringing a justice lens to wildlife management A team of researchers led by the University of Washington drew upon the field of environmental justice — which primarily has focused on harms to people and public health — and applied its concepts to wildlife management, considering forms of injustice that people, communities and animal groups might experience. Lead author and UW assistant professor Alex McInturff talks with UW News about this work and why it’s significant. Read more October 29, 2021 How public pension funds can help address climate change Ahead of the U.N. Climate Change Conference that begins Oct. 31, the University of Washington’s Michael McCann and Riddhi Mehta-Neugebauer talk about the extensive investment of public pension funds — the retirement plan of millions of U.S. workers — in fossil fuels. Read more October 25, 2021 ‘Self-care and resilience’ — UW’s Elaine Walsh discusses burnout among nurses The pandemic has left nurses around the country feeling burned out. Their top four feelings, according to a recent survey? Exhausted, overwhelmed, irritable and anxious or unable to relax. UW News spoke with Elaine Walsh, a UW School of Nursing associate professor and a Nurse Scientist in Resiliency at Seattle Children’s Hospital, to learn more about the… Read more September 2, 2021 UW engineer explains how the redesigned levee system in New Orleans helped mitigate the impact of Hurricane Ida UW News asked Michael Motley, a UW associate professor of civil and environmental engineering, to explain how levees protect cities like New Orleans. Read more August 6, 2021 UW expert discusses protecting workers from wildfire smoke With wildfire smoke forecast for next week in Seattle and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration in Oregon posting rules for keeping workers safe during increasingly smoky conditions and heat in that state, we caught up with a University of Washington expert on worker safety for advice. Check out Professor Baker’s advice on worker safety… Read more August 3, 2021 What the Olympic Games can teach us about the workplace Bruce Avolio, executive director of the UW Center for Leadership & Strategic Thinking and a professor of management in the UW Foster School of Business, talks about what we can learn about leadership, competition and collaboration — factors that are important in the workplace as well as the Olympics. Read more July 9, 2021 ‘We need to be patient’ — UW’s Dawn Lehman on the collapse of the Champlain Towers South While there is currently no explanation for why the Champlain Towers South building collapsed, Dawn Lehman, a University of Washington professor of civil and environmental engineering, has been studying photographs, videos, drawings, reports and permits to investigate this tragedy to understand what happened. UW News asked her to help us understand why buildings fail. Read more June 9, 2021 ‘Our democracy is fundamentally at stake’ — UW’s Jake Grumbach on limits to voter access As Congress considers expanding voting rights legislation and some Republican-led states restrict access to voting, the University of Washington’s Jake Grumbach is among a group of faculty from institutions around the country calling for national election standards. Read more May 17, 2021 UW’s Dr. Catherine Karr: ‘Major chronic health problems facing children today’ linked to air pollution With evidence of the health hazards facing children from air pollution growing, The American Academy of Pediatrics on Monday published a policy statement meant to bring those hazards to light and to encourage and direct policy to improve children’s health. Policy co-author Dr. Catherine Karr, a professor in the University of Washington’s School of Public… Read more April 21, 2021 Q&A: It’s not just social media — misinformation can spread in scientific communication too When people think of misinformation, they often focus on popular and social media. But in a paper published April 12 in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Science, University of Washington faculty members Jevin West and Carl Bergstrom write that scientific communication — both scientific papers and news articles written about papers — also has the potential to spread misinformation. Read more April 6, 2021 Back to school in springtime: UW experts offer tips for adjusting pandemic-era routines University of Washington experts in education and psychology offer tips for families on the return to in-person school after a year of remote learning. Read more March 29, 2021 New course examines Jacob Lawrence’s impact on American art, Seattle and the UW Juliet Sperling, an assistant professor of art history, talks about Jacob Lawrence and her new course “Art and Seattle: Jacob Lawrence,” the first UW course to examine his legacy at the UW and beyond. Read more March 24, 2021 ‘Reservoir of disease’ within young population shows challenge for Washington’s reopening plans An analysis of Washington state Department of Health data — published after peer review March 24 — has found that people under 40 years old have continued to become infected by the coronavirus at increasing rates even as the incidence of infection among older populations declines. The publication was available previously in preprint form on… Read more March 19, 2021 How white supremacy, racist myths fuel anti-Asian violence Linh Thủy Nguyễn, an assistant professor of American ethnic studies at the University of Washington, discusses the recent wave of violence against Asians and Asian Americans, and the history behind it. Read more March 16, 2021 Relearning normalcy, focusing on the positive: UW psychologist on the vaccine phase of the pandemic University of Washington psychology professor Jane Simoni discusses how COVID-19 vaccines are gradually spurring the return to normal life, and the role of positive public health messaging. Read more January 19, 2021 UW health law expert: COVID-19 vaccine rollout presents ethical, logistical questions University of Washington law professor Pat Kuszler provides perspectives on the ethical issues of COVID-19 vaccine distribution. Read more December 15, 2020 How to have holidays ‘full of love and connection’ and set goals for 2021 The COVID-19 pandemic and social-distancing guidelines have changed how we celebrate the holidays this year. University of Washington psychologist Jonathan Kanter explains that, by being intentional about how we approach and experience the season, we can find joy, and recognize – even embrace – how we’ve weathered this year. Read more December 8, 2020 Policies around pregnancy, birth during pandemic failing both patients and nurses As an experienced nurse midwife, whose scientific research focuses on respectful and equitable care during pregnancy and childbirth, the University of Washington’s Molly Altman has been studying pregnancy and childbirth during the pandemic alongside colleagues across the UW and in affected communities. While her work is being distilled into formal studies that will be submitted… Read more November 24, 2020 UW public health expert calls on state officials, citizens to defend and rebuild public health agencies Even before the pandemic and disagreements over social restrictions recommended by public health officials across the state, public health agencies in Washington were struggling due to a lack of resources. In recent weeks, firings, resignations and death threats targeting local health officials has led to a staffing crisis in the agencies most responsible for local… Read more Q&A: Animal Crossing to K-pop: Gaming, music fandom groups provide human connection during the pandemic In this Q&A, UW Information School associate professor Jin Ha Lee discusses how video game and music fandom communities can be “places of light” during the COVID-19 pandemic. Read more November 19, 2020 The 2020 census: deadlines, politics and what may come next The 2020 census has been subject to court fights, shifting deadlines and pandemic-related process adjustments. Sara Curran, director of the UW Center for Studies in Demography and Ecology, explains the developments with this year’s count. Read more November 9, 2020 Professor Margaret O’Mara on history around election concessions nationally and in Washington Concessions from U.S. presidents usually happen quickly, without drama, says UW history professor Margaret O’Mara. Read more September 28, 2020 Q&A: UW researchers clicked ads on 200 news sites to track misinformation A study by UW researchers found that both mainstream and misinformation news sites displayed similar levels of problematic ads. UW News had a conversation with the team about this research, where ads on news sites come from, and how things might change leading up to the election. Read more September 26, 2020 UW political scientist: Amy Coney Barrett gives conservatives a ‘hammerlock’ on the US Supreme Court University of Washington political scientist Scott Lemieux calls Trump’s Supreme Court pick a conservative “hammerlock” on the nation’s highest court. Read more September 15, 2020 Wildfire smoke disproportionally harms poorer communities, remedies necessary to address health inequity With most of the Northwest blanketed by wildfire smoke, public officials and health experts suggest staying inside as much as possible to reduce exposure to the significant health risks of wildfire smoke. However, inequity in our communities means not every home provides great protection and many workers in disadvantaged populations can’t afford to stay home,… Read more Video: How to make your own home air purifier With wildfire smoke blanketing most of the western U.S. this week, public health experts suggest staying inside as much as possible to protect yourself from smoky air. If you don’t have air conditioning or an air purifier in your home, it’s possible to make your own inexpensive purifier. Here’s how. Read more September 4, 2020 UW political science expert on the value of mail-in voting Jake Grumbach, assistant professor of political science at the University of Washington, answers questions about mail-in voting. Read more July 29, 2020 Expert FAQ: Wildfires in the Pacific Northwest during the COVID-19 pandemic The University of Washington has a long history of leading research into the impacts of wildfires from an ecological and health perspective. We worked with two experts to answer some of the most frequently asked questions about wildfires in the Pacific Northwest, including the ways that the pandemic is increasing our community’s vulnerability to extreme wildfire events in the region. Read more June 25, 2020 Soundbites: UW public health experts on benefits of face coverings Beginning June 26, face coverings will be required statewide in Washington. Hilary Godwin, dean of the UW School of Public Health, offers some practical information about using masks to slow the spread of COVID-19. Read more May 27, 2020 UW experts on challenges to worker safety in meat processing industry Meat processing plants face challenges in keeping workers safe during the pandemic. Carrie Freshour, a UW assistant professor of geography, and Marissa Baker, an assistant professor in the UW Department of Environmental and Occupational Health Sciences and an expert on worker safety related to infectious diseases, provides comments on what the industry can do to protect workers. Read more May 22, 2020 Q&A: UW’s Teresa Ward talks us through sleep troubles during the COVID-19 pandemic A UW sleep expert sat down with UW News to provide some perspective on sleep during the pandemic, and what we can do to help ourselves and our families get through this time a little more well-rested. Read more May 18, 2020 Soundbites: UW dean of public health gives advice on where and how (and how not) to wear masks Beginning May 18, King County is directing people to wear face coverings in most public settings. Expert Hilary Godwin answers questions about the directive and shares information about using face coverings. Read more May 7, 2020 For Mother’s Day, the gift of compassion: UW psychology professor on celebrating parenthood during a pandemic What does it feel like to be a mother on this Mother’s Day? And how can we make the day seem special when life feels so uncertain and stressful? University of Washington psychology professor Liliana Lengua offers some perspective. Read more Next page Search UW News Search for: UW Experts Ukraine Climate COVID-19 Full directory Categories Browse Administrative affairs Arts and entertainment Buildings and grounds Education Engineering Environment For UW employees Health and medicine Honors and awards Interactive Learning News releases News roundups Official notices Politics and government Population Health Profiles Research Science Social science Technology UW and the community UW Notebook UW Today blog Latest news releases Critical race theory at center of UW study of unequal access to treatment for opioid addiction 3 days ago Seattle democracy vouchers increase donations, number of candidates in city elections 4 days ago Social cohesion found to be key risk factor in early COVID infections 1 week ago More Connect Campus publications A&S Perspectives College of Education University of Washington Magazine The Daily UW Press More publications Evans School Foster School of Business UW Medicine Newsroom Information School IT Connect News Jackson School Law School News President's blog School of Dentistry School of Nursing School of Pharmacy School of Public Health School of Social Work The Trend in Engineering UW Libraries: News & Events UW Video Washington Engineer UW Today Newsletter Subscribe UW Today Daily UW Today Week in Review If you're trying to subscribe with a non-UW email address, please email uwnews@uw.edu for assistance. For UW employees Submission guidelines Submission form University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA