Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Information for Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni Search BC.edu Links Career Center Menu Main Nav Career Center Meet With a Career Coach Back Back Close About Overview Meet Our Team Student Employment Contact and Visit Us Meet with a Career Coach Learning Outcomes Career Clusters Overview Career Exploration Business, Consulting, and Finance Communication, Arts, and Media Education, Nonprofit, and Social Service Government, Law, and Public Policy Healthcare and Nursing Science, Technology, and Engineering Jobs and Internships Overview Be Career Ready Internships Jobs Resumes Cover Letters Online Presence Networking Interviewing Evaluating an Offer and Salary Negotiation Graduate School Overview Applying to Graduate School Law School For Current Graduate Students Events and Programs Overview Event Calendar Careerfest Endeavor Schedule of Events Endeavor Fellows Endeavor Keynote Endeavor FAQs Information for Alumni Envision Designing Your Career Course Alumni Job Shadow Program Career Fairs and Networking Events Campus Recruitment Eagle Intern Fellowship Career Closet Praxis Summer Program Winter Break Challenge Illumination Awards Outcomes Resources Overview Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Handshake Guide Eagle Exchange Guide Meet With a Career Coach Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC Career Center Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Read the Career Center's Commitment to Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Career Closet is Now Open! Gain Access to Free Professional Attire 24/7 Virtual Resources Previous Play Pause Next Resources to Support Your Search for a Summer Opportunity Get Started The Career Center is here to help you design a meaningful career that matches your interests, skills, and values. No matter where you are on your journey, the best way to get started is by accessing the three resources below. Discover Opportunities on Handshake Activate Your Account Handshake is BC's official career platform where you will apply for jobs/internships, find events, and more. The key to success on Handshake is completing your profile—80% of students who complete their profile get messaged by an employer. Explore Our Career Clusters Find Your Cluster The Career Center has seven career clusters to support the diverse interests of Boston College students. Each cluster will provide you with a community of like-minded peers as well as specialized coaching, services, and resources to support you on your journey. Find Mentors on Eagle Exchange Explore Alumni Eagle Exchange is an interactive virtual platform that fosters connections between students and Boston College alumni. You can use Eagle Exchange to build your professional network, ask career-related questions, find alumni mentors, and more. Information For Employers Faculty/Staff Alumni Upcoming Events Career Center Follow the Career Center on Instagram Follow @bc_career Now Playing Get to Know the BC Career Center Our mission is to empower all Boston College students to pursue meaningful careers and lives. Learn how we'll help you design a career that matches your skills, interests, and values. About the Career Center “I would encourage BC students to reach out to the Career Center as early as freshman year for advice on majors and interests. The center is one of the most valuable resources on campus.” Amanda Alberda, MCAS '21 From the Career Center Blog Staying Positive During the Job Search Like many of life’s challenges, searching for jobs and internships can be emotionally taxing. Unlike most challenges, the effort you April 19, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam The Career Fair is over. Now What? Congratulations, you took a positive step forward in your career journey by attending a Career Fair! Now what? What you do February 18, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Five Ways to Make the Most Out of Mentorship Having a mentor is a great way to build your network and receive valuable guidance. Mentors can be found through September 10, 2021 BCCareerCenterTeam Career Myths, Debunked A myth is a widely held, but false belief or idea. Do they exist on campus? Of course. Did you September 03, 2021 BCCareerCenterTeam Eight Ways to Kick Off Your Fall Semester It’s back to school season! There’s nothing like the excitement of returning to campus, reconnecting with friends, decorating your new August 27, 2021 BCCareerCenterTeam Managing Family Career Expectations Read this if…. Your family expects you to have a high-earning or high-profile career. You feel pressured to be successful April 23, 2021 BCCareerCenterTeam Staying Positive During the Job Search Like many of life’s challenges, searching for jobs and internships can be emotionally taxing. Unlike most challenges, the effort you April 19, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam The Career Fair is over. Now What? Congratulations, you took a positive step forward in your career journey by attending a Career Fair! Now what? What you do February 18, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Five Ways to Make the Most Out of Mentorship Having a mentor is a great way to build your network and receive valuable guidance. Mentors can be found through September 10, 2021 BCCareerCenterTeam VIEW MORE POSTS VIEW LESS POSTS Visit Blog Be Career Ready Discover the skills employers seek most in their entry-level candidates. Core Competencies Back To Top Back To Top Career Center Southwell Hall 38 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-3430 About Departments & Programs How can we help you? Events Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College