Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Equity, Inclusion & Community Impact Inclusion right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow Meet The Team CDO Roundtable Diversity Council D&I Resource Liaisons Student Diversity & Inclusion Council Employee Resource Groups Guiding Principles Equity & Inclusion App Feedback Equity & Inclusion right arrow down arrow Community Education & Workshops right arrow down arrow Workshop Request Form Equity & Inclusion Conference right arrow down arrow Call for Concurrent Session Proposals Equity & Inclusion Incentive Grants Marian Spencer Equity Ambassador Award Services right arrow down arrow Services Request Form Equal Opportunity & Access right arrow down arrow Affirmative Action Plan & Equal Employment Opportunity Section 504/ADA Grievance Procedure Complaint Resolution and Consultation Community Education & Workshops right arrow down arrow Equal Opportunity & Access ACADEMY right arrow down arrow Graduate Class of 2021 Inclusive Excellence Workshops The Student Experience right arrow down arrow Semester/Capstone Projects Gender Equity & Inclusion (Title IX) right arrow down arrow Making a Report right arrow down arrow Confidentiality Employee Responsibility Support & Resources right arrow down arrow Supportive Measures Pregnancy and Parenting Resources Responding to Disclosures Resources for Complainants and Respondents Gender Identity Resources Community Education & Training right arrow down arrow Training Request Form Gender and Sexual Diversity Terminology Title IX right arrow down arrow Reporting Options Title IX Sexual Harassment Policy Sex- and/or Gender-Based Misconduct Policy and Procedure Training Materials for UC Title IX Personnel Community Impact right arrow down arrow CPS Strong Make a Gift right arrow down arrow Darwin T. Turner Scholars Program DEI Toolkit Home » About UC » Equity, Inclusion and Community Impact » About » Meet The Team Set Navigation title in component Meet The Team CDO Roundtable Diversity Council D&I Resource Liaisons Student Diversity & Inclusion Council Employee Resource Groups Guiding Principles Equity & Inclusion App Feedback Meet The Team Office of Equity & Inclusion Bleuzette Marshall Vice President (513) 556-6262 marshacb@ucmail.uc.edu Bleu is a UC alumna. In her role, she manages the university’s inclusion efforts- providing strategic leadership for the recruitment, retention, and advancement of diverse talent and building mutually rewarding partnerships in the broader community. Kathy Riehle Associate to VP (513) 556-8463 riehleky@ucmail.uc.edu Kathy provides administrative support for the Vice President of Equity, Inclusion & Community Impact and has worked in the offices of the Provost and Student Affairs over the course of her career. Office of Gender Equity & Inclusion Adrienne Lyles Executive Director, Gender Equity & Inclusion (513) 556-3349 lylesae@ucmail.uc.edu Sally Miller GEI Investigator (513) 556-3349 millersy@ucmail.uc.edu Sally, a Bearcat alum, brings over a decade of law enforcement experience, specializing in investigations of sexual assaults, intimate partner violence and sex trafficking in Metro Atlanta. Sally is a foodie and enjoys trying new local cuisine. Shannon Schipper GEI Investigator (513) 556-6587 schippsn@ucmail.uc.edu Shannon Schipper has a Master’s degree in Gender Studies and a Bachelor’s degree in Women’s Studies. She is currently pursuing her Doctorate in higher education leadership. In her spare time, Shannon enjoys yoga, hiking, camping, and kayaking. Morgan Shaw GEI Investigator (513) 556-3349 shawmo@ucmail.uc.edu Morgan serves as an Investigator in the GEI office. She strives to conduct timely, fair and impartial responses to reports of sex/gender-based harassment and discrimination. In her free time she enjoys eating delicious food around the city. Ashely McWhorter Program Coordinator (513) 556-3349 mcwhoraf@ucmail.uc.edu Ashely McWhorter, MA is an undergraduate of UC. She earned her Master’s degree in Higher Education and is currently pursuing her doctorate degree in Leadership studies. She is passionate about helping young adults transition into collegiate life. Alexa Justice Coordinator (513) 556-3349 justicaa@ucmail.uc.edu Alexa has a BA in History and Political Science, an MA in History, and is pursuing her MA in Educational Studies. She started working at UC in 2014 and joined OGEI in 2019. Outside of work she volunteers with several theater groups. Office of Equal Opportunity & Access Brandon Craig Assistant Director (513) 556-4347 craigbr@ucmail.uc.edu Brandon Craig is an Assistant Director in the Office of Equal Opportunity & Access. He is an active alum, serving on the Board of Trustees for the Law Alumni Association. In his free time, Brandon dances and teaches Argentine Tango. Karla Phillips Assistant Director (513) 556-2788 phillikr@ucmail.uc.edu Karla has her Masters of Education in Curriculum and Instruction from UC. She has experience in investigating gender equity issues and discrimination complaints, along with implementing UC’s affirmative action plan and equal opportunity policies. Tracey Johnson Equal Opportunity Access Investigator (513) 556-5503 johnsotm@ucmail.uc.edu Tracey is an Investigator with OEOA. Tracey joins OEOA after several years of practicing law in both the public and private sector and working as an Investigator for the U.S. Department of Labor. Tracey attended UC for undergrad and law school. Huda Kebede Office Coordinator (513) 556-5503 kebedeh@ucmail.uc.edu Huda is the Officer Coordinator for OEOA. She joined UC in 1996 and has an Associate Degree in Info Tech-Bus Track. She is originally from Eritrea, East Africa. Outside of work she enjoys helping at church, in communities and with organizations. University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati Oh 45220 513-556-5000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati Oh 45220 513-556-5000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top