Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home UT iSchool Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin UT iSchool Make a Gift Search Search Search Search About Expand Vision & Core Values History & Tradition Diversity & Inclusion News & Events Jobs at the iSchool Contact Us Programs Expand Admissions Class Schedules Course Offerings Undergraduate Informatics Program Master of Science in Information Studies School Librarian Certificate Program Master of Science in Information Security & Privacy Dual Degree Programs PhD in Information Studies Certificate of Advanced Study Postdoctoral Fellowships People Expand Faculty, Staff, & Students Alumni Student Organizations Advisory Council Information Commons International Students iSchool Committees CARE Counselor Research Expand Research Areas Grants & Awards Labs Information & Culture Visiting Scholars Careers Expand Students Alumni Employers HireUTexas Giving Expand Endowments Donate Online Student Giving Home Programs : Master of Science in Information Studies Master of Science in Information Studies alt="Two student researchers working on a affinity diagram for iCare app" Master of Science in Information Studies (MSIS) Learn the tools necessary to study, manage, and innovate the information systems around us. Accelerate Your Career as a Leader in Information Tailor Your MSIS Experience Customize your degree to your interests with: Endorsement of Specialization Dual Degree Programs CRA and CRM Certifications Portfolio Programs For a comprehensive description of the MSIS program, review the MSIS Program Handbook. Our Master of Science in Information Studies (MSIS) degree offers a pathway to diverse, high-demand information careers. This interdisciplinary professional program attracts students from an array of undergraduate and professional backgrounds, including business, psychology, anthropology, engineering, art history, music, and architecture. As the field of information rapidly expands within the digital age, MSIS students engage in a flexible curriculum that provides the tools necessary to study, manage, and innovate the information systems around us. Our students learn to design new tools, analyze human activities, organize information, and ensure technology serves its intended users. Join the next generation of information creators, innovators, brokers, and designers. Admissions Admissions to our top-ranked master's program is competitive. Learn about admissions procedures and requirements. Apply Now Program Overview Our versatile curriculum is comprised of 36 semester hours of coursework: a core course, 30 hours of electives, and Capstone. Degree Requirements Capstone This culminating "capping" experience to a student's academic studies synthesizes a variety of skills, knowledge, and expertise. Capstone Options Why the iSchool? "I was able to take a wide range of courses within the School of Information, but also had the opportunity to take many classes outside of the program to really support my interdisciplinary career goals–and even personal goals." - Hali Hoyt, Offering Manager, IBM Meet Our Alumni Tailored Program Options Endorsement of Specialization Dual Degree Programs Portfolio Programs Academic Advising Areas of Study Our versatile MSIS program allows students the flexibility to explore many areas of study, including: Informatics Human-Computer Interaction User Experience (UX) Research & Design Health Informatics Information Security, Privacy, and Policy Human-Centered AI and Data Science Data Engineering Information Organization and Access Information Retrieval and Search Curation and Preservation Archives and Records Management Librarianship Information Literacy Student Achievement Data: View Student Achievement Data Funding New students are considered for scholarships and teaching assistantships automatically with their application to the iSchool. Additional funding is available through the Graduate School: Graduate Student Funding Returning students may apply for scholarships and teaching assistantships through the iSchool. You must be a full-time student to apply: iSchool Funding Application Careers Our MSIS students leave equipped with the skills to enter the diverse field of information, with over 75% of our graduates securing employment within two months of graduation and earning starting salaries over $50,000. Career Resources UT iSchool 1616 Guadalupe St, Suite #5.202 Austin, Texas 78701-1213 Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Contact Us News & Events Email Lists Faculty and Staff Information Indigenous Land Acknowledgment Login UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022