Skip to main content Skip to main content DIVISION of ENROLLMENT SERVICES Skip to main content &nbsp;<b>Student Quicklinks</b> Student Quicklinks &nbsp;<b>Faculty/Staff Quicklinks</b> Faculty/Staff Quicklinks Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Opening Convocation Faculty Students Guests Speaker ☰ Registrar Academic Ceremonies Opening Convocation Opening Convocation & Rotunda Passage Sunday, August 22, 2021, 5:30 p.m. McFarlin Auditorium Watch Live All new first-year and transfer students are invited to participate in SMU's 107th Opening Convocation. At this event, students are formally welcomed to the SMU community in a ceremony dating back to 1915, in the very first days of the University. Highlights of this year's ceremony include a message from SMU President R. Gerald Turner, a convocation address, and the presentation to Dr. Turner of the new class of students by Dean of Admission Elena Hicks. The ceremony is designed to set students on their new path of academic discovery. Masks are required at this event. An important part of Opening Convocation is the Rotunda Passage. On Sunday afternoon prior to the ceremony, students in their Residential Common groups will pass through the Rotunda of Dallas Hall, SMU's first building and a historic landmark. Transfer students who are not living on campus should report to their affiliated Residential Common, Ware. Recognizing that every undergraduate student at SMU has crossed through the Dallas Hall rotunda, students have an opportunity to reflect on their passage to college and their intellectual and personal growth for their time at SMU. Graduating students confirm year after year that the full impact of Rotunda Passage is not felt until their graduation and the Rotunda Recessional, another SMU tradition when seniors walk through the rotunda of Dallas Hall in reverse and their thoughts turn back to the beginning of their SMU experiences. It’s a special event you will not want to miss! Please direct all questions regarding Opening Convocation to ceremonies@smu.edu or call the Division of Enrollment Services at 214-768-3417. Opening Convocation Information for Students Information for Guests Information for Faculty Convocation Speaker Student Services Quicklinks× Faculty/Staff Quicklinks× Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share