Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Biomedical Engineering Home About Future Students Current Students Research Contact Us Accreditation Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Take Action Biomedical Engineering Degrees Herff College of Engineering Contact Us Home Biomedical Engineering Current Students Current BME Students The Department of Biomedical Engineering offers a "3 plus 2" program for undergraduate students who are interested in eventually earning a master's degree in Biomedical Engineering. The program is targeted towards students who are currently pursuing a B S in Biomedical Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Physics, or other appropriate degrees.Students who participate in this program will be able to earn both the BS and the MS degrees in five years. Students with advanced placement credits may require less time. Most students will receive a paying job in a laboratory once accepted into the program. All students, once they reach senior status (within two semesters of graduation with their bachelor's degree) will become eligible for graduate assistantships (GA). The typical GA includes tuition-and-fees scholarship and a monthly salary. Students remain in GA status throughout their senior year and their graduate year(s). Scholarship and Employment The Cooperative Education Program in the Herff College of Engineering offers the traditional rotational co-op program experience. This type of program is structured so that a student alternates between full-time work assignments and full-time school attendance. However, many students prefer a cooperative educational experience whereby a student will work 10-20 hours per week for the employer and continue to take classes. In some institutions this sort of arrangement is designated as an internship rather than a co-op experience. Therefore, in the Herff College of Engineering, the two designations are often combined as "co-op/internship. Herff Internships details... Herff Graduate Fellowships The Herff Fellowship provides financial support to outstanding graduate students in the Herff College of Engineering to support their studies toward the MS or PhD degree. MS students are supported for a maximum of 3 semesters, and PhD students for a maximum of 5 semesters (excluding summers).Details.. NSF Research Experiences for Undergraduates NSF funds a large number of research opportunities for undergraduate students through its REU Sites program. An REU Site consists of a group of ten or so undergraduates who work in the research programs of the host institution. Each student is associated with a specific research project, where he/she works closely with the faculty and other researchers. Students are granted stipends and, in many cases, assistance with housing and travel. Undergraduate students supported with NSF funds must be citizens or permanent residents of the United States or its possessions. An REU Site may be at either a US or foreign location. Herff Current Students details... Important Links for Scholarship Herff Post-Doctoral Fellowships Undergraduate Engineering Scholarships Clinton Douglas Watts Scholarship Whitaker International Program Scholarship Important Links for Employment Job Resource Center - AfterCollege Qmed Career Central BMES Career Center SFB Career Center Career & Employment Services University Scholarships Academic Resources Academic Calendars Academic Policies Catalog: Graduate Catalog: Graduate Herff Graduation Information Joint Graduate Program in Biomedical Engineering Honors Program Honors Program Application Advising & Registration Advising Guide: Undergraduate General Degree Flow Chart Pre-Med Flow Chart Physics 2nd Major Flow Chart Flow charts for focus areas: Biomaterials/Tissue Engineering, Biomechanics, Bioelectricity and Biosensors Advising Guide: Graduate Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/28/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.