Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Office of the Vice President for Student Affairs Leadership Leadership Vice President VP's Leadership Team Diversity Officer Student Advisory Board Student Reps to BOT Committees Programs Programs Special Funding Student Boulevard Guidelines Courageous Change Leader Award Hilltop Excellence Awards Resources Resources Student Event Guidelines Student Values Statement Off Campus Party Registration Alcohol Request Form Student Employment Employment Opportunities Strategic Direction Get Help ☰ Office of the Vice President for Student Affairs Vice President's Leadership Team AVP and COS Dr. Adam R. Cebulski (he/him/his) Assistant Vice President for Student Engagement and Success & Chief of Staff Dr. Adam R. Cebulski provides leadership for the Student Engagement and Success portfolio within Student Affairs which includes Student Center and Activities, Fraternity and Sorority Life, Social Change and Intercultural Engagement, the Women and LGBT Center, Office of the Student Experience (Leadership, Orientation, Parent Programs, specialty populations). Separately, as the Chief of Staff for the division, he also oversees Student AffairsAdministration (assessment, strategic initiatives, marketing, technology, staff development, etc). He also works on special projects for the Vice President and manages the execution of the divisional strategic plan. Education and Credentials Bachelors of Science, Psychology – Loyola University Chicago Masters of Science in Education, Higher Education Administration and Policy – Northwestern University Doctorate of Education, Higher Education Administration and Leadership – Southern Methodist University Assistant to the Assistant Vice President & Chief Of Staff Lydia Dale Email Lydia avpcos@smu.edu (214) 768-2821 About Dr. Cebulski Dr. Cebulski serves in a joint role as the Assistant Vice President for Student Engagement and Success and the Chief of Staff for the Division of Student Affairs. Dr. Adam R. Cebulski provides leadership for the Student Engagement and Success portfolio within Student Affairs which includes Student Center and Activities, Fraternity and Sorority Life, Social Change and Intercultural Engagement, the Women and LGBT Center, Office of the Student Experience (Leadership, Orientation, Parent Programs, specialty populations). Separately, as the Chief of Staff for the division, he also oversees Student AffairsAdministration (assessment, strategic initiatives, marketing, technology, staff development, etc). He also works on special projects for the Vice President and manages the execution of the divisional strategic plan. He holds his Ed.D. in Higher Education Leadership from Southern Methodist University, his M.S.Ed. degree in Higher Education Administration and Policy from Northwestern University and a B.S. degree in Psychology from Loyola University Chicago. His background combines higher education, corporate consulting, and innovation technology. He has focused on strategic planning and assessment, and he has helped many universities and non-profit organizations implement structural and procedural changes to improve operations. His professional expertise also includes process improvement, program evaluation, student retention initiatives, marketing, admissions and recruitment, and technology integration. Prior to SMU he spent almost ten years as an independent consultant for higher education institutions as the Director for Research and Strategic Initiatives for an educational technology company. Previously, he held positions within student and academic affairs at Illinois Institute of Technology and Northwestern University. Throughout his experience, he has worked with over 200 colleges and universities on student-centered initiatives large and small. Dr. Cebulski also teaches graduate courses in higher education masters and doctoral programs. His course offerings have included classes related to leadership development, strategic planning and assessment, gamification in education, among others. His research projects include using gamification principles and human motivation patterns to increase student engagement and success, development of intentional student experiences, the intersection of identity salience of underrepresented students and leadership development, in-group bias against positive attributes, and the impacts and integration of technology on higher education. Additionally, Dr. Cebulski engages in a variety of educational and industry professional associations. Most recently he has been active in conference presentations and publications with NASPA as well as serving as an AVP Cohort Facilitator. He also sits on the review board for the Journal for Student Affairs Inquiry. Learn More about Student Engagement and Success View the Website Learn More about Student Affairs Administration View the Website Explore Other Student Affairs Leaders Dr. K.C. Mmeje Vice President for Student Affairs Read My Bio Dr. Mindy Sutton Associate Vice President and Dean of Students Read My Bio Ashley Wendler Dean of RLSH ad Interim Learn About RLSH Rev. Lisa Garvin Chaplain and Minister to the University Read My Bio Dr. Crystal Clayton Executive Director of the Hegi Family Career Development Center Read My Bio Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share