retweet bullhorn reply info flickr tumblr vimeo reddit podcast angle-down angle-left angle-right angle-up ban hamburger book bookmark bug caret-down caret-left caret-right caret-up chain check check-circle chevron-down chevron-left chevron-right chevron-up circle circle-o clone close download-cloud code download ellipsis envelope warning external-link eye eye-slash facebook github google-plus heart heart-o home info-circle instagram linkedin lock medium minus-circle send pause-circle play-circle plus-circle question-circle quote-left quote-right rss-square search share-alt slack snapchat ticket twitter wheelchair youtube Skip to main content MENU Header Menu Internal Request Portal Contacts FAQ Search Search About Introduction UT Protected Marks UT System Institutions CLC Becoming Licensed Types of Agreements Crafter's Program Items Not Licensed Trademark Policy Labor Policies Use Restrictions Permission to Use Printed Materials Royalties Process for Approval Academic & Admin Outside Entities Student Orgs Corporate Sponsors Filming Projects Internal Request Portal Trademark Registration Introduction Hello, and welcome! Please use the above menu bar to navigate through the website. The Office of Brand, Trademarks and Licensing works to protect and promote the use of The University of Texas System’s name and logos and to ensure that the public can properly identify and associate the logos with officially licensed products bearing the institutions’ marks. The component institutions of The University of Texas System (UT System) have achieved reputations as outstanding institutions of higher education. Reputation is specific to the name of the UT System and each component institution and is represented by the seal, trademarks, logos, and service marks used by UT System and its component institutions. The System trademarks are registered with the U.S. Office of Patent and Trademarks, the state of Texas and in many foreign countries. These marks are the exclusive property of The Board of Regents. A license is required for products featuring UT System and its component institution trademarks through the Office of Brand, Trademarks and Licensing and CLC (formerly Learfield IMG College). University entities must also use a licensed vendor to produce licensed merchandise. Annual royalty income from more than 400 licensees is used to support the mission of the UT System and its component institutions. FacebookFind us on Facebook InstagramSee us on Instagram LinkedinFind us on Linkedin TwitterFind us on Twitter YoutubeSee us on Youtube Footer menu Contacts FAQ Internal Request Portal UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022