Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information General Medicine Topics Campus News Research Medical School Public Health Cancer Mental Health Infectious Diseases Neurology Neuroscience Education Heart Health Pediatrics View All Topics Search All News Keywords News Top Stories What to do if you have a stomachache When patients complain of a stomachache, doctors consider problems with the digestive system but also the bladder, kidney, and reproductive organs. Topic Gastroenterology How to teach a child to swallow a pill The advanced form of drinking required to swallow a pill is a skill to acquire like any other. Topic Pediatrics Colon Cancer Is Skewing Younger With colon cancer becoming more common in people under 50, screening guidelines have changed. Topic Cancer How old is too old to see a pediatrician? Tips from a primary care physician to determine the age or moment when a child should graduate out of pediatric care and how to find an adult doctor. Topic Pediatrics Latest News How to Cope When Daylight Saving Time Starts March 7, 2022 A one-hour time change may not seem like much but it causes health and sleep issues. Here's advice from Columbia doctors to minimize the effect. Topic Neurology Telemedicine Beyond COVID-19 March 4, 2022 Telemedicine as a way to deliver health care is here to stay. Columbia physicians are working together with members of the engineering and business schools to advance implementation of telemedicine. Topic Infectious Diseases Study Questions Widely Used Race-Based Formula to Define Lung Disease December 16, 2021 New results from a long-term epidemiologic study reveal that one of the oldest racially based diagnostic formulas in medicine is no better than a race-neutral equation. Topic Campus News Columbia Primary Care Removes Barriers to Improve Mental Health December 13, 2021 A new program at ColumbiaDoctors embeds behavioral health specialists alongside primary care providers to care for patients’ mental health needs. Topic Mental Health Statins Could Benefit Millions of Young Adults with High Cholesterol, Study Suggests November 9, 2021 A new mathematical modeling study suggests that about a quarter of young adults between 18 and 39 could gain lifetime health benefits from taking statins. Topic Heart Health Aspirin: Making Sense of Changing Guidelines October 27, 2021 With the risks and benefits of taking aspirin to prevent heart attack and stroke so closely balanced, the decision must be tailored to each individual, says Columbia internist Andrew Moran, MD. Topic Heart Health Nosebleeds: When It’s Time to Get Medical Attention July 15, 2021 Most nosebleeds are not a cause for concern, but when they happen frequently, it’s time to see a doctor, says David Gudis, a Columbia ear, nose and throat specialist. A New Type of Men’s Health Program Opens June 28, 2021 A new men’s health program is making it easier for men in the New York area to get coordinated and personalized health care. Topic Campus News Pride and Health Care: Why Welcoming Providers Are Essential for LGBTQ+ Health June 23, 2021 Finding a health care practitioner you can open up to is key to getting the best possible care. Topic Campus News Black Barbershops Are Highly Cost-Effective Sites for Blood Pressure Treatment June 14, 2021 Programs that bring pharmacists into Black-owned barbershops could dramatically improve hypertension control and reduce heart disease disparities among Black men at a relatively modest cost. Topic Research Pages 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 next last Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top