Skip to main content Iowa State University Office of Admissions Menu Toggle Search Visit Apply My Account Main navigation Admissions Admissions Freshman Admissions Transfer Admissions International Admissions Graduate Admissions Next Steps / Timeline Financial Aid Request info Contact Us Related Links Nontraditional Nondegree Veterinary Medicine Military Why ISU Academics Academics Academic Programs Colleges Transfer Credit Credit by Exam Orientation Honors Program Learning Communities Apply Visit Related Links Course Equivalency Guides Transfer Plans TRANSIT Supplementary Course List Admissions Partnership Program Destination Iowa State Cost + Aid Campus Living Campus Living Housing ISU Dining Diversity and Inclusion International Students and Scholars Clubs and Organizations Recreation Services Student Health Athletics Apply Visit Related Links Student Leaders Sorority and Fraternity Entertainment Traditions Distinguished Alumni Why ISU Visit Application Cost + Aid Cost + Aid Cost of Attendance FAFSA Freshman Awards Transfer Awards International Students OneApp Student Employment Student Financial Success National Scholars The best investment you’ll ever make We know a college education is an investment, and more than 85 percent of students receive some form of financial aid. Whether it’s gaining an understanding of scholarships and grants or identifying which federal loan is best for you, the Office of Student Financial Aid has several options to suit your needs. Cost of Attendance The estimated annual cost of attendance for new students includes Iowa State's tuition and fees, room and meals, as well as an estimate for books and supplies. Total costs of attending Iowa State University may vary based on students' lifestyles, majors, academic colleges, and academic progress. Entering freshmen can estimate their cost of attending Iowa State with the Office of Student Financial Aid Net Price Calculator. Need-based Financial Aid Financial aid awards are typically a combination of grants, loans, and employment. To be considered for need-based financial aid, you must complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). To receive priority financial aid consideration, it is important that you submit your FAFSA by January 3 (freshmen) and March 1 (transfers). Scholarships Iowa State University awards millions of dollars in scholarship awards each year to incoming students. Some awards are automatic while many require an application. Scholarships are offered through a variety of sources at Iowa State, simply complete our OneApp. Student Employment Many students finance their education through part-time jobs. In fact, research has shown that students who work up to 12 hours per week have higher grade point averages than students who do not work. Two types of part-time positions are available at Iowa State: work study and non-work study. To be considered for work-study eligibility, you must submit the FAFSA. Apply Every Cyclone adventure begins with a first step. Apply now so you can start taking the world by storm. Start Your Adventure Visit Take a look around, and we’re sure you’ll fall in love with our beautiful, nationally recognized campus. Schedule Your Visit Iowa State University Office of Admissions Contact Office of Admissions Enrollment Services Center Ames, IA 50011 Call or text: 515-294-5836 Soults Family Visitors Center 2229 Lincoln Way Ames, IA 50014 Quick Links New Student Programs Counselor Directory Chat with students and staff Request Information Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Analytics Disclaimer Loading...