Your browser does not support JavaScript! Your browser does not support JavaScript! Skip to main content Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Canvas | Webmail | Contact Us Request Info Apply Now eCourseware | Webmail | Contact Us Request Info Apply Now About UofM Global Learn More Rankings Accreditations Contact Us Degrees & Programs Undergraduate Graduate Certificates All Programs Complimentary Courses Admissions Apply Now Request Info Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Current Students Student Services & Support Register for Courses Graduation Home UofM Global Degree Programs UofM Global Business Professions | Undergraduate Programs Degree Programs Online Degrees Undergraduate Degrees All Undergraduate Degrees Business Computing Health Professions Humanities Social Science Graduate Degrees All Graduate DegreesArtsBusinessComputingEducationEngineeringHealth ProfessionsHumanitiesLiberal StudiesSocial Science Graduate Certificates Complimentary Courses Contact Us Need Help? Call 844-302-3886 Email Us Business Professions Undergraduate Programs Accountancy The BBA degree with a major in Accounting (ACCT) at the University of Memphis is offered fully online by the Fogelman College of Business & Economics. This degree requires 120 hours to complete and can include transfer of credit earned at other institutions. Learn More Business Information and Technology The BBA degree with a major in Business and Information and Technology (BIT) at the University of Memphis is offered fully online by the Fogelman College of Business & Economics. This degree requires 120 hours to complete and can include transfer of credit earned at other institutions. Learn More Finance The BBA degree with a major in Finance (FIR) at the University of Memphis is offered fully online by the Fogelman College of Business & Economics. This degree requires 120 hours to complete and can include transfer of credit earned at other institutions. Learn More Hospitality and Resort Management The Bachelor of Arts degree in Hospitality and Resort Management equips students with essential knowledge & skill needed in the increasingly competitive hotel, resort, culinary and tourism industries. We have a curriculum focus on hospitality business operations with real-world experiences that leads to successful careers and leadership positions in the rapidly expanding global hospitality industry. Learn More Management The BBA degree with a major in Management (MGMT) at the University of Memphis is offered fully online by the Fogelman College of Business & Economics. This degree requires 120 hours to complete and can include transfer of credit earned at other institutions. The Human Resources concentration is also fully online. Learn More Marketing The BBA degree with a major in Marketing (MKTG) at the University of Memphis is offered fully online by the Fogelman College of Business & Economics. This degree requires 120 hours to complete and can include transfer of credit earned at other institutions.. Learn More Professional Studies Designed for those who seek to advance their careers through a targeted professional program, the online professional studies degree provides students an opportunity to earn an individualized degree not traditionally offered by other colleges on the University of Memphis campus. Learn More Public Relations Public Relations practitioners link organizations with their consumers, stockholders, employees, communities and the mass media. PR students learn to write for clients, create promotional materials, plan events and develop media and message strategies. Learn More Real Estate The BBA degree with a major in Finance and concentration in Real Estate at the University of Memphis is offered fully online by the Fogelman College of Business & Economics. This degree requires 120 hours to complete and can include transfer of credit earned at other institutions. Learn More Sport and Leisure Management The Sport and Leisure Management degree develops students with the skills essential to enter careers in marketing, management, facility and event operations, and other administrative positions in a constantly evolving sport and leisure marketplace. Program faculty focus on connecting academic knowledge with practical application to help students prepare for the sport and leisure industry. Learn More Supply Chain Management The Bachelors of Business Administration (BBA) degree with a major in Supply Chain Management (SCM) provides students with a thorough understanding of important SCM concepts, principles, and tools. Coursework addresses supply management, operations management, and logistics management areas. Learn More Professional Real Estate Program The Department of Finance, Insurance and Real Estate offers an undergraduate track in financial planning that meets the specific criteria for students who wish to fulfill the education component for obtaining CFP® certification. This financial planning education program is registered with the Certified Financial Planning Board of Standards Inc. to verify that the student has completed coursework covering all 72 topics tested on the CFP® Certification Exam. Learn More APPLY NOW Ready to apply to a UofM Global Program? Visit the Admissions Page to submit your application. Learn More >> Interested in the Online Masters of Business Administration program? Learn More > About UofM Global Learn More Ranked Online Degrees Accreditations Contact Us Degrees and Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Certificates Corporate Partners Complimentary Courses Admissions Apply Now Request Info Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Contact Us Tuition Financial Aid Students Canvas Student Services & Support SmartStart Learning Support Technology Support Advising Register for Courses Experiential Learning Credit Graduation Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 1/13/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.