Skip to main content Search Cornell Cornell Video Explore Home Browse Recent Trending Playlists Series Speakers Topics Contributors Submit MyPlaylist Play all in MyPlaylist Ask a Question tbd Name Email Address Question Send or cancel × Ask a Question Successful Thanks, ! Your question has been submitted. × New York farmers take a chance on chickpeas, with help from Cornell Posted on June 9, 2021 By College of Agriculture and Life Sciences (CALS), Cornell Cooperative Extension, Media Relations and News Video Platform Video Management Video Solutions Video Player facebook twitter share interactive transcript request transcript/captions live captions download SD video audio | MyPlaylist start: now end: now reset copy link copy embed X CARL TABER: These are Frontier. The Orions have been planted, and the [INAUDIBLE] have been planted. Over 600 pounds of seed in here right now. SPEAKER: And that's what one [INAUDIBLE]. CARL TABER: This year, I think my big goal is to find out if we can grow the crop economically here. JEAN TABER: And see how the chickpeas like the New York weather because we might not have the same climate conditions they have in Idaho. JUDY MCKINNEY-CHERRY: When I met the Antithesis leaders, I asked them a basic question about how their process worked, what they were using for raw materials. And when they went through what they were doing, it became really clear to me that they were leaving a lot of profit and money on the table because of where they were receiving their supply of chickpeas. I asked them why aren't you buying chickpeas in New York? And they said we can't find them in New York. But no one could definitively say it had ever been tried, and no one could definitively say why it wouldn't work. And so with some private-sector partners and with the help of several folks from Cornell University, we were able to test this. ALAN TAYLOR: My role in this project is just because we had the expertise in the seed treatments. Never worked with chickpeas before last year, but we have the equipment and kind of the know how as far as doing the seed treatments. We want to make sure we get the chickpea seeds off to a good start after they're planted and get them up and running. JUDY MCKINNEY-CHERRY: So what's great about this is that it really does help all of the ecosystems that we have. Not only does it help us economically from an economic-development perspective because it's diversifying the economy, it also helps us from an educational perspective because now you have proof that what we're teaching in our universities does, in fact, end up being in the real world and, in fact, can create businesses. It also improves our environment. So because we're not hauling these train loads and truckloads of chickpeas across the country, you're saving on the carbon emissions. You're also helping, just sort of from the flora and the fauna, you're helping to add another crop into the crop rotation. CARL TABER: Between the transportation differential and just seeing that it's produced locally, you know, there's a little bit of value to that that we can hopefully tap into. JUDY MCKINNEY-CHERRY: This was truly sort of, from the ground up, a locally grown business that started at Cornell. And so it is so exciting to think that Cornell University not only had the opportunity to help us with this pilot but it actually was the one that put literally the seeds that caused the germination for this little business. Transcript Request Form Name Email Address Disability Accommodation? Disability Accommodation? Yes No Affiliation -Select- Faculty Staff Student Alumni Other Send Request Cancel X We've received your request You will be notified by email when the transcript and captions are available. The process may take up to 5 business days. Please contact cornellcast@cornell.edu if you have any questions about this request. Antithesis Foods, a startup with Cornell beginnings, has partnered with CALS, CCE-Schuyler County and regional organizations to successfully grow chickpeas in New York state. The initiative not only could offer New York farmers a way to diversify their crop rotations but also act as a regional economic engine, shorten the supply chain and decrease the carbon footprint of chickpeas. Related Links Regional partnership takes a chance on New York chickpeas (Cornell Chronicle) More About agriculture farming sustainability environment new york state impact economic development startups What to watch next 1:55 MyPlaylist Cornell to help train New York state’s pioneering public health corps 1:53 MyPlaylist AgriTech Center of Excellence helps food, ag startups thrive 2:11 MyPlaylist Dogs trained to detect oak wilt, invasive species 5:22 MyPlaylist Making the turn: from inmate to scholar 0:52 MyPlaylist ‘… Any person … any study’ behind bars 3:00 MyPlaylist Cornell Cooperative Extension: Helping New Yorkers Thrive 2:09 MyPlaylist NY craft beverage industries tap into Cornell expertise 1:34 MyPlaylist Grow-NY finalists put down roots in NYS food and ag economy 2:39 MyPlaylist Micro-satellites offer a fresh view of NYS agriculture 3:05 MyPlaylist CCE's Blocks in Bloom program grows strong neighborhoods 3:20 MyPlaylist Ripple effect: Cornell helps restore Long Island's shellfish 00:01:07 MyPlaylist Enhancing Long Island's maritime culture and economy 0:44 MyPlaylist Local Roads Program: Red Hook, NY highway superintendent Theresa Burke 0:57 MyPlaylist Local Roads Program: Hartland, NY highway superintendent Keith Hurtgam 00:01:54 MyPlaylist Local Roads Program: Sherburne, NY highway superintendent Chase Winton 2:18 MyPlaylist Steve Hindy '71, MAT '75, put Brooklyn beer on the map 1:34 MyPlaylist Industrial hemp research at Cornell University 2:04 MyPlaylist Cooperative Extension helping grow Urban Agriculture in NYC 2:15 MyPlaylist Study reveals NYS apple industry’s true economic impact 0:51 MyPlaylist Cornell’s partnerships in Buffalo 1:41 MyPlaylist Cornell’s support for sustainable housing in Buffalo 1:50 MyPlaylist Cornell’s extensive Buffalo roots 2:53 MyPlaylist Cornell and the ILR School help Buffalo grow 00:01:56 MyPlaylist Cornell helps keep NYC water clean, safe to drink 1:39 MyPlaylist Farm Ops: U.S. Marine Corps and Air Force veteran Walter Palmer 0:57 MyPlaylist Farm Ops: U.S. Army veteran Logan Yarbrough 1:53 MyPlaylist Farm Ops: U.S. Air Force veteran Nathan Bush 2:11 MyPlaylist Cornell research benefits the hard cider industry 1:20 MyPlaylist The Cornell Food Venture Center 0:42 MyPlaylist CCE summer intern Tyler Brewer '19 0:56 MyPlaylist CCE summer internships impact NYS 0:29 MyPlaylist Cornell helps Stony Brook Wholehearted Foods grow 0:57 MyPlaylist Protecting bees and boosting NY’s economy 00:01:19 MyPlaylist Urban agriculture enriches inner city Buffalo neighborhood 1:07 MyPlaylist Ruth Richardson’s lab working to keep swimmers in the water at New York State parks 6:23 MyPlaylist Prosecuting a case of animal cruelty 4:29 MyPlaylist Cornell Tech program fuels K-12 computer science curriculum 3:59 MyPlaylist The Machinist 0:32 MyPlaylist Hops growing in New York state More from New York State Impact 1:14:21 MyPlaylist Joel Salatin, Polyface Farms: Redeeming the Earth 3:10 MyPlaylist KC Orchards - Climate Smart Farming Story surprise me Subscribe Submit Content Contact us RSS Cornell on YouTube Give Feedback Name Email Comments Send or cancel × Feedback Thanks for writing. We will be in touch shortly to address any questions, concerns, or technical difficulties you may have. × Schedule of Future Events There are no live broadcasts scheduled. × Email Updates See what's new on CornellCast and find out what's coming up next — and how you can take part. Subscribe to receive weekly CornellCast updates via email. Email address Subscribe or cancel × Subscribe Our hamsters have processed your subscription request and advise that the weekly update messages will contain details on unsubscribing in case you need them. × List Sent Our hamsters have processed your request and advise that a summary has been sent to the email address entered. × RSVP to this Live Event tdb tbd Enter your email below to be notified when this event begins Name Email Address Set reminder for Set reminder for 5 minutes 15 minutes 30 minutes 1 hour 1 day before the event starts. RSVP or cancel × RSVP Successful You should receive an email confirmation shortly. We will send you an email reminder before the show begins. You may request additional reminders for other times if you wish. You can also add this event to a calendar of your choice iCal/Outlook/other Google calendar For iCal, an .ics file will be downloaded to your computer or device. You may need to take additional steps to add the event to your personal calendar. × Settings Let us know your preferences and our accommodating hamsters will snap to it! Autoplay: on off Update or cancel × Follow this tbd tbd Enter your email below to be notified when new related videos become available. Name Email Address Follow or cancel × Thanks for Your Interest You should receive an email confirmation shortly. We will send you an email message when new related videos are posted. ×