Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Health Services, Policy & Practice Home AcademyHealth Global Health Engagement HSR Seminar Series About Doctoral Program Research People News Site Navigation Home AcademyHealth 2021 Virtual ARM HSR PhD Student Courtney Johnson wins the 2021 AcademyHealth Best Abstract of the Health Economics Interest Group (HEIG)! 2020 ARM | Virtual 2019 ARM | Washington, D.C. 2018 ARM | Seattle 2017 ARM | New Orleans 2016 ARM | Boston Global Health Engagement HSR Seminar Series About From the Chair Doctoral Program Program Description Course Requirements What Our Students Are Saying What Our Faculty Are Saying Dissertation Spotlight Job Market Candidates Alumni Research People Doctoral Students Faculty Administrative Core Staff Department Leadership News Global Health Engagement HSPP faculty and students are engaged in global health research in a number of places around the globe. Below are some examples of this work. Bishnu Thapa: Nepal and Kenya Bishnu Bahadur Thapa is a PhD candidate in the Department of Health Services, Policy, and Practice. His main interest lies in understanding how low and lower middle income countries (LMICs) can make progress towards Universal Health Coverage (UHC) and improve their population health outcomes. Read more Maricruz Rivera-Hernandez: (US) Puerto Rico Maricruz Rivera-Hernandez, Ph.D. has collaborated with Omar Galarraga, Ph.D. to evaluate the impact of Seguro Popular [insurance for the poor] in the utilization of preventive services and treatment and care of chronic conditions for older adults in Mexico. Read more Omar Galárraga: Kenya Omar Galárraga, Ph.D. is collaborating with the AMPATH consortium in the NIH-funded 5-year extension of the Orphaned and Separated Children's Assessment Related to their Health and Well-Being study, known as OSCAR 2.0. Read more Founding Dean of the School Fox Wetle and Professor Richard Besdine: Italy Founding Dean of the School Fox Wetle and Professor Richard Besdine have been doing teaching and research with Italian collaborators at the University of Padova Medical School (20 miles West of Venice) since the late 1990s. Read more Professor Stefan Gravenstein: Lithuania Professor Stefan Gravenstein has collaborated with researchers at Vilnius University in Vilnius, Lithuania since the early 1990’s, beginning only a few short years after the “iron curtain” came down, in a program that was inspired by the Sister Cities relationship between Vilnius University and the University of Wisconsin-Mad Read more Brianna Osetinsky: Kenya As a PhD student, Brianna Osetinsky was funded by The Global Mobility Graduate Fellowship through the Office of Global Engagement to conduct research at AMP Read more Home AcademyHealth Global Health Engagement HSR Seminar Series The Department of Health Services, Policy & Practice, Brown School of Public Health The Department of Health Services, Policy & Practice, Brown School of Public Health 121 South Main St. Providence, RI 02912 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top