Your browser does not support iframes. Skip to main content Menu Scheller College of Business Request More Information Attend an Info Session Contact Us Directory Apply Now Search Why Scheller? Programs Executive Education Academics Centers & Initiatives News & Events Overview & History Dean's Message and Report Meet Ernest Scheller Jr. Advisory Board Accreditation Strategic Plan Business at Tech Graduates Get Hired Return on Investment Faculty and Advisors Global Perspective A Good Fit Corporate Engagement Trading Floor Georgia Tech Community Student Life Making Connections and Learning Opportunities Diversity Diversity News Career and Recruiter Services Career Services for Students Hire Our Students Giving to the College Meeting the Challenge Priorities and Needs Faculty Support Student Support Program Enrichment Unrestricted Endowment The Impact of Your Gift How to Make a Gift FAQs Scheller MBA Annual Fund Alumni Network Alumni News Alumni Resources Update Contact Information Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Full-time MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQsEvening MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Advancement Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQs Executive MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Student & Alumni Profiles FAQsMBA Programs Which Georgia Tech MBA is Right for Me? Commitment to Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Dual Degree Options Experiential Learning For Engineers For Military Community MD/MBA Option MBA Early Admission for Undergrads Rankings The Intersection Podcast Earn Your MBA in Atlanta Graduate Certificate Business Analytics Certificate Undergraduate Admissions Curriculum Career Services Student Services Student Life Scholarships & Awards Rankings & Stats Connect With Us The Intersection Podcast, Undergrad PhD Concentrations Program Milestones Faculty and Staff Funding Admissions FAQs Recruiting Events Student Bios Program News Request Program Information Interdisciplinary M.S. M.S. in Quantitative & Computational Finance (QCF) Master of Science in Analytics at Georgia Tech Lean Six Sigma Certification Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Certification Lean Six Sigma Black Belt Certification FAQs Custom Programs FAQs Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Engineering Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship International Management Management of Technology Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results Academic Speaker Series Guest Speakers in Accounting Guest Speakers in Finance Guest Speakers in Marketing Current Faculty Opportunities Business Analytics Center Engage with Us Executive Council News Research Education People Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics About Cecil B. Day The Cecil B. Day Prize Speakers and Events Faculty Support Net Impact Center for International Business Education and Research Projects Research Events Books People at CIBER Inside CIBER News and Events Archives International Management Certificate Sign Up for Future CIBER News Financial Analysis Lab Subscribe to Reports Institute for Leadership and Social Impact About Us Programs News Impact Speaker Series Leadership for Social Good Study Abroad Program Social Impact Fellows Ideas to Serve (I2S) Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Servant Leadership Programs Minor in Leadership Studies Excel Alumni Other ILSI Programs Partnerships Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business About Us Sustainable Business Insights Research Briefs Sustainable Business Events Sustainable Business News Blog Research & Thought Leadership Empowering Students Industry Engagement Newsletter Participating in the Drawdown Georgia Compact Drawdown Georgia Business Compact Meet the Team Alumni Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program Director's Message About Steven A. Denning T&M Curriculum Program Faculty & Staff Admissions T&M Corporate Affiliates Denning T&M Program News TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta Program Network TI:GER MBA & PhD FAQs News Apply Inquire Resources in Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller Full-time MBA Career Services & Employment Outcomes Home » Programs » MBA » Full-time MBA » Career Development Menu Full-time MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQs Make a career switch, ramp up your trajectory, or start a new business venture. Wherever you're headed, the Jones MBA Career Center helps you get there. Our mission is to help our students represent their best selves to the employment world and to provide as many employment opportunities to them as possible. Rankings & Stats #2 Full-time MBA Career Services (Global) The Financial Times, 2022 97% Employment at 3 Months Post-Graduation $123,843 Average Base Salary $25,066 Average Signing Bonus The Jones MBA Career Center is consistently ranked in the top 5 MBA Career Services offices globally because of the employment success our students achieve. We are dedicated to helping you: Develop a career strategy, identify job search targets, and explore MBA career options. Prepare for the interview process and MBA job market. Identify MBA recruitment opportunities for both summer internship and post-graduate employment. Incoming students are assigned to a career advisor over the summer before their first year. This advisor will advise them throughout the two-year program, including getting to know them personally and helping them develop an MBA career search strategy that supports their specific desire and leverages their individual strengths. Our career center team has decades of professional experience and understands industry dynamics. Because our career professionals advise students and also manage relationships with MBA employer recruitment teams, they know the skills recruiters are looking for and how to help students represent their best selves and prepare for success in a competitive job market. Download Employment Report Georgia Tech MBA Career Outcomes Our MBAs achieve some of the highest job employment figures in the nation for post-graduation, full-time positions, and paid internships for first-year MBAs. Read more about our students’ success and learn about our employer relationships in our MBA Employment Report. Full-time MBA Career Development Resources Planning your career search is a process of continual discovery. We provide a variety of resources to help you position your skills for summer internships and second-year full-time job searches. Career Development Workshops Our Career Development Workshop is a weeklong orientation prior to the start of school that is designed to help you get a head start on your summer internship and post-graduate job searches. Additionally, throughout the school year, you’ll regularly meet for workshops with your peers and career center staff where you will learn key skills including: Developing and applying an effective job search strategy Crafting and communicating your story Developing a high-impact resume Personal branding and social media Preparing for competitive interviews and case interviews Networking at national job fairs Summer Internships Between the first and second years of the MBA program, we encourage you to participate in a summer internship. Internships provide an opportunity to apply the managerial theories you learned in your first year while gaining valuable work experience and building your resume. Internships have also led to many permanent positions for our students. More than 100 companies recruit MBAs through the Jones MBA Career Center each year, and many of them use summer internships as their primary source for MBA full-time hires. In a typical year, 100% of our students have paid MBA internships. Opportunities are available nationwide across a wide range of functional areas, industries, and companies. MBA Conferences and Career Fairs Career advisors and students participate in several Georgia Tech career fairs and the country's largest association and industry career fairs. Students are encouraged to attend the following national MBA career fairs: National Black MBA Association Conference Reaching Out – LGBT+ MBA Conference MBA Veterans Career Conference Additional Resources Take advantage of the many resources and programming opportunities we provide, like case interview and product management interview workshops, alumni and guest speakers, Career Leader—a self-assessment tool used by more than 260 top business schools to identify student career interests with job function, areas of strength, and helpful information on organizational fit. You also may practice your interviewing skills and receive immediate feedback from your career advisor as you prepare for employer engagement. Alumni Career Resources Career support continues long after you graduate. MBA Career services as an alum include: JacketNet Jobs, a job search database exclusively for Georgia Tech alumni Career advice and workshops Georgia Tech Alumni Association LinkedIn group with 37K+ members and growing Numerous networks and clubs around the world MBA Career Center Staff The Jones MBA Career Center advisors work with MBA students to turn their dreams into reality. The MBA career coaches are keenly aware of the changing interests of job-seeking MBA candidates and the evolving needs of MBA employers. Full-time MBA Summer Internships Put your skills to the test, start building a professional network, and get a head start on full-time job opportunities with summer internships specifically for MBA students. Learn more Hire Our Students Our mix of MBAs from technical and non-technical backgrounds provides employers with a diverse pool of strong candidates. Learn more Take action Request More Info Attend an Info Session Meet Us Meet Gary Jones, Jones MBA Career Center Benefactor Scheller College of Business Home Why Scheller? Overview & History Business at Tech Georgia Tech Community Career and Recruiter Services Giving to the College Alumni Network Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Programs MBA Undergraduate PhD Interdisciplinary M.S. Executive Education Lean Six Sigma Certification Custom Programs Academics Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Academic Speaker Series Current Faculty Opportunities Centers & Initiatives Business Analytics Center Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics Center for International Business Education and Research Financial Analysis Lab Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta News & Events Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller LinkedIn Instagram Facebook Twitter Youtube Flickr Georgia Institute of Technology Scheller College of Business 800 W. Peachtree St. NW Atlanta, GA 30308 404.894.2600 © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology Intranet Emergency Information Contact the College Privacy & Legal Notice Accountability Web Accessibility Resources for People with Disabilities Plugins Youtube Usage Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures