Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About BC Overview President's Message Mission & History Facts & Figures Notable Alumni Campuses, Maps & Directions Trustees & Leadership Related Links Diversity BC Fact Book Office of University Communications BC Media & Publications Office for Institutional Diversity Admission Overview Apply Questbridge Applicants International Applicants Homeschooled Applicants Transfer Applicants Transfer Credit Veteran and ROTC Applicants Test-Optional Policy 2022-23 Early Decision vs. Regular Decision First-Year Admission Profile Visit Discover BC Hotels, Directions, and Parking Contact Admission Affordability Majors & Minors Morrissey College Majors Choosing BC Related Links Undergraduate Tuition & Financial Aid Financial Aid Office Graduate Admission Offices Academics Overview Schools & Colleges Majors & Minors Libraries Professional & Continuing Education Excellence & Innovation Academic Advising Related Links Academic Calendar Office of the Provost Academic Advising Center Core Curriculum Student Services Campus Life Overview Diversity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Student Organizations Sports & Recreation Arts & Culture Related Links Student Affairs McMullen Museum Robsham Theater Research Overview Research Centers & Institutes Undergraduate Research Opportunities Faculty Awards & Grants Graduate Fellowships Research Support Related Links Vice Provost for Research Sponsored Programs Research Integrity and Compliance Technology Transfer and Licensing Jesuit, Catholic Overview Catholic Intellectual Tradition Jesuit Resources Related Links Division of Mission & Ministry Campus Ministry Center for Student Formation The Church in the 21st Century Center Close Directory A to Z Listing Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Affordability HOME Admission Affordability In This Section Admission Overview Apply Visit Affordability Majors & Minors Choosing BC FACHEX True to our Jesuit ideals of inclusion and reverence for all people, we’re committed to providing equitable access to an education that can enrich lives. We work to ensure that all qualified students—no matter their socioeconomic backgrounds—can thrive at Boston College. We practice need-blind admission, which means we admit students based on their academic and personal accomplishments and don’t consider their financial circumstances during the admission process. In addition, we’re dedicated to providing need-based financial assistance and helping students obtain a variety of aid to meet their full, demonstrated financial need. Boston College is a member of Questbridge, a nonprofit program that assists talented high-need students to attend elite universities. About BC's Partnership With Questbridge Committed to Affordability We’re dedicated to providing need-based financial assistance and helping students obtain a variety of aid to meet their full, demonstrated financial need. What is demonstrated institutional financial need? Financial aid eligibility is based on a family's demonstrated need. Boston College is committed to meeting your demonstrated need with different forms of financial aid funds. Your demonstrated need is the difference between the cost of attendance and the expected family contribution, as determined by Boston College. Contact Financial Aid Cost of Attendance – Family Contribution = Demonstrated Need Financial Support #18 Best College Values Kiplinger $160M+ Need-based scholarship/grant aid awarded 2020-21 academic year $46,777 Average need-based scholarship/grant 2020-21 academic year STICKER PRICE VERSUS ACTUAL COST While higher education is an expensive investment, our need-based financial aid policies make Boston College more affordable than you might think. This Forbes article highlights the importance of understanding net price before you apply. After reading it, we encourage you to use our net price calculators below to see how affordable a BC education could be for you. More About Net Cost Graduate Outcomes Ninety-three percent of graduates from the Boston College Class of 2020 are employed, in graduate school, or engaged in a fellowship or meaningful volunteer experience. That places BC among the top universities nationwide for graduate career placements. More About Career Outcomes BC is #3 for graduating Pell recipients Boston College has the third-best graduation rate in the country for Pell Grant recipients, a significant benchmark for the University’s efforts to enroll first-generation, low-income students who have been historically under-represented in higher education. BC ranks only behind Cal Tech and Princeton in this category, according to data in the recent U.S. New & World Report survey of colleges and universities. Learn How BC Supports Low-Income Students 2022-2023 Billed First Year Costs (Current charges are subject to change) Item Cost Undergraduate Tuition $62,950 Mandatory Fees for Resident Student (Campus Health Infirmary & Student Activity Fees)* $1,226 Room and Board Newton Campus, Upper Campus $16,120 Total Tuition, Fees, Room, and Board $80,296 *Please note that freshmen pay a one-time required charge of $600 for First Year Orientation and their student ID. **Estimated cost for books and incidental items is $3,150 Estimate your expected family contribution Quick Cost Estimator This Quick Cost Calculator tool should only be used for families who have income that is less than $50K, hold no ownership in a business and where the parents are not divorced or separated. All other families should use the Net Price Calculator. Quick Cost Estimator Net Price Calculator A comprehensive calculator which asks detailed questions and will likely require a student’s and parents’ most recent federal tax returns to accurately complete. Net Price Calculator *Upon receiving your estimates using the tools above, we recommend saving a copy for your records. Types of Aid Scholarships & Grants Loans Work Presidential Scholarship The terms "scholarship" and "grant" are used interchangeably at Boston College. Scholarships are need-based aid that do not need to be repaid. Funding for scholarships come from a variety of sources, including more than 500 named scholarships. Boston College is unable to provide need-based financial aid to students who are not U.S. citizens or U.S. permanent residents. Information for international applicants. Visit our financial aid website to learn more about the different need-based scholarships available at Boston College. Questions? Visit Financial Aid Boston College is committed to keeping student debt at a reasonable level. There are several types of loans that may be included in your financial aid award: Federal Direct Subsidized Loan A need-based student loan with a fixed interest rate that will reset or change each July. The loan is considered subsidized because you are not charged interest while you are enrolled in school at least half-time and during grace periods and deferment periods. Federal Direct Unsubsidized Loan If you do not qualify for all or part of the Direct Subsidized Loan program described above, you may qualify for a Direct Unsubsidized Loan. The interest rate is fixed and will reset or change each July. The Direct Unsubsidized Loan accrues interest while you are in school and during the grace and repayment periods. This interest can be paid or deferred until repayment. Boston College is unable to provide need-based financial aid to students who are not U.S. citizens or U.S. permanent residents. Information for international applicants. Questions? Visit Financial Aid Part-time employment opportunities are available to assist you in meeting the costs related to attending Boston College. Opportunities are available on and off campus, and may include community service positions. Federal Work-Study Employment A need-based employment program. You will be notified of the maximum amount of work-study for which you are eligible in your financial aid award. This amount is not a guarantee, but rather the maximum amount you can earn through employment each year. You will be paid on a weekly basis. Other Employment If you do not qualify for the Federal Work-Study program, you can still apply for student employment on campus. Available openings are posted on the Student Services website at the start of the school year so that all students have an opportunity to apply. Questions? Visit Student Employment Boston College is committed to meeting the full demonstrated need of every admitted student, and therefore we offer a limited number of merit scholarships. In fact, the Presidential Scholarship is our only academic merit-based scholarship, covering full tuition for 18 qualified applicants each year. There is no separate application for the Presidential Scholarship - both Early Decision and Regular Decision candidates are eligible for scholarship consideration as long as their completed application is submitted by the November 1 priority scholarship deadline. Apply for Aid Early Decision I Applicants Early Decision II Applicants Regular Decision Applicants January Enrollment Fall Transfer Applicants Spring Transfer Applicants ED I Priority Deadline Nov 1 To Submit Financial Aid Documents: You are strongly encouraged to submit all required documents to www.bc.edu/finaidupload. Please visit the Financial Aid Forms page for important information and instructions. Unable to upload your documents? Please mail them to: Boston College Financial Aid Processing Center P.O. Box 1482 Portsmouth, NH 03802 (Please label all documents with your name and Eagle ID number.) Questions? Contact Financial Aid Required Item Description Action CSS Profile The College Scholarship Service (CSS) profile enables colleges to see a true picture of a family's financial need. Boston College's code is 3083 CSS Profile FAFSA Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) is used to determine your eligibility for student aid. Boston College's code is 002128 FAFSA Federal Tax Returns Provide your parents' federal tax return and include all schedules and W-2 Statements. If you worked, provide your tax return and include all schedules and W-2 Statements. Additional Financial Aid Documents If your parents own a business If your parents own a business, complete the Business Farm Supplement.* (Required for need-based institutional aid consideration) *If the business files federal tax returns (e.g. partnerships and corporations), submit the 2020 federal business tax return with K-1's and all schedules attached in lieu of the Business Farm Supplement. If your parents are divorced, separated or were never married Complete the Noncustodial Parent PROFILE. (Required for need-based institutional aid consideration). If you do not have contact with one of your parents you may request a Noncustodial Waiver Petition. If you are a non-U.S. citizen, but have permanent residency Provide documentation of permanent residency by submitting a copy of the front and back of your Alien Registration Card. (Required for need-based institutional aid consideration) ED II Priority Deadline Jan 1 To Submit Financial Aid Documents: You are strongly encouraged to submit all required documents to www.bc.edu/finaidupload. Please visit the Financial Aid Forms page for important information and instructions. Unable to upload your documents? Please mail them to: Boston College Financial Aid Processing Center P.O. Box 1482 Portsmouth, NH 03802 (Please label all documents with your name and Eagle ID number.) Questions? Contact Financial Aid Required Item Description Action CSS Profile The College Scholarship Service (CSS) profile enables colleges to see a true picture of a family's financial need. Boston College's code is 3083 CSS Profile FAFSA Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) is used to determine your eligibility for student aid. Boston College's code is 002128 FAFSA Federal Tax Returns Provide your parents' federal tax return and include all schedules and W-2 Statements. If you worked, provide your tax return and include all schedules and W-2 Statements. Additional Financial Aid Documents If your parents own a business If your parents own a business, complete the Business Farm Supplement.* (Required for need-based institutional aid consideration) *If the business files federal tax returns (e.g. partnerships and corporations), submit the 2019 federal business tax return with K-1's and all schedules attached in lieu of the Business Farm Supplement. If your parents are divorced, separated or were never married Complete the Noncustodial Parent PROFILE. (Required for need-based institutional aid consideration). If you do not have contact with one of your parents you may request a Noncustodial Waiver Petition. If you are a non-U.S. citizen, but have permanent residency Provide documentation of permanent residency by submitting a copy of the front and back of your Alien Registration Card. (Required for need-based institutional aid consideration) RD Due Date Feb 1 To Submit Financial Aid Documents: You are strongly encouraged to submit all required documents to www.bc.edu/finaidupload. Please visit the Financial Aid Forms page for important information and instructions. Unable to upload your documents? Please mail them to: Boston College Financial Aid Processing Center P.O. Box 1482 Portsmouth, NH 03802 (Please label all documents with your name and Eagle ID number.) Questions? Contact Financial Aid Required Item Description Action CSS Profile The College Scholarship Service (CSS) profile enables colleges to see a true picture of a family's financial need. Boston College's code is 3083 CSS Profile FAFSA Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) is used to determine your eligibility for student aid. Boston College's code is 002128 FAFSA Federal Tax Returns Provide your parents' federal tax return and include all schedules and W-2 Statements. If you worked, provide your tax return and include all schedules and W-2 Statements. Additional Financial Aid Documents If your parents own a business If your parents own a business, complete the Business Farm Supplement.* (Required for need-based institutional aid consideration) *If the business files federal tax returns (e.g. partnerships and corporations), submit the 2019 federal business tax return with K-1's and all schedules attached in lieu of the Business Farm Supplement. If your parents are divorced, separated or were never married Complete the Noncustodial Parent PROFILE. (Required for need-based institutional aid consideration). If you do not have contact with one of your parents you may request a Noncustodial Waiver Petition. If you are a non-U.S. citizen, but have permanent residency Provide documentation of permanent residency by submitting a copy of the front and back of your Alien Registration Card. (Required for need-based institutional aid consideration) January Due Date Nov 1 To Submit Financial Aid Documents: You are strongly encouraged to submit all required documents to www.bc.edu/finaidupload. Please visit the Financial Aid Forms page for important information and instructions. Unable to upload your documents? Please mail them to: Boston College Financial Aid Processing Center P.O. Box 1482 Portsmouth, NH 03802 (Please label all documents with your name and Eagle ID number.) Questions? Contact Financial Aid Required Item Description Action CSS Profile The College Scholarship Service (CSS) profile enables colleges to see a true picture of a family's financial need. Boston College's code is 3083 CSS Profile FAFSA Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) is used to determine your eligibility for student aid. Boston College's code is 002128 FAFSA Federal Tax Returns Provide your parents' federal tax return and include all schedules and W-2 Statements. If you worked, provide your tax return and include all schedules and W-2 Statements. Additional Financial Aid Documents If your parents own a business If your parents own a business, complete the Business Farm Supplement.* (Required for need-based institutional aid consideration) *If the business files federal tax returns (e.g. partnerships and corporations), submit the 2018 federal business tax return with K-1's and all schedules attached in lieu of the Business Farm Supplement. If your parents are divorced, separated or were never married Complete the Noncustodial Parent PROFILE. (Required for need-based institutional aid consideration). If you do not have contact with one of your parents you may request a Noncustodial Waiver Petition. If you are a non-U.S. citizen, but have permanent residency Provide documentation of permanent residency by submitting a copy of the front and back of your Alien Registration Card. (Required for need-based institutional aid consideration) Fall Transfer: Due Date April 1 To Submit Financial Aid Documents: You are strongly encouraged to submit all required documents to www.bc.edu/finaidupload. Please visit the Financial Aid Forms page for important information and instructions. Unable to upload your documents? Please mail them to: Boston College Financial Aid Processing Center P.O. Box 1482 Portsmouth, NH 03802 (Please label all documents with your name and Eagle ID number.) Questions? Contact Financial Aid Required Item Description Action CSS Profile The College Scholarship Service (CSS) profile enables colleges to see a true picture of a family's financial need. Boston College's code is 3083 CSS Profile FAFSA Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) is used to determine your eligibility for student aid. Boston College's code is 002128 FAFSA Federal Tax Returns Provide your parents' federal tax return and include all schedules and W-2 Statements. If you worked, provide your tax return and include all schedules and W-2 Statements. Additional Financial Aid Documents If your parents own a business If your parents own a business, complete the Business Farm Supplement.* (Required for need-based institutional aid consideration) *If the business files federal tax returns (e.g. partnerships and corporations), submit the 2019 federal business tax return with K-1's and all schedules attached in lieu of the Business Farm Supplement. If your parents are divorced, separated or were never married Complete the Noncustodial Parent PROFILE. (Required for need-based institutional aid consideration). If you do not have contact with one of your parents you may request a Noncustodial Waiver Petition. If you are a non-U.S. citizen, but have permanent residency Provide documentation of permanent residency by submitting a copy of the front and back of your Alien Registration Card. (Required for need-based institutional aid consideration) Spring Transfer: Due Date Nov 1 To Submit Financial Aid Documents: You are strongly encouraged to submit all required documents to www.bc.edu/finaidupload. Please visit the Financial Aid Forms page for important information and instructions. Unable to upload your documents? Please mail them to: Boston College Financial Aid Processing Center P.O. Box 1482 Portsmouth, NH 03802 (Please label all documents with your name and Eagle ID number.) Questions? Contact Financial Aid Required Item Description Action CSS Profile The College Scholarship Service (CSS) profile enables colleges to see a true picture of a family's financial need. Boston College's code is 3083 CSS Profile FAFSA Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) is used to determine your eligibility for student aid. Boston College's code is 002128 FAFSA Federal Tax Returns Provide your parents' federal tax return and include all schedules and W-2 Statements. If you worked, provide your tax return and include all schedules and W-2 Statements. Additional Financial Aid Documents If your parents own a business If your parents own a business, complete the Business Farm Supplement.* (Required for need-based institutional aid consideration) *If the business files federal tax returns (e.g. partnerships and corporations), submit the 2018 federal business tax return with K-1's and all schedules attached in lieu of the Business Farm Supplement. If your parents are divorced, separated or were never married Complete the Noncustodial Parent PROFILE. (Required for need-based institutional aid consideration). If you do not have contact with one of your parents you may request a Noncustodial Waiver Petition. If you are a non-U.S. citizen, but have permanent residency Provide documentation of permanent residency by submitting a copy of the front and back of your Alien Registration Card. (Required for need-based institutional aid consideration) Back To Top Back To Top 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Jobs at BC Give Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College