COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Business Administration - MEM to MBA, Master's Master'sBusiness Administration - MEM to MBA All Programs W. Frank Barton School of Business Graduate Studies in Business The MEM-to-MBA program from Wichita State’s AACSB-accredited Barton School of Business gives engineers holding a Master of Engineering Management (MEM) degree a way to also complete a Master of Business Administration (MBA) in a reasonable timeframe, leading to increased knowledge and skills in business and management—and more career options. Learn how Business Administration - MEM to MBA is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program Admission to the MBA program is based on the following: GMAT/GRE score Personal goals essay References Current resume TOEFL, IELTS or PTE-Academic score for international applicants For additional admission details, click on the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program International business group gives students competitive advantage Cynthia Matson's time at Wichita State shaped who she is today. As a business major, she was vice president of the Barton International Group, a student-run consulting firm through the Barton School of Business at WSU. Every fall, BIG takes undergraduate students from all majors and classes, ranging from finance to mechanical engineering for an opportunity to get involved in unique capacities. As a BIG member, students have the opportunity to gain a competitive advantage through real-world experience, working alongside business professionals from diverse industries in a fast, highly driven environment with other liked-minded students. Curriculum Students completing the MEM program may count four of their MEM courses (12 credit hours) toward their MBA degree. This allows students to complete both programs by taking 60 credit hours of coursework. The MEM program must be completed before any courses can be applied to the MBA program. WSU’s MBA is a traditional, management-based program offering coursework in accounting, business law, economics, management, finance and marketing. A thesis is not required. Most MBA classes are eight-week hybrids, where you attend class once a week and also complete work online. View the curriculum Careers A graduate degree in business from Wichita State's Barton School will help you take the next step in your career—while opening doors to new possibilities. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Management Science and Supply Chain Management (Master's) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©