Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Research Main navigation About Our Research Welcome What we do Research Enterprise Current Initiatives Research Expertise Commission on Research Next Who we are Leadership EVPR Organizational Chart Organization Team Directory Engage with Georgia Tech Engage with Georgia Tech Research & Development Services Interdisciplinary Research Institutes Partnerships & Co-Locations Commercialization & Tech Transfer Talent Acquisition & Prof Development Tech Startups & Entrepreneurship Industry & Business Services Join Our Research Team National Laboratories GT Community Georgia Tech Community For Researchers Research and Covid-19 Guidance Research Development Funding Opportunities Researcher Resources Resources Index For Students Apply to Georgia Tech Undergraduate Research Graduate Research Find a Mentor Impact Georgia Tech's Impact Economic Impact Creating the Next Research Report News News Federal Appointments Research Podcasts Events Contact Us Contact Us Research Contacts Open Search Search Search HELP Didn’t find what you are looking for? We'd like to help! GT Community Inquiries Contact: Office of EVPR Team All Other Inquiries Contact: Georgia Parmelee, Director of Research Communications Breadcrumb Home Economic Impact Economic Impact Helping grow Georgia’s economy has been part of Georgia Tech’s mission since its founding in 1885. Our direct economic impact on the state was $3.3 billion in 2018, and accounted for some 27,000 jobs in metro Atlanta alone. Our broader impact comes through a commitment to help create or save jobs, strengthen communities’ economic competitiveness, and help entrepreneurs establish new companies. The Enterprise Innovation Institute (EI2) is Georgia Tech’s chief economic development arm and in 2019 its programs served 9,599 businesses, communities, and entrepreneurs. Those clients reported startup investment capital exceeding $456 million and created or saved 16,304 jobs. For all of 2019, EI2’s total financial impact exceeded $2.96 billion. Among EI2's leading programs is the Georgia Manufacturing Extension Partnership (GaMEP), which works with manufacturers through training and technical assistance to improve their competitiveness, increase growth, and cut costs. GaMEP, which is EI2's largest program, worked with more than 700 manufacturers in Georgia to increase manufacturing sales by $317 million, reduce clients' operating costs by $121 million, invest more than $159 million back into their plants, and create or retain 2,074 jobs. In 2018, Georgia Tech’s VentureLab program helped form 24 startup companies, and attracted more than $162 million in investment. VentureLab helps faculty, staff, and students turn research results into startup companies that generate jobs and economic impact for the state of Georgia. The I-Corps initiative, supported by the National Science Foundation, helps scientists and engineers extend their focus beyond the laboratory and fosters entrepreneurship leading to commercialization. The Advanced Technology Development Center (ATDC), Georgia's technology incubator, has graduated more than 170 companies that have generated $12 billion in revenues. Georgia Tech has attracted more than 35 innovation centers from companies such as AT&T, Delta Air Lines, Home Depot, and Siemens. Georgia Tech is also investing in the state through research and strategic initiatives such as the Georgia Smart Communities Challenge, which is collaborating with cities and counties across the state. Georgia Smart connects communities to Georgia Tech’s applied and multi-disciplinary research and works with these local communities to create solutions and apply technology to tackle their unique challenges. The Center for Economic Development Research (CEDR), is leading the Investing in Manufacturing Communities Partnership (IMCP) initiative for the 15-county northwest Georgia region. This project is focused on the development and implementation of that region’s first advanced manufacturing strategy. Tech also is working with the Georgia Ports Authority and the Georgia Center of Innovation for Logistics to bring advanced research, evolving global logistics trends, and analysis from the world to Savannah through Tech’s Supply Chain and Logistics Institute. The goal of the project is to facilitate further growth and expansion of the Georgia Ports Authority’s service area. Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Accessibility Download PDF Reader Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN