Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary COLLEGE OF EDUCATION COLLEGE OF EDUCATION EDUCATIONAL LEADERSHIP & POLICY STUDIES Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 EDLPS 302 Introduction to Education Policy: Research, Theory, and Practice (5) M. Sun Introduces students to basic research, theory, and practice about educational policy and its influence on student educational outcomes, as well as longer-term outcomes such as future earnings. Discusses the ways in which educational inequalities seen in settings from early-childhood through university contribute to broad social and economic inequality. No prior knowledge or experience is required. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 302 EDLPS 444 Constitution and American Public Education (3-6, max. 6) I&S Examines the relationships between the Constitution of the United States and the American system of public education, excluding higher education, in areas of constitutional freedom and legal controls, racial desegregation, and equal educational opportunity, including equal financing of the public schools. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: jointly with LAW 444. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 444 EDLPS 458 Education in the Forming of American Society (5) I&S Beadie Covers the development of American education in cultural context; history of schools and non-school learning from colonial period to the twentieth-century; apprenticeship and learning societies; community and market-based schooling; liberal learning and the rise of the university; and schools as agencies of economic and political integration and mediators of culture and social status. Offered: jointly with HSTAA 458. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 458 EDLPS 459 History of American Education Since 1865 (3) I&S Development of American education in cultural context: progressive education, recent criticism, continuing issues and trends. Offered: jointly with HSTAA 459. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 459 EDLPS 479 Crucial Issues in Education (3) Selected educational issues, policies, and contexts. Evolution of the American education enterprise, legal issues, professionalism, finance, and other vital educational concerns. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 479 EDLPS 496 Workshop: Education Programs and Problems (1-6, max. 10) Study of such topics as planning, development, supervision, organization, operation, or evaluation of current or emerging programs or problems in education. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 496 EDLPS 499 Undergraduate Research (*) Students developing studies under this rubric should be advised that a report or a paper setting forth the results of their investigations should be regarded as a basic part of the program. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 499 EDLPS 501 Introduction: Leadership Beyond the Classroom (3-6, max. 6) First course in principal certification program; explores Washington state laws, legal principles, context of public schools, multicultural issues, changing population. Essential skills of leadership: communication, human relations, strategies for shared decision making, and dealing with conflict. (Open only to students admitted to the Danforth Principal/Program Administrator Preparation Program.) View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 501 EDLPS 502 Leadership Core ([3-6]-, max. 6) Moral dimensions of leadership; modes of inquiry; organizational theory and change; instructional leadership and supervision; school-centered inquiry and decision-making; policy, planning, and program evaluation; issues on diversity and multicultural education; American and Washington State school law; school finance and resource allocation; school-community relations. Instruction occurs in units and seminar throughout the academic year. Prerequisite: admission to Principal/Program Administrator Preparation Program. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 502 EDLPS 503 Leadership Core (-[3-6]-, max. 6) Moral dimensions of leadership; modes of inquiry; organizational theory and change; instructional leadership and supervision; school-centered inquiry and decision-making; policy, planning, and program evaluation; issues on diversity and multicultural education; American and Washington State school law; school finance and resource allocation; school-community relations. Instruction occurs in units and seminar throughout the academic year. Prerequisite: admission to Danforth Principal/Program Administrator Preparation Program. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 503 EDLPS 504 Leadership Core (-[3-6], max. 6) Moral dimensions of leadership; modes of inquiry; organizational theory and change; instructional leadership and supervision; school-centered inquiry and decision-making; policy, planning, and program evaluation; issues on diversity and multicultural education; American and Washington State school law; school finance and resource allocation; school-community relations. Instruction occurs in units and seminar throughout the academic year. Prerequisite: admission to Danforth Principal/Program Administrator Preparation Program. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 504 EDLPS 505 Transition to Leadership (1-, max. 3) Designed for students in the Danforth Educational Leadership Program. Introduces students to applied educational research concepts; how to conduct inquiry project(s) within schools, with a focus on equity; and to write a research paper around the inquiry project. Prerequisite: admission to College of Education Danforth Educational Leadership Program. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 505 EDLPS 506 Intercollegiate Athletic Leadership: Foundations of Leadership (3) S. LOPEZ Focuses on theoretical frameworks and research used to explore athletic leadership within higher education and issues driving athletic department policies and practices. Students develop skills and strategies for leadership and decision-making that enhance student-athlete opportunities and enrich the role of athletics within the educational experience. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 506 EDLPS 507 Intercollegiate Athletic Leadership: Coaching Philosophy and Pedagogy (3) S. LOPEZ Helps athletics coaches develop skills and strategies for decision-making that enhance student-athlete opportunities and enriches the role of athletics within the educational experience. In addition to examining coaching philosophy and mission, students learn and practice basic instructional techniques and coaching pedagogy. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 507 EDLPS 508 Intercollegiate Athletic Leadership: Development and Fundraising in Higher Education (3) Covers the importance of a comprehensive development plan for the university and intercollegiate athletic department, along with the basic components of development including research, solicitation, stewardship, annual campaigns, and major gifts. Also explores marketing, promotions, sponsorships and communications departments. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 508 EDLPS 509 Intercollegiate Athletic Leadership: Leadership and Management Capstone (2) Explores the breadth of athletic management through leadership lens. Explores organization mission and culture, while examining their own leadership styles and practices. Participation in case studies, leadership training, crisis management exercises, and other activities designed to analyze and respond to real-world situations. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 509 EDLPS 510 School Finance (3) Margaret L Plecki Financial practices and problems in districts and schools considered, including state and federal support plans, school plant planning, school business management, resource allocation, and budgeting and educational accountability. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 510 EDLPS 511 School-Community Relations (3) Examines the dynamics of the interface between the public schools and the community. Special attention is given to the findings of research in relation to school-community power, types, and organizational influences. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 511 EDLPS 512 Intercollegiate Athletic Leadership: Events and Facilities Planning and Management (3) H. OLSON Athletic departments must plan and manage a variety of events including team practices, competitions, alumni activities, hosted tournaments, and outreach activities. Engages students in understanding the planning process and operations around event production, facilities management, staffing, scheduling, and other event services. Also examines capital planning. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 512 EDLPS 513 Intercollegiate Athletic Leadership: Marketing and Communications in Intercollegiate Athletics (3) GREGG GREENE Participants learn the inner workings of a sports organization, gaining broad insight into the areas such as: media relations, public relations, sales, recruiting, branding, sponsorship, ticket sales, event promotions, the use of social media. Students strategize and practice communication an effective message delivery through a variety of mediums. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 513 EDLPS 514 Intercollegiate Athletic Leadership: Informing Policy and Decision-Making with Data (3) J. HOFFMAN Focuses on methods of assessment and evaluation with a focus on strategic planning and decision-making, accountability systems and assessment-driven decision-making. Students learn to use practical statistical skills, with an emphasis on the use and interpretation of data to guide decision-making. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 514 EDLPS 515 Intercollegiate Athletic Leadership: Ethical Leadership in Collegiate Athletics (3) Examination of procedures and techniques pertinent to the management of organizational conflict. Among the areas covered are collective bargaining, grievance procedures, mediation, fact finding, and arbitration. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 515 EDLPS 516 Special Education and the Law (3) Brown Overview of major state and federal laws affecting the operation and management of special education programs in public schools. Emphasis upon procedural and substantive rights of children with disabling conditions. Offered: jointly with EDSPE 504. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 516 EDLPS 517 Intercollegiate Athletic Leadership: Physical Training and Preparation (3) Athletics coaches work to develop a student-centered training program that maximizes athlete performance and wellness. Students explore leadership, policy, and program planning and implementation based on human development theory and current issues with sport performance. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 517 EDLPS 519 Special Topics in Educational Leadership ([0-10]-, max. 20) Readings, lectures, and discussions pertaining to significant topics of special and current interest to educators. Focus is on issues of particular concern to K-12 administrators and other educators in leadership roles in districts and schools. Topics vary. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 519 EDLPS 520 Education as a Moral Endeavor (3) Tomas de Rezende Rocha An exploration of fundamental questions that have faced educational leaders in the past and most likely will continue to face them in the future. Foundational studies in history, philosophy, and sociology provide the basis for discussion and writing about these fundamental questions. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 520 EDLPS 521 Philosophy of Education (3) Tomas de Rezende Rocha Philosophy of education considered as a study of the conceptual basis for educational policy and practice. Emphasis on relationships between enduring educational problems and fundamental philosophic issues; concepts that feature centrally in educational discourse; and conceptual analysis as a means for clarifying decisions regarding educational policy and practice. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 521 EDLPS 522 Social Science, Social Justice, and Qualitative Research (3) D. KERDEMAN Intensive study of the writings of selected contemporary philosophers of education. Offered: WS. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 522 EDLPS 524 Seminar in Philosophy of Education (3, max. 6) D. KERDEMAN Philosophical examination of ways in which education might be studied. Uses and limits of conventional scientific approaches in education inquiry. Consideration of alternatives. Offered: WS. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 524 EDLPS 525 Educational Inquiry (3) D. KERDEMAN General survey of epistemological issues underlying the several schools of thought or families of inquiry. Overview of various methods used in conduct of educational inquiry, examples of ways those methods are typically used, and exploration of strengths and weaknesses of those methods. Discussion throughout is in terms of assumptions regarding the nature of knowledge and purposes of inquiry. Must be taken in sequence. Prerequisite: doctoral status in education. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 525 EDLPS 526 Educational Inquiry (3) D. KERDEMAN General survey of epistemological issues underlying the several schools of thought or families of inquiry. Overview of various methods used in conduct of educational inquiry, examples of ways those methods are typically used, and exploration of strengths and weaknesses of those methods. Discussion throughout is in terms of assumptions regarding the nature of knowledge and purposes of inquiry. Must be taken in sequence. Prerequisite: doctoral status in education. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 526 EDLPS 528 Current Issues in Graduate Education (3) M. NERAD Examines recurrent forces impacting U.S. graduate education including but not limited to research funding, intra-institutional pressure, student unions, and accountability. Analyzes the current literature from different perspectives: historical, psychological, sociological, economic, and educational to illuminate the complexities of graduate education. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 528 EDLPS 530 History of Education (3) N. BEADIE Historical survey of education. Emphasis on relationship between idea and practice. Topics include education and colonialism, formation of state school systems, progressive education, equal educational opportunity, changes in textbooks and curricula, education and social structure, and education in the history of cultures. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 530 EDLPS 531 History of American Higher Education (3) Examination of the historical development of the American higher education enterprise, including pre-colonial origins. Includes attention to the colonial colleges, the rise of new institutions in the nineteenth century, and the further development of American colleges and universities in the twentieth century. Leaders in these developments are identified. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 531 EDLPS 535 Historical Inquiry in Education Research (3, max. 6) N. BEADIE Methods and critique of historical research in education. Examination of landmark works in education history and historiography. Hands-on experience framing historical questions, finding historical sources, using historical evidence, substantiating historical claims, and addressing issues in the history of education. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 535 EDLPS 536 Historical Problems in the Transfer of Culture (4) N. BEADIE Provides an analysis and interpretation of the history of education in its broadest sense: the transfer of culture across generations. Pays special attention to issues of cultural conflict, cultural change, and curricula as representations of culture. Examines problems of evidence and interpretation in exemplary historical works. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 536 EDLPS 537 Perennial Debates in the History of Education (3) J. WILLIAMSON-LOTT Analysis of the historical underpinnings of debates about educational issues. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 537 EDLPS 538 Education for Liberation (3) J. WILLIAMSON-LOTT Analyses of the different educational histories of American ethnic, social, gender, and religious groups and how they relate their own definitions of "education for liberation." View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 538 EDLPS 539 History of Urban Education (4) Beadie Examines the complex ways that race, class, real estate interests, the quest for social mobility, and a range of government policies have interacted to structure the social and spatial distribution of educational opportunity in cities historically. Includes a comparative historical analysis of urban case studies, including Seattle. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 539 EDLPS 540 Sociology of Education (3) Examination of education and educational institutions by using the major conceptual tools of sociology. Emphasis on sociological thought and findings that have particular bearing on the understandings and judgments of educators. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 540 EDLPS 544 Comparative Education: Introduction to Concepts and Methods (3) Introduction to research methods used in comparative education studies. Considers ways to study familiar and unfamiliar contexts, identifies the common pitfalls of international comparisons. Reviews ethnomethodological tools of interview construction, cross-cultural observation strategies, documentary analysis. Education policy and practice is primary focus; useful for comparing other public policy issues internationally. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 544 EDLPS 545 Knowledge and Data in Relation to Action ([0/3]-, max. 3) Introduces Leadership for Learning (L4L) students to systematic inquiry - to fundamental ideas about knowing and knowledge, data and evidence, and to the applications of these ideas in settings that invite leadership action to address educational issues. Prerequisite: admission to the Leadership Learning program. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 545 EDLPS 546 Leadership Inquiry I: The Design of Research on Local Problems of Practice ([0/3]-, max. 3) Examines evaluation design, action research, critical inquiry, and mixed method research. Equips L4L students to recognize and create viable, rigorous designs for action-oriented research into local problems of practice. Prerequisite: admission to the Leadership Learning program. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 546 EDLPS 547 Inquiry and Data-Informed Leadership I ([0/3]-, max. 9) Deepens students' understanding of a cycle of inquiry approach to strengthen their leadership, with a particular emphasis on working with evidence from a systemic, equity, and excellence stance. Prerequisite: Leadership for Learning EdD students only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 547 EDLPS 548 Inquiry and Data-Informed Leadership II ([0/3]-, max. 9) Strengthens students' engagement with and application of cycle of inquiry approach to their leadership practice. Prerequisite: Leadership for Learning EdD students only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 548 EDLPS 549 Special Topics in Educational Studies (1-6, max. 20) Readings, lectures, and discussions pertaining to significant and enduring ideas in the philosophy, history and sociology of education. Specific topics are critically examined in light of contemporary problems in education. Topics vary. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 549 EDLPS 550 The Dynamics of Educational Organizations (4) Exploration of the literature in organizational theory and leadership, the assumptions that underlie the development of various approaches to organizational theory and how these approaches are applied, and an acquaintance with different conceptual frames that can be used to determine how to improve and change organizations. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 550 EDLPS 551 Organizational Theory and Educational Change (4) Introduces students to the interdisciplinary research literature on organizations and its applicability to the research and practice of educational organizations. Engages students in understanding and critiquing organizational research and using it to develop conceptual frameworks to guide educational research and practice. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 551 EDLPS 552 Organizational Change in Education (3) Change and innovation in educational organizations. Theoretical approaches include sociopsychological, rational planning, political perspectives, and those associated with notion of organized anarchies. Specific topics related to change and innovation (e.g., roles of beliefs, symbols and norms, diffusion of innovations, and research issues). View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 552 EDLPS 553 Human Resources in Educational Organizations (3) Analysis of factors involved in human resource problems related to operation of educational organizations. Motivation, perception, communication, role analysis, and dynamics of groups are studied through use of cases and seminal literature. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 553 EDLPS 554 Professional Growth Planning I (5) Supports students' professional growth and development, as simultaneously builds a professional culture and network among cohort members to maximize student success in the program. Prerequisite: Leadership for Learning EdD students only. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 554 EDLPS 555 Professional Growth Planning II (5) Supports students' professional growth and development, and scaffolds the internship and capstone portfolio processes within a professional culture and network that maximized student success in the program. Prerequisite: Leadership for Learning EdD students only. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 555 EDLPS 556 Leadership for Equitable Systems I ([2-6]-, max. 9) Supports students in taking a systemic approach to their leadership, regardless of their formal position. Major topics include resource allocation and an introduction to policy design and implementation. Prerequisite: Leadership for Learning EdD students only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 556 EDLPS 557 Leadership for Equitable Systems II ([2-5]-, max. 9) Supports students in taking a systemic approach to their leadership, regardless of their formal position. Major topics include governance, collaborative decision-making, and the design and redesign of organizations. Prerequisite: Leadership for Learning EdD students only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 557 EDLPS 558 Introduction to Qualitative Research Methods in Education (3) A. ELFERS Provides a basic overview of qualitative research methods. Covers the purpose, design, and conduct of qualitative research. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 558 EDLPS 560 Educational Policy Studies and Practice (3) Min Sun An introduction to key policies, reforms, and issues in education, with a central focus on policy actors, instruments, and actions in promoting educational equity. Discusses theoretical frameworks, analytical models, and policy practices in U.S. schools. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 560 EDLPS 561 Education Policies and Leadership in Political Context (3) Systematic consideration of the structure and function of educational policies and problems of research in political context. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 561 EDLPS 562 American School Law (3) Examination of persistent legal issues, including an analysis of how these issues are manifest in public policy debates. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 562 EDLPS 563 Education, The Workforce, and Public Policy (4) Examination of policy issues involving education, training, the economy, and the development of the nation's human resources. Relationship between education, training, and work, and among the various levels of the education system, underutilized workers, race and gender issues, and the role of education and training in economic development. Offered: jointly with PUBPOL 571. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 563 EDLPS 564 Seminar in Economics of Education (3) M. PLECKI Current problems in school finance, including costs, ability to support schools, and financial implications of educational principles. The economics of public education. Problems of federal, state, and local school support. Financing capital outlay, research, and public relations. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 564 EDLPS 565 Race, Equity, and Leading Educational Change (3) An introduction to key leadership theories, research, and practice, with a central focus on issues of race, class, power and privilege in addressing educational inequities. Applies a leadership lends to examine research and problems of practice in organizational transformation in U.S. schools and educational organizations. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 565 EDLPS 566 Education Policy Serving Disenfranchised Groups (3) Examines programs and policies aimed at ameliorating conditions that face disenfranchised groups in contemporary K-12 schooling. Seminar members critically analyze the assumptions, design, and likely impact of these programs and policies on institutions and individuals. Designed for advanced doctoral students. Others admitted with permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 566 EDLPS 567 Education Policy and the Improvement of Teaching and Learning (3) Examines connections between policies and classroom practice, in P-12 and higher education settings. Of particular concern is the capacity of policy to improve the quality of curriculum and instruction. Students design and critique policies, drawing on research and feedback from policymakers. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 567 EDLPS 568 Policy Evaluation in Education (3) Examination of methods for evaluating educational policies across the educational continuum. Students design and conduct a policy evaluation which draws on the policy evaluation literature. Examination of the uses of policy evaluation information in shaping organization-decision making is also included. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 568 EDLPS 569 Issues in P-12 School Reform (3-5, max. 20) Copland, Knapp Offers rigorous ways to explore the meaning and action implications of contemporary reform movements in the P-12 public school system. Examines a different topic each quarter concerning reform at school, district, state, or federal levels through readings, discussion, projects, and analytical writing assignments. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 569 EDLPS 571 Instructional Leadership I ([0/3]-, max. 9) Strengthens students' ability to exercise instructional leadership across various roles inside and outside school systems. Prerequisite: Leadership for Learning EdD students only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 571 EDLPS 572 Instructional Leadership II ([2-5]-, max. 9) Strengthens students' ability to exercise instructional leadership across various roles inside and outside school systems with emphasis on bringing instructional leadership to scale at the district level. Prerequisite: Leadership for Learning EdD students only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 572 EDLPS 573 Professional Learning and Instructional Renewal (2-4, max. 4) Investigates professional learning and how to support it, based on cognitive research, sociocultural theory, and scholarship on teacher education (preservice and inservice). Offers system-level leaders ways to address the quality of teaching and learning in classrooms. Prerequisite: admission to the Leadership Learning program. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 573 EDLPS 574 Mixed Methods in Educational Research (3) M. PLECKI Introduces the principles of mixed methods research design, whereby qualitative and quantitative components inform each other in sampling, data collection, and data analysis. Explores design issues and solutions primarily in the context of education policy research. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 574 EDLPS 575 Education Policy Implementation (4) M. HONIG Analyzes influences on implementation outcomes. Focuses on how skilled use of theoretical frameworks can help reveal relationships between policy and practice and evidence-based decisions that may improve implementation. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 575 EDLPS 576 Antiracist Educational Leadership (3) Jessica G. Rigby Conceptualizes anti-racist leadership in student-driven areas of education through a review of literature and theories about anti-racism and leadership in service of historically marginalized youth and communities. Recommended: EDLPS 565. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 576 EDLPS 577 Applied Quasi-Experimental Research in Education (3) David Knight, Min Sun Introduces research designs and statistical models that are often applied to large-scale longitudinal data. These models include, but are not limited to, instrumental variables, difference-in-differences, propensity score matching, regression discontinuity, and fixed-effect estimates. Prerequisite: either EDPSY 538 or equivalent, or permission of instructor. Offered: A, even years. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 577 EDLPS 579 Special Topics in Organizational and Policy Analysis ([0-6]-, max. 20) Readings, lectures, and discussions pertaining to significant topics of special and current interest to educators. Focus is on issues related to the analysis of educational organizations, policies, and policy making. Topics vary. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 579 EDLPS 580 The American College and University (4) Introduction to contemporary United States higher education, with special emphasis on emerging trends, roles of the several kinds of institutions, the composition and character of student bodies and faculty, and the state coordination of colleges and universities. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 580 EDLPS 583 Higher Education and the Law (3) Legal implications of university operations and an explanation of the legal and constitutional rights of students, faculty, and staff within the university. Special attention given to faculty employment and termination decisions; student protections, including due process; and university liabilities. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 583 EDLPS 584 Academic Governance and Collective Bargaining in Higher Education (3) Explores the concept and operation of collective bargaining in higher education: its origin; the reasons for its growing popularity as a governance mechanism; the legal framework within which it operates; the rights, powers, and duties subsumed under its operation; and its relationship to the traditional form of faculty governance mechanisms. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 584 EDLPS 585 Resource Allocation in Higher Education (3) After attention to the basic tools of economic analysis, focus is on application of those tools to specific topics in higher education (e.g., access, budgeting, finance and policies, and funding alternatives). View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 585 EDLPS 586 Navigating the P-20 Pipeline (3) J. MYERS TWITCHELL Introduction to programs, policies, and challenges related to supporting students as they transition from K-12 schools to institutions of higher education. Exploration of localized/region-based efforts to decrease the post-secondary opportunity gap, including funding models, collaborations and networks, and data and measurement strategies to increase rates of post-secondary attainment. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 586 EDLPS 587 Seminar in Teaching and Learning in Higher Education (3, max. 9) Theory and practice of instruction and learning in higher education. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 587 EDLPS 588 Leadership and Management in Higher Education (4) J. LOTT Introduction to enduring and emerging philosophical and theoretical perspectives on leading and managing in college and university settings. Provides tools to be more explicit with the ways in which leaders and managers go about their work in higher education. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 588 EDLPS 589 The Community College (3) Intensive study of the community college-its history and present and future status. Curriculum, instruction, financial, and governance issues are also discussed. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 589 EDLPS 590 Student Populations and Experiences in Higher Education (3-4) Examines foundational literature on students in United States higher education. Focuses on student diversity, similarities and differences in their experiences, and the role of societal values, campus climate and structure, family, work, and peers on student access, engagement, well-being, and success. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 590 EDLPS 591 Higher Education and Public Policy (3) Covers public policy processes affecting higher education. Issues examined vary, but typically include fiscal context of higher education policy, access, equity, distance learning, and accountability policies. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 591 EDLPS 592 Higher Education Equity, Reform, and Policy (3) Develops the critical and analytical lens that students apply to public policy issues as they directly relate to higher education in the United States. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 592 EDLPS 593 Assessment and Evaluation in Higher Education (3) Covers the key components of evaluation design and implementation, particularly what researchers and practitioners define as good assessment and evaluation approaches. Develops competencies in planning assessment and evaluation strategies using these approaches. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 593 EDLPS 594 Globalization and Interntionalization of Higher Education (4) M. NERAD Impact of globalization on higher education and strategies used by higher-ed institutions to achieve internationalization. Conceptual frameworks linking higher education institutions to economic competitiveness in the global economy. Critically analyzes recent local (UW, community colleges), national, and international initiatives and activities to achieve internationalization of the institutions and global awareness of students, faculty, staff. Offered: AS. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 594 EDLPS 596 Secondary Data Analysis (3-5) Joe L. Lott II. Introduces the conceptual and practical issues involved in conducting educational research using existing sources of data, commonly known as secondary data analysis. Covers several fundamental concepts in order to become an informed and competent researcher who uses secondary data. Prerequisite: basic understanding of educational statistics. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 596 EDLPS 597 Advanced Secondary Data Analysis (3) J. LOTT Applied methods. Introduces the conceptual and practical issues involved in conducting educational research using existing sources of data, commonly known as secondary data analysis. Covers several fundamental concepts in order to become an informed and competent researcher who uses secondary data. Prerequisite: EDLPS 596. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 597 EDLPS 598 Special Topics in Higher Education (1-6, max. 20) Readings, lectures, and discussions pertaining to significant topics of special and current interest to educators. Focus is on issues related to education in community colleges, four-year colleges, and universities. Topics vary. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 598 EDLPS 599 Independent Studies in Education (1-10, max. 20) Registration must be accompanied by a study prospectus endorsed by the appropriate faculty adviser for the work proposed, and which with permission of the instructor, must be filed with the Office of Leadership and Policy Studies in the College of Education. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 599 EDLPS 600 Independent Study or Research (*-) Registration must be accompanied by a study prospectus endorsed by the appropriate faculty adviser for the work proposed, and which with permission of the instructor, must be filed with the Office of Leadership and Policy Studies in the College of Education. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 600 EDLPS 601 Internship ([1-4]-, max. 20) Name of faculty member responsible for supervising the student should be indicated on program of studies. Prerequisite: permission of Supervisory Committee Chairperson or Graduate Program Adviser. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: EDLPS 601 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022