Chancellor Offices Directory Contact Us About Us Leadership Our Universities Giving Reports Policies Risk Management Mission & Policy Services Standards of Practice Quick Resources Guide Risk Management Outreach Enterprise Risk Management Continuity of Operations Planning Staff Flight ManifestCoronavirusEmergency InfoRMIS ACCESS report an incident Office of Risk Management Texas Tech University System System Administration Building 1508 Knoxville Ave. STE. 315L Box 42003 Lubbock, TX 79409-2003 Office: 806.742.0212 8 a.m. - 5 p.m. Central, Monday - Friday Home / Offices / Risk Management Office of Risk Management The Office of Risk Management partners with the components to create an environment where faculty, staff and students assume a risk management philosophy. The office works closely with all campuses of each component in the Texas Tech University System to identify and manage our risks. The office fosters a culture of prevention throughout the TTU System, seeking to involve all parts of the organization in moving beyond simply responding to events and taking responsibility for individual opportunities to evoke change. The office strives to provide service, support, and safety to every member of the TTU System family and to educate faculty, staff and students so they can be a part of the risk management process. This engages each department to identify, analyze and control the risk of loss (human, physical, financial and reputational) in their specific areas. The office provides services for workers’ compensation, automobile claims, third party claims, contractual review, insurance acquisition, public access defibrillation, drug screening, driver approval, loss prevention, consultative services, and cooperative activities with emergency management. Medical professional risk management is administered by the Professional Liability Office at Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center. Texas Tech University System Administration Values Culture website Fraud & Misconduct Hotline | Careers | Site Map | Webmaster Texas Tech University Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center Angelo State University Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center El Paso Midwestern State University State of Texas Statewide Search Online Institutional Resumes Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal SAO Fraud Reporting Energy Management TTU System Regulations General Policy Information Title IX Open Records Requests ©2013 Texas Tech University System 1508 Knoxville Avenue, Lubbock, TX 79409 806.742.2011 ©