Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu College of Health Sciences About Undergraduate Graduate Certificates & Continuing Ed Students Research Centers & Institutes News & Events Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Contact Us Our Faculty All FacultyDietetics/NutritionExercise, Sport & Movement SciencesHealth Sciences/Health PromotionHealthcare LeadershipPhysical Education Teacher EducationSurgical Technology Program Coordinators & Directors Support our College Take Action Find a Program that Drives You Meet our Faculty Schedule an Advising Appointment Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedn Home College of Health Sciences Contact Us Douglas Powell Douglas Powell, PhD BMEC Program Coordinator | Associate Professor Phone 901.678.4316 Email dwpowell@memphis.edu Fax 901.678.3591 Office Fieldhouse 171C Office Hours By appointment CV About Douglas Powell <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe --> Douglas W. Powell, PhD earned a bachelor's degree in exercise science and a master's degree in biomechanics from East Carolina University under the tutelage of Dr. Tibor Hortobagyi. He completed his doctoral training in biomechanics/sports medicine under Dr. Songning Zhang at the University of Tennessee. He is currently an associate professor in the College of Health Sciences at the University of Memphis with undergraduate and graduate teaching responsibilities. Dr. Powell is also the program coordinator for the new Applied Biomechanics doctoral program set to launch in the fall of 2022. Dr. Powell's research interests pertain to the interaction of anatomical structure, neurophysiological function and movement biomechanics. He has interest in the biomechanical and neurophysiological underpinnings of stiffness and rigidity in sports movements and Parkinson's disease, respectively. He also has interest in the efficacy of therapeutic exercise interventions on neuromuscular function in patients and tactical athletes. Dr. Powell actively collaborates with researchers from institutions around the world including Virginia Commonwealth University, Virginia Tech University, Deutsche Sporthocschule Koln and the Saint Louis Cardinals. He is a member of the American College of Sports Medicine, American Society of Biomechanics, American Heart Association and National Strength & Conditioning Association. Dr. Powell has consulted with high school, collegiate and professional athletes as well as tactical athletes under Special Operations Command to enhance performance, reduce injury risk and accelerate rehabilitation. Dr. Powell competed as a collegiate and semi-professional soccer player at East Carolina University and Tobacco Road FC, respectively. He has also coached soccer athletes from youth to professional levels. Dr. Powell now lives in Cordova, Tennessee with his wife Ashley and daughter Isabella. Education PhD Kinesiology (Biomechanics) - University of Tennessee, Knoxville, TN MA Biomechanics – East Carolina University, Greenville, NC BS Exercise Science – East Carolina University, Greenville, NC RECENTLY PUBLISHED RESEARCH > Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/1/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.