Menu Close Menu Skip to content Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters A to Z index Search for: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Email People Departments Calendar Careers my.harvard Giving About Faculty & Research Admissions & Aid Academics Executive/Continuing Ed News Graduation Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health > Graduation > Diploma, Registration, Tuition & Health Insurance Information Graduation Menu Search for: Home Class of 2022 Response form 2022 University Commencement Regalia Affinity Graduation Celebrations Student Speaker Contest Visa Support Letter Other Graduation Events Classes of 2020 and 2021 Response form 20/21 University Commencement Regalia Keynote Speaker Harvard Chan Live Speaker Profiles Getting to Campus Visa Support Letter Alumni Graduation Timeline November Graduation Timeline March Graduation Timeline May Graduation Timeline Diploma, Registration, Dissertation, Tuition & Health Insurance Information Loan Exit Counseling Requirements Awards Post-Graduation FAQs Information for Faculty Information for Guests Transportation and shuttles Diploma, Registration, Tuition & Health Insurance Information Diploma In addition to physical copies of diplomas, Harvard University now offers Certified Electronic Diplomas and Certificates (CeDiploma® and CeCertificate®). The CeDiploma is an official, secure and verifiable PDF version of your accomplishment. The CeDiploma will be sent to each student via their official Harvard email after they graduate. Additional information regarding CeDiplomas can be found on the Harvard University website. For May Graduates All diplomas for May 2022 graduates will be mailed and the diploma mailing fee will be waived. In order to ensure that your diploma arrives at your desired address, log in to my.harvard, add your “Diploma Mailing Address”, and confirm your phone number before Friday, April 8th. Your term bill must be at a zero balance in order to receive your diploma. Please contact registrar@hsph.harvard.edu with any questions. For November and March Graduates All diplomas for November 2021 and March 2022 graduates will be mailed and the diploma mailing fee will be waived. In order to ensure that your diploma arrives at your desired address, log in to my.harvard, add your “Diploma Mailing Address”, and confirm your phone number before Friday, October 1st for November 2021 graduates or before Friday, February 11th for March 2022 graduates. Your term bill must be at a zero balance in order to receive your diploma. Registration Information - For Doctoral Students Only Fall Registration – November Graduates If you will be defending and submitting your dissertation/thesis BEFORE OR ON the fall add/drop deadline of midnight September 9, 2021, you do NOT have to register. If you will be defending and/or submitting your dissertation/thesis AFTER the fall add/drop deadline of midnight September 9, 2021, you MUST register. Spring Registration – March Graduates March graduates do not need to register for the spring semester. Spring Registration – May Graduates May graduates must register for the spring semester by no later than the spring add/drop deadline of midnight on February 3, 2022. Tuition - Doctoral Students Only November Doctoral Graduates If you have met the financial residency requirement (2 years full-time and 1 year full-time reduced), you will be assessed Facilities Fees for the fall semester. If you have NOT met the financial residency requirement (2 years full-time and 1 year full-time reduced), you will be assessed tuition at your normally scheduled full-time or part-time doctoral tuition rate. Please review 2021-2022 Tuition and Fees for detailed information. March & May Doctoral Graduates If you have met the financial residency requirement (2 years full-time and 1 year full-time reduced), you will be assessed Facilities Fees for the spring semester. If you have NOT met the financial residency requirement (2 years full-time and 1 year full-time reduced), you will be assessed tuition at your normally scheduled full-time or part-time doctoral tuition rate. Please review 2021-2022 Tuition and Fees for detailed information. Health Insurance November Graduates Not all November degree candidates are eligible for Fall Health Insurance Coverage. Be sure to contact Harvard University Health Services (HUHS) to confirm their November degree health coverage policy. HUHS Graduating Students Information It is our understanding that if you defend and submit your dissertation on or before September 9, 2021 and are not registered, you are NOT eligible for university insurance coverage and your coverage will retroactively be backdated to July 31. Please confirm this information directly with HUHS. If you do not want Health Insurance for the fall, regardless of your eligibility, we recommend that you submit waivers through HUHS by July 31, 2021. Contact HUHS with any questions you may have. March Graduates According to Harvard University’s website, March graduates’ HUSHP coverage will end on January 31st. Please confirm all insurance status questions directly with Harvard University Health Services. May Graduates According to Harvard University’s website, May graduates’ HUSHP coverage will end on July 31, 2022. Please confirm all insurance status questions directly with Harvard University Health Services. If you DO NOT want Health Insurance for the spring semester, be sure to submit waivers through HUHS by January 31. News from the School Congratulations graduates! Probing disease disparities Saving a daughter, starting a career Tackling disparities and stigma around obesity, mental health Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters About Key Facts Renaming the School Office of the Dean Location and Facilities Administrative Offices Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty and Researcher Directory Academic Departments, Divisions and Centers International Research Postdoctoral Research Fellows Office of Faculty Affairs Faculty Searches Office of Diversity and Inclusion Admissions & Aid Why Harvard Chan Degree Programs Non-Degree Programs Financial Aid Student Experience Career Advancement Apply Academics Academic Departments Divisions Research Centers Flagship Initiatives International Research Research Administration and Support Degree Programs Fellowships and Residencies Summer Programs Continuing Professional Education Interdisciplinary Concentrations Academic Calendar Harvard Chan Viewbook Executive/Continuing Ed Program Offerings Custom Programs Request Information News and Resources About ECPE Contact News Featured News Press Releases Student Stories In the News Newsletters HPH Magazine Why Public Health? Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College