Skip to the main content United States Air Force Academy Go to home page image/svg+xml Page 1 Go to home page Link to home page Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Menu Search the Site Academics A rigorous academic program that balances STEM with the arts and humanities. Academics Core Curriculum Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Registrar Faculty and Staff Directory Academic Success Center Request a Transcript Investigator or Verifications Admissions News Research Learn more about cutting-edge research that supports the Air Force and our global society. Research Office of Research Research Centers Cadet Summer Research STEM Outreach Future Conflict Cadet Life Take a peek into the life of a United States Air Force Academy cadet. Cadet Life Dormitories & Dining Cadet Clubs Cadet Support Services Day in the Life Frequently Asked Questions Military With a focus on innovation and adaptation to the changing world of warfare, we’re setting higher expectations for what it means to serve. Military Basic Cadet Training Squadrons Airmanship Military Careers Wings of Blue Athletics About There’s no limit to what you will achieve here. Academics. Athletics. Military training. We deliver the future leaders of modern warfare. About Leadership Character Development History Awards Traditions Educational Innovation More Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Prepared to solve the unknown problems of tomorrow The Academy acknowledges our nation is in an era of great power competition, where our freedom to operate in the air and in space cannot be taken for granted — We must accelerate change or lose. The Academy will do just that; develop innovative, creative, and bold thinkers and leaders, prepared to solve the unknown problems of tomorrow. Back To Research Office of Research Research Centers STEM Outreach Cadet Summer Research Program Research Awards Institute for Future Conflict Institute for Future Conflict The new Institute for Future Conflict (IFC) will focus on research and education that examines the changing character and technologies of armed conflict while providing future officers with the skills to be agile and adaptive throughout their careers. Researchers and faculty will emphasize deterrence and competitive advantage when conflict becomes necessary. The IFC will help bring about a convergence of the many efforts already going on at the Academy within its scholars program and more than 20 other institutes, centers, laboratories and programs, such that all of them can become aligned with the idea of producing leaders exceptionally well prepared to lead war fighters in the 21st century. The Institute will build a foundation of excellence in thinking about how the United States can plan for and approach future conflicts, helping cadets research topics and themes from the National Defense Strategy, as well as the future aerospace domain, the future cyber domain and the study of information dominance. FROM THE DIRECTOR “I believe it is the mission of all Service Academies to ensure their officers are prepared to excel and win in any future environment they may encounter throughout their career.” – Lt Gen (ret) Bradford Shwedo, Director, Institute of Future Conflict Our intent is to lead initiatives in a collaborative way with the USAFA Mission Elements, Department heads and the CCLD that will develop leaders who recognize and understand that future conflict is inherently joint and multi-discipline. We are focused on leveraging partnerships and opportunities with other elements of government, academia and industry that will afford outstanding educational opportunities and potential solutions to some our country’s toughest problems. All cadets will gain familiarity with emerging and disruptive technologies. Cadets will understand the impact these technologies will have on future conflict and they will explore the opportunities and challenges of the employment of these technologies by adversaries and allies. The IFC also expects the faculty to be exposed to these technologies, so they can adapt courses they are teaching to address the impacts that may be expected on society, and also the impact of society on the application of the technology on the character of warfare. In addition, through our interaction with government, academia and industry, these cadets and faculty should be a part of the solution to many of our country’s most pressing problems. By establishing IFC at USAFA, we are also empowered to leverage many of the facilities from within — The Center for Character and Leadership Development (CCLD), Wind Tunnels, AFCyberWORX, UAS Center, CyberCity, Multi-domain simulators, Cadet Space Operations, etc.– to enhanced all of the IFC goals. Anyone who would not be overwhelmed by the all the tasks associated with this job would be either extremely naïve or ignorant. As with any large job, it is best to jump in and I’m lucky to have so many great teammates that have been willing to support the multiple lines of operations focused on solving this large task. I’m psyched to be part of a team that is focused on developing Airmen and Guardians capable of leadership across an increasingly broad spectrum of military domains. To read more about the IFC and Lt Gen Shwedo, click here. IN THE NEWS IFC IDE major wins CNAS fellowship Maj. Jamil Brown, an IFC fellow was recently named as a CNAS Next Generation National Security Fellows. Every year, the Center for a New American Security selects a bipartisan group of 20-25 emerging national security leaders between the ages of 27 to 35 to participate in the Shawn Brimley Next Generation National Security Leaders Program. This year-long, part-time professional development fellowship aims to bring together young professionals across sectors within the national security field to learn best practices and lessons in leadership. Post-doc attends Uganda IED strategy meeting One of the IFC post-doctoral fellows, Dr. Whitney Grespin, attended the Kampala-Uganda Intergovernmental Authority for Development (IGAD) Security Sector Program’s third Technical Committee Meeting as part of the development for the regional strategy on Countering Improvised Explosive Devices. The program is conducting a threat assessment in the IGAD region that leads to development of a comprehensive sub-regional C-IED strategy for IGAD and its Member States. Two new PhDs join IFC The IFC recently hired two new additions. Kyleanne Hunter, PhD, will serve as the IFC’s Associate Director. Ky is a Marine Corps combat veteran with multiple combat deployments as an AH-1W “Super Cobra” attack pilot. Recently she was an Assistant Professor of Military and Strategic Studies at the U.S. Air Force Academy. Anthony Tingle, PhD, will serve as the IFC’s Program Director. Tony recently retired from the Army as a space operations officer, and writes on DoD science and technology policy. USAFA conducts curriculum review with eye to the future Faculty conducted a comprehensive curriculum review focused on the application of future conflict throughout the USAFA spectrum of learning. This review was briefed to senior Academy advisors. Additionally, the IFC Director briefed MSS department students on events in Ukraine and Taiwan, and how these events relate to future conflict. Innovation expert visits USAFA Katherine Tobin, Head of Workspace Innovation at Google, visited USAFA in early December to share her insights about innovation with the Department of Military & Strategic Studies, as well as meeting with leadership from the Institute for Future Conflict, CyberWorx, and the Center for Character and Leadership Development. Institute for Future Conflict Discusses China's Military Threat The National Character and Leadership Symposium in partnership with the Institute for Future Conflict explored the strategic, tactical and ethical implications of warfare with a focus on the challenges presented by China. To read more, click here, and to watch, click here. Two post-doctoral fellows join IFC In August 2021, the Institute for Future Conflict hired two of what will eventually be four post-doctoral fellows. Dr Whitney Grespin and Dr Rob Wolverton will be assigned to various academic departments but will research topics in support of IFC objectives. Specifically, Dr Grespin will be investigating topics as they relate to the human domain and how that impacts future conflict. While Dr Wolverton will be investigating subject areas that related to how data science and information have to play in future conflict. The IFC has been deliberate about coordinating with organizations across the DoD and academia to identify emerging areas of concern with respect to national security. Strategy and Warfare Center introduces new lab In April 2020, senior leaders from the U.S. Air Force Academy walked through the Academy’s Strategy and Warfare Center’s future location of the Multi-Domain Lab. The lab is set to be completed in Fall 2021 and consists of two scalable suites, each with a fully integrated Joint All-Domain Operations Center, a flight bay, and Remotely Piloted Aircraft stations. The Strategy and Warfare Center and IFC partner to provide cadets the skills necessary to lead warfighting elements in the 21st century. To learn more, click here. Homeland Defense Institute established to protect North America The Institute for Future Conflict and U.S. Northern Command/NORAD have partnered to establish the Homeland Defense Institute (HDI). Much like the IFC, the HDI will focus USAFA’s talented cadets and faculty towards researching and solving conflicts and threats to the North American homeland. The HDI is expected to be up and running by June 2021. To read more about what the HDI is doing, click here. IFC announces 4 post-doctoral fellowships As the IFC stands up, one of the primary objectives is to bring new research opportunities to USAFA cadets and faculty concerning future conflict. As part of that effort, the IFC will be announcing the award of 4 post-doctoral fellowships to various academic departments for the 2021-2022 Academic Year. The fellows will spend a year researching future conflict topics, providing academic instruction, and overseeing cadet research. The topics cover everything from war gaming and behavioral science to AI and space operations. Summer Innovation Course introduces cadets to future conflict The IFC is focused on imparting upon cadets the skills necessary to lead warfighting elements in the 21st century. As a result, starting in the summer of 2021, rising three-degrees (sophomores) will spend two days learning about future conflict, emerging challenges, and how to apply the skills taught at USAFA to future conflict problem sets. To learn more, click here. Platform One offers cadets exposure to real-world cyber threats The IFC has partnered with the DoD’s Platform One organization to develop a cadet summer research opportunity where cadets can learn about agile cyber solution development while tackling real-world problems presented to the DoD cyber community. This experience is provided virtually and sponsored by IFC. IFC Director to speak at School of Advanced Air and Space Studies To continue to raise awareness and showcase the benefits the IFC and USAFA bring to the Department of Defense, the IFC recently briefed the Chief of Staff of the Air Force on how USAFA is “Educating for the Future Fight.” Additionally, Lt Gen (ret) Shwedo, the IFC Director, has been invited to speak to the graduating class of the School of Advanced Air and Space Studies at Maxwell AFB, AL on 9 June 2021 about the role the leaders of today have regarding preparing our military for future conflict. IFC Faculty and Staff RESOURCES IFC One-Pager Introducing the IFC CONTACT US Lt Gen (ret) BJ Shwedo Bradford.Shwedo@afacademy.af.edu ACADEMICS Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Research Centers Faculty and Staff Directory CAMPUS Events Employment Emergency Weather Helping Agencies Apps COMMUNITY AF CyberWorx USAFA Band Force Support Wings of Blue VISIT Visitors Campus Map Facilities Cadet Chapel Planetarium Base Access Contact Us Social Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Flickr © 2022 United States Air Force Academy, All Rights Reserved The appearance of hyperlinks does not constitute endorsement by the Department of the Air Force or the information, products, or services contained therein. For other than authorized activities such as military exchanges and morale, welfare and recreation sites, the Department of the Air Force does not exercise any editorial control over the information you may find at these locations. Such links provided are consistent with the stated purpose of this DOD Web site.