Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Business Graduate Programs Menu Business Home MBA Full-Time MBA EMBA Dallas Online MBA Specialized Master's Degrees Master of Accountancy & Master of Tax Master of Information Systems Master of Science in Business Analytics Master of Science in Economics Army-Baylor Programs Admissions Admissions Contact About Army-Baylor Program Overview Program Philosophy Competency Based Education Student Outcomes Army-Baylor Program History Residency Program Residency Sites Residency Manual Preceptor Training Curriculum MHA Curriculum MHA/MBA Curriculum ECL MHA Curriculum ECL MHA/MBA Curriculum Faculty Directory Teresa S. Hinnerichs Michael Whiddon Allen Solenberg Lorena A. Bailey Bruce W. Barnes III Kimberly Decker Mike Frankel Austin Haag Mark Nikont Dan M. Wood Jose Mauricio Jimenez Garrett W. Larson Steve Schwab A. David Mangelsdorff Karin Waugh Zucker Staff Directory Rene L. Pryor Jennifer F. Russell Faculty Awards and Research Previous Recipients Faculty Research Student Awards Previous Recipients Army-Baylor News Army-Baylor Alumni Army-Baylor Alumni Network Join the Army-Baylor Alumni Network Update your Army-Baylor Alumni Network Contact Information Give to the Army Baylor Alumni Network Army-Baylor Events Doctoral Programs Entrepreneurship PhD Information Systems PhD Health Services Research PhD Admissions Baylor>Business Graduate Programs>Army-Baylor Programs>Curriculum>ECL MHA/MBA Curriculum ECL MHA/MBA Curriculum Semester 1 HCA 5105 Ethics in Health Care 1 credit hr This class begins with a discussion of the major ethical principles in bioethics and models for ethical decision-making and is followed by topical readings and discussion in the areas listed below. Subject areas are intended to cover the five core competencies in ethics. These five domains are: Decision-making Ethics Professional Ethics Clinical Ethics Organization Ethics Social Ethics Discussion of case studies will cover subject areas to include but are not limited to withholding/withdrawing treatment, access to health care, the allocation of scarce resources, the principles of a just war, the proper professional role of administrators in the business of health care delivery and ethics in research conducted in health care facilities. HCA 5301 U.S. Healthcare System 3 credit hr This course outlines the United States Health Care System. It facilitates an understanding of the history, basic structures, and operations of an expansive and complex field. Conceptual dimensions for health services at the macro and micro level are considered within a systems framework. Students are introduced to definitions and concepts about the system as well as current and future trends in health care delivery that will likely be encountered practicing management in the health services market. HCA 5317 Health Management Information Systems 3 credit hr Studies focus on information technology and systems, including historical development, for conceptual understanding of the evolution from reporting accounting data to newer broad based information support applications in the delivery of health care. Emphasis is placed on the fundamental principles of collecting and analyzing data for the production of information that supports management, operations, planning, and decision-making. Discussion of case studies, including health care examples, leads to an understanding of appropriate and cost-effective applications of technology. Analytical study of a health care system and the design of a current medical information support system synthesize the content of the course. HCA 5322 Organizational Theory & Behavior 3 credit hr Focus of course is the application of human resources and theory in the organizational setting. Emphasis is placed on the skills and competencies necessary for effective health services management as well as the functions performed by, and roles required of, middle and senior level managers. Course will progress from individual, group, and organizational dynamics. HCA 5350 Finance I 3 credit hr This class is designed to expose students to the field of financial and managerial accounting within healthcare organizations. The course will cover the function and organization of the financial resource department, the purpose and methods of financial and managerial accounting, and special industry characteristics affecting healthcare finance, to include third-party payers, price or rate-setting and cost-shifting, taxation and healthcare incentives, and alternative organizations. HCA 5336 Healthcare Jurisprudence 3 credit hr This course addresses the foundations of our legal system, the process of civil litigation, and tort law and contract law as they pertain to the health care system. Basic elements of contracting will be addressed, but the emphasis will be on tort law and the interface between tort law and contract law. More specific topics may include: the medical standard of care; federal tort law/liability of federal providers; informed decision-making; defining death and legal actions involving dead bodies; abortion/family planning; medical research; management of medical information; the right to practice; and anti-trust issues. Medical ethics will be distinguished from medical law and ethical aspects of classic cases will be noted. HCA 5106 Advanced Excel Concepts 1 credit hr This course teaches students advanced skills and design concepts necessary for employing Microsoft Excel to provide solutions to complex business problems. The course covers advanced topics in spreadsheet and workbook design, complex formulas, functions, database management, and analysis. Students practice with exercises that allow them to create manipulate, and utilize spreadsheets. Semester 2 HCA 5231 Seminar in HR Management 2 credit hr This course provides an overview of human resource management (HRM). This course introduces basic principles, concepts, functions, and applications of HRM. Topics include an overview of human resource functions, strategic HRM, workforce planning, job analysis and design, recruitment/interview/selection, socialization, training, performance evaluation, compensation/benefits, and labor relations. While much of HCA 5331 will focus on HRM within health care settings, this course will also introduce and discuss HRM and its implications in other important and relevant organizational settings. HCA 5389 Population Health 3 credit hr Introduces students to epidemiology as a diagnostic discipline of population health. Material discussed will prepare students to communicate concepts of risk and understand epidemiological information. Common tools will be introduced to evaluate health problems and policies at a population level. In addition, we will examine medical readiness and explore the boundaries of this 21st Century national security mission. This will be accomplished by examining the threats, actors, and organizational structures and resources required to defend the American homeland. HCA 5353 Finance II 3 credit hr This class is designed as an introductory course in the theory and principles of health care finance, which includes planning and controlling functions (time value of money, pro forma budgeting, ratio analysis), balance sheet management (working capital budgeting, debt & equity financing) and cost management (cost classification allocation, break even & variance analysis) among other topics. This is an applied course that combines theoretical (textbook) concepts with problems and computer exercises. Field professionals may be invited to augment discussion around current critical issues in health care finance. HCA 5410 Quantitative Analysis I 4 credit hr The course presents basic research method techniques and common statistical applications. The focus of the course is problem-solving and decision-making with some theory. At the conclusion of the course, students are expected to understand, conduct and evaluate managerial research. Topics for investigation include basic probability, descriptive statistics, and inferential statistics. Students will learn primarily parametric methods and will have exposure to non-parametric methods. HCA 5213 Health Policy 2 credit hr A comprehensive model of health policy and analysis to include its major objectives and methods and its relationship to the field of health services research. An organizing framework is provided that integrates concepts and methods from the fields of economics, ethics, political science and related disciplines. Emphasis is on integrating policymaking with the major system performance objectives of effectiveness, efficiency, and equity. This course includes the impact of health policies on the health of individuals and populations, the political trade-offs and social dimensions of policy making and how future healthcare policy is likely to be affected by the political marketplace and the economy. HCA 5231 Seminar in HR Management 2 credit hr This course provides an overview of human resource management (HRM). This course introduces basic principles, concepts, functions, and applications of HRM. Topics include an overview of human resource functions, strategic HRM, workforce planning, job analysis and design, recruitment/interview/selection, socialization, training, performance evaluation, compensation/benefits, and labor relations. While much of HCA 5331 will focus on HRM within health care settings, this course will also introduce and discuss HRM and its implications in other important and relevant organizational settings. HCA 5101 Graduate Management Study Development I 1 credit hr This is the first in a series of three (1) credit Graduate Management Project (GMP) writing courses for students on the Executive Clinical Leadership track. The goal of this specific course is completion of the GMP proposal. Semester 3 HCA 5201 Residency Rotation 2 credit hr During this required residency and under the guidance of a qualified preceptor, degree candidates are provided opportunities to study and analyze the functional elements of a hospital. Their managerial skills are developed through varied experiences, the performance of administrative tasks, and direct participation in the problem-solving process. They also perform special studies in functional areas and conduct one graduate management project. MECO 5330 Macro Economics 3 credit hr This course familiarizes students with the performance of market economies and variables that influence them. The course will provide an overview of the major concepts in the field of macroeconomics as a whole during the first 2/3 of the course, and focuses on institutional factors that influence the economic growth and stability of countries in the last 1/3 of the course. The first 2/3 of the course will be predominantly lectures of text material integrated with robust classroom discussion of the application of targeted macroeconomic concepts; the last 1/3 of the course will be in a seminar format, with students expected to lead the bulk of the conversation. Students will apply their knowledge of macroeconomics throughout the course to a real economy in order to sharpen their understanding not only of the theory but the application of the concepts. HCA 5318 Finance III 3 credit hr This class is designed to teach healthcare leaders their role in operating, managing and directing the apportionment of resources within a health care organization. The course provides in-depth knowledge of the business case analysis approach to decision-making and builds on sound financial practices learned in HCA 5350 & HCA 5353. With an emphasis on executive-level critical thinking skills, it allows students to integrate and apply previously learned tools and abilities to the healthcare setting HCA 5411 Quantitative Analysis II 4 credit hr Advanced concepts, techniques, and technologies used in the scientific inquiry of applied clinical, administrative, and managerial research are presented. Decision-making, selection, computation, and interpretation of analytical procedures and methods are discussed. Emphasizing critical thinking and quantitative analysis, students select appropriate secondary data on a management problem and posit research questions, develop logical hypotheses linked to data and theory, analyze and make decisions and recommendations based on findings. Advanced techniques such as power analysis, MANOVA, and Logistic Regression are covered. MMKT 5470 Marketing Management 4 credit hr This course teaches basic marketing concepts, theory and practice including: market segmentation, consumer behavior, innovation, channels of communication, integrated communications, and integrated pricing. Students will learn to develop, design, and implement marketing plans and programs in conjunction with organizational strategy. Semester 4 HCA 5102 Graduate Management Project Development II 1 credit hr This is the second in a series of three (1) credit Graduate Management Project (GMP) writing courses for students on the Executive Clinical Leadership track. The goal of this specific course is completion of the GMP. HCA 5307 Residency Rotation II 3 credit hr During this required residency and under the guidance of a qualified preceptor, degree candidates are provided opportunities to study and analyze the functional elements of a hospital. Their managerial skills are developed through varied experiences, the performance of administrative tasks, and direct participation in the problem-solving process. They also perform special studies in functional areas and conduct two graduate management projects. HCA 5329 Leadership in Complex Organizations 3 credit hr This course is designed to enable students to develop/refine their leadership skills through readings, self-exploration, and research. This is a true seminar course. Class participation is critical to the quality of this class. Your learning will result from your interaction with one another as well as from the instructors or from the readings. For this to happen, students must prepare for and participate in class. As you will soon see, students will spend part of their class time in large groups and part in small groups. Although class participation in the large group setting will be challenging, there will be a wide range of opportunities to participate in small groups. Students will examine leadership theory and, through case studies and discussion, better understand their leadership styles and qualities, as well as those of others. The course readings, case studies and guest speakers support the theoretical and practical aspect of leadership applied in complex HCA 5606 Operations Management/Healthcare Quality 6 credit hr Management introduces concepts useful in understanding the management of a firm’s operations and applying operations management concepts, techniques, and methodologies to organizations. Covers the evolution, current concepts, and future trends associated with care quality. MBL 5110 Selected Topics in Business Law 1 credit hr This course builds on the material form HC Jurisprudence and from HC Contracting and Negotiations. Topics reviewed may include sales, negotiable instruments, the corporation qua corporation, debtor-creditor relations, bankruptcy, real property, and the governmental regulation of business. Case studies will be developed by the students and analyzed. MNIB 5450 International Business 4 credit hr This is an introductory course in international business. The basic content of the course includes: An overview of the means of conducting international business, with an emphasis on what makes international different from domestic The effects of the social systems within countries on the conduct of international business The major theories explaining international business transactions and the institutions influencing those activities The financial exchange systems and institutions that measure and facilitate international transactions The dynamic interface between countries and companies attempting to conduct foreign business activities Corporate strategy alternatives for global operations; and (7) international activities that fall largely within functional disciplines Semester 5 HCA 5103 Graduate Management Project Development III 1 credit hr This is the third in a series of three (1) credit Graduate Management Project (GMP) writing courses for students on the Executive Clinical Leadership track. The goal of this specific course is to submit an article to a peer reviewed journal, based on the GMP. MMGT 5425 Healthcare Strategic Management 4 credit hr Prerequisites: MECO 5330, MECO 5331 This seminar builds upon basic macroeconomic principles, applying economic models/theory to the global economies. Global macroeconomics seeks to explain the nature of association among economic forces in markets around the world such as the impact of the US fiscal deficit on increased foreign borrowing and forces causing the economic slump in Japan. MECO 5132 Seminar in Global Macro Economics 1 credit hr This course prepares students to apply strategic management concepts and principles within the field of health management. The successful student integrates content from across the curriculum, including: economics, finance, quantitative analysis, marketing, leadership, and health systems. MECO 5133 Seminar in World Economic Systems 1 credit hr Prerequisites: MECO 5330, MECO 5331 This seminar explores differences among economic institutions, policy, and performance in countries around the world and provides information on the methods used to make economic comparisons across countries, examining the relative success or failure of these various economic states. Topics of discussion will revolve around major developments in the world economy. MMGT 5162 Seminar in International Management 1 credit hr Prerequisite: MINB 5450 This seminar analyzes strategies and strategic responses of individual firms operating internationally. The evolution of global industries, global competition, and global strategies is emphasized throughout. Special emphasis is placed on the cultural differences between countries and their implications for international management efforts. MMKT 5171 Seminar in International Marketing 1 credit hr Prerequisite: MMKT 5470, MINB 5450 Explores environmental/cultural approach to international marketing and important global marketing trends, including growth/expansion of the world's big emerging markets, rapid growth of middle income market segments, and steady creation of regional market groups. Case studies are used to develop global and strategic thinking in terms of the marketing 4P's. Army-Baylor Programs Admissions Admissions Contact About Army-Baylor Program Overview Program Philosophy Competency Based Education Student Outcomes Army-Baylor Program History Residency Program Residency Sites Residency Manual Preceptor Training Curriculum MHA Curriculum MHA/MBA Curriculum ECL MHA Curriculum ECL MHA/MBA Curriculum Faculty Directory Teresa S. Hinnerichs Michael Whiddon Allen Solenberg Lorena A. Bailey Bruce W. Barnes III Kimberly Decker Mike Frankel Austin Haag Mark Nikont Dan M. Wood Jose Mauricio Jimenez Garrett W. Larson Steve Schwab A. David Mangelsdorff Karin Waugh Zucker Staff Directory Rene L. Pryor Jennifer F. Russell Faculty Awards and Research Previous Recipients Faculty Research Student Awards Previous Recipients Army-Baylor News Army-Baylor Alumni Army-Baylor Alumni Network Join the Army-Baylor Alumni Network Update your Army-Baylor Alumni Network Contact Information Give to the Army Baylor Alumni Network Army-Baylor Events General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Hankamer School of Business About the Business School Directory Events News Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Business Home MBA Full-Time MBA EMBA Dallas Online MBA Specialized Master's Degrees Master of Accountancy & Master of Tax Master of Information Systems Master of Science in Business Analytics Master of Science in Economics Army-Baylor Programs Admissions Admissions Contact About Army-Baylor Program Overview Program Philosophy Competency Based Education Student Outcomes Army-Baylor Program History Residency Program Residency Sites Residency Manual Preceptor Training Curriculum MHA Curriculum MHA/MBA Curriculum ECL MHA Curriculum ECL MHA/MBA Curriculum Faculty Directory Teresa S. Hinnerichs Michael Whiddon Allen Solenberg Lorena A. Bailey Bruce W. Barnes III Kimberly Decker Mike Frankel Austin Haag Mark Nikont Dan M. Wood Jose Mauricio Jimenez Garrett W. Larson Steve Schwab A. David Mangelsdorff Karin Waugh Zucker Staff Directory Rene L. Pryor Jennifer F. Russell Faculty Awards and Research Previous Recipients Faculty Research Student Awards Previous Recipients Army-Baylor News Army-Baylor Alumni Army-Baylor Alumni Network Join the Army-Baylor Alumni Network Update your Army-Baylor Alumni Network Contact Information Give to the Army Baylor Alumni Network Army-Baylor Events Doctoral Programs Entrepreneurship PhD Information Systems PhD Health Services Research PhD Admissions