Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information Lung Cancer Screening Program Launches at Columbia and NewYork-Presbyterian May 24, 2022 Share this page Share on Facebook Tweet Share on Linkedin Share by email ColumbiaDoctors and NewYork-Presbyterian have launched their first comprehensive lung cancer screening program, located in Upper Manhattan. The program brings together physicians and nurse practitioners from multiple disciplines to provide care for smokers and ex-smokers who are at high risk for lung cancer and other complications. The core of this comprehensive program is a 10-minute imaging exam with low-dose computed tomography (CT), which detects lung cancer using a very small amount of radiation. The screening tool is very effective at finding lung cancer before it causes symptoms, when it is still treatable. Studies have shown that when used annually by smokers and former smokers, low-dose CT significantly reduces the risk of dying from lung cancer—by more than 20%. Make an appointment Call 212-305-5098. Appointments are limited and currently available through mid-August. Low-dose CT exams are currently offered at multiple ColumbiaDoctors and NewYork-Presbyterian locations, but the new lung cancer screening program provides patients with a much broader range of services, including coordination of care, smoking cessation counseling, and, if cancer is found, a team of physicians with extensive expertise in lung cancer care. "The whole continuum of lung health in smokers is covered with this program," says Maura Abbott, PhD, associate professor of nursing and assistant dean of clinical affairs at Columbia's School of Nursing, who is one of the program organizers. "We have all the necessary resources to care for patients with lung nodules that need to be followed, patients who need further testing, or patients who have cancer." When found at an early stage through screening, lung cancer can be treated effectively with surgery, radiation, or both. "It's hard to overemphasize the importance of lung cancer screening," says Bryan Stanifer, MD, MPH, professor of surgery who runs the Women's Lung and Health Center at Columbia. Stanifer, also a thoracic surgeon at NewYork-Presbyterian/Columbia, will be the surgeon associated with the program. "This is the single most effective treatment we have for lung cancer right now." Coordinated care Patients who make an appointment for lung cancer screening will be scheduled for a video visit with Abbott, who will explain the benefits and risks of the exam, provide resources for smoking cessation if needed, and schedule the exam. Do You Qualify For A Low Dose CT Screening? You do if: You are between 50 and 80 years old You are a current smoker, or you quit within the past 15 years You have a 20 pack year smoking history (Pack years = number of years smoked X average packs per day) You have no prior history or signs and symptoms of lung cancer Immediately after their CT scan, patients will meet with Mary Salvatore, MD, associate professor of radiology, to review their results and discuss next steps. Meeting with a radiologist is one of the things that sets the program apart from a standard CT scan and is a critical step in the process. "It's not easy to have a test for lung cancer," says Salvatore, a radiologist at NewYork-Presbyterian/Columbia who worked closely with Abbott to organize the screening program. "I help them understand what I'm seeing on the scan. I can show them what it looks like and go over next steps. That's day and night different from getting a letter in the mail with the results, and it keeps patients coming back each year." Salvatore, a former smoker, also will provide smoking cessation counseling and resources during her meetings with patients. Patients who need further testing or treatment for cancer will be scheduled with appropriate providers within two weeks of their exam, with all necessary appointments taking place on the same day. The lung cancer screening program at Columbia and NewYork-Presbyterian grew out of a shared passion among the team members for helping patients with lung cancer. "We are the champions of preventative medicine," says Abbott. "If we have an opportunity to prevent people from dying of cancer, that's the work we want to do." During the initial phase of the program, CT scans will be offered once a week at Columbia University Irving Medical Center in Upper Manhattan. Expansion of the program to other ColumbiaDoctors and NewYork-Presbyterian locations throughout New York City and Westchester is planned for the future. National Lung Cancer Screening Trial A 2011 study published in the New England Journal of Medicine and funded by the National Cancer Institute showed a relative reduction in lung cancer deaths of 20% in former and current heavy smokers who underwent screening with low-dose computed tomography (CT), as compared with radiographic screening (chest X-ray). The trial also showed a 6.7% reduction of deaths from all causes, as compared with chest X-ray. Subsequent studies have shown an even greater benefit, especially among women. References More information Other Lung Cancer Screening Program members: Keith Brenner, MD, assistant professor of medicine at Columbia University Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons and pulmonologist at NYP/CUIMC Simon Cheng, MD, assistant professor of radiation oncology at Columbia University Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons and radiation oncologist at NYP/CUIMC Angela DiMango, MD, associate professor of medicine at Columbia University Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons and pulmonologist at NYP/CUIMC Joshua Weintraub, MD, professor of radiology at Columbia University Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons and interventional radiologist at NYP/CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top