Skip to main content Menu Audiences Clemson Home Faculty/Staff Contact Us Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Web Cams Apply Now Make a Gift Explore Admissions Academics Students Financial/Tuition New Graduate Student Orientation: Welcome! Graduate Orientation - Main Campus :: Monday, August 21 In collaboration with the Graduate School, we have set the August 2017 Graduate Orientation date. Students are encouraged to participate in several activities beginning at 8:00a and lasting throughout the day, including convocation, orientation, breakout sessions and eclipse viewing. We will open online registration beginning June 1st. A unique aspect to this date is the total eclipse occurring over Clemson, SC Monday, August 21 from 1:08-4:02pm. This is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to see this eclipse in Clemson as the last time it occurred was in 1790. As a result, many colleges are planning special eclipse programs and events during mid-afternoon Monday, and we will not overlap any orientation programs for graduate students during this time. Additionally, no satellite orientation programs will be created (e.g. ICAR or Charleston), as we are encouraging students to come to Clemson and view this historical natural occurrence. Any department-specific orientation programs have the opportunity to utilize Tuesday, August 22. FYI: International Orientations will be held the week prior to classes beginning; We will communicate final dates when they have been confirmed. Should you have any questions about Graduate Orientation, topics covered, or specific details we are happy to discuss. Additionally, if you would like support to establish or revamp your departmental-specific orientation we are happy to assist in anyway. Rebecca Atkinson This orientation is open to any graduate student matriculating in spring 2017. There is no fee for orientation, but registration is required. Participants will be engaged in the program from 9:00am-5:00pm on Clemson’s Main Campus in various building locations. More information will be sent to all registered participants. Click Here to Register. Newly Accepted Students Policies and Procedures Forms and Applications Registering for Courses Plan of Study GS2 Theses & Dissertations Professional Development Student Assistance Program Graduate Student Government 3-Minute Thesis Resources LGBTQ Resources Defense Calendar Graduation Graduation Deadlines GradTeaching Grad Student/Postdoc Advisory Committee Frequently Asked Questions Back to Top Copyright © 2019 Clemson University Graduate School | E-106 Martin Hall, Clemson University, Clemson SC 29634 Contact Us | Web Accessibility