Skip to Content Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Indiana University Bloomington Indiana University Bloomington IU Bloomington Menu About History Rankings & Campus Statistics Mission & Strategic Planning Leadership & Administration Safety & Emergency Information Visit Campus Transportation & Parking A-Z List Jobs at IU How to Hire IU Students Admissions How to Apply Cost & Finances Visit IU & Bloomington Academics The Academic Experience Degrees & Majors Business Health & Wellness Science, Engineering & Technology Public Service Arts & Culture Schools Academic Opportunities Study Abroad Online Classes & Programs Schedule of Classes & Academic Calendar Academic Advising & Support Libraries Research Hoosier Life Traditions & Spirit Student Organizations Recreational Sports Athletics Health, Wellness & Safety Housing & Dining Visiting Bloomington Attractions & Things to Do Diversity on Campus Career Prep Find Your Passion Get Experience Develop Your Career Use Your Network Alumni & Giving News & Events Indiana University Bloomington Home About Admissions Academics Research Hoosier Life Career Prep Alumni & Giving News & Events Home Career Prep Find Your Passion Find Your Passion When passion leads the way, success follows Although everyone travels a different path through IU, our students have one thing in common: They describe their time here as one of transformation. No matter how well you know yourself or how concrete your goals are, while you’re at IU, you’ll find new causes, activities, and fields to be passionate about. It’s up to you to discover them. Venture into uncharted territories in the classroom As a student at IU, you can choose from thousands of classes each semester. And while you need to make sure you’re satisfying educational requirements to stay on track for graduation, there are endless ways you can do it. Take a class on game design. Learn to speak Finnish, Persian, or Japanese. Explore the birth and death of the universe. Dive into the art of comics. It’s all here waiting for you.Explore your academic options 80+ Languages to learn 550Academic programs to choose from And step out of your comfort zone during your free time This is your chance to take risks in every facet of your life, whether you’re deciding where to live or how to spend your Saturday nights. While you’re a student here, you have carte blanche to jump in and try as many new things as you want. It doesn’t matter whether the leap you take leads to success or failure. Either way, you’ll learn something valuable about yourself and take another step on your journey toward transformation. Live large Apply to live in one of IU’s 22 academic, thematic, and living-learning centers. While some are exclusively for freshman students, many are open to students at every level. Each community has a unique focus on subjects ranging from general academic scholarship and leadership to outdoor adventures and even sexual identity.Learn more about residence communities Get yourself out there Join a comedy improv troupe. Give gymnastics a try. Campaign for human rights. With more than 750 student organizations to choose from, it’s easy to find something new to explore. And play hard Want to get your body moving? Check out the fitness activities at the SRSC or join an intramural sports club. We’ll bet you run out of time at IU before you run out of new things to try. Find Your Passion Get Experience Develop Your Career Use Your Network Indiana University Bloomington social media channels Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn Contact, Address and Additional Links Services Canvas One.IU AskIU Find Directory A-Z List Courses Campus Map Required Disclosures Library IU Bloomington Libraries IUCAT OneSearch@IU Resources Knowledge Base IT Services Faculty & Staff Resources Diversity Non-Discrimination Notice Protect IU Email About Email at IU Outlook Web Access INDIANA UNIVERSITY BLOOMINGTON 107 S. Indiana Avenue Bloomington, IN 47405-7000 Phone: 812-855-4848 Accessibility | Privacy Notice | Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of Indiana University