Skip to main content GSD Logo Harvard University Graduate School of Design Reopening Menu Search Academics Department of Architecture Department of Landscape Architecture Department of Urban Planning and Design Design Studies Design Engineering Doctoral Programs Undergraduate Architecture Studies Loeb Fellowship Executive Education Early Design Education Research Courses More ▼ Apply GSD Now Give People Faculty Staff Students Alumni About Administrative Leadership Council Community Values, Rights, and Responsibilities Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Alumni and Friends Website Resources Most Popular: Admissions COVID-19 Financial Aid Frances Loeb Library Student Affairs Offices & Services All Resources → For: Prospective Students Current Students Faculty Staff Alumni Explore News Events Exhibitions Publications Podcasts Projects Topics Site Index Jump to: A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z A AIA Henry Adams Certificate AIA Henry Adams Medal AICP Outstanding Student Award Academic Affairs Academic Appointments and Policies Academic Calendars & Schedules Academic Conduct Policy Academic Integrity Academic Services & Advising Accellion Secure File Transfer Accessibility Services Accessibility Services at Public Programs Access to Career Services During Leave of Absence Accreditation Administrative Leadership Council Admissions Admissions & Financial Aid Admissions FAQ AfricaGSD After MDes Workshops After MDes Workshops Aga Khan Program at the GSD Alpha Rho Chi Medal Alumni Connections Alumni Council Career Panels American Society of Landscape Architects Awards Application Checklist Apply Apply for Financial Aid Apply for a Job with Computer Resources Applying for Restricted Scholarships Araldo A. Cossutta Annual Prize for Design Excellence Architecture Architecture Core Prep Areas of Concentration Art, Design, and the Public Domain Art, Design, and the Public Domain – Required Courses 2018 Art, Design, and the Public Domain – Required Courses 2019 Attendance Augmented & Virtual Reality (AR/VR) Award Details Award for Excellence in Project-Based Urban Planning Award for Excellence in Urban Design Award for Outstanding Leadership in Urban Planning and Urban Design B Benefits & Perks Biking Borrowing Print Materials Building Services Business Cards for Students C COVID-19 Information for Staff COVID-19 Testing and Tracing CREATE for Alumni CREATE for Employers CREATE for Students Canvas Capital Improvements and Projects Career Paths by Program Career Resources for Alumni Career Services: Alumni Career Services: Employers Career Services: FAQs Career Services: Faculty Career Services: Students Career Services Offerings Career Services Video Library Careers Casual Conversations With GSD Alumni Change of Address Charles Abrams Scholarship Charles Eliot Traveling Fellowship in Landscape Architecture Chauhaus Classroom Equipment Classroom Technology Clifford Wong Prize in Housing Design Commencement 2022 Commencement Information Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 Communications Community Values, Rights, and Responsibilities Computer Accounts and Passwords Computer Labs Computer Recommendations Computer Requirements Computer Resources Group Concurrent and Joint Degrees Connecting to the File Server Connect with the GSD Contact Contact Admissions Contact Financial Aid Contact the GSD Cost Recovery Policy Course Catalog Course Descriptions Course Info Sessions and Videos Critical Conservation Critical Conservation – Required Courses 2018 Critical Conservation – Required Courses 2019 Cross-Registration Policies & Procedures Current MAUD/MLAUD Degree Requirements Current MUP Degree Requirements Curriculum Custodial Services D DDes & PhD Financial Aid DDes/PhD Open House Schedule DDes Guidelines for the Dissertation DDes Guidelines for the General Exam DDes Guidelines for the Prospectus DIB Annual Report DIB Programs Daniel L. Schodek Award for Technology and Sustainability Daniel Urban Kiley Teaching Fellowship in Landscape Architecture Dean’s Office Degree Checks Degree Programs Degree Requirements Policies Degree Verifications Design Computing at the GSD Design Labs Design Now: A Quarterly Podcast from Harvard’s Graduate School of Design Design Studies Thesis Prize Desktop 3D Printing Regulations Development and Alumni Relations Digital Delivery and Electronic Resources Digital Design Prize Digital Governance Policy Dimitris Pikionis Award Directions Diversity, Inclusion, & Belonging at Career Services Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Offerings Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Resources Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Doctoral Grader (Union Position) Doctoral Programs Doctor of Design Program (DDes) Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) Document Request Form Druker Traveling Fellowship E ETH Zurich Exchange Program Early Design Education Ecologies Eligibility Email Accounts Emergencies Employer Presentations Employers & Career Paths for Architecture Students Employers & Career Paths for Landscape Architecture Students Employers & Career Paths for MDE Students Employers & Career Paths for MDes and DDes Students Employers & Career Paths for Urban Planning and Design Students Endowed Fellowships & Financial Aid Funds Energy and Environment Energy and Environment – Required Courses 2017 Energy and Environment – Required Courses 2018 Energy and Environment – Required Courses 2019 Enrollment Certifications Enrollment Policies Environmental Health and Safety at the GSD Equipment for Classroom Instruction Equitable Accountability Ergonomics Event Audiovisual Support Event Participation for Alumni Event Planning for Faculty and Staff Event Planning for Students Events Events Archive Executive Education Exemptions, Waivers, and Substitutions for MUPs Exhibitions F FAQ FERPA Fabrication Laboratory Faculty Faculty: Collaborate With Career Services Faculty Affairs Office Faculty Directory Faculty Handbooks, Administrative Policies, and Guidelines for Instruction Faculty Research Federal Work-Study Information Fellowships, Funding Sources, and Internships for Students Fellowships, Prizes, & Travel Programs Fellowships, Prizes, & Travel Programs Fellowships, Prizes, & Travel Programs Fellowships, Prizes, & Travel Programs Ferdinand Colloredo-Mansfeld Prize for Superior Achievement in Real Estate Studies Final Review Schedule (Spring 2021 – M1, Full-term, M2) Finance Office Financial Aid Financial Aid Application Process for Current Students Financial Aid Application for Prospective Students Financial Aid FAQ Financial Aid Handbook Financial Aid and Satisfactory Progress Financial Matters First Meetings for Option Studios Flexwork at the GSD Frances Loeb Library Fulbright U.S. Student Program G GLACIER GSD-Courances Residency Program GSD Alumni Council Career Panels GSD Community Calendar GSD Consumer Information GSD Diversity Cabinet GSD Payroll Coordinators GSD Racial Equity and Anti-Racism Fund GSD Radio GSD Student Payroll GSD Web Style Gain Experience General Ledger Gifts & Grants Grading Grant Aid H Harvard-MIT Course Logistics Harvard GSD Job & Internship Fair 2022 Harvard Graduate School of Design Employer Recruiting Policies Harvard Graduate School of Design Fact Book Harvard ID Card Harvard International Office Harvard Shuttle and Van Service Harvard Travel Registry Health Services Heating/Cooling Schedule Help Desk Hiring Students: Information for Faculty History & Philosophy of Design – Required Courses 2018 History & Philosophy of Design – Required Courses 2019 History and Philosophy of Design and Media Home How To Plot How to Post an Event to GSD Now How to Write a Resume That Stands Out Human Resources Human Resources Forms & Policies Hybrid Classroom I IT Policies Income Processing Policy and Procedures Information for Current DDes Students Information for Current PhD Students Installing AEScript AfterEffects Plugin Installing Adobe’s Creative Cloud Software Installing ArcGis Installing AutoDesk Installing Cargo Installing Cinema 4D Installing ClimateStudio Installing DesignBuilder Installing Diva for Rhino Installing Flovent Installing GRANTA EduPack Installing Houdini Installing KeyShot Installing MasterCam Installing MathCAD Installing Miro Installing Modelo Installing Multiframe and MicroStation Installing Printers For Windows Installing Printers for Mac Installing Reality Capture Installing Render Services Installing Rhino Installing RhinoTerrain Installing RobotStudio Installing SketchUp Installing SolidWorks Installing VRay for 3DS Max Installing VRay for Rhino Installing Windows on a Mac Using Parallels International Financial Aid International Student Resources Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Alien Staff Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Bunker Hill Monument Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Dis-Armor Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – El Centro Cultural Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Hiroshima Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Homeless Vehicle Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Loro Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Personal Instrument Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Poliscar Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Abraham Lincoln Monument Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Admiral Farragut Monument Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Central Library Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The City Hall Tower Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Kunstmuseum Basel Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The New Mechelenians Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Real Estate Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Vehicle Irving Innovation Fellowship J J-Term Jacob Weidenman Prize James Templeton Kelley Prize Job Search Resources: Planning, Urban Design, Real Estate Julia Amory Appleton Traveling Fellowship in Architecture K KPF Traveling Fellowship Kevin V. Kieran Prize Key Requests L Landscape Architecture Landscape Architecture Faculty Office Hours Landscape Architecture Thesis Prize Leave of Absence Leaves/Withdrawals and Tuition Charges Library Access & Borrowing Library Liaisons Library Resources & Services Library Resources for Alumni and Visitors Library Staff Life at the GSD Limited-Enrollment Lottery LinkedIn Learning @ Harvard Live Course Presentations Living Guidebook to Virtual Teaching and Learning Living in Cambridge Loan Deferments Loeb Fellowship M MAUD/MLAUD Degree Requirements MAUD/MLAUD Student Work MArch Course Waiver and Substitution Policy and Procedures MArch Distributional Electives MArch Financial Aid MArch I AP Required Courses MArch II Required Courses MArch I Required Courses MArch Open House Schedule MArch Split Option MArch Thesis Program MDE Open House Schedule MDes Financial Aid MDes Open House Schedule MDes Research and Development Award MDes Technology MLA Degree Requirements MLA Financial Aid MLA Open House Schedule MLA Thesis Guidelines MLA Waivers and Substitutions MUP & MAUD Financial Aid MUP Degree Requirements MUP Outreach Mail Center Mail Policy Master in Architecture I Master in Architecture II Master in Design Engineering Master in Design Studies (MDes) Master in Design Studies (MDes) Pre-Fall 2021 Master in Landscape Architecture I Master in Landscape Architecture I AP Master in Landscape Architecture II Master in Real Estate Master in Urban Planning Master in Urban Planning and Juris Doctor Master in Urban Planning and Master in Public Administration Master in Urban Planning and Master in Public Health Master in Urban Planning and Master in Public Policy Meditation Room Mediums Microsoft Teams Mindfulness, Stress Reduction, & Time Management N NAAB Accreditation Information and Resources Narratives News News Archive Newsletter Nondiscrimination Policy Norman T. Newton Prize O Obtaining a MA State ID Card Office Hour Signup Tools Office Updates Office for Urbanization Office of Career Services Office of Student Affairs Online Registration (my.Harvard) Online Teaching Resources Open Access Policy Open Faculty Positions Open House Open Non-Faculty Academic Positions Opportunities to Recruit GSD Students Option Studio Lottery Spring 2022 Option Studio Presentations Organizational Charts Orientation and Registration for Incoming Students Other Courses of Interest Other J-Term Opportunities Outside Scholarships Outstanding Leadership in Real Estate Award P Page Lists Shortcodes Parking Participate in the Summer Community Service Fellowship Program Paul M. Heffernan International Travel Award Paying for Your Program Payroll Penny White Project Fund Performance Management Performance Management Permanent Records Personnel Manuals Person of Interest (POI) Peter Rice Internship Program at Renzo Piano Building Workshop Peter Rice Prize Peter Walker and Partners Fellowship for Landscape Architecture PhD Student Bios Photo Lab Photography Guidelines Planning Newsletter Plimpton-Poorvu Design Prize Podcasts Policy on Personal Conduct Pollman Fellowship in Real Estate and Urban Development Pre-orientation for New Students Printing Costs Printing Guide Printing Tips and Known Issues Prize for Academic Excellence in Urban Planning and Urban Design Program History Program Pedagogy Projects Protected: Poster Presentations for CSFP Fellows Public Programs Publications Publics Purchases & Expenses R REA Fund Recipients Rafael Moneo Rome Travel Award Real Estate and the Built Environment Real Estate and the Built Environment – Required Courses 2017 Real Estate and the Built Environment – Required Courses 2018 Real Estate and the Built Environment – Required Courses 2019 Recent DDes Graduates Recent PhD graduates Recommended Backgrounds for Option Studios Recycling, Freecycling and Composting Refunds Registrar Registration Registration Procedures Replacement Diplomas Request Update to Profile Photo Requesting a GSD Subsite Requirements 2017-18 Requirements 2018-19 Research Research Administration Research Administration Resources Research Assistant (Union Position) Research Centers & Programs Research Fellow (Union Position) Research Programs & Initiatives Research Reports & Publications Resource Center Resources for New Graduates Resources for Partners and Families Respectful and Transparent Engagement Return to Campus & Technology Richard Rogers Fellowship Risk and Resilience Risk and Resilience – Required Courses 2018 Risk and Resilience – Required Courses 2019 Robert A. M. Stern Architects (RAMSA) Room Reservations S Safety, Health, and Wellbeing Sample Job Posting #1 Sample Job Posting #2 Scanners Scholarships for International Students Scholarships for US Citizens and Eligible Non-citizens Seating Charts and Assigned Seating Security Shift Schedule Social Media Social Media Special Collections Special Interest Links for Architecture Students Spiritual Life Spring 2021 Final Exam Schedule Spring 2021 Thesis Review Schedule Spring 2022 Final Exam Schedule Spring 2022 Final Review Schedule Staff Awards & Recognition Staff Directory Staff Newsletter Staff Printing Stationery and Branding Student & Alumni Events Student Academic Affairs Committee Student Directory Student Employment Student Forum Student Forum Open ZOOM Room Student Group Directory Student Group Guide Student Policies Student Records and Transcript Policies Student Travel Information and Costs for Option Studios Students on Leave of Absence Studio Abroad Studio Culture Policy Studio Electricity Summer Peer-Learning Sessions Sustainability at the GSD T Takenaka Summer Internship Talking Practice Tax Resources Teaching Assistant & Research Assistant: Faculty Resources Teaching Assistant (Union Position) Teaching Fellow (Union Position) Technical and Administrative Positions (Non-union Positions) Technology Guide Technology – Required Courses 2018 Technology – Required Courses 2019 Telephones Term Bill The Office of Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Title IX Tokyo Summer Workshop Topics Transcripts Transportation Travel Safety and Guidelines Traveling Fellowships Tuition Tuition and Financial Aid U UPD Faculty Office Hours UPD Thesis Guidelines Undergraduate Architecture Studies University Policies & Procedures Updating Staff Profile Photos Urban Design Faculty Profiles Urban Planning and Design Urban Planning and Design Open House Schedule Urban Planning and Design Thesis Prize Urban Planning and Public Policy Urbanism, Landscape, Ecology Urbanism, Landscape, Ecology – Required Courses 2018 Urbanism, Landscape, Ecology – Required Courses 2019 Utilizing LinkedIn V VPN Service Veronica Rudge Green Prize in Urban Design Veteran and Military Benefits Virtual & On-Campus Events W Web: Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Web Editing: Media Web Profile Photos Wellness Resources Wheelwright Prize Who We Are Work Opportunities for Students Work Order Request Form Workshops and Personal Development 2 2020 Oct Iframe test 2021-2022 Academic Year Planning 2022 Application FAQs 2022 J-Term Courses Submit Search Resource Center IT Policies For clarification or questions about any policies or procedures, please contact helpdesk or the Director of Computer Resources. Policies General Accounts Privacy Security Individual Responsibility Electronic Communication Academic Use Copyright Public Computers Respect for others and Shared Resources Service Agreements Advance Notice / Rush Orders Your business / Our business General When you are given access to GSD computer facilities and to the campus-wide network, you assume responsibility for their appropriate use. The school expects students and other community members to be careful, honest, responsible, and civil in the use of computers and networks. Those who use wide-area networks (such as the Internet) to communicate with individuals or to connect to computers at other institutions are expected to abide by the rules for the remote systems and networks, as well as those for Harvard’s systems. In addition to being a violation of GSD rules, certain computer misconduct is prohibited under Massachusetts General Laws, c.266 subsection 33 (a) and 12 (f) and is, therefore, subject to criminal penalties. Such misconduct includes: knowingly gaining unauthorized access to a computer system or database falsely obtaining electronic services or data without payment of required charges destroying electronically processed, stored, or in-transit data Users are expected to consult a Computer Resources Group staff member before any activity that would appear to threaten the security or performance of the school’s computers and networks. Failure to do so may result in disciplinary action. Accounts and Passwords Your passwords, including HarvardKey, should be considered valuable and private; & should not be loaned or shared. Your HarvardKey and any other GSD network account names and passwords give access to public computers and network resources such as printing, web access, and email, and may also be used to incur charges for color printing or the use of other resources. There is never a valid reason for anyone to ask for or know any of your passwords; any member of the GSD community, including cross-registered students, visiting faculty and temporary staff, can get an account and password for free. Students may be held responsible for misuse which occurs by allowing access to a third party to their own computer or account. A malicious individual with access to your password may be able send e-mail appearing to be from you, remove and modify files in your home directory, and incur charges that will be billed to you. If you ever believe any password has been misused or misappropriated, contact Help Desk at once. Privacy As a matter of policy, what you do on your own time on your own computer is your own business, and no records are kept centrally which can be used to recover those actions. (Other places or agencies, such as web sites or corporations, may keep records which can be traced to you.) The Computer Resources Group will never open any individual’s email or otherwise invade the privacy of an individual computer, without involvement of senior staff (dean of students, executive dean, etc.) and reasonable notice if it is feasible. In the case of staff or student assistants at the GSD, who use a school-owned computer to store files in their course of work and receive e-mail pertaining to their job, those files and e-mails may be opened or forwarded at the request of the staff supervisor or a responsible officer of the university. Staff are also bound by the provisions of the University policies on Information Security and privacy, as documented at harvie.harvard.edu/…Staff_Personnel_Manual/Section2/Privacy Information stored on a computer system or sent electronically over a network is the property of the individual who created it. Examination, collection, or dissemination of that information without authorization from the owner is a violation of the owner’s rights to control his or her own property. Exception: Systems Administrators may gain access to user’s data or programs when it is necessary to maintain or prevent damage to systems or to ensure compliance with other University rules. Computer systems and networks provide mechanisms for the protection of private information from examination. These mechanisms are necessarily imperfect and any attempt to circumvent them or to gain unauthorized access to private information (including both stored computer files and messages transmitted over a network) will be treated as a violation of privacy and will be cause for disciplinary action. In general, information that the owner would reasonably regard as private must be treated as private by other users. Examples include the contents of electronic mail boxes, the private file storage areas of individual users, and information stored in other areas that are not public. That measures have not been taken to protect such information does not make it permissible for others to inspect it. On shared and networked computer systems certain information about users and their activities is visible to others. Users are cautioned that certain accounting and directory information (for example, user names and electronic mail addresses), certain records of file names and executed commands, and information stored in public areas, are not private. Nonetheless, such unsecured information about other users must not be manipulated in ways that they might reasonably find intrusive; for example, eavesdropping by computer and systematic monitoring of the behavior of others. Actions such as these are likely to be considered invasions of privacy and would be cause for disciplinary action. Security The GSD computer network and information systems may contain confidential or personally-identifiable information. Because of this, all provisions of Harvard’s Information Security Policy (ISP), as enumerated at https://policy.security.harvard.edu/policies apply to all GSD community — staff, faculty and students. Any violations of the provisions of those policies may lead to disciplinary proceedings or removal from the network. All staff should be aware of the provisions at the GSD for complying with the University’s ISP. Individual Responsibility You are the primary person responsible for your own success in computing at the GSD, (as elsewhere, and in other aspects of life)! Maintaining effective anti-virus protection, systematic back-ups of important work, and physical protection and security of your computer equipment are your responsibility. The CRG staff and resources may be allocated from time to time to help, but are never to blame and may not always be available. Electronic Communication Harvard neither sanctions nor censors individual expression of opinion on its systems. The same standards of behavior are expected in the use of electronic mail as in the use of telephones, and written, and oral communication. Therefore electronic mail, like telephone messages, must be neither obscene nor harassing. Similarly, messages must not misrepresent the identity of the sender and should not be sent as chain letters, or broadcast indiscriminately to large numbers of individuals. This prohibition includes unauthorized mass electronic mailings. For example, e-mail on a given topic that is sent to large numbers of recipients should in general be directed only to those who have indicated a willingness to receive such e-mail. Academic Use Only uses which are in support of your educational courses and research — no commercial or ‘non-GSD’ activities — are allowed. Personal or extra-curricular work may be allowed when it does not interfere with higher priority academic use. Computer and network facilities are provided to students primarily for their educational use. These facilities have tangible value. Consequently, attempts to circumvent accounting systems or to use the computer accounts of others will be treated as forms of attempted theft. Students may not attempt to damage or to degrade the performance of Harvard’s computers and networks and should not disrupt the work of other users. Students may not attempt to circumvent security systems or to exploit or probe any Harvard network or system for security holes, nor may students attempt any such activity against other systems accessed through Harvard’s facilities. Running programs designed to breach system security is prohibited and unlawful. Copyright If you download or distribute movies, music, software, or other copyrighted materials from the Internet without the owner’s permission — whether you do it from your desktop, dorm-room, or wirelessly, etc — you may be breaking the law. You are culpable even if the source of the material is a Web site that appears to be offering a legal and inexpensive service. You bear the risk since the Harvard network is provided to support academic activity, not the transmission of illegally acquired movies or music. Penalties are severe; you may lose your network privileges, you may be disciplined by Harvard, and you may be criminally liable. The University, the GSD, and you, are legally bound by the terms of the Digital Millenium Copyright Act (DMCA), and all GSD commmunity members must abide by the University’s rules and policies, published at http://www.dmca.harvard.edu/ . All users of the GSD’s network must respect the copyrights of works that are accessible through that network. Under federal copyright law, no copyrighted work may be copied, published, disseminated, displayed, performed, or played without permission of the copyright holder. The GSD may terminate the network access of users who are found to have repeatedly infringed the copyrights of others. Questions about copying or other use of copyrighted works may be referred to any academic officer. Software: Most GSD-provided software is ‘site-licensed’ for concurrent use on the GSD network only, for academic/educational purposes only. You may not re-distribute the software outside the GSD, nor attempt to circumvent the license-protection mechanism (Keyserver, Flex-LM, others.) Use of ‘pirate’, or ‘cracked’ versions of software on the GSD network is strictly forbidden, and may result in penalties. If you have any question about the ownership of material, printed, images, sound, or other, you should make an effort to determine the ownership. Consult with help in the Library and online if you are uncertain. Signed artwork and music by published artists should be presumed to be protected by copyright. Public Computers Given the school’s requirement for each student to provide their own suitable laptop, the few public computers at the GSD are provided primarily as a convenience in small clusters (e.g. in Loeb Library), or attached to peripherals such as scanners, and secondarily as a backup shared resource for individual users. No reservations are accepted for public computers, and it is an abuse for individuals to tie up one or more public computers when they are not physically present, such as with long-running rendering jobs; and it is officially acceptable for physically-present students, wishing to use such a public computer, to restart the computer, interrupting the long-running job, in order to use the computer in question. Respect for Others and Shared Resources Leave it cleaner than you found it. Don’t pollute. Wear earphones. Use the sign-up sheet (on-line, or on the door.) Return it after use. Don’t mess with the configurations. Plan ahead. Be a good citizen. Service Agreements We provide consultation, technical support and trouble shooting with respect to computing, IT and presentation technology, but not ‘on-call personnel’. We expect advance notice, knowledge of posted procedures and technologies (from the on-line resources section of https://www.gsd.harvard.edu, and in-kind staffing support (warm bodies.) Events outside of normal 9-5 weekday hours need extra advance notice, and can’t always be provided for with normal systems — extra provisions, including hired help, may be required. Media Services (MS) include helping to specify and prepare presentation equipment (above or beyond ‘Powerpoint’ projection or simple video playing, both of which are provided in most GSD spaces as part of normal operations) in Piper Auditorium or other Gund Hall/Sumner Rd. rooms. Events outside of these locations require extra notice and preparation and may not be supported. Laptop computers, digital projectors, digital cameras and audio/video recording equipment are available for check-out from the Loeb Library circulation desk. Some additional computing or presentation equipment may be available from Helpdesk or MS for extended loan. Other equipment may have to be rented from outside suppliers; Helpdesk or MS may be able to recommend vendors or coordinate rentals and installation. For school-wide events including public lectures, event staffing is provided through Media Services. For all other events, the event-sponsoring units, such as courses, departments, individuals, etc. are responsible for providing bodies to sign up, collect, transport, operate and return borrowed equipment. Help is available to train those bodies in advance in basic procedures. Helpdesk staff and MS staff may be available by prior reservation, and may be able to help locate and retain paid outside help. Clarifications to common misconceptions: All requests for assistance should be made directly to help desk (617) 496-3810 or to Media Services. Other than for public lectures, there are no GSD ‘projectionists’ available from CRG or MS. Courses and events are expected to provide their own staffing for projection. Evening and weekend events require advance notice and preparation, and may require hiring (and paying for) outside help. Video-recording of events requires extra advance notice and may require hiring outside help at the customer’s expense, especially for events outside of normal weekday hours. Video-conference equipment may be available from Media Services. Computer Projectors, LED Displays and associated computers are available for checkout by course TAs for faculty&course support at the Loeb Library Circulation Desk. Users are expected to sign up for, collect, operate and return (in a timely fashion) the projectors and screens and to familiarize themselves with their operation prior to ‘live’ use. No software or other functionality on borrowed computers should be assumed without testing; all equipment and peripherals should be verified for proper installation and operation prior to ‘live’ use. Special requests made after 4 PM may not be accommodated until the following day. All special requests and ‘extra notice’ need to be cleared with the Director of Computer Resources, (617) 495-2682 or email: director@gsd.harvard.edu) Advance Notice / Rush Orders An extra charge is assessed for rush orders, of which only a limited number may be requested. Please don’t abuse the privilege. Your business / Our business Computer Resources staff know a lot about the workings of computing machines and networks; but not necessarily about how you are going to use them. We may be able to learn, and help you figure out, but we are not usually able to help with your own ‘business practices’, or getting or interpreting the data for the particular problem you need to solve. An exception is for Geographic Data, for use in a GIS; the GIS and Design Data Librarian (email mapping@gsd.harvard.edu) may be able to help in this case! In some cases, you may need to read the manual for the software you are trying to use, or seek training or consultation somewhere outside the GSD. GSD community may be able to use the LYNDA software training resources. Related Links (some CRG policies are modeled after the following sources:) HUIT List of IT Policies Harvard Enterprise Information Security Policy (HEISP) at http://www.security.harvard.edu/ Provost’s Polices on Copyright at http://www.dmca.harvard.edu/ Prev Next Close Slideshow Back to top Harvard University Graduate School of Design © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Privacy Accessibility Digital Accessibility Maps Contact COVID-19 GSD API Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Sign up to receive news and information about upcoming events, exhibitions, and more. Email* Δ Version 1.11.26