Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Physics and Materials Science About Undergraduate Graduate People Research Resources News SPS Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact News & Events Alumni Spotlight Seminars Lois McGlothlin Donaldson Endowed Lecture Newsletter Take Action Apply Now Contact Us Alumni Spotlights and Newsletters Seminars and Endowed Lecture Follow Us Online Facebook Home Department of Physics and Materials Science News and Events News and Events UofM Physics Graduate Students Recipients of Awards Juan Chen Bryson Krause Congratulations to UofM Physics graduate students Juan Chen and Bryson Krause as they have received of the “Celebrate Student Success” Award. This award recognizes student accomplishments including publications, conference presentations, student leadership, and community service. Juan Chen also received the following three awards: “Dean's Award”. This award recognizes graduate students who have excelled academically and have either overcome tremendous odds to be successful or have consistently made contributions that benefit others. “Provost’s Program/Track Outstanding Student Award”. This award recognizes students who have excelled academically and have made significant contributions to benefit others. “GSA 20 under 35” Award. Recognizing how difficult it is to complete graduate degrees consecutively or concurrently, this award recognizes 20 graduate students below age of 35 who have made a significant mark on the campus community through excellent teaching, innovative research, service to the campus and community, or general dedication above and beyond their performance in the classroom. UofM Physics Faculty Members Drs. Chenhui Peng and Xiao Shen Receive Mentor Award from the Graduate Student Association Congratulations to Drs. Chenhui Peng and Dr. Xiao Shen for there efforts whcih have been recognized by the “Mentor Award” from the Graduate Student Association. This award recognizes administrative and faculty members who have shown tremendous commitment to mentoring, advising, and supporting graduate students during the academic year. This award will be given to administration or faculty members who have made significant efforts in mentoring and advising graduate students to become professionals in their field, shape the graduate work of a graduate student, and/or provide exceptional personal support and development to a graduate student. Dr. Chenhui Peng Dr. Xiao Shen Congratulations to UofM Physics Undergraduate Students Joseph Duncan, Nicholas Nolen, and Cullen Rossmeissl We are pleased to congratulate the Physics and Materials Science students listed below for their achievements and the award granted in recognition of their outstanding work. Joseph Duncan for receiving the Highest Physics GPA Award as well as the Best Undergraduate Researcher Award, and Dr. Albert H. Woollett Scholarship in Physics Nicholas Nolen for receiving Dr. Robert Marchini Scholarship in Physics! Cullen Rossmeissl for receiving the Chi Beta Phi Science Award and the 2022 Outstanding Physics Student Award! Joseph Duncan Nicholas Nolen Cullen Rossmeissl UofM Graduate Student Bryson Krause Receives Graduate Assistant Meritorious Teaching Award On April 26, 2022, PhD Candidate Bryson Krause was presented with the Graduate Assistant Meritorious Teaching Award. This awards acknowledges the importance of the instructional enterprise in the transmission, creation, and application of advanced knowledge by the university. Two awards are made annually to outstanding graduate teaching assistants (TAs) for their skill in transmitting knowledge in the classroom or laboratory. Bryson earned a BS in Physics (and another in Mechanical Engineering) from Mississippi State University in December 2018. He had a brief 2-year stint as an Industrial Engineer before moving to Memphis with his wife and 2-year old son, joining the program as a graduate assistant PhD student in August 2020. Samples Returned from the International Space Station Dr. Firouzeh Sabri and her group received phosphor composite samples back from Aegis after flying on MISSE. The group traveled to their facility in Houston, and experienced exciting moments as they watched the de-integration of their samples. Dr. Sabri and her group acknowledge Allison and Ian for their assistance during the visit. This represents a wonderful learning opportunity for my students Jordan Darliing (UofM graduate student) and Grayson Nelms (UofM undergraduate student). UofM Professor receives Grant from West Cancer Foundation It is a pleasure to announce that Dr. Muhammad Shah Jahan has received a grant from the West Cancer Foundation to investigate “Freeing the Radicals: Enabling patients to better understand the care they need, through knowledge of free radicals and their relation to cancer.” These awards are very competitive, and we look forward to the results that we hope will provide insight for prevention of cancer-causing free radicals. Congratulations, Dr. Jahan! UofM Assistant Professor Receives NSF-ERI Grant We are pleased to announce that Dr Shawn Pollard has been awarded an NSF-ERI grant. Dr. Pollard is an Assistant Professor in the Department of Physics and Materials Science at the UofM. The title of the proposal is "Compositionally modulated ferrimagnets for spin-orbitronic devices." Congratulations, Dr Pollard! Recognizing First Physics Ph.D. Graduate, Jiyang Chen It a pleasure to recognize to recognize Jiyang Chen's completion of his Ph.D. degree in Physics under the supervision of Dr. Thang Hoang. Jiyang Chen defended his thesis, "Silicon-Based Nanostructures: Growth and Characterizations of Si2Te3 Nanowires and Nanoplates" in April 2021. His work developed a comprehensive understanding of properties of Si2Te3 nanostructures and to provide useful information on using these new nanomaterials as building blocks for RRAM devices, optoelectronic, and chemical sensing. In particular, it was demonstrated that the switching behavior of the Si2Te3 nanomaterials exhibit promise for applications in the Random Access Memory devices, while the anisotropic optical behavior is relevant in polarized sensor applications. Jiyang has accepted an offer from Bruker and will return to China, where he will work with various X-ray instrumentation that perform X-ray diffraction, and X-Ray fluorescence spectroscopy. His time and efforts at the University of Memphis have been greatly appreciated and he will be missed. Jiyang came to consider the people in the Department as a second family. He hopes to return to the United States in the future and would love to continue to support the Department of Physics and Materials Science at the University of Memphis in the future. On behalf of the Department of Physics and Materials Science, we wish Jiyang success in his future endeavours. Fundraising Launch for Voyage Solar System Scale Model at Main UofM Campus; Please Follow Link to Explore and Donate The Department of Physics and Materials Science is proud to announce UofM approval of a scale model of the solar system contingent on the funds being raised. The Voyage Solar System model is on a 10 billion-to-one scale, which corresponds to 2,000 feet from the Sun to Pluto for this model. It is envisioned that it would lie along a north-south walkway passing through the center of the main UofM campus as shown in the pictures below. Please follow this link to learn more and donate. Matching funds will be provided for up to $20,000 in donations. Dr. Meg Urry of Yale University to Deliver 2021 Lois McGlothlin Donaldson Endowed Lecture in Physics (Register Here) It is an honor to announce that Dr. Meg Urry will deliver the 2021 Lois McGlothlin Donaldson Endowed Lecture in Physics on the topic of Black Holes, Galaxies and the Evolution of the Universe. The lecture will be streamed online via Zoom on Friday, March 26, 2021 at 6:30 p.m. Dr. Urry is the Director of the Yale Center for Astronomy and Astrophysics at Yale University. This lecture will trace the development of black holes at the center of galaxies throughout the history of the universe as this influences galactic evolution. Descriptions of a black hole will be presented, and the process by which the universe evolved to its present state will be elucidated through the presentation of recent observations and computer simulations. UM Physics Professor Discusses Nobel Prize Winning Work of his Ph.D. Advisor Dr. Reinhard Genzel On December 8, 2020, the Nobel Prize Ceremony took place, in which Dr. Reinhard Genzel (along with Dr. Roger Penrose and Dr. Andrea Ghez) gave his Nobel Lectures and was awarded 2020 Nobel Prize in Physics. Please follow this link to see Dr. Muller Sanchez discuss the details of this scientific discovery. Additionally, Dr. Muller Sanchez shares what it was like to work with Dr. Genzel and the factors that contributed to his success. Remembering UofM Emeritus Professor Narahari Achar It grieves us to announce that Professor Emeritus Narahari Achar passed away on 23 April 2021. Dr. Narahari Achar joined the Physics faculty at the University of Memphis in 1984. He had a broad research interests ranging from topics in the electric properties of materials to applied fractional calculus to ancient astronomy and published prolifically in these areas. His wise, encouraging words and affable demeanor benefited his colleagues and students at the University of Memphis. He will be greatly missed. We would invite you to visit Dr. Achar's online memorial, which is a testament to the positive impact his life had on faculty, staff, students--all those who had the pleasure of knowing him. UofM Professor's Temperature Sensing Probe to be Tested in Space, currently on International Space Station Dr. Firouzeh Sabri's research group at the UofM has been working on advancing the application of phosphor-based temperature measurements to space. This is a precise and low-cost technique for rapid temperature measurement over the range of 0°C to 1,200° C. Nevertheless, materials outside of the protection of Earth's atmosphere must be resistant to the extreme temperatures and radiation of space, and thus they are now being tested in this environment on board the ISS. Results from this project will shed light on the radiation tolerance of phosphor powders and composites, providing critical information on the stability of the temperature-dependent properties of phosphor. This experiment will aid in determining the feasibility of using phosphor composite sensors for temperature measurements relevant to the healthcare, petroleum, and aerospace industries. More information is available here. Assistant Professor leads two JWST studies of the inner workings of giant black holes Dr. Francisco Muller Sanchez is the PI of two successful James Webb Space Telescope proposals that will characterize the environments around supermassive black holes. The James Webb Space Telescope will be the world's premier space science observatory when it launches in 2021. Webb will solve mysteries in our solar system, look beyond to distant worlds around other stars, and probe the mysterious structures and origins of our universe and our place in it. Webb is an international program led by NASA with its partners, ESA (European Space Agency) and the Canadian Space Agency. NASA Office of STEM Engagement Grant awarded to Physics and Materials Science faculty member Dr. Firouzeh Sabri was awarded grant from NASA's Office of STEM Engagement (in collaboration with Dr. Stephanie Ivey) to convert content from her space sciences research into curriculum content for K-12. This will incorporate elements of Materials Physics at a suitable level for science classes. This work ties in nicely with Dr. Sabri's research in phosphor thermometry which was recently selected for investigation on board the International Space Station National Laboratory (ISSNL) and awarded a grant by ISSNL to conduct the work. Her project is currently scheduled for a February launch. Congratulations to Dr. Sabri and Dr. Ivey! Physics and Materials Science faculty member among UofM faculty awarded a joint NSF ADVANCE grant Dr. Firouzeh Sabri was awarded an NSF ADVANCE grant as a co-PrincipaI Investigator (co-PI) in collaboration with Dr. Esra Ozdenerol (PI) and fellow co-PIs Drs. Stephanie Ivey, Craig Steward, Amanda Rockinson-Szapkiw, Jacob Allen, and CAS Dean Abby Parrill-Baker. The purpose of the supported work is the fostering of gender equity in STEM throughout the UofM. Specifically, the intended outcome is an increasingly inclusive campus environment reflected in recruiting, hiring, retaining, and advancing of STEM women faculty, especially underrepresented minorities. Congratulations to Dr. Sabri and all the project PIs! Dr. Kelly Holley-Bockelmann of Vanderbilt University to Deliver the 2022 Lois McGlothlin Donaldson Endowed Lecture in Physics It is an honor to announce that Dr. Kelly Holley-Bockelmann will deliver the 2022 Lois McGlothlin Donaldson Endowed Lecture in Physics entitled, "Bringing Gravity to Light. The lecture will be held in the University Center Theatre on Friday, March 25, 2022 at 6:30 p.m. following a reception at 6:00 p.m. Dr. Holley-Bockelmann is an Associate Professor in Astronomy at Vanderbilt University and Co-Director of the Fisk-to-Vanderbilt Master's-to-PhD Bridge Program. The lecture will provide an engaging description of the concept of gravity waves and the information that they carry. The principles and practice of the Laser Interferometet Gravity-Wave Observatories (LIGOs) will be discussed as well as the exciting 2015 detection of the first gravity waves. Please join us for this Remembering Emeritus Professor Dr. Don Franceschetti, Friday, January 28, at 3 p.m. in the U.C. It is with regret and sorrow that we communicate the passing of Dr. Don Franceschetti which occurred on July 1, 2019. Unfortunately, due to issues related to the pandemic the memorial had to be postponed. Dr. Franceschetti left his mark on the Department and the University through his leadership, service, and excellent research contributions. The Department is grateful to him for his dedication to the success of our students and years of service in leadership roles. There will be a memorial for Dr. Franceschetti on January 28, 2022 at 3:00 p.m. in the Shelby Room of the University Center (UC Room 342). For those unable to attend in person, it will be possible to register and attend via Zoom. A pdf version of this announcement is included to the right. James Webb Space Telescope Launch The upcoming launch of the James Webb Space Telescope is an exciting event for the scientific community. We are pleased to hear from Dr. Francisco Muller Sanchez from the Department of Physics and Materials Science at the University of Memphis to describe what this event means for him and his group, and how the data they obtain will be used in their research. For more information, please visit Dr. Muller Sanchez's page. Physics Alumnus Dr. Rex Gandy Discusses His Career and the Impact of Physics on It Dr. Gandy shares that his course of study and mentors at the UofM influenced his career path, and we celebrate the achievements of an alumnus of the department. These insights into Dr. Gandy's thoughts about physics before, during and after his time as a student at the UofM provide helpful perspectives for students interested in or currently pursuing degrees or careers in physics. Read more here. Remembering UofM Emeritus Professor Narahari Achar It grieves us to announce that Professor Emeritus Narahari Achar passed away on April 23, 2021. Dr. Narahari Achar joined the Physics faculty at the University of Memphis in 1984. He had a broad research interests ranging from topics in the electric properties of materials to applied fractional calculus to ancient astronomy and published prolifically in these areas. His wise, encouraging words and affable demeanor benefited his colleagues and students at the University of Memphis. He will be greatly missed. We would invite you to visit Dr. Achar's online memorial, which is a testament to the positive impact his life had on faculty, staff, students--all those who had the pleasure of knowing him. UM Physics Professor Discusses Nobel Prize Winning Work of his Ph.D. Advisor Dr. Reinhard Genzel On December 8, 2020, the Nobel Prize Ceremony took place, in which Dr. Reinhard Genzel (along with Dr. Roger Penrose and Dr. Andrea Ghez) gave his Nobel Lectures and was awarded 2020 Nobel Prize in Physics. Please follow this link to see Dr. Muller Sanchez discuss the details of this scientific discovery. Additionally, Dr. Muller Sanchez shares what it was like to work with Dr. Genzel and the factors that contributed to his success. UofM Physics and Materials Science Department Recognized in AIP Survey A recent report published by the American Institute of Physics (AIP), surveying Enrollments and Degrees in physics departments across the nation from 2016 to 2018, named the Uof M Physics and Materials Science Department among the top 12 percent of masters-granting departments for 15 bachelor degrees granted. For more information, please see the AIP report. UofM Physics Student Participates in Prestigious Astronomy Summer Research Program During summer 2020, student Savannah Woods participated in a summer research program at the National Radio Astronomy Observatory (NRAO) in Charlottesville, VA. Savannah--who is an undergraduate student at the UofM majoring in Physics with an Astronomy concentration--performed research at the NRAO studying Luminous InfraRed Galaxies (LIRGs). As their name suggests, these galaxies possess large luminosities in the infra-red portion of the electromagnetic spectrum due to enhanced star formation typically originating from galactic mergers. Savannah analyzed data from the Very Large Array (VLA) in New Mexico, the Atacama Large Millimeter Array (ALMA) in Chile, and Herschel (a space-based, infrared observatory). The experience provided the opportunity to work closely with leading astronomers from University of Virginia, UMass Amherst, Universidad Nacional Autonóma de Honduras, and Caltech among others, as well as to meet other undergraduate and graduate physics and astronomy students from other institutions. Savannah will be continuing her summer project as a student intern with the NRAO throughout the 2020-2021 academic year. Savannah's research talk is available here. For more information about Astronomy at the University of Memphis, please visit Dr. Muller Sanchez's page. Welcome to Dr. Shawn Pollard! It is our pleasure to offer a warm welcome to Dr. Shawn Pollard who joins the University of Memphis Department of Physics and Materials Science as Assistant Professor. We look forward to working with him. Please join us in welcoming Dr. Pollard. Stop past Manning Hall to greet him, even if you have to wait until campus opens fully. Congratulations to the 2020 MS Graduating Class The Department of Physics and Materials Science recognizes the wonderful accomplishments of the students who have graduated with MS degrees in August 2020. Congratulations to Dipendra Singh Khatri, Netra Dhakal, Yu Zhu, Kamal Ranabhat, Deepa Guragain, Juan Chen, Negar Charchi, Subash Bhandari, and Trae Staggers. We are proud of you, and we wish you all the best in your future endeavors. Remembering Dr. Donald Franceschetti, Professor Emeritus at UM In July 2020, we commemorate the one-year anniversary of the passing of Dr. Donald Franceschetti. Dr. Franceschetti was a valued member of the department faculty and made numerous contributions in teaching, research, and leadership. A memorial lecture and reception to honor him and his many contributions had been planned and scheduled; unfortunately, it had to be cancelled due to the COVID-19 outbreak. He is greatly missed, and we are grateful for all the ways in which he enriched the lives of his colleagues and students at the University of Memphis. We look forward to a time, when life returns to normal, in which we will be able to remember him together. DNA Self-Assembled to Form UM Logo Featured in Peer-Reviewed Journal Command the DNA molecular self-assembly into the shape of the UM logo to represent the University of Memphis. This work was recently published in Physical Review Applied 13, 014026 (2020). The work was done by Mr. Netra Dhakal and Dr. Jinghua Jiang from Dr. Chenhui Peng's Active Soft Matter Laboratory. Physics faculty member awarded NIH grant Dr. Thang Hoang (in collaboration with Dr. Xiaohua Huang, Chemistry) has recently been awarded an NIH grant to support a project titled "Single exosome protein profiling with surface enhanced Raman scattering imaging". This project aims at developing a technique to detect cancer from single exosomes by using plasmonic nanoparticles. The main mechanism relies on the enhanced Raman scattering by the presence of metal nanoparticles such as gold nanostars and nanorods. Because of its very high sensitivity, this technique allows for the detection of breast cancer at early stages. The award total is $415,740 and runs from July 2020 until June 2023. For more information about Dr. Hoang's research lab, visit his webpage. His biographical information and publications can be found on his faculty profile pages. Congratulations to Dr. Hoang! Physics faculty member awarded NSF grant Dr. Mohamed Laradji was recently awarded an NSF grant to support a project titled "Membrane-Mediated Interactions between Anisotropic Nanoparticles". This project utilizes coarse-grained numerical simulations and theory to investigate effective interactions between anisotropic nanoparticles and their self-assembly, which are mediated by their adhesion on lipid membranes. The results of this project are important for the development of nanomaterials for a variety of biomedical applications, such as biosensing, diagnostics, drug delivery, magnetic hyperthermia and photothermal therapy. The award total is $309,367 and runs from January 2020 until December 2022. For more information, please visit Dr. Laradji's research webpage. PhD program in Applied Physics approved by the state On Jan 31st, 2020, the Tennessee Higher Education Commission approved the Department's PhD program in Applied Physics. The program will start in Fall 2020 and is now accepting applicants. The application deadline is April 1st. For more information, please visit the Prospective PhD student webpage. Physics faculty awarded prestigious Ralph E. Powe Enhancement Award Dr. Thang Ba Hoang has recently been recognized by the Oak Ridge Associated Universities (ORAU) with the 2018 Ralph E. Powe Junior Faculty Enhancement Award in Physical Sciences. The Awards (35 faculty awarded nationwide) provide seed money for junior faculty at ORAU member institutions to conduct their research (award website). These awards are intended to enrich the research and professional growth of young faculty and result in new funding opportunities. For more information about Dr. Hoang's research lab, visit his webpage. Congratulations to Dr. Hoang! His bio and publications can be found on his faculty profile pages. Physics faculty members receive NSF grants Dr. Xiao Shen and Dr. Jingbiao Cui have recently been awarded an NSF grant to support a project titled "Silicon Telluride, A 2D Material with Unique Variable Structure." The research team combines theoretical and experimental studies to develop 2D materials with desirable properties and to achieve a fundamental understanding of the unique phenomenon in silicon telluride, which is expected to make significant impact on the field of low dimensional materials, electronic and optoelectronic industry. The research activities are integrated with educational efforts, augmenting the undergraduate and graduate curricula through hands-on projects, enriched course materials, and summer workshops on nanomaterials to inspire the students' interest in science, The total award is $392,679 and it runs from July 1st 2017 through June 30th 2020. For more information on the recipients' research, please follow their links on our Physics Faculty webpage. Dr. Thang Ba Hoang has also recently been awarded an NSF grant to support his project titled "Directional Superradiant Light Emission from Epsilon-Near-Zero Plasmonic Nanochannels." The project utilizes experimental and theoretical approaches to help realize new materials and structures that enable controlled light emission for use in next generation energy efficient electronics, such as nanoscale lasers, as well as well advanced optical communications and sensing technologies. The project supports undergraduate and graduate student involvement in research as a means of encouraging pursuit of advanced study and research careers in nanophotonics. The total award amounts $361,177 and it runs from July 1st 2017 through June 30th 2020. Read more on Dr. Hoang's research Electronic and Photonic Nanomaterials Laboratory. Interested undergraduate and graduate students (Masters and Doctoral) are welcome to participate in these cutting-edge research projects. We encourage interested students to apply. To get detailed information about these opportunities, contact Dr. Hoang, Dr. Shen or Dr. Cui to express your interest and learn more about their ongoing projects. Congratulations to Dr. Hoang, Dr. Shen and Dr. Cui! Dr. Shen selected as Early Career Research Award (ECRA) recipient Dr. Xiao Shen has been selected by the College's Graduate Council as one of the recipients of an Early Career Research Award (ECRA). The members of the ECRA subcommittee, who reviewed the materials, were highly impressed with both the quality and the amount of research productivity of Dr. Shen and all of the recipients. This award carries with it the sum of $500, available over the 2017-2018 academic year. The money can be used to purchase books, for professional travel, or in some way that furthers your research; however, it cannot be used as salary. Recipients will also be recognized during the CAS faculty meeting in August with a plaque. The other 2017 awardees are selected Inmaculada Gomez-Soler, World Languages and Literature; Kathryn Howell, Psychology. Read more about Dr. Shen's research at his faculty webpage. The Lois McGlothlin Donaldson Endowed Lecture in Physics Dr. Clifford Will will present "Black Holes, Waves of Gravity & Other Warped Ideas of Dr. Einstein," as the second Lois McGlothlin Donaldson Endowed Lecture in Physics for 2017. The event is March 31 in the University Center Theatre with a reception beginning at 6:00 p.m and lecture at 6:30 p.m. More on this event. Congratulations on the great impact of Physics research team Drs. Narahari Achar and John Hanneken received notification from Intech, the World's largest Science, Technology & Medicine Open Access book publisher that their book chapter has been downloaded over 1500 times. The chapter titled, "Microscopic Formulation of Fractional Theory of Viscoelasticity" is published in the book, Viscoelasticity - From Theory to Biological Applications. The chapter was downloaded in Brazil, Germany, India, China and USA. Intech Article Stats Physics professor receives award Dr. Narahari Achar received the Donald E. Osterbrock Prize for his contribution to the Biographical Encyclopedia of Astronomers (2nd edition). The award is given to the author or authors of a book "judged to advance the field of the history of astronomy" by The AAS Historical Astronomy Division. View Certificate. Dr. Achar also received the World Association for Vedic Studies (WAVES) 2016 Abhinandanam for Outstanding Service to the Vedic Studies, New Delhi, December 2016. See Award. Dr. Naseeb Shaheen Scholarship Awarded to Physics and Biology Major Martina Rodriguez Sala, Physics and Biology major, is the recipient of the 2016 Dr. Naseeb Shaheen Scholarship and is currently working on her research in Experimental Materials Physics under the supervision of Dr F Sabri. She is also the recipient of an Helen Hardin Honors Summer Research Fellowship. Congratulations Martina for receiving this award! This scholarship is awarded to students majoring in Chemistry, Physics, Mathematics, or Geography who plan to become high school teachers in one or more of these subjects. Faculty Member awarded Ralph E. Powe Enhancement Award in Physical Sciences The Oak Ridge Associated Universities recognized Dr. Xiao Shen with the 2016 Ralph E. Powe Junior Faculty Enhancement Award in Physical Sciences. The Awards provide seed money for research by junior faculty at ORAU member institutions. These awards are intended to enrich the research and professional growth of young faculty and result in new funding opportunities. For more information about Dr. Shen's research, visit his webpage. Physics Faculty Recognized for Exceptional Teaching and Research Dr. Mohamed Laradji is the recipient of the Alumni Association Distinguished Research in Science, Engineering and Mathematics. The Alumni Association may make up to five awards annually to faculty who have brought honor and recognition to the University through their research or creative activities. Ms. Joanne Rhodes is the recipient of the Thomas W. Briggs Foundation Award for Teaching award. The Briggs Award recognizes teaching excellence at the undergraduate level and overall commitment to undergraduate education. Both awards will be presented at the Faculty Convocation. (UofM press release, UofM Will Recognize Exceptional Teaching and Research at Faculty Convocation) UofM Scholars Publish Paper in Esteemed Journal: Congratulations to our very own Xiumei Geng and Weiwei Sun (both students of Dr. Jingbiao, Chair), who recently published an article in the leading journal Nature Communications. The article, entitled "Pure and stable metallic phase molybdenum disulfide nanosheets for hydrogen evolution reaction", reveals new possibilities for the synthesis of stable, two-dimensional metallic-phase MoS2 nanosheets in water. Internships and Fellowships Kate Mitchell, an undergraduate Physics major, is the recipient of a National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) summer internship fellowship, to be held at Langley Research Center in Hampton, Virginia. During her internship she will be working on High Strength Structural Carbon Nanotube Composites for Spacecraft Structures. Kate is currently conducting materials research in the Bio, Nano, and Space Materials Laboratory under Dr Firouzeh Sabri's supervision. Kate is also the recipient of the 2015 Marchini Physics scholarship. Kate says, "I'm really honored to have been given these opportunities and look forward to spending my summer at NASA". Congratulations to Kate! Scholarships The 2016/17 Dr. Robert Marchini Scholarship was awarded to Jacob Hadley, a third year physics senior in our 3+2 accelerated master's program. His research concentration is in material physics. Past recipient of the scholarship is Ms. Katherine Elizabeth Mitchell. Contributions You may still make a contribution to the Physics Undergraduate Scholarships Marchini scholarship, the Woollett Scholarship. 50th Anniversary of the Department of Physics Mr. Lewis O’Kelly was present when the University Of Memphis Department Of Physics was established, and he recently reminded us of our upcoming 50th anniversary. We will commemorate the milestone on 7/1 and host a celebration in fall. More information will be sent soon. Like us on Facebook and share photos and memories: https://www.facebook.com/pages/University-of-Memphis-Department-of-Physics-and-Materials-Science/157153731095168 Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/25/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.