COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Counseling, Master's Master'sCounseling All Programs College of Applied Studies Intervention Services and Leadership in Education Wichita State’s Master of Education (MEd) in counseling will help you build a strong background in human growth and development—preparing you for a rewarding career as a licensed counselor in a variety of settings. The program offers the flexibility of several specializations (addiction, clinical mental health, higher education, school and sports), a certificate option and practicum experience. And you’ll enjoy the convenience of evening classes as well as a number of online and hybrid courses. Learn how Counseling is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted into the program, you must be admitted to Wichita State and have a minimum 3.0 GPA for the last 60 credit hours. You must also submit: A statement of professional goals Your resume Contact information for three professional references The program is open to anyone with an undergraduate degree. There is no Graduate Record Examination (GRE) test required for admission. Admission requirements Curriculum The MEd in counseling offers different tracks depending upon the student's career goals. These tracks include addiction counseling (60 credit hours), clinical mental health counseling (60 credit hours), higher education counseling (45 credit hours), school counseling (48 credit hours) and sports counseling (60 credit hours). View the curriculum Careers A graduate degree in counseling from Wichita State’s College of Applied Studies will give you the knowledge, skills and confidence to make a positive impact on the lives of others—and on your career. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs School Psychology - Postbaccalaureate (Specialist) Educational Psychology (Master's) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©