Skip to content Open every day. Free every day. English Give and Join Become a Volunteer Home Plan a Visit Plants Stories Events About Us Arnold 150 Educators Researchers Toggle search bar Open menu Close Home Open every day. Free every day. Plan a Visit → Plants → Stories → Events → About Us → Arnold 150 → Educators → Researchers → Give and Join Become a Volunteer Events Featured Event Jun 12 The Bomb-itty of Errors With four actors, a live DJ, and one of Shakespeare’s funniest comedies, The Bomb-itty of Errors by Jordan Allen-Dutton, Jason Catalano, Gregory J. Qaiyum, Jeffrey Qaiyum, and Erik Weiner is a hip-hop-opera that moves the crowd! Directed by Christopher V. Edwards and performed by Actors' Shakespeare Project against the historic brick backdrop of the Hunnewell Building, The Bomb-itty of Errors comes to the Arboretum during our 150th anniversary year. 5:00 pm Learn More Sections Explore with Us! → Director's Series → Adult Education → Tree Mobs™ → Current and Past Art Shows → Guided Tours → Collections Up Close → Lilac Sunday → All events at the Arboretum are free. We welcome people of all abilities and are committed to facilitating a safe and engaging experience for all who visit. To view our accessibility practices, please visit our Accessibility page. To request services such as an interpreter, wheelchair, or other assistance prior to attending an event, please contact us as soon as you register. Upcoming Events May 01 Jun 25 Art Show | Stoneroot Epistle In this mother-daughter book collaboration in our Hunnewell Visitor Center, Joyce and Daina Swagerty contemplate our capacity for wonder through the lens of an acorn through the seasons. Select pages of vivid imagery and inspirational poetry offer a layered landscape exploring the movement of universal journey. (Image detail copyright Daina Swagerty.) Learn More May 02 Jun 30 Guided Tours Join us for a walk through the Arboretum! Tour seasonal plant highlights and learn about Arboretum history from a trained docent. Learn More Jun 02 Trees Inspire Guided Walk, Part II Trees have been inspiring people throughout human history. Two Arboretum docents bring a wealth of history and special stories from numerous cultures. Plants figure prominently in this walking tour, which will introduce you to the numerous ways that trees have brought inspiration to everyone. Although Trees Inspire Parts I and II are unique, they stand alone as walks. We invite you to attend both or just one. 10:00 am Learn More Jun 02 Bonsai and Penjing Information Visit the Bonsai and Penjing Pavilion from 11am–1pm to learn about this collection of historic trees from our knowledgeable docents. 11:00 am Learn More Jun 03 Jul 25 Art Show | Meaningful Beauty: The Vibrant Vocabulary of Honeysuckles This multimedia exhibition highlights the genus Lonicera (honeysuckle). Wendy Clement combines her Arboretum research on honeysuckle with the design initiatives of Chris Ault’s Interactive Multimedia class at The College of New Jersey, bringing an exciting insight into how plants use visual signals to communicate with the world around them. Learn More Jun 03 Honeysuckle Happenings: A Walk with Dr. Wendy Clement As summer nears, hummingbirds will begin to visit brilliant honeysuckle flowers while the sweet fragrance of other honeysuckles will ride the evening breeze. Join us on a tour led by Dr. Wendy Clement to explore the honeysuckle collection at the Arboretum, home to over 30 species of these notable plants. 10:30 am Learn More Jun 04 MassQ Ball 2022: Origin | MassQing Workshop Learn the origin, technique and meaning behind Daniel Callahan's artistic practice of MassQing, which uses the human face as a canvas to reveal one's inner state. Engage firsthand in the conception and creation of your own MassQ. 1:00 pm Learn More Jun 05 Bonsai and Penjing Information Visit the Bonsai and Penjing Pavilion from 11am–1pm to learn about this collection of historic trees from our knowledgeable docents. 11:00 am Learn More Jun 05 Stoneroot Epistle Artists’ Talk: Regenerational Collaboration Join artist Daina Swagerty and poet Joyce Swagerty for a conversation about Stoneroot Epistle, their artistic collaboration now on view at the Arboretum's Hunnewell Visitor Center. (Image detail copyright Daina Swagerty.) 1:00 pm Learn More Jun 09 Bonsai and Penjing Information Visit the Bonsai and Penjing Pavilion from 11am–1pm to learn about this collection of historic trees from our knowledgeable docents. 11:00 am Learn More Jun 16 Bonsai and Penjing Information Visit the Bonsai and Penjing Pavilion from 11am–1pm to learn about this collection of historic trees from our knowledgeable docents. 11:00 am Learn More Jun 23 Bonsai and Penjing Information Visit the Bonsai and Penjing Pavilion from 11am–1pm to learn about this collection of historic trees from our knowledgeable docents. 11:00 am Learn More Jun 26 MassQ Ball 2022: Origin | Making of Ceremonial Vessels Led by Bengali culture worker Pampi, this audience participatory workshop allows attendees to weave love letters into hand-crafted ceremonial vessels for their loved ones. Vessel will be fashioned out of natural materials sourced from the grounds of the Arboretum and displayed in the MassQ Ball on July 9. 1:00 pm Learn More Jun 27 Sep 05 Art Show | The Art of Nature/The Nature of Art This unique show brings together 14 book artists who use the framework of a book to create a vision of nature. Works of art fold, accordion, and display cut-outs, treating the traditional art world of two-dimensions as something permeable, and the traditional book world as a place of personal discovery and reverence. (Left image: "Clematis" detail, Rebecca Goodale; Right image: "View From the Window" detail, Annie Lee-Zimerle) Exhibition Opens June 27 Jul 09 MassQ Ball 2022: Origin Convene in our collections to celebrate what makes us both unique and unified. A MassQ is a ritual application of paint to the face in order to reveal one's inner state of being. MassQing derives from the ancient tradition of body decoration practiced by nearly every indigenous culture on earth. Join us for this intergenerational, cross-cultural exhibition of the arts and interact with the landscape in new, creative ways. 2:00 pm Learn More Jul 29 Oct 02 Art Show | Tree Ring Histories: The Quilts of Anna Von Mertens Working with international dendrochronologists, Anna Von Mertens culled source images of tree ring cross-sections from studies connecting climate variability and periods of human instability. The events represented in her quilts correlate to periods of drought recorded by the tree rings. Fading thread colors mirror and highlight historical events. Exhibition Opens July 29 Aug 12 Oaks and Hickories Tour Stay cool under the soaring canopies of our oak and hickory collections. Join a staff expert for a tour of one of the oldest areas of the Arboretum, and enjoy the shade of some of our most venerable specimens. More Information Coming Soon Sep 13 Director’s Series | Journeys: The Arnold Arboretum Meets the World’s Plants and Peoples Join the Arnold Arboretum’s Director William (Ned) Friedman for the annual Director’s Series! To celebrate the Arboretum’s sesquicentennial, this year’s series will explore the Magic and Meaning of a Garden of Trees. Over the course of four sessions, we will trace the Arnold’s significance in the landscape architecture movement, value for the people of Boston, and leadership in creating global connections between plants and people. This session will consist of brief presentations and a moderated panel. The program is free and will be offered both in person and livestreamed. 7:00 pm Learn More Sep 17 Abilities Dance Boston Join Abilities Dance Boston as it shines in the Arboretum landscape. The trailblazing company will bring original musical scores, choreography, and audio descriptions, ASL, and CART to make the work accessible in the spirit of universal design enjoyed by all. More Information Coming Soon Oct 07 Oct 09 Art Show | The Art of the Woodturner For the sixth year, woodturners from throughout New England will exhibit their work at the Arboretum. Using a lathe to form their pieces, woodturners create practical objects or “turn” to the purely aesthetic, resulting in a show that appeals to the eye and the touch. (Image: "Cherry Root Bowl," Steve Wiseman) Exhibition Opens October 7 Oct 15 Crabapple and Maple Festival Celebrate fall color at the Arboretum! With species of maples and crabapples from around the world, the Arboretum’s autumnal palette is unrivaled. Join the festivities for a guided tour, children’s activities, and more. More Information Coming Soon Oct 21 Feb 12 Art Show | Intricate Beauties: The Lichen-Embossed Ceramics of Natalie Andrew Ceramics provide a vehicle for Natalie Andrew’s exploration into the sublime aesthetics inherent in lichen. An artist and a biologist, Andrew was permitted by the Arboretum’s curation department to obtain lichen specimens from our collections. The resulting works highlight the texture and depth of lichen against the flat, matte surface of ceramic. Exhibition Opens October 21 Oct 25 Director’s Series | Obsessions: Fellow Organisms in the Arnold Arboretum Join the Arnold Arboretum’s Director William (Ned) Friedman for the annual Director’s Series! To celebrate the Arboretum’s sesquicentennial, this year’s series will explore the Magic and Meaning of a Garden of Trees. Over the course of four sessions, we will trace the Arnold’s significance in the landscape architecture movement, value for the people of Boston, and leadership in creating global connections between plants and people. This session will be a talk from the Director. The program is free and will be offered both in person and livestreamed. 7:00 pm Learn More Plan a Visit Contact Us Plants Stories Events About Us Educators Researchers Give and Join Arnold 150 Free and open every day. We are committed to the Olmstedian principle that everyone is entitled to open space, so our gates are open to everyone, every day, free of charge. Funded by our community. The Arnold Arboretum has been funded by the generosity of the supporting public since our founding in 1872. Give today and continue that legacy. For over 7,000 years, the land on which the Arnold Arboretum now sits has been inhabited and used by diverse societies and cultures of Indigenous Peoples, including most recently, the Massachusett Tribe. Read about the deep history of the Arboretum landscape. Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Flickr © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Intranet Privacy Policy Accessibility Join our mailing list to hear from all the voices at the Arnold Arboretum. Sign Up