Skip to main content Go to site search Go to primary navigation Go to resources navigation Penn COVID-19 Response » Penn Home Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Site Search Academics More Academics Undergraduate Graduate Schools Global Initiatives Interdisciplinary Online Learning Off-campus Learning Libraries Admissions & Aid Athletics Research & Innovation More Research & Innovation Research Enterprise Research News Life at Penn More Life at Penn Arts & Culture Community Involvement More Community Involvement Penn & Philadelphia Diversity Groups & Organizations Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Safety & Security More Safety & Security Emergency Contacts Emergency Preparedness Spirituality & Religion About More About Introduction to Penn History Facts News, Media, & Communication Services Sustainability FAQ Penn’s Interim President, Wendell Pritchett Trustees & Administration Policies Toggle Site Search Resources Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Visitors A-Z Directory Webmail Services Give to Penn Search Search Close Breadcrumb Home / Information for Visitors Information for Visitors We invite you to spend time on campus and see the many ways our diverse community brings excitement and discovery to Penn’s stately buildings and state-of-the-art facilities. The commencement procession winds its way through Penn’s tree-lined campus. About Penn Introduction to Penn A welcome message from Interim President Pritchett and quick overview of our dynamic university. Penn's Heritage When Benjamin Franklin founded Penn, America’s first university, he launched a tradition of firsts that has distinguished the University for nearly three centuries and continues to advance higher education around the world. Penn Today A central source for comprehensive University news coverage. Communications & Media Services Information about the University’s full range of communications services, publications and media outlets. Things to See and Do Resources and Facilities Open to the Public A comprehensive list of campus amenities that are open to all, including cultural institutions, athletics facilities, and resources for health care and veterinary care. Arts & Culture Penn is home to a host of world-class museums and galleries and offers a rich array of cultural events, including theater, music, and dance performances. Shop Penn Covering ten city blocks across Penn’s campus are hundreds of retail shops, restaurants, and distinctly West Philly attractions for students and tourists alike. From quick grab-and-go meals to fine dining experiences, retail splurges or just the essentials, SHOP PENN is a great day trip or resource for the Penn community. Campus Tours Register yourself, your family, or your group of undergraduate students for a campus tour and information session, or download materials to take a self-guided walking tour of campus. Undergraduate Classroom Visits Prospective students are invited to learn more about the intellectual life at Penn by attending a class during the academic year. The College of Arts and Sciences Penn Engineering The School of Nursing The Wharton School Penn Virtual Tour From West Philadelphia to the comfort of your own home, we invite you to explore Penn through a virtual tour of our historic campus. Get a glimpse inside our state-of-the-art classrooms, hear from current students and faculty, and catch live performances by members of our community as you stroll down Locust Walk. Penn Virtual Tour Travel Information Transportation and Parking Helpful resources for traveling to, from and around campus, as well as an interactive parking map and comprehensive list of parking locations. Directions Detailed directions to our most frequented buildings on campus from the airport, train station, and nearby parking garages. Campus Maps Walking, biking, and driving maps for the University’s schools, hospitals and medical centers. The maps are searchable by public art, athletics, construction areas, and more. Local Accommodations A list of campus, Center City, and airport hotels that offer special rates for individuals or groups visiting Penn. Some also offer meeting and conference services. Directions and Parking at the Perelman Center for Advanced Medicine The Ruth and Raymond Perelman Center for Advanced Medicine is located adjacent to the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania. Resources Campus Safety & Security Penn provides a safe environment to live, work, and study, thanks to public safety programs and community partnerships. Emergency Information Phone numbers for fire, police, medical, and weather emergencies, counseling help lines, and how to report phone and data trouble. Stay Connected Issues of human rights and justice are integral to programming at @perryworldhouse, Penn’s hub for global engagement—where, earlier this year, Perry World House Executive Director LaShawn Jefferson and Rangita de Silva de Alwis, Senior Adjunct Professor of Global Leadership and Associate Dean of International Affairs at Penn Carey Law (pictured), spoke during a hybrid event, “Global Justice – The Struggle for Women’s Human Rights.” @uofpenn Participants in a course on Chinese diasporas taught by Ph.D. candidate Sarah Yu of @PennSAS spent a day as tour guides in Philadelphia’s lively Chinatown. The exercise honed their public speaking skills while they learned about Chinese migration. @penn As a response to anti-Black violence, Lucas Monroe, a junior in the School of Arts & Sciences from Abington, Pennsylvania, took on a leadership role in social justice work. @uofpenn Follow us on social media Instagram Facebook Twitter Flickr YouTube LinkedIn Philadelphia, PA 19104 Telephone: (215) 898-5000 Contact Us Maps Parking Navigate Alumni Athletics Diversity Health Care Libraries Online Learning Penn Global Penn's Heritage As America’s first university, Penn has a history that dates back to 1740 and shares many ties with the colonial city of Philadelphia and the birth of our nation. Our History Disclaimer Emergency Services Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement Back To Top