Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Political Science Degrees Forward Arrow Degrees Political Science, B.A. / B.S. / Minor Policy Studies, Ph.D. Master of Public Administration Certificate Programs Pre-Law Back Arrow Back Students Opportunities Forward Arrow Students Opportunities Academic Advising Internships and Undergraduate Research Clubs and Competitions Study Abroad Back Arrow Back Research Alumni & Friends Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close Department of Political Science Welcome to the Department of Political Science at Clemson University. The department offers two undergraduate degrees and two graduate degrees. At the undergraduate level, we offer the Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science in Political Science, which include courses in American politics, comparative politics, international relations, political theory, public administration and public policy. Our graduate programs include the Master’s in Public Administration (MPA) program and the Ph.D. in Policy Studies program. We also offer four undergraduate minors, including political science, public policy, global politics, and political and legal theory. Our courses foster original research and critical thinking through student participation and intensive faculty-student interactions. Degrees show submenu for Degrees Political Science, B.A. / B.S. / Minor Policy Studies, Ph.D. Master of Public Administration Certificate Programs Pre-Law Students Opportunities show submenu for Students Opportunities Academic Advising Internships and Undergraduate Research Clubs and Competitions Study Abroad Research Alumni & Friends Clemson Home College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Academics Current: Political Science The department offers two undergraduate degrees and two graduate degrees. At the undergraduate level, we offer the Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science in Political Science, which include courses in American politics, comparative politics, international relations, political theory, public administration and public policy. Our graduate programs include the Master’s in Public Administration (MPA) program and the Ph.D. in Policy Studies program. We also offer four undergraduate minors, including political science, public policy, global politics, and political and legal theory. Our courses foster original research and critical thinking through student participation and intensive faculty-student interactions.. Political science majors encounter a wide range of topics related to government and politics. Our courses fall into several subfields—American politics, comparative politics, international relations, political theory, public administration and public policy. Through their studies in political science, students will enhance their knowledge along with their critical thinking and empirical skills regarding the academic study of politics. More than 1500 political science majors have graduated from Clemson University since the creation of the Department of Political Science in 1972. Stimulated by a faculty committed to excellence in research and teaching, political science majors have an impressive record of success on campus and beyond their academic training. A Place To Learn The Department of Political Science offers courses in American politics, comparative politics, international relations, political theory, public policy, and public administration. Students have the option of earning either a Bachelor of Arts (B.A.) or a Bachelor of Science (B.S.) degree in political science. Graduate degrees include a Master of Public Administration and a Ph.D. in Policy Studies. Political science majors enjoy many small classes that foster research, critical thinking, student participation, and faculty-student interaction. The department is known for both teaching excellence and rigorous academic standards. Since 1990, political science faculty have won the Alumni Master Teacher Award, the Centennial Professorship Award, and numerous other teaching awards. The department also provides several opportunities for political science majors to work on research teams led by faculty members. In the past, students have participated in teams dealing with research topics such as domestic violence and civil wars, congressional voting, U.S.-China relations, the religious rhetoric of American presidents, community and economic development, comparative politics, and local government. Several students have presented their research at major political science conferences including the Midwest Political Science Association’s conference and the “Posters on the Hill” conference sponsored by the Council on Undergraduate Research that is held in Washington, D.C. A Springboard to A Great Career Political science graduates have carved out successful careers in law, government, journalism, and teaching. Many of our majors have attended graduate and law schools at leading institutions such as Harvard, Yale, Michigan, Virginia, Rice, Texas A&M, Duke, Notre Dame, Georgetown, Texas, American, Vanderbilt, Georgia, Pittsburgh, North Carolina, Pennsylvania State, University of Arizona, CUNY Graduate Center, University of Pennsylvania, Emory, Florida, Wake Forest, Florida State, and South Carolina. Departmental alumni have worked for major law firms in Atlanta, Dallas, Washington, Charlotte, and New Orleans. Political science majors also have held careers on the staff of U. S. senators and representatives; in the CIA and Secret Service; in radio, television, and print; in banking, real estate, and commerce; in state and federal judgeships, and in state legislatures. A Distinguished Faculty Political science faculty have authored or edited nearly four dozen books on topics such as democratization, religion and politics in the United States, Latin American politics, political ideology, presidential executive orders, racial and ethnic politics, treaties and executive agreements, Chinese politics, John Adams, public budgeting, ethnic conflict, Benjamin V. Cohen, and the Supreme Court. The faculty have also written scores of articles for academic journals including American Political Science Review,American Journal of Political Science, Journal of Politics, Political Research Quarterly, Social Science Quarterly, Presidential Studies Quarterly, Journal for the Scientific Study of Religion, Political Behavior, Congress & the Presidency, International Studies Review, American Politics Research, Administration & Society, Political Communication, International Journal of Press/Politics, Journal of Contemporary Asia, Public Administration Review, Policy Studies, and Politics & Gender. In addition, faculty have won grants from, among others, the Fulbright, Olin and MacArthur foundations, the Twentieth Century Fund, Center for the Study of Religion, the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, Woodrow Wilson Center, Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation, U.S. Institute of Peace, and the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute. One faculty member was elected as an APSA Congressional Fellow in 2013-14, where he worked as a domestic policy fellow in the U.S. Senate. Frequently on call by the press, faculty have been quoted in the Washington Post, Wall Street Journal, New York Times, CNN, CBS, BBC, National Public Radio, USA Today, Los Angeles Times, Chicago Tribune, National Law Journal, Voice of America, Le Monde, Guardian (UK), and Newsweek. Several faculty members have gained practical experience serving as former heads of federal and state commissions, advisors to governors, and strategists for congressional and gubernatorial campaigns. Faculty and Staff Directory Name Title Phone/Email Brown, Denise Administrative Specialist II 864-656-3233 DENISEB@clemson.edu Bundrick, Alfred Lecturer, MPA (864) 656-7135 ALFREDB@clemson.edu Carey, Robert Lecturer, Political Science 864-656-0372 CAREY2@clemson.edu Cunningham, Michael Visiting Lecturer South Carolina Student Legislatu 864-656-3233 MCUNNIN@clemson.edu Curtis, K. Amber Associate Professor 864-656-0213 ACURTI2@clemson.edu Dickes, Lori Associate Professor, MPA Program 864-656-7831 LORID@clemson.edu Fine, Jeff Professor 864-656-3233 JFINE@clemson.edu Hoffpauir, J. Clinical Assistant Professor, Clemson Institute fo (864) 656-2133 jmhoffp@clemson.edu Hu, Xiaobo Professor XHU@clemson.edu Kalesnikaite, Vaiva Assistant Professor vkalesn@clemson.edu L'Arrivee, Elizabeth Post Doctoral Fellow (864) 656-3233 elarriv@clemson.edu Lasser, William Alumni Distinguished Professor 864-656-4762 LASSER@clemson.edu Lopez, Ramon Lecturer ramonl@clemson.edu Malmin, Natasha Assistant Professor nmalmin@clemson.edu Matic, Vladimir Senior Lecturer 864-656-3233 VMATIC@clemson.edu Miller, Steve Associate Professor SVMILLE@clemson.edu Morris, Michael Emeritus Faculty (864) 656-3990 morrism@clemson.edu Newell, Angie Administrative Coordinator 656-5401 NANGELA@clemson.edu Olson, Laura Thurmond Professor 864-656-9917 LAURAO@clemson.edu Peake, Jeffrey Department Chair, Professor 656-4653 JPEAKE@clemson.edu Pearce, Colin Visiting Faculty 864-656-5475 CPEARCE@clemson.edu Petersheim, Meredith-Joy Visiting Lecturer PETERSH@clemson.edu Phillips, Stephen Lecturer 864–656–3233 scp@clemson.edu Presgraves, Jenny Lecturer 864-656-3233 betsyp@clemson.edu Ransom, Bruce Professor 864-656-1650 BII@clemson.edu Rhodes-Purdy, Matthew Assistant Professor MHRHODE@clemson.edu Schuster, Bianca Student Services Coordinator II 864-656-7135 BIANCA@clemson.edu Stewart, Jr., Joseph Professor 864-656-3233 JSTEWA4@clemson.edu Tannenbaum, Aron Visiting Lecturer 864-656-3233 ATANNEN@clemson.edu Taydas, Zeynep Associate Professor of Political Science 864-656-3235 ZTAYDAS@clemson.edu Teklemariam, Nathan Post-Doctoral Pathways Fellow nteklem@clemson.edu Thompson, C. Professor, Clemson Institute for the Study of Capi (864) 656-1724 tthomp2@clemson.edu Trask, Tara Lecturer 864-656-3233 ttrask@clemson.edu Turner, Brandon Associate Professor BTURNE2@clemson.edu Vance, Kevin Postdoctoral Fellow KGVANCE@clemson.edu Voboril, Jakub Postdoctoral Scholar jvobori@clemson.edu Wallner, James Lecturer jwallne@clemson.edu Warber, Adam Professor of Political Science (864) 656-1828 AWARBER@clemson.edu Woodard, David Emeritus Professor, Thurmond Professor of Politica 864-656-3551 JUDITHW@clemson.edu Affiliated Faculty Eric Daniels Adam Thomas Contact Us For more information about the Department of Political Science at Clemson University, please contact us at: Department of Political Science 232 Brackett Hall Clemson University Clemson, SC 29634-1354 Phone: (864) 656-3233 Fax: (864) 656-0690 Email: polisci@clemson.edu Department Administration Jeffrey Peake, Ph.D. Chair, Department of Political Science. jpeake@clemson.edu Academic Advising Chayla Jackson is the undergraduate advisor for freshmen and sophomores in the Department of Political Science as well as transfer and students wishing to change their major into the Department of Political Science. Questions regarding your degree progress report, selecting a minor, changing your major, transfer credits and major requirements should be sent to her. You can contact her chaylaj@clemson.edu or (864) 656-0371. Dr. Adam Warber is the undergraduate advisor for juniors and seniors in the Department of Political Science. You can contact him at awarber@clemson.edu or 865-656-1828. DEGREES Political Science, B.A. / B.S. Master Of Public Administration Policy Studies, Ph.D. Political Science Certificates Pre-Law in Political Science Are you interested in attending law school? Political Science is the most popular undergraduate major of law school attendees. Clemson University and the Department of Political Science offer a wealth of courses, information and resources that will help you build the skills necessary to make you an attractive applicant at law schools across the country. Explore Our Pre-Law Offerings Political Science News Department of Political Science Copyright © Clemson University Department of Political Science | 232 Brackett Hall (864) 656-0690 | Email Us | Website Updates intro-arrow Engage With Us Through Facebook Instagram Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson