Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Sociology, Anthropology, and Social Work Menu Search TTU SASW Interpreting, Understanding, and Improving the Human Condition Welcome to the Department of Sociology, Anthropology, and Social Work. Our three programs prepare students to be responsible citizens and effective communicators in a global society, armed with the knowledge and skills to interpret, understand, and improve the human condition. Sociology includes all aspects of people's social behavior in many different types of settings. Its goal is to advance our understanding of the interrelations of culture, community, organizational and socioeconomic structures, personal relations, and individual identities in our rapidly changing and increasingly globalized social world. Anthropology studies all aspects of culture across time and space, taking an integrated view of humanity from its deep past to diverse modernity. It is committed to investigating and explaining the diversity of ancient and modern human cultures and societies. Social Work is dedicated to partnering with people to create change. It trains its students to use self-awareness and sensitivity to the plight of humankind to promote social justice within our interdependent global community. Our Programs Our department offers Master of Arts (MA) degrees in sociology and anthropology and a Master of Social Work (MSW) degree. At the undergraduate level, we offer Bachelor of Arts (BA) degrees in all three programs. Sociology BA students have the option of concentrating in criminology, and anthropology BA students can choose a concentration in forensic anthropology. We also have minors in all three programs. We invite you to explore our website and learn more about our degree programs, our faculty, our research, and the opportunities we offer students at home and abroad. How You Can Help Did you know that you can support SASW's programs and mission with a tax-deductible contribution to one of our scholarship funds? And, did you know that the College of Arts and Sciences is Unmasking Innovation with its first ever fund raising campaign? Location Our main office is in Holden Hall 158. Our USPS mailing address is: SASW Department Texas Tech University Box 41012 Lubbock, TX 79409-1012 Our UPS or Fedex address is: SASW Department Texas Tech University Holden Hall 158 1011 Boston Ave. Lubbock, TX 79409 Other Information Download the SASW Strategic Plan. Download the SASW Tenure and Promotion Guidelines. SASW News SASW Sociologist Nadia Flores interviewed about discrimination experienced by Latinos. SASW Sociologist Ori Swed completed to a report titled Cyber Mercenaries: Review of the Intelligence PMSC Market for the UN. SASW Sociologist Patricia Maloney and Faculty Affiliate SaunJuhi Verma discuss the school-to-deportation pipeline in a recent editorial. Three student interns in our Criminology internship program won a state-wide award for their work on criminal justice reform. SASW Sociologist Ori Swed presents work at NATO's Science for Peace and Security Programme. Recent work by SASW Sociology Seung-won Emily Choi highlighted by Texas Tech. SASW Sociologist Patricia Maloney has been elected president of the Sociology of Education Association. SASW Sociologists Cristina Bradatan and Nadia Flores interviewed about their recent work linking climate change to children's respiratory problems. SASW Anthropologist Tamra Walter receives grant from the Texas Historical Foundation's Gilmore fund to support her current manuscript in development. Undergraduate La Monica Washington received Honors Undergraduate Research Scholarship to work with SASW sociologist Martha Smithey on her project "The Social Context of Neonaticide" in the upcoming academic year. Work by SASW sociologist Patricia Maloney on school-to-deportation pipeline used in ACLU lawsuit. Additional information available in podcast form! SASW sociology undergraduate Stephanie Kuzmack is the university's second Truman Scholar. Expertise of SASW sociologist Martha Smithey referenced in recent news article. Recent work by SASW sociologist Dr. Jerome Koch examines faith-centered tattoos in college students. Contact Us To minimize your risk during the COVID-19 outbreak, you can contact the SASW Office only through e-mail or by telephone. If you have a question and aren't sure whom to ask for the answer, please see this list of contacts! Administration Interim Chair Arthur Durband Associate Chair Jerome Koch Unit Coordinator Athena Baumann Senior Advisor for Sociology Alexandra Haney Senior Advisor for Anthropology and Social Work Adrienne Scales Administrative Assistant for Social Work Jasmin Lopez Contact TTU Contact Contact TTUContact Contact TTU News News for NewsNews for News Events EventsEvents Sociology, Anthropology, and Social Work Address Holden Hall 158, Box 41012, 1011 Boston Ave., Lubbock, TX 79409 Phone 806.742.2400 Email athena.baumann@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityJan 31, 2022 9:46 AM Sociology, Anthropology, and Social Work Sociology Anthropology Social Work Our Faculty Sociology, Anthropology, and Social Work Back Anthropology Social Work Sociology Contact Us Student FAQ Support SASW Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index