Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu UofM Media Room Publications News Releases Podcasts Events Resources Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact News Releases Awards News Releases Archive Take Action Music Performance Calendar Upcoming Art Exhibits University Events Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedIn Home UofM Media Room News Releases Cybersecurity Grant UofM Receives $3.8M Cybersecurity Education Grant from National Science Foundation Feb. 1, 2022 — The University of Memphis Department of Computer Science has received a $3.8 million grant from the U.S. National Science Foundation to address the growing national demand for cybersecurity professionals. The five-year project, titled “CyberCorps Scholarship for Service: Developing the Cybersecurity Workforce in West Tennessee, Mississippi and Arkansas” will recruit four cohorts of scholars from the Department of Computer Science, Department of Business Information Technology, College of Engineering, Department of Criminal Justice and other UofM units. Priority will be given to underrepresented students such as women, minorities and veterans. The CyberCorps SFS includes: Up to three years of support for undergraduate and graduate (MS or PHD) education Academic-year stipends of $25,000 per year for undergraduate students and $34,000 per year for graduate students Tuition and education-related fees (excluding items such as meal plans, housing or parking) Professional allowance of $6,000 for the SFS Job Fair and related expenses such as travel and professional certification Participation in virtual and in-person job fairs in Washington, D.C. Post-graduation government service requirement for a period equivalent to the length of the scholarship Principal investigator Kan Yang is leading the project with fellow professors Dipankar Dasgupta, Myounggyu Won and Amy Cook as co-PIs. “The SFS scholarship provides a competitive financial package to our students, however, SFS scholars also have post-graduation government service requirement for a period equivalent to the length of the scholarship,” said Dr. Kan Yang, assistant professor, UofM Department of Computer Science. “If one fails to fulfill this service obligation, students must pay back to the U.S. government as a loan. “We will develop extra activities for SFS scholars to enhance their competitive advantages. This project aims to increase students’ awareness of cybersecurity opportunities and career paths in government organizations. Based on this scholarship, we will build a pipeline for our students to join the cybersecurity workforce in the public sector.” To address the demand for dedicated cybersecurity professionals, particularly in government agencies, the U.S. National Science Foundation is investing in eight new CyberCorps Scholarship for Service grants. This investment will increase the volume and strength of the nation's cybersecurity workforce by providing full scholarships and stipends to students who agree to work in cybersecurity jobs for federal, state, local or tribal governments after graduation. NSF is providing more than $29 million in scholarships over the next five years to eight universities. These new grantees join the current 82 universities that are part of the NSF CyberCorps Scholarship for Service program, representing 37 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. The other seven 2022 awardees include Oakland University, Fordham University, Indiana University – Purdue University Indianapolis, State University of New York at Binghamton, Georgia State University, University of Nevada, Reno and Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University. Details on the scholarship will be announced soon. For any questions, please feel free to contact Dr. Kan Yang at kan.yang@memphis.edu. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/22/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.