Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Human Resources HR right arrow down arrow Current Employees right arrow down arrow Staff Success Center Employment & Income Verification Holidays & Winter Season Days Student Employees Affiliated Faculty UC Retirees and Former Employees right arrow down arrow UC Retirees Former Employees Unions right arrow down arrow AAUP AFSCME FOP-ECD FOP-SO FOP-Supervisors FOP-ULEO IUOE ONA SEIU Work at UC Contact Us Home » Employees » Human Resources » UC Retirees and Former Employees » Information for UC Retirees Set Navigation title in component UC Retirees Former Employees UC Retirees Retiree Identification Card right arrow down arrow Retiree identification cards are available through Public Safety. Please allow five (5) business days after the date of retirement before requesting the retirement identification card. Phone: 513-556-4925 Fax: 513-556-4940 Badge and Key Office (4 Edwards Center) right arrow down arrow Hours of Operation (subject to change) Regular Hours: Monday-Friday 7am-5pm Summer Hours: Monday-Friday 7:30am-5pm Tuition Remission right arrow down arrow UC retirees are eligible for tuition remission based on their classification at retirement and are eligible for the same tuition remission as active employees in the same classification. The tuition remission program for retired faculty and staff pays the instructional portion of the bill and many other fees for eligible retirees who take courses at the University of Cincinnati. The tuition remission program for dependents (spouse/domestic partner/unmarried dependent children) pays the instructional fee (tuition) only for eligible dependents who take courses at the University of Cincinnati. General fees, books, room and board, late fees, application fees, confirmation fees, etc., are not covered by tuition remission. Eligible Dependents (of an eligible retiree): Legal spouse Same or opposite sex domestic partner Unmarried child. For this purpose, child means (1) a biological child, (2) a stepchild, (3) an adopted child/or child legally placed for adoption, (4) or child for whom the employee has been appointed legal guardian by a court of competent jurisdiction. Verification documents are required. Children must be the retiree's tax dependent in order to be eligible. (note: do we want to note that no affidavit option will be available after next year?) Retirees who wish to request tuition benefits for his/her dependent must submit an online Dependent Tuition Remission Application through the Tuition Remission portal available at the link below. Required documentation must be uploaded to the portal. Access the portal with your UC username and password used as an active employee. For password assistance contact the UC Help Desk at 556-HELP. (note: link to form page to the TR portal.) Retirees are not required to submit a Tuition Remission Application. Questions may be directed to benefits@uc.edu. Medical and Dental Information for "Grandfathered 403(b) Plan Retirees" Only right arrow down arrow The university offers retiree medical and dental coverage to those individuals who are participants in the ‘grandfathered’ 403(b) plan prior to their retirement. Individuals may elect coverage for themselves and their eligible dependents. Retirees pay the full cost of any coverage elected. Grandfathered Retiree Rates Medical and Dental Medicare Eligible Retirees and Spouses right arrow down arrow The University offers two medical options to retirees and their spouses who are Medicare eligible - Comprehensive Medical Plan (CMP) with prescription coverage and the Comprehensive Medical Plan (CMP-ND) without prescription coverage. Medicare-eligible individuals may also choose to enroll in Humana’s Group Medicare Preferred Provider Organization (RPPO) Plan, a Medicare Advantage plan, instead of the CMP. You may obtain information about this plan from Humana by calling 1-800-824-8242. If you elect this plan, you must submit an enrollment form directly to Humana. Your premium payments will also be sent to Humana. Non-Medicare Eligible Retirees and Spouses right arrow down arrow For individuals not eligible for Medicare at retirement, the university offers the Preferred Provider Organization (PPO) Plan. If you are enrolled in a medical plan as an active employee, you can elect coverage in the PPO at retirement. Note that the PPO plan available to you as a retiree is NOT the same plan available to active employees. Retiree Dental Coverage right arrow down arrow If you are enrolled in dental coverage prior to your retirement, you may elect to continue coverage for yourself and your eligible dependents following retirement. Three plan options are available to you. Once you enroll, you may not change plans. Independent Medical Coverage Elections right arrow down arrow You and your spouse/domestic partner may make independent medical coverage elections if you are Medicare eligible and your spouse/domestic partner is not (or vice versa). You will be provided with a Retiree Election form prior to your retirement. You may discontinue your coverage at any time. Once you discontinue coverage, it cannot be reinstated in the future unless your reason for waiving coverage when first eligible was due to your being covered under a spouse/domestic partner employer-provided plan. You may elect to have your monthly contributions deducted from your checking or savings account. This is a convenient way to pay for coverage that eliminates the need for you to remember to submit payment each month. You will not be billed by UC HR and it is your responsibility to remember to submit payment each month. In addition to being eligible for retiree medical and dental coverage, you will receive information about continuing coverage under federal law COBRA. Medical and Dental Coverage Details right arrow down arrow Anthem Retiree Summary of Coverage CMP with Prescription Drug Benefit Summary CMP without Prescription Benefit UC Retiree PPO Summary of Benefits Retiree Humana Medicare Advantage Contact Humana with questions regarding this program Member customer service: 1-866-396-8810 Telephonic Applications: 1-800-824-8242 Enrollment Kit Requests: GroupMedicareSalesKitRequest@humana.com Completed Enrollment Application Fax Line: 1-877-889-9936 Retiree Dental Summaries Basic Dental Bacis Ortho High Dental Retiree Comparison Charts Dental Comparison Chart Human Resources 340 University Hall 51 Goodman Dr. Cincinnati, OH 45221-0039 513-556-6381 PO Box 210039 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Human Resources 340 University Hall 51 Goodman Dr. Cincinnati, OH 45221-0039 513-556-6381 PO Box 210039 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top