Skip to Content Area Visitors Students K–12 Members Contact Us Get eNews Join Us Birds, Cornell Lab of Ornithology About Mission & Values Our Work People Your Impact Visit Us Jobs News Room Annual Report Get Involved Find Your Project eBird Citizen Science Lifelong Learning 10 Ways to Help Birds Donate Support Our Cause Monthly Giving Join All About Birds Bird Guide Birds of the World Merlin Bird ID App eBird Explore Macaulay Library Bird Academy Bird Cams Living Bird FAQs Search Skip to Content Visit Us Events Virtual Experiences Group Visits Visitor Center FAQ What to Do Visit Us Our Visitor Center is filled with science exhibits and artwork, nestled within a 230-acre sanctuary with 4 miles of trails for exploring. The Cornell Lab in fall by Dimitri Ponirakis. Visitor Center Hours 10 a.m. –5 p.m. Trails open dawn to dusk No dogs or bicycles, please Plan Your Visit Virtual Experiences Self-guided tours, activity guides, online webinars, workshops, and more Explore Virtual Experiences Events Check out our event calendar to find out what’s happening Learn More The Visitor Center will close at 3:30 p.m. on Friday, June 3, for a special event. Plan Your Visit Watch birds. Take a stroll. Listen to the woods. What To Do: Outdoors What To Do: Indoors Guides and Activities for Your Visit Events Group Visits Adelson Library Visitor Center FAQ Enjoy our art and science exhibits; watch birds rain or shine; and explore 4 miles of trails through our 230-acre sanctuary. What’s Happening Today at the Cornell Lab Click play to watch a live feed of birds in our feeder garden. Recent Bird Sightings Check eBird reports In Our Auditorium No exhibits at this time Upcoming Events Loading view. Today Now Now - 06/04/2022 June 4 Select date. June 2022 Fri 3 June 3 at 12:00 pm–1:00 pm Webinar: Black Birders Week – Cultural Connections On June 3 at 12 p.m. ET, explore how to bring culture into the birding experience, and culture’s role in the birding community. Sat 4 June 4 at 8:30 am–10:00 am Recurring Beginner Bird Walks - Jun 04 Cornell Lab of Ornithology 159 Sapsucker Woods Road, Ithaca, NY Join us every Saturday morning at 8:30 a.m. at the front entrance of the Cornell Lab of Ornithology. We will walk the trails of Sapsucker Woods as we look and listen for birds. These 90-minute walks are targeted toward... Sat 4 June 4 at 10:00 am–12:00 pm Recurring Exploration Station - Jun 04 Cornell Lab of Ornithology 159 Sapsucker Woods Road, Ithaca, NY Investigate different topics with the help of a friendly volunteer. You’ll find fun and learning for the whole family, featuring a mix of display items and hands-on activities. Sat 4 June 4 at 2:00 pm–4:00 pm Online Workshop: Bird Drawing Essentials with Liz Clayton Fuller During this paid workshop on June 4 from 2-4 p.m. ET , you’ll find a balance of artistic techniques mixed with bird anatomy principals. $12.99 See Full Calendar How to Get Here Address: Cornell Lab of Ornithology 159 Sapsucker Woods Rd Ithaca, NY 14850 1-800-843-BIRD (2473) 1-607-254-2473 Find us on a map Public Transportation: Bus: TCAT Route 31/41. Details. Campus shuttle: Free shuttle runs 4 times daily between Cornell Lab and Cornell University, Mon–Fri, during the fall and spring semesters. Details. Accessibility: Visitor Center is accessible; wheelchairs are available for indoor use. Wheelchairs are not recommended on the nature trails. Don't miss a thing! Join our email list About Mission Programs People Administrative Board Your Impact Visit Us Careers Corporate Sponsors News Room Citizen Science eBird Project Feederwatch Celebrate Urban Birds NestWatch Great Backyard Bird Count Lifelong Learning Bird Academy K–12 Education Young Birders Network Study at Cornell Events Bird Info & Tools All About Birds Merlin Bird ID App eBird Explore Macaulay Library FAQs Publications Living Bird Magazine Birds of the World State of the Birds Scientific Publications Clements Checklist Books for All Ages Cornell Lab Annual Report 2021 Quick Finders Members Visitors Citizen-Science Participants K–12 Educators Students Postdoctoral Program Shop for Our Cause Donate Support Our Cause Monthly Giving Join Golden-wing Society Chairman’s Council Planned Giving Contact Us Land Acknowledgment Web Accessibility Assistance Privacy Policy Terms of use © 2022 Cornell University Cancel × Search this website Bird ID help, Bird Guide All About Birds Find birds near you eBird Quick Links Visit Us Staff Directory Members Students Close this module Sign Up for eNews Cornell Lab eNews (general birding tips and news) Sapsucker Woods eNews (Ithaca local events, etc) Email address: Leave this field empty if you're human: Close this module