Admissions - University of Houston Skip to main content Submit Close Give to UH Search About Academics Admissions Campus Life Research Athletics Locations Sugar Land Katy UH Technology Bridge News & Events Giving Resources for ... Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Visitors Recruiters UH Home Admissions Admissions Page contents: Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions New Coogs COVID-19 Updates How Will You Influence the World? At the University of Houston, you’ll find degree programs that will pave the way to the future you envision—whether you want to build the physical foundations of the future as an engineer or architect, shape young minds as an educator, or study how far humanity has already come as an anthropologist. These are just a few of the areas of study available at UH, taught by world-renowned faculty members. Apply for Admission Request Information Visit Campus Future Coogs Admitted Students Undergraduate Admissions As one of the most diverse universities in the nation, UH students are talented individuals from around the world who have a common commitment to succeed. If you do not fall into any of the student categories below, please visit the additional admission types page for a list of categories. Incoming Freshman Applying to the University of Houston as a freshman is a first step toward your rewarding future. Transfer Students We welcome transfer students who want to complete their educational journey at UH. International Students Looking for a great education in the heart of an international city with a friendly attitude? Returning Student Have you attended UH before? Apply as a returning student. Visiting Students Want to take classes, but not pursue a degree? Apply as a Visiting Student. Post-Baccalaureate Students Already have a bachelor’s degree, but looking to take more courses, pursue a second degree, or meet graduate pre-reqs? Apply as a Post-Bac Student. Majors and Minors The University of Houston offers undergraduate majors and minors, and several pre-professional programs. Tuition and Fees Find out more about how much it will cost to attend UH. Types of Financial Aid Need help paying for college? Find more information about your options. Residency Requirements Need help identifying what type of residency you qualify for? Credits and Transfers View what college credits you may have and what transfers between UH and other colleges. AP Test Program & International Baccalaureate Did you earn college credit in high school? See what exams and courses qualify for credit. Graduate Admissions UH is home to 180-plus master's and doctoral programs and is ranked in the top 20 research institutions in the U.S. with the most international students. Programs and Degrees We offer over 180 graduate degrees from 13 colleges and schools. International Applicants We are proud of our diversity and our graduate programs receive applicants from around the world. Tuition and Fees Creating afforadable programs that are top ranked in the nation providing the best return on your investment. Financial Aid View your options for financial aid — scholarships, grants, fellowships, grants and more. Apply Ready to make it happen? Here’s everything you need to know about applying as an undergraduate, graduate student, or international student. You’ll also find information about UH’s generous financial aid programs. We look forward to welcoming you to the University of Houston! Incoming Freshmen Graduate Students International Students Transfer Students Veterans Former UH Students Go to applytexas.org or commonapp.org and fill out application Submit application and fee for admission* Send us your transcripts and test scores Check your application status at AccessUH Once accepted, you will receive an admit packet Register for new student orientation/conference *The University of Houston has some majors that have additional admission criteria. View Freshman, Transfer and International special major requirements. New Coogs Have you been admitted as a student to the University of Houston? Congratulations! Your adventure begins at UH. Current Student Resources We are dedicated to helping students connect on campus, create real connections and have real experiences that develop their skills to be successful in the real world. University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies