Covid-19: Get the latest updates here Apply to JTS Contact Campus Life Alumni Get Email Updates Donate Now Search About Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund Leadership History JTS and Israel Conservative Judaism Offices & Resources Policies Accreditation Visit JTS Admissions List College Admissions Davidson School Admissions Rabbinical School Admissions Gershon Kekst Graduate School Admissions H. L. Miller Cantorial School Admissions Take a Virtual Tour Academics Academics School List College The William Davidson School The Rabbinical School The Gershon Kekst Graduate School H. L. Miller Cantorial School Faculty & Scholars Faculty & Scholars Center & Institutes Center for Pastoral Education Block / Kolker Center for Spiritual Arts The Hendel Center for Ethics and Justice Milstein Center for Interreligious Dialogue Louis Finkelstein Institute for Religious & Social Studies Research Institutes Summer Programs Nishma Summer Sessions Summer Hebrew Language Courses Professional Training Professional Training CONTINUING EDUCATION FOR CLERGY The Rabbinic Training Institute (RTI) Summer Rabbinic Learning Conference Online Learning for Rabbis and Cantors FOR JEWISH EDUCATORS Day School Leadership Training Institute (DSLTI) Jewish Early Childhood Education Leadership Institute (JECELI) Ivriyon: Hebrew Immersion Institute for Day School Educators Jewish Day School Standards and Benchmarks FOR OTHER PROFESSIONALS NAASE Week of Study Community Learning Community Learning ONLINE Live Online Classes JTS Torah Online BEYOND THE CAMPUS JTS Learning in Your Community Courses and Curricula LEARNING EVENTS Public Lectures and Events FOR 8TH-12TH GRADERS Prozdor Teen Learning Library About The Library Letter from the Librarian Library Services The New JTS Library Library Programs and Events Library Online Exhibits Special Collections JTS Library Membership Email a Librarian News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Admissions List College Admissions Apply Visit Contact Admissions Student Life Meet List College Alumni Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Admissions Overview List College is a vibrant, pluralistic community where undergraduates earn two simultaneous degrees. Students pursue a JTS major in fields such as Jewish Thought, Midrash, or Jewish Gender and Women’s Studies, while completing a second major in the full array of liberal arts and science offerings at Columbia University and/or Barnard College. Our diverse student body is smart, innovative, and curious. They enjoy being part of a close-knit Jewish community while actively participating in a broad spectrum of college life. They go on to excel in their professions, contribute to the world at large, and define what it means to be Jewish in the 21st century. Application Process and Deadlines Applicants to List College must complete the Common Application for admission. Find information about completing the Common Application and the List College Supplement, nonmatriculated admission details, and relevant deadlines. Application Procedures Visit JTS The best way for prospective students to get a real sense of List College is to come visit in person. Visitors can tour the JTS, Columbia University, and Barnard College campuses, sit in on classes, meet with admissions staff, attend an Open House event, and more. Register for a Visit Meet the Admissions Team Tuition and Financial Aid List College offers both need- and merit-based financial aid, meeting up to 100 percent of demonstrated need. Find out more about tuition, fees, and applying for financial aid. Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academic Programs and Internships Learn more about areas of study, innovative programs like the Fellowship in Jewish Social Entrepreneurship, and the wide range of internship opportunities available. Majors Internships First-Year Schedule Student Life The close-knit campus community is central to the List College experience. Learn about Shabbat services, holiday and Israel programming, community outreach, and more. Student Life at List Events Right now there are no event listings for this location or category. Our calendar is updated regularly. Please check back. SHARE THIS PAGE Request Information from List College Admissions We’ll send more details about our programs and the admissions process directly to your inbox. First Name(Required) Last Name(Required) Email(Required) Phone High School City(Required) State/Province(Required) Program of Interest Please Select OneDouble Degree with BarnardJoint Program with Columbia Potential Enrollment Year Please Select One202120222023202420252026 Comments or Questions RESOURCES Current Students Faculty & Scholars CONNECT WITH US Get Email Updates Visit Give Social Media © The Jewish Theological Seminary All Rights Reserved | בית המדרש ללימודי יהדות 3080 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 Privacy Policy x Share This Page From Name(Required) From Email(Required) To Email(Required) Message