COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU Fast Facts: Graduate School WSU Fast Facts Categories: Fast Facts Home Athletics Applied Learning Barton School of Business Campus Expansion College of Applied Studies College of Engineering College of Fine Arts College of Health Professions University Dashboards Fairmount College of Liberal Arts & Sciences Graduate School Honors College College of Innovation and Design Student Life Wichita Graduate School Fast Facts WSU faculty, staff and students generated more than $74 million in externally funded research grants in 2016. WSU annually awards more than 700 master’s degrees and 100 doctoral degrees. With a faculty-to-student ratio of 1:6, graduate students have easy access to faculty for support and guidance in studies and research. Graduate students have opportunities to present their research through events like the Graduate Research and Scholarly Projects Symposium and the Capitol Graduate Research Summit. The Master of Innovation Design degree merges arts, science and technology curricula to create opportunities for student-faculty collaboration across WSU’s colleges. This individualized program develops students’ abilities to design creative solutions, communicate effectively, practice entrepreneurship and develop prototypes. WSU offers the widest range of graduate degrees in the area, including 12 doctoral programs, more than 40 master’s degrees, 20 certificate programs and one education specialist area. More than 30 percent of full-time graduate students hold assistantships generating more than $4 million each year. 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©