COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Management Science and Supply Chain Management, Master's Master'sManagement Science and Supply Chain Management All Programs W. Frank Barton School of Business Finance, Real Estate and Decision Sciences The Master of Science in Management Science and Supply Chain Management, from Wichita State's AACSB-accredited Barton School of Business, is a STEM program preparing you for leadership in supply chain management, logistics and other related areas. You'll develop an understanding of the organization as an integrated system with respect to its supply chain. And you'll be well prepared for management careers in diverse settings from procurement and outsourcing to transportation, storage and distribution. Learn how management science and supply chain management is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program Admission to the program is based on the following: GMAT/GRE score Personal goals essay References Current resume TOEFL, IELTS or PTE-Academic score for international applicants For additional admission details, click on the link below. Admission requirements Curriculum The degree offers you two options: supply chain management and supply chain analytics. Each provides completion options including: coursework, project or thesis. Courses are a mix of 16-week classes and eight-week hybrid classes. While taking the eight-week hybrids, you'll attend class once a week and also complete work online. View the curriculum Careers A graduate degree in global supply chain management from Wichita State's Barton School will help you take the next step in your career—while opening doors to new possibilities. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Supply Chain Management (Graduate Certificate) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©