COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Human Resources: COVID-19 Information for Employees & Supervisors For more Wichita State COVID-19 information, visit the WSU COVID-19 Response Main-page.COVID-19 Response Main-page Resource Quicklinks COVID-19 Guidance for Faculty & Staff Shockers United COVID-19 Resources for Employees & Supervisors There are many resources available for employees of Wichita State during the COVID-19 pandemic. Below is a collection of HR-related resources intended for employees and supervisors, from both WSU HR, WSU Strategic Communications, WSU Pandemic Team, and the US Department of Labor. Note: This is a complex, challenging, and fluid situation which continues to evolve rapidly. All information is subject to change as deemed necessary by University leadership in accordance with guidance and recommendations issued by federal, state, and local public health and government officials. Employee Resources Supervisor Resources What You Need to Know About Coming to Campus COVID-19 Safety Supplies Leave Related to COVID-19: Forms, Checklists & Info COVID-19: Other Helpful Resources for Wichita State Employees Employee Resources Employee Procedures for COVID-19 - Checklist. What to do if you are showing symptoms of COVID-19, have been exposed to COVID-19, are awaiting test results for COVID-19 or have been diagnosed with COVID-19. Back to Top of Page Supervisor Resources Supervisor Procedures - Employee reports exposure to, symptoms of, or diagnosis with COVID-19. Back to Top of Page What You Need to Know About Coming to Campus Perform a daily personal wellness check before coming to campus and do not come to campus if you feel ill. Practice social distancing while on campus. All students, faculty, staff, and visitors — regardless of vaccination status — will be required to wear a mask in all campus classrooms and laboratories. All members of our campus community are encouraged to wear masks in all other indoor campus locations, except in a private office. Wear additional personal protective equipment required by your department. Wash your hands when arriving and leaving campus, and upon returning to your workspace. Disinfect your personal workspace and common/high traffic work areas you are accountable for in your department. All individuals (students, employees, visitors) on-site at Wichita State University will be asked to comply with the following health and safety measures: Limit interaction with others as much as possible Wash hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds. If soap and water are not available, use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer Avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth Cover your cough or sneeze with a tissue and then throw the tissue in the trash Clean and disinfect frequently touched objects and surfaces Do not come onto campus if you exhibit any symptoms associated with COVID-19 within the 24 hours prior to your arrival Do not come onto campus if you have been exposed to COVID-19 unless you have complied with any recommended quarantine period Limit your interactions to designated areas, as necessary COVID-19 Safety Supplies Any office needing supplies can submit a work order request. Back to Top of Page COVID-19 Leave: Forms & Information Use the resouces below for questions about requesting COVID-19 Leave Accommodations. For additional information not found in the resources below, contact the HR Total Rewards team at TotalRewards@wichita.edu. COVID-19 Employee Report Supervisor Procedures - Employee is Diagnosed With or Exposed to COVID-19 Employee Procedures - Employee is Diagnosed with, Exposed to, or Showing Symptoms of COVID-19 Travel-Related Quarantine Guidelines (KDHE PDF) International Travel Form Back to Top of Page COVID-19: Other Helpful Resources for Wichita State Employees The following links contain resources that you may find helpful as an employee of Wichita State University. wichita.edu/COVID - Wichita State COVID-19 Response Mainpage. Find the latest information and answers about the university's wide-ranging response to the pandemic from the Wichita State University Pandemic Team. wichita.edu/COVID-19 - Information about COVID-19 managed by WSU Student Health Services. wichita.edu/EmployeeConnection - Wichita State Employee Connection Mainpage. Information on staying connected while working off-campus. Find information about working remotely, team connections, professional development, leadership, personal wellness, and tips for teleworking. COVID-19 Response: Guidance for WSU Faculty & Staff - Find additional Resources and FAQ for Wichita State Employees from the Wichita State University Pandemic Team. COVID-19 Response: Supervisor FAQ - Find supervisor information about reopening plans, managing employees, recruiting/hiring, and managing graduate teaching assistants from the Wichita State University Pandemic Team. Back to Top of Page Who to Contact HR Service Center HR.ServiceCenter@wichita.edu SME: JE/SM/SP/JO Updated: 1/31/2022 SRAP 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©