Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Office of the Provost and Dean of Faculties Menu Main Nav Office of the Provost and Dean of Faculties Office of the Provost and Dean of Faculties Contact Back Back Close About Overview Diversity & Inclusion Contact Dean of Law School Search Academics & Research Overview Accreditation Information Assessment BCPEP Grants and Awards University Council on Teaching Tam/Tame Details University Fellowships Committee Undergraduate Research Support Fellowships and Scholarships Fulbright U.S. Student Program Events Faculty Openings Faculty Resources Overview Faculty Annual Report Guide Faculty Recruiting Expense Reimbursement Guidelines Sabbaticals New Faculty Information New Faculty Moving Expenses Faculty Openings Documents & Reports Close Contact Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Academics & Research University Fellowships Committee Events University Fellowships Committee Undergraduate Research Support Fellowships and Scholarships Fulbright U.S. Student Program Events Events Undergraduate Research Symposium The University Fellowships Committee hosts the annual Undergraduate Research Symposium in the spring semester. The Symposium invites accomplished undergraduate researchers to present their work in the O’Neill Library Reading Room and discuss the process and outcomes of their research with students, staff, and faculty alike. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the 2021 Symposium has been canceled. Please return to this space for further information on the upcoming 2022 Symposium. ACC Meeting of the Minds Conference The Atlantic Coast Conference (ACC) Meeting of the Minds Conference is held each spring at one of the 15 ACC member schools. The Conference celebrates outstanding undergraduate researchers by inviting students from each of the ACC member schools to attend the Conference, present their work, and collaborate with students and faculty from across the ACC. Every year the Conference is held at a different host university within the ACC. The upcoming Meeting of the Minds Conference is due to be held at the University of Virginia, in Spring 2022. For more information and to inquire about participating, please contact Dr. Jason Cavallari, Administrative Director of University Fellowships, at jason.cavallari@bc.edu. Back To Top Back To Top Office of the Provost and Dean of Faculties Waul House 270 Hammond Street Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-3260 provostoffice@bc.edu 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College