Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Think and Do Think and Do The Extraordinary The Campaign for NC State Home Features About Think and Do Video Think and Do The Extraordinary The Campaign for NC State Home Features About Think and Do Video Full Site Navigation Think and Do Features At NC State, we bring together bright minds, encourage bold thought and put the results to work in the real world. For deeper insight into the ways we think and do, explore our feature stories below. Manufacturing USA The future of national manufacturing is brighter than you think, thanks in part to institutes involving NC State. Research Realized NC State innovation is all around you. Discover why we're a leader in making bright ideas a part of everyday life. Economic Powerhouse When NC State solves problems, we create prosperity. Learn how our research yields remarkable returns. The Hub for Hubs When America needs ideas, NC State takes action. Find out why we're home to seven federal hubs tackling national challenges. Immediate Returns When you start at NC State, you can't be stopped. Find out how our graduates get a head start in their careers. Leading Their Fields Employers today are seeking well-rounded recruits. Meet six 2015 graduates going straight to work. From the Lab to the Marketplace Funding gaps can plague the path from idea to marketable product. Learn how the Chancellor's Innovation Fund fills them. For You and For All NC State wields data as a force for good. Discover how we’re creating prosperity in North Carolina and beyond. Career-Ready In 2014, more than 5,200 graduates left NC State ready to lead the workforce. Meet five making moves to major employers. 2016 Chancellor's Report It’s an exciting time to be in the innovation business — and to be at NC State, said Chancellor Woodson. Find out why. Manufacturing Innovation NC State is leading a $140 million advanced manufacturing institute to revolutionize energy efficiency. Learn more about PowerAmerica. Thoughtful Action, Active Thought To solve global challenges, you need more than good ideas. You need practical solutions. See how we turn thought into action. Think and Do Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 About the Site Academic Calendar Accessibility Contact Copyright Emergency Information Jobs Libraries MyPack Portal Policies Privacy Social Media Strategic Plan Free Speech Campus Map Think and Do The Extraordinary The Campaign for NC State © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.