Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Counseling, Educational Psychology & Research Counseling Counseling Psychology Educational Psychology & Research Faculty and Staff Research Clinical Services Grants & Contracts Alumni & Friends Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Take Action Apply Now! Student Organizations in CEPR Department News Contact Us Home Counseling, Educational Psychology & Research Faculty Faculty and Staff Counseling Michelle Brasfield, Ed.D., Assistant Professor, University of Memphis (2015). Burnout and vicarious traumatization, wellness intervention, college and career readiness, and creative counseling for youth. Dr. Brasfield is Coordinator of the School Counseling Program. Brenna Breshears, Ph.D., Assistant Professor, Michigan State University (2021). Melanie Burgess, Ph.D., Assistant Professor, Old Dominion University (2019). School counselor preparation and clinical supervision, evidence-based practices in PK-12 settings, and assessment. Dr. Burgess is Co-coordinator of the Ph.D. program in Counselor Education and Supervision. Pamela A. Cogdal, Ph.D., Clinical Professor, Southern Illinois University, Carbondale (1989). Career and work-life balance, practice outcomes, assessment, suicide prevention and couples/relationship issues. Dr. Cogdal is the Counseling Division Director, and Coordinator of Internship and Practicum for all Counseling programs. Frances Ellmo, Ph.D., Assistant Professor, University of Memphis (2020). Addiction and co-occurring disorders, criminal justice populations, stigma and harm reduction practices, counselor preparation, and animal-assisted therapy. Dr. Ellmo is Coordinator of the Addiction Counseling Program. Taneshia Greenidge, Ph.D., Assistant Professor, University of Florida (2019). Chi Li, Ph.D., Assistant Professor, Old Dominion University (2019). Primary research interest is counselor education and supervision, especially around supervisee disclosure in supervision. Additional research interests include measurement development in counseling and supervision and integrated behavioral healthcare. Dr. Li is Co-coordinator of the Ph.D. program in Counselor Education and Supervision. Patrick D. Murphy, Ph.D., Assistant Professor, Auburn University (2018). Counselor training and supervision, especially around multicultural competencies with a focus on intersections of identities. Additional research interests include engaging with veterans/military personnel with counseling and crisis intervention. Previous publications and presentations have also included research on suicide prevention and models of supervision. Eraina Schauss, Ph.D., Associate Professor, George Washington University (2011). Child cognitive, behavioral, emotional and neurodevelopment, family systems therapy, career development and coaching. Dr. Schauss is Coordinator of the Clinical Mental Health Program. Steven L. West, Ph.D., Professor, Texas Tech University (2000). Access to care, substance misuse and addiction, military and veteran health, moral injuries, and disability science. Dr. West is the Coordinator of the Clinical Rehabilitation Counseling, Marriage, Couple and Family Counseling, and Vocational Rehabilitation Counseling programs, and Coordinator of the Disability Support Services certificate program. Stephen Zanskas, Ph.D., Professor, Associate Dean and Interim Chair, Michigan State University (2007). Development of consultation skills in graduate rehabilitation counseling education programs, the psychosocial aspects of disability, and professional issues. Counseling Psychology Ashley Batastini, Ph.D., Assistant Professor, Texas Tech University (2015). Dr. Batastini's program of research primarily focuses on developing and exploring innovative intervention strategies for criminal justice-involved populations that aim to improve mental health, behavioral, and systemic factors associated with continued antisocial conduct. In addition to correctional mental health treatment, Dr. Batastini and her team conduct research related to the use of administrative segregation, community re-entry barriers, violence risk communication, and applications of technology in psychology-law contexts. Sara K. Bridges, Ph.D., Associate Professor, University of Memphis (1999). Interests include counselor training, couples and family therapy, human sexuality, and constructivist theory. Dr. Bridges is Co-Training Director of the Counseling Psychology program. Suzanne H. Lease, Ph.D., Associate Professor, Southern Illinois University, Carbondale (1989). Current interests are: career counseling with underserved populations, masculine ideologies and relationships, and health promotion/integrated care. Click for more information on the Masculinity Research Team. Dr. Lease is Co-Training Director of the Counseling Psychology program. Richard Lightsey, Ph.D., Professor, University of Maryland (1992). Interests: resilience, the relationship between stress and depression, stress and coping strategies. Rosie Phillips Davis, Ph.D., Professor, Ohio State University (1977). Interests include multicultural career counseling, ethics, health and health disparities, and university and college administration Chrisann Schiro-Geist, Ph.D. CRC, Professor, Northwestern University (1974). Interests include: international, vocational, and disability-related issues in counseling and psychology. Current research projects are in the areas of vocational psychology, as it relates to return-to-work for incarcerated persons, transitions to work for students with disabilities and examining the role of animal- assisted therapy. She is the Director of the University of Memphis Institute on Disability, which houses the TigerLIFE program whose focus is on working with young adults attending the University of Memphis in a post-secondary transition program. Dr. Schiro-Geist is also Coordinator of the Disability Studies certificate program. Educational Psychology & Research Alison A. Happel-Parkins, Ph.D., Associate Professor, Georgia State University (2011). Alison Happel-Parkins' research is focused on social and environmental justice. In the past, both her theoretical and empirical work has explored issues related to race, class, gender, and sexuality in K-12 spaces. In her theoretical work, she continues to focus on environmental justice, specifically the ways in which ecofeminist and ecocritical frameworks can help K-12 educators expand their curriculum in order to help students recognize their interconnections with other humans and the more-than-human world. Her most recent empirical research focuses on how women's experiences of sexuality and health are influenced by various institutions, such as the medical system, religion, education, etc. Leigh M. Harrell-Williams, Ph.D., Associate Professor, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University (2009). Statistics and quantitative research methods; instrument development; Rasch, IRT and SEM applications with educational and psychological data; K-12 math teacher efficacy to teach statistics (Self Efficacy to Teach Statistics [SETS]); assessment of behavioral and emotional risk in K-12 students. Yeh Hsueh, Ed.D., Professor, Harvard University (1997). Development of young children; Cross-cultural early childhood education; Development of developmental psychology in the United States; Children and media. Eli Jones, Ph.D., Assistant Professor, Brigham Young University (2016). Educational inquiry, measurement and evaluation; psychometric properties and use of rater-mediated assessments in education (specifically, evaluation of teachers and principals, student evaluation of teachers, and evaluation of teacher candidates); application of Rasch and IRT to educational settings. Additional research interests include validation of educational assessments and measures, structural equation modeling, quasi-experimental research designs, and response to intervention and reading interventions in elementary school. Karen Kitchens, Ph.D., Visiting Assistant Professor, University of Memphis (2016). Mixed methods research; program evaluation and analysis; research interest includes successful retention and completion of first generation college students. Christian E. Mueller, Ph.D., Associate Professor, University of Kentucky (2006). Developmental trajectories of intrapersonal, interpersonal and environmental factors influencing achievement motivation in at-risk students (e.g., adolescents, gifted, minority); Measurement issues (e.g., Rasch modeling) in education and psychology. Susan Nordstrom, Ph.D., Associate Professor, University of Georgia (2011). Poststructural and post humanist theories, onto-epistemology, Deleuze, feminist new materialism, qualitative research methodology. Dr. Nordstrom is Co-coordinator of the graduate certificate in Qualitative Research. Karen Weddle-West, Ph.D., Professor, University of Tennessee, Knoxville (1982). Cultural diversity; Minority teachers; Child psychology; Infant development; Adolescent pregnancy; At-risk children. **Please note that Dr. Weddle-West is not accepting new students at this time Crystal White, Ph.D., Visiting Assistant Professor, University of Memphis (2020). Denise L. Winsor, Ph.D., Associate Professor, University of Nevada, Las Vegas (2008). Child development; Development in context; Early epistemological thinking; Technology in preschool-age children. Teacher beliefs and the use of strategies for high-order thinking. Yonghong Jade Xu, Ph.D., Professor, University of Arizona (2003). Multivariate statistics and quantitative research methods; Gender disparities in STEM disciplines; Structural equation modeling; Big data analysis with statistical and data mining approaches. Main Office Staff Jennifer Mueller, Budget Officer. Ms. Mueller handles departmental billing, travel, procurement, and all HR processes for the department. Melynda Whitwell, M.S., Director of Admissions and Records. Ms. Whitwell handles all program applications, course permits, registration and enrollment, and room bookings. Susan Kasperbauer Mascari, MAT, Reception and Outreach. University of Memphis Institute on Disability Cindy Cassell, Assistant Director of Transition Programs Patrick J. Krolik, MBA, Manager, Project FIRST Vivian Poole, UMID Coordinator of Records Brian Smith, Ed.D., BCBA, Behavioral Intervention & Analysis Kandice Tankson, On-Campus Coordinator Maurice Williams, MA, MS, CNP, Senior Associate Director Emeritus Faculty Doug Strohmer, Ph.D., CRC Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/23/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.