Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Accessibility Resources right arrow down arrow Student Resources right arrow down arrow Registration right arrow down arrow Online Application for Services Registration FAQ Communication Access Team right arrow down arrow CAT Resources Interpreter/CART/Captioning Request Form Semester Services Request Form Feedback Form Accommodation Form Purpose and Explanation Accessible Technology right arrow down arrow Alternative Format Request Policy and Procedure Alternative Format Request Form Service Animals and Assistance Animals right arrow down arrow Assistance Animal Student Request Form Service Animal and Assistance Animal Policy Housing Accommodation right arrow down arrow Student Housing Accommodation Request Form College-to-Career Partnership Remote Testing Accommodations FAQ COVID-19 Resources for Students Accommodation Form Request Faculty Resources right arrow down arrow Academic Accommodations and Faculty Responsibility COVID-19 Resources for Faculty Policies and Grievance Procedure Electronic Accessibility AR Staff Home » Campus Life » Accessibility Resources » Student Resources » Communication Access Team Set Navigation title in component Registration Online Application for Services Registration FAQ Communication Access Team CAT Resources Interpreter/CART/Captioning Request Form Semester Services Request Form Feedback Form Accommodation Form Purpose and Explanation Accessible Technology Alternative Format Request Policy and Procedure Alternative Format Request Form Service Animals and Assistance Animals Assistance Animal Student Request Form Service Animal and Assistance Animal Policy Housing Accommodation Student Housing Accommodation Request Form College-to-Career Partnership Remote Testing Accommodations FAQ COVID-19 Resources for Students Accommodation Form Request Communication Access Team The Communication Access Team (CAT) comprises American Sign Language (ASL)/English interpreters and Communication Access Realtime Translation (CART) writers who work to provide communication access to d/Deaf and hard of hearing students on campus. CAT strives to provide high-quality services which afford students the opportunity to fully participate in the student experience in and out of the classroom. CAT works one-on-one with students registered with Accessibility Resources to determine an individualized set of services enabling students to effectively access course content and engage in campus life. CAT sets a new standard for provided service by allowing students to couple services together instead of selecting a single service. For example, many d/Deaf and hard of hearing students utilize both ASL/English interpreters and CART writers for academic needs. We recognize the uniqueness of our students and that requested services may vary based on course content, pace of the course, size of the classroom, and general acoustics, and services can be modified during a student's academic career. Additionally, CAT works closely with faculty and staff in order to provide efficient services for students; including those on-campus and those enrolled in online courses. CAT is capable of providing the following services to prospective and current students: ASL/English Interpreting (including PSE, SEE, and other ASL variations); CART services; and Realtime services - this service provides realtime captioning during in person or virtual meetings, allowing students to follow classroom or event dialogue in a verbatim manner. Students will receive a transcript of the event within 24 hours. Want to see realtime captioning in action? Try out an Interactive StreamText Demo. Transcript only services - this service provides either a verbatim or meaning-for-meaning transcript of an in person or virtual classroom meeting or event. Students will not be able to see realtime captioning. Students will receive a transcript of the event within 24 hours. Closed Captioning of course videos and other recorded media. CAT values an accessible environment that allows individuals who are d/Deaf or hard of hearing to have a student experience which mirrors that of their peers. We look forward to working with students to support their tenure at UC as Bearcats! Our Mission Through the provision of our services, our students: obtain access to communication, secure membership in the campus community, learn to interface effectively with service providers, and explore opportunities for academic and personal growth. Our Vision Affording individuals who are Deaf or Hard-of Hearing the freedom to participate fully in the student experience Interpreter/CART/Captioning Request Form Please complete the Interpreter/CART/Captioning Request Form to request an interpreter, realtime transcription, or captionist for an event that is outside of regularly scheduled classes. Semester Service(s) Request Form Please complete the Semester Service(s) Request Form prior to the start of each new semester to scheduled CAT services for your regularly scheduled classes and activities. Resources Visit the CAT Resources page which may serve you in gathering more information about deafness, American Sign Language, interpreting, and CART writing. While the list is not exhaustive, it should aid you in identifying local and national organizations which may be of use to you. Feedback Please complete the Feedback Form to submit feedback about the Communication Access Team in regards to services received through ASL/English interpreting and/or CART. Accessibility Resources University of Cincinnati 210 University Pavilion PO Box 210213 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0213 Tel: (513) 556-6823 Fax: (513) 556-1383 Email: accessresources@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Accessibility Resources University of Cincinnati 210 University Pavilion PO Box 210213 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0213 Tel: (513) 556-6823 Fax: (513) 556-1383 Email: accessresources@uc.edu © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top