Skip to main content Skip to main content my.SMU News & Events Library Master Calendar Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Contact Us Contact Us Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Google+ Follow Us Twitter Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us Tumblr Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Social SMU Facebook SMU Google Plus SMU Twitter SMU LinkedIn SMU Tumblr SMU YouTube SMU Instagram Skip to main content Law About About Dean's Welcome Diversity and Inclusion Fast Facts Living & Studying in Dallas Why SMU Dedman Law? Academics Academics Academic Advising Academic Calendar Registrar's Office Academic Success Program (ASP) Bar Exam Resources Course Schedules and Registration Information Degree Programs Experiential Learning Externship Programs Forms Law Journals Planning Your Academic Program Study Abroad in Oxford Admissions Admissions Costs and Financial Aid FAQs J.D. Programs Graduate Programs How to Apply Meet Our Students Visiting SMU Virtual Tour of SMU Contact Admissions Alumni & Giving Alumni & Giving 2022 Alumni Happy Hours 2022 Reunion Weekend Alumni Chapters Career Services Class Notes Community Fellows Contact Alumni Relations Distinguished Alumni Awards Emerging Leader Board Executive Board Get Involved Law Firm Challenge Publications Update Alumni Information Career Services Career Services Students Employers Alumni Employment Statistics Career Services Team Contact Office of Career Services Reciprocity Centers & Initiatives Centers & Initiatives Jennifer M. Collins Women's Leadership Initiative Judge Elmo B. Hunter Legal Center For Victims of Crimes Against Women Robert B. Rowling Center for Business Law & Leadership Tsai Center for Law, Science and Innovation W. W. Caruth, Jr. Institute for Children's Rights Deason Criminal Justice Reform Center Clinics Clinics W.W. Caruth, Jr. Child Advocacy Clinic Civil/Consumer Clinic COVID-19 Legal Helpline Criminal Clinic Family Immigration Detention Clinic Federal Tax Clinic First Amendment Clinic Judge Elmo B. Hunter Legal Center for Victims of Crimes Against Women Innocence Clinic Patent Law Clinic Small Business and Trademark Clinic VanSickle Family Law Clinic Faculty Faculty Conferences, Symposia & Lecture Series Faculty Expertise Faculty in the News Faculty Profiles Research Public Service Public Service Completing Your Public Service Graduation Requirement Pre-Approved Placements Forms FAQs Planning a Public Service Career Internships & Fellowships Public Advocate Day Contact Public Service Program Staff Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) - Overview for law students only Students Students Office of Student Affairs Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Financial Frequently Used Resources Graduation Information Inns of Court Program Mustang Exchange Scholarships and Writing Competitions Student Code of Professional Responsibility Student Organizations ☰ Law Career Services Career Services Team Career Services Team Marcie Davis, Esq. Assistant Dean of Career Services Large Firms (214) 768-3893 mydavis@smu.edu Marcie Davis oversees all aspects of managing the Office of Career Services, developing and implementing policies and procedures, conducting employer outreach, authoring career education resources and programs, and counseling students. She serves as the principal contact to local and national law firms and legal employers. Marcie joined SMU Dedman School of Law as Director of Career Services in October 2020 and took on the role of Assistant Dean in June 2021. Marcie brings with her 23 years of legal industry experience both as a practicing attorney and an Administrative Partner. Marcie spent her legal career at Thompson & Knight, LLP, one of the oldest and largest firms in Texas. Marcie was an associate and then partner at the firm before taking on an administrative position, becoming the Practice Manager for the firm’s Employment & Labor, Environmental, and Trial practice groups. Marcie served the last nine years as the firm’s Chief Development Officer in charge of attorney professional development and talent management across the firm’s nine offices. Marcie earned her Bachelor of Arts in Political Science from Texas State University and graduated cum laude from SMU Dedman School of Law in 1996. She is a certified Mental Health First responder and a CTI-trained life coach. Marcie is a member of the ABA, Dallas Bar Association, Professional Development Consortium, and NALP. Beth D. Lee Director, Corporate and Private Sector Development (214) 768-4065 Beth@smu.edu Beth Lee is responsible for employer engagement in the private sector with a focus on corporate legal internships and post-graduate opportunities, including emerging legal careers. She also handles career-related programming for students, collaborates with the law school’s Rowling Center for Business Law and Leadership, and participates in employer development for small, mid-size, and boutique law firms. Beth provides career development training and strategy to full-time JD students and transfer and visiting students. Prior to her role as Director, she served as the primary contact to federal, state, and local government agencies and managed recruitment efforts for students and alumni interested in public sector opportunities. Beth handles daily communication of Hot Jobs & Opportunities email announcements to students and works with all employers to generate and publicize job opportunities for students and alumni. She is the office's liaison to the Dallas Association of Young Lawyers and facilitates the annual Mock Interview Program. Beth is actively involved in the National Association for Law Placement (NALP) and currently serves on the 2021-2023 Regional Resource Council, the 2021 Professional Development Insitute Planning Team, and is the Member Relations Vice-chair of the JD Career Advisors Section. She served on the NALP Nominating Committee from 2019-2020. Beth joined the Office of Career Services in August 2002. Before joining SMU, she worked for the international law firm of Baker Botts as Manager of Client Relations and previously as a management consultant for Fortune 500 companies IBM, Electronic Data Systems, Lotus Development Corporation, and KPMG. She earned her Bachelor of Business Administration from SMU. Smitha Mathews, Esq. Director, Mid-Size, Small and Boutique Firms (214) 768-3546 mathews@smu.edu Smitha Mathews is responsible for developing clerkships and job opportunities with mid-size, boutique and small law firms, as well as providing career development training and counseling to full-time JD students. Smitha joined SMU Dedman School of Law as Director of the Office of Career Services in July 2021. Having practiced at both multinational and boutique law firms, Smitha brings extensive legal industry experience to this position. Smitha graduated with honors from SMU in 2000, earning a Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering with a Biomedical Specialization. She received her Juris Doctor degree from SMU Dedman School of Law in 2004. Smitha began her legal career as an intellectual property associate at Sidley Austin LLP, where she focused on patent and IP litigation. She later transitioned her practice to assist clients with patent and trademark procurement and strategic portfolio development, working at the law firms of Harper Bates & Champion LLP and Baker Botts LLP. Smitha has also volunteered countless pro bono hours to represent and serve those in need. Smitha is registered to practice before the United States Patent and Trademark Office and is a member of the Dallas Bar Association and the DFW Women in IP Group. Mary Beth Nielsen Senior Associate Director, Judicial Opportunities, Recruiting and Events 214/768-4049 mnielsen@smu.edu Mary Beth Nielsen serves as a career counselor to JD students and facilitates all law school recruiting programs, including the On- and Off-Campus Interview Programs for law firms, corporations, government agencies, and public interest employers. She also advises students on judicial internships, externships, and post-graduate judicial clerkships. Mary Beth manages school and student participation in regional job fairs and maintains Symplicity, the web-enabled recruiting site for law students and legal professionals, as well as the website for the Office of Career Services. She is actively involved in the National Association for Law Placement (NALP) and currently serves as co-chair of the Neurodiversity in the Legal Profession Task Force. She served as the Chair of the JD Career Advisors Section from 2020-2021. Mary Beth joined the Office of Career Services in January 2014, after having served as the Career Advisor Liaison to the College of Communication in Career Services at Texas Christian University. From 2009-2011, she worked as the graduate assistant for internships in the Ole Miss Career Center. She earned her Master of Arts in Higher Education Administration from The University of Mississippi in 2011 and graduated magna cum laude from The University of Mississippi with a Bachelor of Arts in Journalism in 2009. Mackenzie M. Salenger, Esq. Career Advisor, LL.M. & S.J.D 214/768-2622 msalenger@smu.edu Mackenzie Salenger serves as the advisor for students in the International LL.M., Tax LL.M., General LL.M., and S.J.D. programs. In this role, Mackenzie provides career development training and strategy, develops career-related educational resources and programs, and counsels students. Mackenzie joined SMU Dedman School of Law as Career Advisor in the Office of Career Services in August 2021. Having practiced at two national law firms and actively participated in her firms’ diversity, equity, and inclusion initiatives, Mackenzie brings extensive legal industry experience to this position. Mackenzie began her legal career as a Trial Associate with Thompson & Knight LLP and was most recently a Trial Associate with Thompson Coburn LLP, where she handled a broad range of commercial litigation matters, including matters related to fraud and fraudulent transfer litigation, tort and products liability litigation, complex commercial litigation, and social impact litigation. Mackenzie earned her Bachelor of Arts, summa cum laude, in Psychology from Southern Methodist University and graduated magna cum laude from Wake Forest University School of Law, where she was admitted to the Order of the Coif and inducted into the Pro Bono Honor Society. Mackenzie is active in the community, where she is a Board Member of Black Tie Dinner, a member of the Young Professionals Advisory Councils for the LGBT Resource Center of Dallas and the Dallas Area Rape Crisis Center, and a member of the Mayor’s Star Council. Career Services Students Employers Alumni Employment Statistics Career Services Team Contact Office of Career Services Reciprocity Hire SMU Law! Post a Job Library Business Office Get Help Now News Media Emergency / Safety Admissions Office / FAQs Department Directory Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © SMU Dedman School of Law 3315 Daniel Avenue, Dallas, TX 75205 facebook google twitter linkedin tumblr youtube instagram