COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Parking at Wichita State Section Menu WSU Parking Home Parking Signage Parking Maps WSU Student Parking Visitor Parking Faculty/Staff Parking Disability (ADA) Parking Athletics Parking WSU Partners Parking Motorcycle Parking Parking FAQ Parking Rules and Regulations (UPD) Parking Lot Reservation Form (UPD) Shocker Parking Text Alerts Parking Quiz Feedback WSU Transit Welcome to Wichita State! During the fall and spring semesters, Wichita State’s main campus is a permit-only parking environment on weekdays when the University is open for classes. Visitors may park during enforcement times in selected lots for three times without a permit each semester. See the Visitor Parking page for details WSU students, faculty and staff wishing to park on campus during the enforcement period must register online with the Shocker Parking Management System to park legally. The system features license plate recognition (LPR) technology and virtual permits called ePermits that eliminate the need for color-coded hangtags and stickers for parking enforcement. ePermits are required from 7 a.m.-5 p.m. Monday through Friday (with the exception of the RSC parking garage which requires ePermits 24/7). Please review the parking maps below to locate appropriate parking areas for students, faculty and staff. Lots with red signage are reserved at all times. Parking at WSU West, WSU South and WSU Old Town does not require ePermits. NOTE: To accommodate the license plate scanning system, your license plate must be visible and unobscured. If your license plate is on the rear of your vehicle, backing into a parking stall or pulling through is not allowed and could result in a parking citation. New Signage for Fall 2021! WSU's new signage is designed to let drivers quickly determine if a parking lot is open to them. Learn More Get parking and permit information for: Students Student Parking at WSU During the enforcement period (7 a.m.-5 p.m. on weekdays when classes are in session), Wichita State students must have a valid an ePermit to park on the WSU campus. Lots accessible to students with an ePermit are indicated in green below. Student-accessible parking lots are marked with a prominent green “S” signage. Download the Student Parking Map (pdf) Student Parking Interactive Map Student Parking Web Page Visitors Visitor Parking at WSU As easy as V+3. During the enforcement period (7 a.m.-5 p.m. on weekdays when classes are in session), visitors may park without a permit for 3 calendar days during each semester in the lots indicated in blue below. Visitor-accessible parking lots are marked with prominent “V” signage. On your fourth visit to campus during a semester, visitors need to purchase an ePermit or use paid parking in the WSU Parking Garage (indicated in yellow below). Download the Visitor Parking Map (pdf) Visitor Parking Interactive Map Visitor Parking Web Page Faculty / Staff Faculty / Staff Parking at WSU During the enforcement period (7 a.m.-5 p.m. on weekdays when classes are in session), Wichita State faculty and staff must have a valid ePermit to park on the WSU campus. Lots accessible to faculty and staff with an ePermit are indicated in yellow below. Faculty-accessible parking lots are marked with a prominent yellow “F” signage. Download the Faculty / Staff Parking Map (pdf) Faculty / Staff Parking Interactive Map Faculty / Staff Parking Web Page Disability (ADA) Parking Motorcycle Parking Parking at WSU Where to park View our interactive campus map for parking info and directions. Ride WSU Transit During the fall and spring semesters, you may choose to park at our Hughes Metropolitan Complex and ride the Wichita Transit System for free. 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©