Skip navigation Find: A to Z Index People Directory Learn More: About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Theatre Arts and Performance Studies Site Navigation Home About People Undergraduate Graduate Performances & Events Print this Page Share this Page Brown University Box 1897 83 Waterman Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401.863.3283 Fax 401.863.7529 [email protected] Brown About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory m.Brown.edu News Events Visit Campus Life Map Directory Brown Apps Safety About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Theatre Arts and Performance Studies News Memorial Service for James O Barnhill Memorial Service for James O Barnhill May 13, 2022 James Barnhill There will be a memorial service for Jim Barnhill at the First Baptist Church in America at 75 North Main Street in Providence on May 23rd at 11:00AM. This would have been Jim's 100th birthday. All are welcome. Please spread the word. Jim, for many decades, was the heart and soul of theatre studies at Brown and it was his vision and determination that led to the founding, first, of a degree-granting program in Theatre Arts within English and, eventually, of the Department of Theatre Arts and Performance Studies. He was the Department's first Chairperson. Beyond that, Jim played a significant role in elevating the study of the arts in general at Brown, believing, as he fervently did, that engagement in the arts was a training ground for creativity in all fields of endeavor. He championed the teaching of speech across the curriculum. He was instrumental in establishing Brown's relation with Tougaloo College and the formation of Rites and Reason theatre. He studied calligraphy. And tap dancing. He inspired student initiative. And he was a caring mentor to generations of actors and directors at Brown. There will be a formal time for comments at the end of the service and a more informal time for sharing memories of Jim and his life after the service in the church's basement, where coffee will be served. Covid protocols will be observed. Also in Theatre Arts and Performance Studies Site Navigation Home About People Undergraduate Graduate Performances & Events Print this Page Share this Page Brown University Box 1897 83 Waterman Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401.863.3283 Fax 401.863.7529 [email protected] Performance Calendar Get Tickets Calendar There are no upcoming events. Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Social Media TAPS Facebook TAPS Instagram TAPS YouTube Partnerships Brown Arts Initiative Rites & Reason Theatre Sock & Buskin TAPS Library Guide Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn RSS Futurity