Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Undergraduate Admission Student Affairs About News Athletics Events Calendar Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Meadows School of the Arts Areas of Study Admissions About Menu Search Meadows School of the Arts News and Events Meadows Events Parking Meadows Events Parking News and Events Art History After Hours Virtual Season Subscribers News Featured Media Our Calendar Performing Arts Season Music Recitals Events Newsletter Meadows Events Parking Directions & Public Transportation Meadows Recognition Ceremony The Meadows School of the Arts is currently under renovation which has impacted entry into the building as well as parking availability. Below please find information regarding both to assist you. Download Meadows Parking and Building Access Information Click here to see directions & public transportation. The Owen Arts Center on the campus of SMU contains the Greer Garson, Margo Jones, and Bob Hope theatres as well as the Caruth Auditorium. The address is 6101 Bishop Blvd., Dallas, Texas 75205. The Owen Arts Center can be reached by either Hillcrest Avenue, which borders SMU, or Bishop Blvd., which takes you through the center of campus. Meadows Renovation While Meadows is under renovation: Building Access and Parking Renovation can be found here Ticket Office The Meadows Ticket Office is based in the lobby of the Greer Garson Theatre and is open from 12 p.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday. On the day of ticketed performances held in the Bob Hope Theatre or Caruth Auditorium, the satellite ticket office located next to the Bob Hope Theatre opens one hour prior to performances. The main ticket office located in the Greer Garson Theatre lobby opens one hour prior to performances for all other Meadows ticketed events. Contact us: 214.768.2787 (ARTS) meadowstickets@smu.edu Lee Gleiser Event Marketing Manager 214.768.4091 lgleiser@smu.edu Meadows School of the Arts Meadows School of the Arts 6101 Bishop Dallas, Texas 75205 214-768-2000 Mailing Address: P.O. Box 750356 Dallas, Texas 75275-0356 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Apply Now Visit Us Back to top © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Areas of Study Advertising Art Art History Arts Management & Arts Entrepreneurship CCPA Creative Computation Dance Film & Media Arts Journalism Music Theatre Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Scholarships And Financial Aid Internships & Collaborations Visit Meadows Contact Meadows Admission Dual Admission About A Statement of Our Values Mission History Message From The Dean Dean's Executive Council Student Academic Services Academic Affairs Contact SMU Meadows Faculty Directory Faculty/Staff Bio Submission Form Facilities Resources Employment Meadows Graduate Student Council Site Map Report a Web Problem News and Events Art History After Hours Virtual Season Subscribers News Featured Media Our Calendar Performing Arts Season Music Recitals Events Newsletter Meadows Events Parking Directions & Public Transportation Meadows Recognition Ceremony The Movement Mission Ignite Arts Dallas SMU DataArts Meadows Prize Arts Entrepreneurship International Opportunities Interdisciplinary Studies Research and Creativity Alumni Submit Your Information Alumni News Alumni in the Media Alumni on LinkedIn Support Meadows Contact Development The Meadows Scholars Program Meadows Gala Apply NowVisit UsGive Menu Search Search Submit Menu Search