Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Earth, Environmental and Planetary Sciences About the Department Earth, Environmental and Planetary Sciences About the Department Geological phenomena affect our daily lives as well as the future of our planet. Fundamental knowledge in the Earth and planetary sciences has direct bearing on matters of urgent interest to the public, to policy makers, and to other scientists. The threats of a major earthquake in California, a volcanic eruption in the northwestern U.S., or an asteroid impact are ever present. A naturally fluctuating climate is being modified by human activities in ways that we don’t understand with consequences that we cannot predict. Research in Brown University’s Department of Earth, Environmental and Planetary Sciences advances fundamental knowledge in the earth and planetary sciences and addresses these broad and general problems through our five major thematic areas: Geophysics Climate and environment The planetary perspective Properties and processes of geological materials Environmental sciences Research The range of research addressed within the department is both fundamental and diverse. One broad aspect of this research is the dynamics of the solid Earth and Planets. The Department participates in the acquisition and interpretation of spacecraft observations from the nearby Moon and Mars to the icy satellites of the outer Solar System, and studies the interior of the Earth beneath oceanic spreading centers where fundamental transfers of heat and mass from the mantle to the surface occur. These large-scale processes are mediated by mineral-grain-scale physical and chemical mechanisms that are studied both conceptually and in the laboratory. The Earth system history researchers are leaders in developing techniques to measure climate change in marine and terrestrial sediments on time-scales ranging from ice ages to hurricanes. Research on environmental issues ranges from the impacts of land use on water resources to the frequency of hurricane strikes to the effects of human activity on Narragansett Bay. This highly interdisciplinary research promotes strong collaborations between faculty members. It involves experimental, observational and theoretical studies that utilize state-of-the-art laboratory, analytical, and computational facilities. Among the emerging new areas of exciting research and teaching being considered by the Department are environmental geochemistry, the nature of reactions at microscopic surfaces, active tectonic processes, physical volcanology, dynamics of climate change, and the biogeochemistry of primitive environments. Consistent with the interdisciplinary nature of geological sciences, the Department has provided leadership in teaching and research in several interdepartmental and interdisciplinary programs. The Department works closely with the Institute at Brown for Environment and Society and is currently working with IBES to expand environmental science research on campus. In addition, there are numerous collaborations outside the University: there are strong ties with the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution (WHOI) as well as the geology and geophysics faculty at the University of Rhode Island. National Standing Our Department is widely recognized for excellence in teaching and research. DEEPS is one of Brown's top-five Graduate Programs. USA Today ranks DEEPS at #15 among peer institutions, including Caltech, MIT, WHOI, Stanford, and Washington University. Members of the faculty have been recognized for outstanding accomplishments by election to fellowship in major scientific societies, such as the American Geophysical Union (AGU), Geological Society of America, and the American Association for Advancement of Science. Faculty awards include RI Professor of the Year, Outstanding Educator by the Association of Women Geologists, Guggenheim and Sloan Fellows and the Bowen and Macelwane Awards from the AGU. The faculty also helps shape the future direction of the science through service as members and chairs of many national and international advisory committees and through leadership positions in scientific societies and scientific expeditions. People Faculty PostDocs/Visiting Scientists Grad Students Administrative Staff Technical Staff Job Openings Alumni Climate & Environment Group Alumni of the Geochemistry Research Group Alumni of the Geophysics Research Group Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Courses Research Lectures and Colloquia Alumni Diversity and Inclusion Outreach Print this Page Share this Page Stay Connected with DEEPS at Brown University Department of Earth, Environmental and Planetary Sciences Brown University Box 1846 324 Brook Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3339 [email protected] Calendar Jun 23 9:00am Dissertation Defense: Sarah McGrath Sep 7 All Day Classes of the first semester begin. View full calendar > Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Department Resources Computing Guide