Skip Navigation Texas A&M University at Galveston Find info for: Future Students Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Former Students Visitors Veterans University Catalog Phonebook Calendar A-Z List Search MENU COVID-19 Search Reporting Portal Campus Data Protocols Student & Teaching Support Resources Select Web or PeopleWebPeople Search COVID-19 Reporting Portal Campus Data Protocols Student & Teaching Support Resources COVID-19 CORONAVIRUS INFORMATION Texas A&M University at Galveston’s first priority is the health and safety of our students, faculty and staff, while supporting continued education and training in response to the Coronavirus, or COVID-19. The situation is fluid and continually evolving. This website serves to provide available details and is your source for additional information in the coming days and weeks. TAMUG Reporting Portal On Campus Testing Updates and Messages On Campus Testing On campus testing is available from 9:00am - 2:00pm in the Sea Aggie Center (SAGC). Please ring the doorbell on the Police Department counter and someone will assist you. Want to Speed Up the Process? Have your information ready by creating a personal QR Test Code prior to testing. Visit register.txrapidtest.org to preregister for your Covid-19 test. Complete the form. Once completed, save the generated QR code to your phone or print the webpage. You will also receive an email containing your personal QR Code. Bring the QR Code to your testing site. Latest Campus Messages: Jan. 12: Free At-Home COVID-19 Test Kits Being Handed Out to the Galveston Campus Community Starting Tomorrow Sept. 20: COVID-19 Guideline Follow-Up Sept. 2: Updated Close Contact Quarantine Information Sept. 2: Faculty & Staff Guidance for Sick or Exposed Individuals Aug. 27: Updated COVID Protocols & Guidance Aug. 27: Expanded On-Campus Testing Hours > Past Campus Messages Student Health Services Student Health Services Student Health Services Provided By: UTMB Family Medicine Clinic Primary Care Pavilion 400 Harborside Drive 409.772.2166 Website Hours: 9AM - 4PM, Monday-Friday (except holidays) Appointments Students should take their Student ID and private insurance information. Inform the clinic staff you are a Texas A&M University at Galveston student. Appointments should be made in advance for physicals or other non-urgent services requiring extended testing or provider time. Students may utilize the Health Care Hotline at 409.772.2166 when the clinic is closed to speak to a nurse who will provide advice and recommendations. The Office of Student Counseling serves as the liaison between Texas A&M University-Galveston and UTMB for Student Health Services. Any requests for more information or questions should be directed to: Office of Student Counseling Seibel Student Services Center Suite 104 409.740.4736 studentservices@tamug.edu Additional Information Visit the Student Health Services website for more information regarding: Services Fees Periods of Coverage Insurance Emergency Response Meningitis Information Immunization Requirements Galveston-Area Healthcare Centers Galveston-Area Healthcare Centers University of Texas Medical Branch West Isle Urgent Care Affinity Urgent Care - Galveston UTMB Urgent Healthcare - Texas City Additional Coronavirus Links Additional Coronavirus Links TAMUG COVID-19 Campus Messages TAMUG Newsroom Texas A&M COVID-19 Site Galveston County Health District Texas Department of State Health Services Centers for Disease Control & Prevention FEMA COVID-19 Site © 2022 Texas A&M University at Galveston Mailing Address: P.O. Box 1675, Galveston, Texas 77553 Physical Address: 200 Seawolf Parkway, Galveston, TX 77554 Shipping Address: 1001 Texas Clipper Road, Galveston, TX 77554 Site Policies Back to top