Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu University Advancement Ways to Give Donor Recognition Your Impact Resources About Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Ways to Give Areas of Need Urgent Needs Scholarships Colleges, Schools & Departments Campus Development Athletics Lambuth Opportunity Scholars Program Matching Gifts Naming Opportunities Memorials & Honorarium Annual Giving Planned Giving Faculty & Staff Year-End Gifts Take Action Give Now Support Your College Join the Alumni Association Contact Us Home University Advancement Ways to Give Colleges and Schools Colleges, Schools & Departments Give back to the department that shaped your future Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law College of Arts & Sciences College of Communication and Fine Arts College of Education College of Health Sciences College of Professional and Liberal Studies Fogelman College of Business & Economics Herff College of Engineering Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality & Report Management Loewenberg College of Nursing Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music School of Communication Sciences & Disorders School of Public Health Student Academic Success | Student Leadership & Involvement University Libraries Alumni Association Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law The Cecil C. Humphrey's School of Law, recently named one of "America's Best Values" by National Jurist magazine, relocated in 2010 to a $48 million, 160,000 square foot, state-of-the art facility in a fully-renovated historic building in downtown Memphis. Consider supporting a graduating 3L with bar application support here (Law School - One Student, One Bar Exam, $1,000) or you can Support School of Law > For more information on options, please contact the Director of Development for the School of Law. College of Arts & Sciences The College of Arts and Sciences is the largest college with 24 academic units, ROTC, and multiple research centers, including two Centers of Excellence. It awards nearly 500 undergraduate degrees per year and offers a comprehensive liberal arts curriculum to equip its students in pursuing rich personal and professional lives. Support CAS > For more information on options, please contact the Director of Development for the College of Arts and Sciences. College of Communication and Fine Arts Established in 1977 and offering both undergraduate and graduate degrees, the College of Communication and Fine Arts houses the Art Museum, the Institute of Egyptian Art and Archaeology, the Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music, and the departments of Art, Architecture, Communication, Journalism and Theatre & Dance. Support CCFA > For more information on options, please contact the Director of Development for the College of Communication and Fine Arts. College of Education The founding program of the University of Memphis, the College dates back to 1912, when West Tennessee State Normal School first opened its doors to students. The College is home to 11 nationally recognized teacher education programs. It is also home to the Barbara K. Lipman Early Childhood School and Research Institute and the Campus Elementary School, which are among fewer than 100 cutting-edge university laboratory schools in the U.S. Support COE > For more information on options, please contact the Director of Development for the College of Education. College of Health Sciences The College of Health Sciences offers six undergraduate and eight graduate degree programs, a graduate certificate and two minors. We currently employ over 50 full-time faculty and staff, while servicing over 1800 declared majors. Our new doctoral program in Applied Physiology and Neuromechanics includes two concentrations - Applied Biomechanics and Applied Physiology & Nutrition. We offer everything from introductory courses in health and wellness, to specialized courses in nutrition therapy, nutrition science, biomechanics, health sciences, healthcare leadership, exercise physiology, physical education teacher licensure, sport coaching and more. We have developed a strong research focus in health science-specific inquiry, at both the cellular and applied levels. Our personnel are leaders in their respective disciplines, publishing their research findings in top-tier peer-reviewed journals, and receiving national and international recognition for their work. College of Professional & Liberal Studies The University College offers individualized and interdisciplinary degree programs, enabling University of Memphis students to pursue a wide range of studies and shape degree programs that build upon prior experience and knowledge. The College has two undergraduate degrees, the Bachelor of Professional Studies and the Bachelor of Liberal Studies, which offer more than 20 degree concentrations. Support CPLS > For more information on options, please contact the Director of Development for the College of Professional & Liberal Studies. Fogelman College of Business & Economics The Fogelman College of Business & Economics is proud to be fully accredited by the American Assembly of Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB), an honor earned by less than 5% of business school world-wide. It is composed of six departments and provides a unique Complete Professional Program that holistically prepares undergraduate students with the tools to achieve both personal and professional excellence. Through the Avron B. Fogelman Professional Development Center, FCBE provides training on ethics, healthy living habits, business etiquette, resume building, professionalism, philanthropic activities, and more. The Fogelman College offers a comprehensive portfolio of graduate programs including six different tracks to earn a MBA. Fogelman boasts the largest number of MBA graduates in Tennessee. Furthermore, the College works very closely with Memphis-area companies, many of them Fortune 500, to offer students invaluable hands-on learning experiences from professionals in these industries. Support FCBE > For more information on options, please contact the Director of Development for the Fogelman College of Business & Economics. Herff College of Engineering The Herff College of Engineering offers both undergraduate and graduate programs and serves the educational and research needs of the industrial community, the metropolitan area, the state and the nation. Support Herff College of Engineering > For more information on options, please contact the Director of Development for the Herff College of Engineering. Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management The Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management at the University of Memphis is a prominent program providing a contemporary hospitality education, with an emphasis on lodging and resort operations. Support Kemmons Wilson School > For more information on options, please contact the Director of Development for the Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management. Loewenberg College of Nursing The Loewenberg College of Nursing offers both the Bachelor and Master of Science in Nursing degrees as well as the Executive Master of Science in Nursing Administration. We invite you to join us as a partner in our mission of preparing nurse leaders and promoting better health outcomes in our communities. Your support will help us prepare our graduates for leadership roles who will improve patient care outcomes and healthcare deliveries both locally and globally. Your gift will make a tremendous impact on building a high quality nursing workforce that is compassionate, diverse, and prepared to meet future healthcare challenges. Support the Loewenberg College of Nursing > For more information on options, please contact the Director of Development for the Loewenberg College of Nursing. Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music The Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music of The University of Memphis is staffed with an outstanding faculty of artists and Pedagogues. It is the largest music program in the state of Tennessee and one of the largest in the southeastern United States. Currently we have over 500 majors with forty-five full-time faculty and more than twenty adjunct instructors. The School of Music is the only institution in the state that offers a doctoral degree in music. Activities abound in our department with more than 300 concerts, recitals, and other special events each year. Support the Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music > For more information on options, please contact the Director of Development for the Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music. School of Communication Sciences and Disorders The School of Communication Sciences and Disorders became part of the University in 1967. U.S. News & World Report ranked the U of M's audiology program eighth in the nation; the speech pathology program is ranked thirteenth nationwide. The school offers graduate programs leading to Ph.D., M.A. and Au.D. degrees with concentrations in Audiology and Speech-Language Pathology. Support the School of Communication Sciences and Disorders > For more information on options, please contact the Director of Development for the School of Communication Sciences and Disorders. School of Public Health Established in June 2009, the School of Public Health serves a unique mission to educate the next generation of leaders in public health with a focus on urban health and health equity. Within our urban-serving institution, University students and faculty seek to translate their research into life-changing discoveries and interventions that affect the full scope of society. Support SPH > For more information on options, please contact the Director of Development for the School of Public Health. Student Affairs Student Academic Success provides services, programs, and activities that support all schools and colleges by building on the university's academic base. The division strives to consider all aspects of a student's life at the university, always trying to be mindful of the "whole person" and the role the university can play in a student's development as an individual, working and living responsibly within a community. Support Student Programs > For more information on options, please contact the Director of Development for the Student Programs. University Libraries The University Libraries include the award-winning McWherter Library and five branch libraries. In addition to serving the University of Memphis, the libraries serve students and faculty at other educational institutions, local and regional corporations, governmental agencies, and citizens of the community. Support the Libraries > For more information on options, please contact the Director of Development for the University Libraries. Alumni Association Please click to learn more about giving opportunities in Alumni Association. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 2/25/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.