Human Development & Consumer Sciences - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to College of Technology Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to HDCS Search College of Technology Programs & Degrees Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Accelerated Degrees Certificates Minors Vision and Mission Newsletters People Faculty Staff Boards of Advisors Advising UH Home College of Technology Departments Human Development & Consumer Sciences Welcome to the Department of Human Development and Consumer Sciences Foresight (MS) | Human Resource Development (BS, MS) | Retailing and Consumer Science (BS, MS) Our academic programs prepare students to be innovative and culturally responsive leaders across a variety of professional settings. Our experiential and project-based curriculum, delivered through in-person and virtual formats, prepares students to: Lead and develop talent in diverse organizations Facilitate workforce change Develop and scale virtual learning and development interventions Spur innovation and entrepreneurship Meet and exceed workplace and consumer needs Map and create productive personal and business futures Each program offers professional networking, active student organizations, and engaged industry partners that actively support student development through mentoring, networking, and scholarships. Undergraduate students can apply to our accelerated pathway to complete credits toward a graduate degree during their undergraduate program. Our award-winning faculty have been recognized for their engaging teaching, innovative research, and global reach including four Fulbright award recipients. Learn more about how our HDCS programs develop successful leaders for today’s global challenges. In the News Executive Masters in HRD Launches Podcast to Celebrate 10-Year Anniversary The Executive Masters in Human Resource Development (HRD) is celebrating its 10-year anniversary by launching a new podcast series. Dr. Carole Goodson Retires from UH College of Technology After 50 Years The University of Houston (UH) College of Technology salutes Dr. Carole E. Goodson as she retires from more than 50 years of professorial se... Global Retailing Student Wins Honorable Award at IEEE - ICDH Conference During the 2021 Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) International Conference on Digital Health (ICDH), University of Ho... Association of Professional Futurists Student Recognition Congratulations to University of Houston (UH) Master of Science in Foresight students Heather Benoit Kampa and JT Mudge for receiving 1st pl... HRD Students Develop Podcasts to Promote Microlearning in Organizations University of Houston Human Resource Development (HRD) faculty continue to incorporate technology to unleash human expertise within organiza... HRD Course Advocates for Underrepresented Groups Through Project Human Resource Development (HRD) students taking HRD 3350 - Workforce Diversity and Globalization - during the spring 2021 semester were abl... Alumni Spotlight: Teaching the Value of Learning to Future HRD Leaders After a string of career attempts that never quite fit, Jay Clancy began to realize that he was meant for more than just a job. With a passi... Waight Leads Effort to Establish First Human Resource Association in Belize Waight Leads Effort to Establish First Human Resource Association in Belize From helping you make decisions about your major to making preparations for graduation, we are here to assist. With our advanced facilities, award winning faculty and industry connections, the Human Development and Consumer Sciences department offers students unique opportunities to achieve their highest potential and graduate with confidence in their skills. Undergraduate Degrees Bachelor of Science in Human Resource Development Students earning a degree in Human Resource Development (HRD) become relationship-focused, problem solvers and key players, who assess, design and deliver solutions for training and performance management. With a comprehensive internship program that places students in highly competitive companies, the UH HRD degree prepares students to be efficient and effective workforce change agents, using advanced technology and web-based delivery systems. Bachelor of Science in Retailing and Consumer Science Vibrant, exciting, and financially rewarding careers await Retailing and Consumer Science (RCS) majors as they engage in the diverse and dynamic fields of retailing and consumer marketing in fashion, e-tailing, entrepreneurial, and other settings. Internship experiences place students with retail and market leaders resulting in highly employable skills and connections. Retail is the largest employer in the U.S. and globally! Graduate Degrees Executive Human Resource Development The Executive Master's in Human Resource Development is a unique, experiential program that develops participants to lead strategy execution by leveraging learning and change from a global perspective. The program enables graduates to leverage learning and change theory, frameworks, tools and techniques that facilitate strategy execution. An integral component of the curriculum is immediate workplace application. Students are required to complete action research projects that relate to change and learning in a work setting. The action research projects start during the first semester and extend throughout the program, resulting in a capstone presentation in the final semester. Master of Science in Foresight As futurists, Foresight graduates enter an emerging profession that helps clients and employers anticipate significant changes that lie ahead and influence those changes to achieve their long-term goals. Futurists analyze rapid alterations in external environments and use systems thinking to increase the chances of achieving preferred futures. Today’s strategists are facing these important professional challenges: Challenging strategic assumptions Translating strategy into action Communicating strategy Identifying discontinuous change Adapting strategy to rapid change Master of Science in Global Retailing Imagine your future as an inspired creative thinker and leader in an expanding, fast-paced industry. Are you ready to learn new strategies from faculty whose industry partnerships provide a stimulating real world experience? If your answer is "yes", global retailing is ideal for you. A unique program that expands opportunities to successfully operate and lead retail businesses throughout the international marketplace, the program's focus is on the dynamics of multi-cultural consumer behavior, retail analytics, profitability and financial models. We prepare visionaries for a flourishing retail workforce with excellent career opportunities. Master of Science in Human Resource Development This graduate program is designed for those individuals who want to make a difference in the global world of Human Resource Development (HRD). Students examine e-learning tools; build an understanding of adult learning theory and organization dynamics, practice research and productivity measurement techniques, and gain new insights into career development/talent management. The focus is on critical thinking, understanding theoretical foundations, developing instructional design strategies and using assessment techniques to measure program effectiveness, impact, and continuous quality improvement in diverse organizations. Graduates become leaders that focus on sustaining growth and facilitating change in organizations. Certificates Graduate Certificate in Foresight Courses in the certificate are the same as those offered within the Master's degree in Foresight. Courses are offered online and face-to-face and the student simply takes four core courses. Upon completion, students are issued a certificate. Professional Certificate in Foresight The Foresight certificate program is a 5-day, project-based, face-to-face workshop. Participants learn to anticipate disruptive change and work towards the creation of transformational change in order to influence the future of their organizations, companies and communities. Participants will receive a professional certificate and four (4) CEUs (Continuing Education Units) from the University of Houston for attending the seminar. Students can also obtain a separate departmental certificate of achievement if they complete a foresight project after program delivery. Certificates in Retailing and Consumer Science Enhance your skills, extend your current capabilities, and prepare for a job promotion! Five undergraduate certificate programs offer professional advancement and/or academic foundation for transition to the bachelor's degree. Certificates in Apparel Merchandising, E-Tailing, Retail Organizations, Retail Promotion, and Technology Entrepreneurship are available. Each certificate includes 5 semester-long courses. Minors HDCS Minors Students wishing to obtain a minor may choose any approved minor program within the College of Technology. Minimum requirements range from 15 to 18 semester hours of course work, of which 9 must be advanced; 9 semester hours in residence at UH, of which 6 must be advanced; and a 2.0 minimum grade point average in all courses in the minor at the University of Houston. For official requirements, see the University of Houston Catalog. Human Development and Consumer Sciences Retailing and Consumer Science Training and Development See an Advisor Students are encouraged to visit with their advisor regularly to update their degree plan and to stay informed about the resources offered by the College of Technology. FAQs Have questions? Check out our FAQs for assistance. Advising Forms Forms necessary for your academic planning including change of major, and general petition form. Contact Us Isabel C. Cameron Building 4235 Cullen Blvd. #110 Houston, TX 77204-6020 Phone: 713-743-4110 Fax: 713-743-4033 Student Organizations Collegiate DECA Collegiate DECA is a student-driven organization that serves in the Houston community and values competence, innovation, integrity, and teamwork. We prepare our students for careers by integrating skills learned in the classroom into real world experiences. Student Society of Human Resource Development The Student Society of Human Resource Development (SSHRD) is a society created by the students for the students. Here, we explore opportunities to come closer and get organized as a formal forum of students with a common interest, which is Human Resource Development. As members of SSHRD, we can expect opportunities in the areas of professional and academic development. 4230 MLK Blvd. #300 Houston, TX 77204-4021 Phone: 713-743-4100 Phone(Sugar Land): 832-842-3054 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Maps Careers Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Social Media Title IX — Sexual Misconduct Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies