Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Department of Classics Menu About Us Events News Academics Undergraduate Program B.A. in Classics B.A. in Greek and Roman Studies B.A. in Greek B.A. in Latin Classics Concentration (for University Scholars) Minor in Classics, Greek and Roman Studies, Greek, or Latin Secondary Majors in Classics, Greek, and Latin Scholarships Special Programs Baylor in Italy Baylor Intensive Greek Collegium for Manuscript Research Latin Day Latin Study Tools Greek Bookhands Database CDDGB Database CDDGB Help CDDGB Collaborate People Classics Faculty Affiliated Faculty Staff Study Abroad Itinerary Program Costs Student Feedback Packing List Careers Pre-Law Pre-Health Pre-Seminary Teaching K-12 Certification Finding a Position Principia Journal Make a Gift Department of Classics Are you curious about the roots of our present society? Interested in Literature? Archaeology? History? Philosophy? Ancient Languages? Ancient Religions? The world of early Christianity? Are you looking for an interdisciplinary major that will challenge you to master specifics and integrate them into larger wholes? Come discover Classics! Explore Academics Baylor is proud to be home to one of the largest and most vibrant undergraduate Classics programs in the country. All our majors and minors emphasize mastery of Greek and Latin and vigorous discussion of the seminal and enduring ideas and questions. Come explore your opportunities with us. Undergraduate We currently offers three Majors: Classics, Greek, and Latin. Students from other Colleges within Baylor may also pursue these courses of study as a Secondary Major. Love the material but don’t have time for a new Major? Consider one of our Minors. Learn More About Our Academic Programs Special Programs The Baylor Classics Department is home to multiple opportunities for accelerated study, undergraduate research, and experiential learning. Latin Day A day of fun and interactive learning events for high school Latin students from throughout Texas. Baylor in Italy Spend your summer in Italy learning about archaeology and Roman history. Baylor Intensive Greek Learn two years of Greek in one summer. Collegium for Manuscript Research Learn about manuscript or papyrus research in Hebrew, Greek, Syriac, Latin and several medieval vernaculars. Learn More About Our Special Programs Baylor in Italy The sights, the sounds, the monuments, and the places you visit when you are in Italy become the classroom. In this academic program, you will take notes on site, visit live excavations, climb under buildings and much, much more. Learn More place at the altar Congratulations to Dr. Megan DiLuzio, winner of the 2017 CAMWS First Book Prize for A Place at the Altar Priestesses in Republican Rome. Learn More Baylor Authors Win 2018 PROSE Award Congratulation to Drs. Smith and Hunt, whose 2017 book, Classics from Papyrus to the Internet, was receive the 2018 PROSE Award from the Association of American Publishers. Learn More Latin Study Tools Worksheets, practice tests, and songs to accompany Latina Ursorum. Learn More What Can You Do With A Classics Degree “We can’t overestimate the value of a Classics major. ... Classics majors get on well in life because they develop intellectual rigor, communications skills, analytical skills, the ability to handle complex information, and, above all, a breadth of view which few other disciplines can provide.” ~ Princeton Review Danielle Washington Latin Teacher Providence Catholic School (San Antonio TX) “No matter what I am involved in at my school, my training from Baylor gives me the ideas, words, and motivation to teach my students what they need to know about life inside and outside of the curriculum.” David Moore Associate, Kirkland & Ellis LLP “My degree in Latin from Baylor was one of the most critical ingredients to the foundation for my career as a practicing attorney.” Harry Smith Associate Pastor of Community Outreach Our Redeemer Lutheran Church, Irving, TX “Far beyond skill-building, Classics has brought me the gift of perspective and an appreciation for what effects the narratives of the time have on people.” Events See More Events May 16 2022 Minimester session (ends 06/02/2022) Jun 3 2022 Summer Session I (ends 07/08/2022) Jun 20 2022 Juneteenth - University Holiday Jul 4 2022 Independence Day - University Holiday Faculty Spotlight Meghan Diluzio Associate Professor of Classics Julia Dyson Hejduk Reverend Jacob Beverly Stiteler Professor of Classics Jeff Hunt Senior Lecturer in Classics / Assistant Director, University Scholars Daniel Nodes Professor of Classics Alden Smith Professor of Classics David White Senior Lecturer in Classics See More Faculty Department of Classics Morrison 333 One Bear Place #97352 Waco, TX 76798 (254) 710-1399 Classics@baylor.edu ApplyGive General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Us Events News Academics Undergraduate Program B.A. in Classics B.A. in Greek and Roman Studies B.A. in Greek B.A. in Latin Classics Concentration (for University Scholars) Minor in Classics, Greek and Roman Studies, Greek, or Latin Secondary Majors in Classics, Greek, and Latin Scholarships Special Programs Baylor in Italy Baylor Intensive Greek Collegium for Manuscript Research Latin Day Latin Study Tools Greek Bookhands Database CDDGB Database CDDGB Help CDDGB Collaborate People Classics Faculty Affiliated Faculty Staff Study Abroad Itinerary Program Costs Student Feedback Packing List Careers Pre-Law Pre-Health Pre-Seminary Teaching K-12 Certification Finding a Position Principia Journal Make a Gift