Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Alumni Connect Menu About Alumni Board of Advocates Alumni Update Form Baylor Alumni Spotlight Contact Us Discounts & Benefits Staff Directory Events 50th Reunion and Golden Grad Diploma Ceremony Alumni Day of Service Day of Service - Chicago Baylor Black Alumni Alliance Reunion Weekend Baylor Night Atlanta Braves vs. Los Angeles Angels Austin FC vs. Pachuca Colorado Rockies vs. San Francisco Giants Los Angeles Angels vs. Texas Rangers Seattle Mariners vs. Houston Astros Texas Rangers vs. Washington Nationals Washington Nationals vs. Atlanta Braves Baylor Professionals of Austin present Dr. Dennis O'Neal Baylor Professionals of Dallas present Dr. Dennis O'Neal Baylor Professionals of Houston present Dr. Dennis O'Neal Central Texas Baylor Club Scholarship Dinner, featuring Baylor Women's Basketball Head Coach Nicki Collen Olive Oil & Vinegar Tasting and Cooking Demonstration Spring Luncheon, Hosted by Baylor University Women's Council Tarrant County Texas Tour featuring Baylor Football Houston, TX Dallas/Fort Worth, TX San Antonio, TX Virtual Rosary Recitation Get Involved Groups Affinity Groups Regional Groups Regional Groups Bear Pack Travel Alaska: July 8-15, 2022 New Orleans: Sept. 15-18, 2022 Greece: Sept. 28-Oct. 8, 2022 Alabama: Nov. 5-9, 2022 Danube River: Dec. 2-10, 2022 Tuscany: March 15-23, 2023 France: May 25-31, 2023 Traditions Alumni By Choice Heritage Club Next Generation Bears Official Baylor Ring BeaRing the Night Baylor Ring Ceremony Ring Eligibility Requirements Ring Scholarship Ring Week Frequently Asked Questions Senior Class Gift Senior Trip to Independence Singspiration Awards 2022 Award Winners Alumna of the Year Young Alumnus of the Year Pro Ecclesia Medal of Service Pro Texana Medal of Service Medal of Service for Contributions to the Professions Alumna by Choice of the Year 2021 Award Winners Alumnus of the Year Young Alumna of the Year Pro Ecclesia Medal of Service Pro Texana Medal of Service Contributions to the Professions in Media & Arts Founders Medal Alumna by Choice of the Year 2020 Award Winners Alumna of the Year Young Alumnus of the Year Pro Ecclesia Medal of Service Pro Texana Medal of Service Founders Medal 2018-19 Award Winner 2017 Award Winners Baylor Alumni of the Year Young Alumnus of the Year Pro Ecclesia Medal of Service Pro Texana Medal of Service Distinguished Achievement Award Medal of Service for Contributions to Medicine Medal of Service for Contributions to Christian Ministry W.R. White Meritorious Achievement Award Baylor Legacy Award Founders Medal 2016 Award Winners Alumnus of the Year Young Alumnus of the Year Pro Ecclesia Medal of Service Pro Texana Medal of Service Distinguished Achievement Award Medal of Service for Contributions to Research Medal of Service for Contributions to Christian Ministry Medal of Service for Business Leadership W.R. White Meritorious Service Award Baylor Legacy Award Founders Medal 2015 Award Winners Baylor Alumni of the Year Young Alumnus of the Year Pro Ecclesia Medal of Service Pro Texana Medal of Service Contributions to the Professions: Healthcare & Medicine Contributions to the Professions: Research Founders Medal Baylor Legendary Mentor Baylor Legacy Award 2014 Award Winners Baylor Alumni of the Year Young Alumna of the Year Pro Ecclesia Medal of Service Pro Texana Medal of Service Contributions to the Professions: Healthcare Medal of Service Contributions to the Professions: Media & Arts Distinguished Achievement Award Founders Medal W. R. White Meritorious Service Award Baylor Legendary Mentors Baylor Legacy Award 2013 Award Winners Baylor Alumnus of the Year Young Alumna of the Year Pro Ecclesia Medal of Service Pro Texana Medal of Service Business Leadership Medal of Service Contributions to the Professions: Healthcare Medal of Service Baylor Legacy Award Founders Medal Distinguished Achievement Award 2012 Award Winners Baylor Alumnus of the Year Young Alumnus of the Year Pro Texana Medal of Service Pro Ecclesia Medal of Service Medal of Service for Business and Commerce Medal of Service for Business Leadership Medal of Service for Contributions to the Professions Medal of Service and Baylor Legendary Mentor Baylor Legacy Award Founders Medal 2011 Award Winners 2011 Alumnus of the Year 2011 Baylor Young Alumnus of the Year 2011 Baylor Legacy Award 2011 Pro Ecclesia Medal of Service 2011 Pro Texana Medal of Service 2011 Medal of Service in Business Leadership 2011 Medal of Service in Media Arts 2011 Baylor Founders Medal 2010 Award Winners 2010 Baylor Alumnus of the Year 2010 Baylor Young Alumna of the Year 2010 Pro Ecclesia Medal of Service 2010 Pro Texana Medal of Service 2010 Baylor Legacy Award 2010 Founders Medal Make a Gift Baylor>Alumni>Alumni Connect>Get Involved>Groups Groups Interested in connecting with other Baylor alumni, parents and friends who bleed green and gold? Explore the many opportunities for meaningful engagement and connection to fellow Baylor Bears. Regional groups are based on location, providing opportunities to engage with members of the Baylor Family in your area. Affinity groups are based on shared interests, such as professions, academic fields of study, personal interests and activities. All groups offer a number of ways to get involved, including social events, networking opportunities and more. Affinity Groups Connect with alumni who share common interests Regional Groups Engage with members of the Baylor Family near you Get Involved Groups Affinity Groups Air Force-Baylor Anthropology Group Army-Baylor Salute to Heroes Tailgate Baylor Army Oral Boards 2021 Arts Alliance Black Alumni Alliance Baylor Professional Group Catholic Group Virtual Rosary Recitation Doctors' Alliance Education Group Golden Wave Alumni Band Indigenous Alumni Alliance International Group Journalism Group Latino Alliance Lawyer Group Nursing Group Political Science International Studies Physical Therapy Group Robbins Healthcare MBA Group School of Music Alumni Spirit Group Truett Group VETS Group Women's Council Baylor Women's Council of Amarillo/Panhandle Baylor Women's Council of Atlanta Baylor Women's Council of Austin Baylor Women's Council of Chicago Baylor Women's Council of Colorado Baylor University Women's Council Dallas Baylor Women's Council of Dallas - Barnabas Circle Baylor Women's Council of Houston Baylor Women's Council of Lubbock Baylor Women's Council of Nashville Baylor Women's Council of North Carolina Baylor Women's Council of San Antonio Baylor Women's Council of Southern California Baylor Women's Council of Tarrant County Baylor Women's Council of Tulsa Baylor Women's Council of Tyler Baylor Women's Council of Waco Regional Groups Atlanta, GA Baylor Night at the Braves Austin, TX Baylor Night at Austin FC Baylor Professionals of Austin present Dr. Dennis O'Neal, Dean of the School of Engineering and Computer Science Bay Area - CA Birmingham, AL Chicago, IL Baylor Alumni Day of Service - July 16 Dallas, TX Baylor Professionals of Dallas present Dr. Dennis O'Neal Spring Luncheon, Hosted by Baylor University Women's Council Tarrant County Baylor Night at the Texas Rangers Denver, CO Baylor Bears at the Colorado Rockies Honolulu, HI Houston, TX Texas Tour featuring Baylor Football Head Coach Dave Aranda Baylor Professionals of Houston present Dr. Dennis O'Neal Indianapolis, IN Kansas City Nashville, TN Olive Oil & Vinegar Tasting and Cooking Demonstration New York City, NY North Carolina Oklahoma City, OK Orlando, FL Phoenix, AZ Pittsburgh, PA San Antonio, TX Texas Tour featuring Baylor Football Head Coach Dave Aranda Seattle, WA Baylor at the Ballpark Southern California Baylor Night at the Los Angeles Angels Waco, TX Central Texas Baylor Club Dinner featuring Baylor Women's Basketball Head Coach Nicki Collen Baylor Black Alumni Alliance Reunion Weekend Washington, D.C. Baylor in Washington Summer Social Baylor Night at the Ballpark Regional Groups Bear Pack Travel Alaska: July 8-15, 2022 New Orleans: Sept. 15-18, 2022 Greece: Sept. 28-Oct. 8, 2022 Alabama: Nov. 5-9, 2022 Danube River: Dec. 2-10, 2022 Tuscany: March 15-23, 2023 France: May 25-31, 2023 Clifton Robinson Tower 700 S. University Parks Dr. Waco, TX 76798 (254) 710-8300 BaylorAlumni@baylor.edu AwardsBaylor MagazineEventsGroupsMake a GiftTraditions Give Light is a $1.1 billion comprehensive campaign for the future of Baylor University. The campaign undergirds Illuminate, the University's Academic Strategic Plan, and will impact every aspect of campus life, from academics and athletics to student life and global engagement. Learn More about Give Light General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Alumni Board of Advocates Alumni Update Form Baylor Alumni Spotlight Contact Us Discounts & Benefits Staff Directory Events 50th Reunion and Golden Grad Diploma Ceremony Alumni Day of Service Day of Service - Chicago Baylor Black Alumni Alliance Reunion Weekend Baylor Night Atlanta Braves vs. Los Angeles Angels Austin FC vs. Pachuca Colorado Rockies vs. San Francisco Giants Los Angeles Angels vs. Texas Rangers Seattle Mariners vs. Houston Astros Texas Rangers vs. Washington Nationals Washington Nationals vs. Atlanta Braves Baylor Professionals of Austin present Dr. Dennis O'Neal Baylor Professionals of Dallas present Dr. Dennis O'Neal Baylor Professionals of Houston present Dr. Dennis O'Neal Central Texas Baylor Club Scholarship Dinner, featuring Baylor Women's Basketball Head Coach Nicki Collen Olive Oil & Vinegar Tasting and Cooking Demonstration Spring Luncheon, Hosted by Baylor University Women's Council Tarrant County Texas Tour featuring Baylor Football Houston, TX Dallas/Fort Worth, TX San Antonio, TX Virtual Rosary Recitation Get Involved Groups Affinity Groups Regional Groups Regional Groups Bear Pack Travel Alaska: July 8-15, 2022 New Orleans: Sept. 15-18, 2022 Greece: Sept. 28-Oct. 8, 2022 Alabama: Nov. 5-9, 2022 Danube River: Dec. 2-10, 2022 Tuscany: March 15-23, 2023 France: May 25-31, 2023 Traditions Alumni By Choice Heritage Club Next Generation Bears Official Baylor Ring BeaRing the Night Baylor Ring Ceremony Ring Eligibility Requirements Ring Scholarship Ring Week Frequently Asked Questions Senior Class Gift Senior Trip to Independence Singspiration Awards 2022 Award Winners Alumna of the Year Young Alumnus of the Year Pro Ecclesia Medal of Service Pro Texana Medal of Service Medal of Service for Contributions to the Professions Alumna by Choice of the Year 2021 Award Winners Alumnus of the Year Young Alumna of the Year Pro Ecclesia Medal of Service Pro Texana Medal of Service Contributions to the Professions in Media & Arts Founders Medal Alumna by Choice of the Year 2020 Award Winners Alumna of the Year Young Alumnus of the Year Pro Ecclesia Medal of Service Pro Texana Medal of Service Founders Medal 2018-19 Award Winner 2017 Award Winners Baylor Alumni of the Year Young Alumnus of the Year Pro Ecclesia Medal of Service Pro Texana Medal of Service Distinguished Achievement Award Medal of Service for Contributions to Medicine Medal of Service for Contributions to Christian Ministry W.R. White Meritorious Achievement Award Baylor Legacy Award Founders Medal 2016 Award Winners Alumnus of the Year Young Alumnus of the Year Pro Ecclesia Medal of Service Pro Texana Medal of Service Distinguished Achievement Award Medal of Service for Contributions to Research Medal of Service for Contributions to Christian Ministry Medal of Service for Business Leadership W.R. White Meritorious Service Award Baylor Legacy Award Founders Medal 2015 Award Winners Baylor Alumni of the Year Young Alumnus of the Year Pro Ecclesia Medal of Service Pro Texana Medal of Service Contributions to the Professions: Healthcare & Medicine Contributions to the Professions: Research Founders Medal Baylor Legendary Mentor Baylor Legacy Award 2014 Award Winners Baylor Alumni of the Year Young Alumna of the Year Pro Ecclesia Medal of Service Pro Texana Medal of Service Contributions to the Professions: Healthcare Medal of Service Contributions to the Professions: Media & Arts Distinguished Achievement Award Founders Medal W. R. White Meritorious Service Award Baylor Legendary Mentors Baylor Legacy Award 2013 Award Winners Baylor Alumnus of the Year Young Alumna of the Year Pro Ecclesia Medal of Service Pro Texana Medal of Service Business Leadership Medal of Service Contributions to the Professions: Healthcare Medal of Service Baylor Legacy Award Founders Medal Distinguished Achievement Award 2012 Award Winners Baylor Alumnus of the Year Young Alumnus of the Year Pro Texana Medal of Service Pro Ecclesia Medal of Service Medal of Service for Business and Commerce Medal of Service for Business Leadership Medal of Service for Contributions to the Professions Medal of Service and Baylor Legendary Mentor Baylor Legacy Award Founders Medal 2011 Award Winners 2011 Alumnus of the Year 2011 Baylor Young Alumnus of the Year 2011 Baylor Legacy Award 2011 Pro Ecclesia Medal of Service 2011 Pro Texana Medal of Service 2011 Medal of Service in Business Leadership 2011 Medal of Service in Media Arts 2011 Baylor Founders Medal 2010 Award Winners 2010 Baylor Alumnus of the Year 2010 Baylor Young Alumna of the Year 2010 Pro Ecclesia Medal of Service 2010 Pro Texana Medal of Service 2010 Baylor Legacy Award 2010 Founders Medal Make a Gift