Home Home Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni College of Arts and Sciences American Indian Studies C514 Padelford Hall 206-543-9082 Website Faculty Website native@uw.edu The American Indian Studies Department at the University of Washington advances and promotes knowledge integral to Native peoples through research, teaching, and community service. It is the largest and most comprehensive program of its kind in the Pacific Northwest. Undergraduate Programs Program of Study: Major: American Indian Studies Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in American indian Studies Program of Study: Minor: American Indian Studies Minor in American indian Studies Program of Study: Minor: Oceania and Pacific Islander Studies Minor in Oceania and Pacific Islander Studies Graduate Programs Program of Study: Graduate Certificate in American Indian & Indigenous Studies Graduate Certificate in American Indian & Indigenous Studies Undergraduate Programs American Indian Studies C514 Padelford Hall 206-543-9082 native@uw.edu Program of Study: Major: American Indian Studies Program Overview American Indian Studies approaches its teaching and research from a decolonized, community based, and global perspective. American Indian Studies faculty and students strive to develop innovative theories and methodologies that increase knowledge about Indigenous Peoples and support the needs of Indigenous communities. The department promotes faculty and student exchange programs with institutions that are committed to a deeper understanding of Indigenous communities and Peoples throughout the world. This program of study leads to the following credential: Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in American indian Studies Recommended Preparation Suggested First- and Second-Year College Courses: Completion of AIS 102 and AIS 103. Completion of two courses from AIS 170, AIS 202, AIS 203, HSTAA 209/AIS 209, or HSTAA 210/AIS 210. Courses that sharpen writing and analytical reasoning skills. Exposure to courses in history, environmental studies, sociology, anthropology, ethnic studies, literature, political science, communications, and gender, women, and sexuality studies. Admission Requirements Students in good academic standing may declare this major at any time. Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in American indian Studies Credential Overview The American Indian Studies degree prepares students for a variety of careers, including community-based and university-based research; cultural resource management; education; writing; fundraising; tribal administration; academic advising and administration; museum curation; resource management; and many other careers. The degree also provides a foundation for graduate study in indigenous studies, law, museology, tribal administration, documentary filmmaking, education, history, and other areas of study. Completion Requirements 55 credits Introductory courses (10 credits): AIS 102, AIS 103 Content courses (10 credits): two courses from AIS 170, AIS 202, AIS 203, HSTAA 209/AIS 209, and HSTAA 210/AIS 210 Concentrations (25 credits): Minimum 5 credits each from governance; environment and health; and culture and history. (See department website for courses that fulfill concentration requirements.) Electives (10 credits): Any AIS courses not used to satisfy other major requirements; also, approved courses taught by AIS adjunct faculty. (See department website for adjunct faculty courses.) Minimum 30 credits completed at the 300 level or above Back to Top Program of Study: Minor: American Indian Studies Program Overview Any undergraduate student with at least sophomore standing may declare this minor with his or her major adviser's permission. Like the major, the minor in AIS prepares students for a variety of careers, including community-based and university-based research; cultural resource management; education; writing; fundraising; tribal administration; academic advising and administration; museum curation; resource management; and many other careers. The AIS minor can be combined with a major in almost any field to complement that degree with additional knowledge integral to Native peoples. This program of study leads to the following credential: Minor in American indian Studies Minor in American indian Studies Completion Requirements Minimum 30 credits Introductory courses (10 credits): AIS 102, AIS 103 Content course (5 credits): one selected from AIS 170, AIS 202, AIS 203, HSTAA 209/AIS 209, and HSTAA 210/AIS 210 Electives (15 credits): in AIS courses; minimum 5 credits at the 300 level or above Back to Top Program of Study: Minor: Oceania and Pacific Islander Studies Program Overview The Minor in Oceania and Pacific Islander Studies is designed to enable a transformative academic experience for UW students through the use of collaborative, interdisciplinary, and innovative pedagogical approaches adapted from indigenous knowledges and practices from Oceania. It brings cohesion to the different kinds of courses designed to increase students' critical and transformative thinking about all aspects of knowledge and practice in Oceania and Pacific Islander Studies. This program of study leads to the following credential: Minor in Oceania and Pacific Islander Studies Minor in Oceania and Pacific Islander Studies Completion Requirements Minimum 25 credits Required Core Courses (15 credits): AIS 102; one from AAS 206, AAS 210, or ANTH 309; one from AES 494, AIS 497, ANTH 489 Electives (10 credits): two courses from an approved list of courses, including at least one at the 300 or 400 level. Refer to department website for list of approved courses. Minimum 15 credits of upper-division courses Minimum 15 credits taken in residence at UW Seattle Back to Top Additional Information Student Outcomes and Opportunities Learning Objectives and Expected Outcomes: The AIS curriculum prepares students to understand the breadth, key content, methodologies, and theories in American Indian and Indigenous studies, while developing their skills to write and think critically. The degree prepares students to earn advanced degrees in related fields, as well as to pursue careers involving critical thinking and knowledge of American Indian and the Indigenous experiences. Honors Options Available: None Undergraduate Research, Internships, and Service Learning: Contact adviser for internship opportunities Department Scholarships: None Student Organizations/Associations: American Indian Science and Engineering Society (AISES): College of Engineering, 013 Loew Hall American Indian Student Commission - ASUW: asuwaisc@uw.edu First Nations at the UW: Samuel E. Kelly Ethnic Cultural Center, 3931 Brooklyn Avenue N. E. Medicine Wheel Society: Samuel E. Kelly Ethnic Cultural Center Native Organization of Indigenous Scholars: Samuel E. Kelly Ethnic Cultural Center Graduate Program American Indian Studies Program of Study: Graduate Certificate in American Indian & Indigenous Studies This program of study leads to the following credential: Graduate Certificate in American Indian & Indigenous Studies Recommended Preparation Suggested First- and Second-Year College Courses: Completion of two courses from AIS 102, AIS 201, AIS 202, AIS 203 Admission Requirements 10 credits of college American Indian studies classes Minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA Upon satisfying items 1 and 2, above, students may declare the major any time. Transfer students must be enrolled at the UW before applying. Graduate Certificate in American Indian & Indigenous Studies Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © University of Washington | Seattle, WA