Skip to main content Skip to main navigation SearchMenu Baylor>Search Find Site By A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Websites starting with 'N': National Pan-Hellenic Council The National Pan-Hellenic Council is the unifying and governing body for five of the Divine Nine historically African-American fraternities and sororities chartered at Baylor University. Activities of members of these organizations include: community service projects, tutoring programs, step shows, and educational programming. All five NPHC groups at Baylor are committed to the holistic development of their members and to assist the Baylor and Waco communities. Navigate/Student Success Collaborative (SSC) The Navigate/Student Success Collaborative (SSC) system is Baylor's online tool for guiding students successfully through their academic experience. The tool is used by faculty, staff and students. Students use SSC for making advising appointments, checking tutor availability, making tutoring appointments, and to view their list of advised courses. SSC equips advisors and certain staff member with information gathered from students, faculty, and 10 years of Baylor-specific historical student data. NCAA Decision Baylor University received the NCAA Committee on Infractions’ Public Infractions Decision. This is the final step in a more than five-year, cooperative enforcement process that began in 2016. New Faculty and Staff Congratulations on your new position, and welcome to the Baylor Family. You are joining a world-class faculty and staff, a diverse and dedicated community with a strong commitment to faith, and an active, vibrant campus teeming with leading-edge facilities, championship athletics, and outstanding students. New Student Experience The New Student Experience combines courses and programs designed to help students transition to the rigorous academic environment at Baylor. These first year experiences strengthen the mind, body, and soul for an academic career at Baylor, and more importantly, for life at home or abroad after graduation as a worldwide leader. New Student Programs New Student Programs is a department in the area of Student Learning and Engagement in the division of Student Life. It provides programming for incoming students such as Orientation, Baylor Line Camps, Welcome Week and Welcome Weekend. Nursing, School of The home page of Baylor University\'s Louise Herrington School of Nursing. Nutrition Sciences The mission of the Nutrition Sciences Didactic Program at Baylor University is to provide a high-quality general dietetic education in a Christian environment, equipping graduates to be qualified to enter an accredited dietetic internship program necessary to become Registered Dietitians. Graduates will be prepared to work in a variety of positions that address the food, nutritional and health needs of families, individuals and communities in local and global environments. Faculty/Staff homepages starting with 'N': Newberry,Byron Nodes,Dan North,Charles Null,J. Wesley Baylor Faculty and Staff: Update your homepage address or learn more about your homepage and privacy settings. Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678