Skip to main content Iowa State University Office of Admissions Menu Toggle Search Visit Apply My Account Main navigation Admissions Admissions Freshman Admissions Transfer Admissions International Admissions Graduate Admissions Next Steps / Timeline Financial Aid Request info Contact Us Related Links Nontraditional Nondegree Veterinary Medicine Military Why ISU Academics Academics Academic Programs Colleges Transfer Credit Credit by Exam Orientation Honors Program Learning Communities Apply Visit Related Links Course Equivalency Guides Transfer Plans TRANSIT Supplementary Course List Admissions Partnership Program Destination Iowa State Cost + Aid Campus Living Campus Living Housing ISU Dining Diversity and Inclusion International Students and Scholars Clubs and Organizations Recreation Services Student Health Athletics Apply Visit Related Links Student Leaders Sorority and Fraternity Entertainment Traditions Distinguished Alumni Why ISU Visit Application Create YOUR Adventure Adventure VISIT US VISIT US virtually BE A BE A Cyclone × ISU Promo 2020 Captions Remote video URL Chat with Chat with students and staff Aerial View of the Campanile You Visit Screen Shot Beardshear Hall Beardshear Hall and Enrollment Services Center Let's get started. Freshman Transfer International Graduate Apply Iowa State has the rigorous programs, the hands-on research opportunities, and globally recognized scholars to support you every step of the way. Apply Now Visit Schedule a visit. Even if it's just to see what one of the 25 most beautiful campuses in America looks like. Schedule a Visit What makes us special? 30,708 Cyclones 44% Out of State 112 Nations Represented Your fellow adventurers Connect with us! Adventure by you. Through student takeovers, our Instagram account gives you an inside look at what it's like to be a Cyclone. Go Find your fit. Join the Class of 2026 on Facebook to make new friends, find your future roommate, and get your questions answered about Iowa State. Go Choose your adventure #FutureCyclone Don't miss the bus! June Orientation Orientation is designed to welcome you to campus and help you get familiar with Iowa State! You will be able to register for your first semester classes, get to know Iowa State, and learn about important policies and procedures. Decide which orientation works best for you – online or OnCyte. Learn More August 18-20 Destination Iowa State Discover all that Iowa State has to offer at Destination Iowa State and take the next step in your transition to Cyclone life. This action-packed event takes place prior to the start of classes. Learn More August 22 Classes begin Coursework begins for the Fall 2022 semester. Academic calendar Iowa State University Office of Admissions Contact Office of Admissions Enrollment Services Center Ames, IA 50011 Call or text: 515-294-5836 Soults Family Visitors Center 2229 Lincoln Way Ames, IA 50014 Quick Links New Student Programs Counselor Directory Chat with students and staff Request Information Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Analytics Disclaimer Loading...