COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Mechanical Engineering, Major MajorMechanical Engineering All Programs College of Engineering Mechanical Engineering Wichita State’s Bachelor of Science (BS) in mechanical engineering will prepare you for a high-paying career in a large number of industries and governmental organizations. You’ll have access to some of the best labs and technology in the country—and the chance to work and research with faculty and industry professionals on campus and in Kansas’ center of industry. Learn how mechanical engineering is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted into the College of Engineering, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU’s admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Collaborative project helps local kids with disabilities As an engineering student, you have the opportunity to work hands-on in your industry while also making a difference in children’s lives through GoBabyGo! The collaborative program involves engineering and physical therapy students who modify off-the-shelf toy ride-on cars for children with disabilities. “It allows me to engage my mind. In the end you’ve done something to help someone less-fortunate than yourself,” said computer engineering major Brandon Nece. Learn more about GoBaby Go! Curriculum In this ABET-accredited program, you’ll study core engineering courses, in addition to courses within the major, such as: Mechanics of materials Design of machinery Heat transfer and fluid mechanics Mechanical controls systems You’ll also choose from a number of technical electives—allowing you to explore concepts and topics in other engineering disciplines that impact mechanical engineering. And you’ll get practical, hands-on experience through a senior design project. A departmental honors track is also available for this major. View the curriculum Careers WSU’s vast industry connections—and experience-based learning for every major—gives mechanical engineering students the chance to grow their professional network, build a resume and earn a paycheck, all while still in school, leading to high-paying careers in diverse fields. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Aerospace Engineering Computer Engineering Electrical Engineering Industrial Engineering Mechanical Engineering (Minor) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©