COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Resources and Additional Reporting Options Section Menu OIEC Home Contact OIEC Pregnancy Policies and Discrimination WSU Discrimination Policies OIEC Training Title IX Empowerment Summit Affirmative Action CARE Team Submit a Report CSA Training Packet Title IX Policy Review Title IX Policy Statement Resources and Additional Reporting Options Rights of the Parties in Sexual Harassment Cases If You Have Experienced Sexual Assault 2021 Title IX Review and Survey Archived Policies Frequently Asked Questions: Sexual Assault Prevention Training for Students OIEC Annual Reports Confidential Resources Counseling and Prevention Services Steve Clark YMCA and Student Wellness Center 316-978-4792 Student Health Services Steve Clark YMCA and Student Wellness Center 316-978-4792 Wichita Area Sexual Assault Center (WASAC) Meredith Osborn, Campus Outreach Advocate 316-263-0185 (main) 316-263-3002 (24/7 crisis line) Wichita Family Crisis Center 1111 St Francis, Wichita, KS 67201 316-263-2313 Reporting Options and Information Anyone who wishes to make a report of sexual harassment, discrimination or retaliation under Policy 3.06 / Sexual Harassment, Discrimination and Retaliation for Employees, Students and Visitors has the following reporting options: Make a Formal Complaint to the Title IX Coordinator or an Official with Authority and engage in the Grievance Process set forth in WSU Policy 3.06. Submit a report to OIEC Report to the Wichita State University Policy Department (“UPD”) or other police agency with jurisdiction over the conduct and pursue a criminal investigation. Reports may be made to UPD in person or via telephone: Wichita State University Police Department (Open 24/7) Emergency Phone: 911 Non-Emergency Phone: (316) 978-3450 Make a Formal Complaint to the Title IX Coordinator and report to the police. Report to the U.S. Department of Education Office for Civil Rights. Report to the Title IX Coordinator and receive Supportive Measures but not file a Formal Complaint. Please note: The Grievance Process for reports of sexual harassment, discrimination and retaliation do not mirror criminal or civil legal processes. The Grievance Process is administrative, not legal; thus, rules of law, evidence, and criminal/civil procedure do not apply and will not be used, with minor exceptions as set forth in the Policy. The University does not have subpoena power, the ability to collect or process forensic evidence (e.g., sexual assault examination kits, etc.), the ability to issue warrants, or to otherwise compel individuals to participate in the University’s Grievance Procedure. Nonetheless, incidents of sexual harassment or discrimination may also constitute a criminal offense. Incidents that occur on campus fall within the jurisdiction of the Wichita State University Police Department (“UPD”). UPD has the legal authority to investigate criminal complaints, issue search warrants, collect forensic evidence, and assist in obtaining court orders of protection. Criminal investigations are separate and independent from University investigations under the Policy. If a person files a report with the Title IX Office and with the police, the University will attempt to coordinate its investigation with the police to the extent possible. The University may delay its investigation while police gather evidence so as not to interfere with their investigation, but the University will not wait for the conclusion of a criminal investigation or proceeding before commencing (or completing) its own investigation. The definition of Sexual Harassment under the Policy and the related definitions under criminal statutes may differ. Likewise, the standard of proof for a finding of Responsibility under the Policy—a Preponderance of the Evidence—is lower than the burden of proof for a finding of guilt under criminal law—beyond a reasonable doubt. For these reasons, the outcome of any criminal investigation will not determine the outcome of any proceedings or processes under the Policy or vice versa. The Title IX Coordinator will review the allegations and determine an appropriate course of action. Some cases can be handled informally and outside of the formal investigative process, although the University will not mediate cases of sexual violence even on a voluntary basis. For cases that result in an investigation, those investigations are conducted by individuals who have received specialized training in those types of investigations. All investigations will be conducted in a thorough and neutral manner. 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©