Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Vice Provost for Undergraduate Education Menu Baylor>Vice Provost for Undergraduate Education Vice Provost for Undergraduate Education Key Links Office of the Provost Paul. L. Foster Success Center Division of Student Life Office of the Registrar Academic Enrollment Management Academy for Teaching and Learning Dr. J. Wesley Null, Vice Provost for Undergraduate Education and Institutional Effectiveness Dr. J. Wesley Null serves as Baylor University's Vice Provost for Undergraduate Education and Institutional Effectiveness. Prior to joining the Office of the Provost in March 2011, Dr. Null served as Associate Dean within Baylor's Honors College, Acting Director of the University's Honors Program, and director of Baylor's Ph.D. in Curriculum & Teaching Program. He conducts research on the history of American education and curriculum theory, with numerous books and articles published in both of these fields. As a Professor of Education, Dr. Null holds a joint appointment in the School of Education and the Honors College. Joining the Baylor faculty in 2001, Dr. Null holds Bachelor's and Master's degrees from Eastern New Mexico University and a Ph.D. degree from The University of Texas at Austin. The Vice Provost for Undergraduate Education and Institutional Effectiveness reports directly to the Provost. He collaborates with senior administration and faculty to coordinate and provide a common vision for undergraduate education at Baylor. In particular, he supervises the process of undergraduate curriculum revision, manages all SACSCOC accreditation-related matters for the University (while serving as the University's SACSCOC Accreditation Liaison), engages with other colleges and universities to establish articulation agreements, and oversees the work of the Paul L. Foster Success Center, the Office of the Registrar, and the Office of Institutional Effectiveness. He also communicates closely with Student Life, Enrollment Management, and all academic units to ensure pathways for student success and to recognize high achieving undergraduates. For more, click below: Faculty Website Curriculum Vitae Vice Provost for Undergraduate Education Resources for Faculty Curriculum Management Curriculum Documents University Undergraduate Curriculum Committee General Education Assessment Committee Academic Appeals Committee FAQs - Curriculum Changes Resources for Students Message for New Students Baylor in Four: Partnering with Us New Student Experience Undergraduate Research Opportunities Student Achievement Awards General Education Outcomes Academic Appeals Policy and Procedure General Information Articulation Agreements Internship Form Contact Information Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Resources for Faculty Curriculum Management Curriculum Documents University Undergraduate Curriculum Committee General Education Assessment Committee Academic Appeals Committee FAQs - Curriculum Changes Resources for Students Message for New Students Baylor in Four: Partnering with Us New Student Experience Undergraduate Research Opportunities Student Achievement Awards General Education Outcomes Academic Appeals Policy and Procedure General Information Articulation Agreements Internship Form Contact Information