Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Home Convocation Graduation Ceremonies Commencement 2022 Return to Husky Stadium Graduation Celebration Awards President’s Medalists Alumnus Summa Laude Dignatus Award Winners Honorary Degrees Honorary Degree Recipients Procedures and Guidelines Tradition The Purpose of Ceremony The Four Columns The University Mace Symbols and Meanings Office of Ceremonies Menu Home Convocation Graduation Ceremonies Commencement 2022 Return to Husky Stadium Graduation Celebration Awards President’s Medalists Alumnus Summa Laude Dignatus Award Winners Honorary Degrees Honorary Degree Recipients Procedures and Guidelines Tradition The Purpose of Ceremony The Four Columns The University Mace Symbols and Meanings Home Office of Ceremonies Office of Ceremonies 2017 Commencement Ceremony The Office of Ceremonies produces what one former University president referred to as “the two most consequential ceremonies of a student’s academic life”: the New Student Convocation and the University of Washington Commencement. Convocation and Commencement are the only ceremonies at which the entire University—its faculty, staff, administration, and all 16 schools and colleges—unites to celebrate its fundamental purpose: to provide students with a transformative educational experience and instill in them a passion for learning. These ceremonies also showcase the University’s excellence, its vision and reach, to the entire world. At convocation new students are welcomed into the University community and begin to get a sense of the voyage of discovery that awaits them. At Commencement we share their achievements, as well as those of our outstanding faculty and alumni, with 35,000 guests at Husky Stadium and, via the web, a national and international audience. Two new UW students attend New Student Convocation at Alaska Airlines Arena. (Click on photo to enlarge.)Katherine B. Turner / UW Admissions The events produced by the Office of Ceremonies are among the largest and most important public events held by the University. They are the vehicles through which we share our mission with the larger community and nuture a shared commitment to the University’s winning traditions. These ceremonies offer proof that dreams can come true, that a better world awaits us, and that the future burns bright with promise. Office of Ceremonies Contact us: 206-543-2592 Email Commencement - commence@uw.edu New Student Convocation - convo@uw.edu Faculty, staff, other - ceremony@uw.edu University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA