Powercat chevron double-chevron chat-purple home computer window with a question mark close facebook linkedin menu search twitter youtube apply-purple apply-white chat-white request-purple request-white Jump to HeaderJump to Main ContentJump to Footer Kansas State University Connect Canvas OrgCentral Navigate KSIS HRIS Webmail Sign in Browse A-Z Seek Research Magazine Search Search Seek magazine Seek is Kansas State University’s flagship research magazine and invites readers to “See” “K”-State’s research, scholarly and creative activities, and discoveries. Behind the code Researchers tackle the new world of cybersecurity K-State researchers are working behind the code to navigate the new world of cybersecurity and to keep our data, our infrastructure and our world safe. Read more https://www.k-state.edu/seek/spring-2022/researchers-tackle-cybersecurity/ Y purple small Read more Balancing act Sustaining our future across disciplines Read the story The new normal Analyzing the ever-changing economy Resilient. Adaptable. Unpredictable. Economists have used many of these words to describe the state of the economy since the COVID-19 pandemic began more than two years ago. The economy has faced countless hurdles, and no one knows when — or if — it will return to normal. Read more https://www.k-state.edu/seek/spring-2022/analyzing-the-economy/ Y purple medium-basic Read more Music and the write stuffResearch strikes chord with jazz professor A passion for ParksTeam digitizes Gordon Parks’ work Rural research and community collaboration Chapman Center for Rural Studies strengthens communities while advancing student learning Read the full story Angles of attack Fighting cancer with interdisciplinary science Researchers work to better understand cancer and find ways to prevent it, detect it earlier and treat it more successfully, while also training the next generation of scientists. Read more https://www.k-state.edu/seek/spring-2022/fighting-cancer-with-science/ Y purple small Read more A pesky pestEntomologist uses AI to spot tiny insect Making good foods betterFood science student has appetite for research From plastic sticker to laser printer Project aims to reduce environmental waste and improve food traceability Read more https://www.k-state.edu/seek/spring-2022/printing-qr-code-produce/ Y purple small Read more A big bang Graphene and hydrogen research leads to new company HydroGraph Learn more From the VPR "With the launch of our Economic Prosperity Plan for Kansas in December 2021, we boldly and intentionally committed to extending our treasured land-grant mission to explicitly include economic development. Research and economic development go hand in hand. Whether basic — fundamental — research or applied research, lab-based or field-based, physical or computational, incremental or transformational, the value of research lies in its impact. Indeed, this is the best destiny of any great research." — D. Rosowsky, vice president for research Read the letter /seek/spring-2022/letter/index.html Y purple medium-basic Read the letter Subscribe Receive the biannual magazine in your mailbox. Magazine archivesView and read previous issues of Seek magazine. DownloadDownload and read the entire spring 2022 Seek magazine. (PDF) Office of the Vice President for Research 120 Fairchild Hall 1601 Vattier St, Manhattan, KS 66506-0121 785-532-5110 | research@k-state.edu Division of Communications and Marketing Kansas State University 128 Dole Hall 1525 Mid-Campus Dr. North Manhattan, KS 66506 785-532-2535 vpcm@k-state.edu Contact Us Emergency Statements and Disclosures Accessibility KBOR Free Expression Statement © Kansas State University Updated Updated: 5/2/22