Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home Academics Policy & Procedures CUIMC Email Policy Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. Email after Graduation Email after Graduation CUIMC Email Policy Affiliation with the Columbia University Irving Medical Center (CUIMC) requires the use of the CUIMC Exchange Email System. Once activated, your Exchange email address – yourUNI@cumc.columbia.edu – will be your exclusive address for conducting University business and the only address where all official correspondences will be sent. Access to the Exchange System offers feature-rich and secure services for personal information management (e.g., email, calendar, contacts, notes, and tasks). CUIMC now has a site license allowing those with a current CUMC/Office 365 email account to download and use the latest version, Office 365 ProPlus. Other computer software options are available at a discount or for free with active Exchange accounts. Your Columbia email may not be forwarded to any non-Columbia email addresses (e.g., Gmail, Hotmail, Yahoo, etc.). CUIMC Information Security policies and guidelines prohibits forwarding to ensure compliance with HIPAA regulations. The Office of Student Affairs must request the creation of Exchange accounts for all incoming. New students can expect to receive a temporary password and setup instructions from CUIMC IT at their personal email address (often the address which they used to apply to the School). Please be sure to follow and complete all instructions provided in that activation email. A preview of these instructions can be found below. Incoming students who have an affiliation with Columbia University prior to their matriculation to the School of Public Health (i.e., University employees, students who have already begun a dual degree program, or anyone who already has a UNI), may be exempt from this process as they may already have a Columbia-assigned email. Activating Email Entering students can expect to receive their Exchange account activation emails from the Columbia University Irving Medical Center Information Technology Office (CUIMC IT) by mid to late-July. To ensure you receive this important information, double check your spam and trash folders for an email from CUMC_Mail_Admin with the subject “CUMC IT: Temporary Password for Your New CUMC Exchange Email Account”. Please read the email from CUMC IT in its entirety and follow all instructions. In that email, you will be asked to: Change your temporary password. Verify your new password and Exchange account combination by logging into your email. Set up automatic forwarding from yourUNI@columbia.edu to yourUNI@cumc.columbia.edu (Exchange email). Review all the different methods and set up instructions for connecting your email to various devices (e.g., computers, mobile phones, tablets, etc.).  Students may contact CUIMC IT at 5-HELP (212-305-4357) or visit in person at the Help Desk on the second floor of the Hammer Health Sciences Building for assistance with any setup. Dual Students and CUIMC Exchange Email If you are entering the Columbia Mailman School of Public Health and already maintain a Columbia University email inbox, such as LionMail, you will retain access to that inbox while enrolled with the School of Public Health. While affiliated with the Columbia University Irving Medical Campus (i.e., semesters when you are paying tuition to the School of Public Health), compliance with HIPAA protocols is mandatory. As such, dual degree students must follow the instructions for UNI Mail Forwarding and forward their @columbia.edu to @cumc.columbia.edu (Exchange email). You will not lose access to your previous emails, as you are still be able to login to you @columbia inbox. To avoid the need for checking more than one email account, forward your email to the HIPAA approved Exchange Email server (@cumc.columbia.edu). More to Explore Friday 03June COVID-19: From Causes to ConsequencesMay 27 2022 Period Poverty and the Pandemic: A Forgotten CrisisMay 4 2022 BARDA Support to Speed Development of Next-Generation Sequencing-Based Diagnostics PlatformMay 3 2022 Memorial Event Celebrates the Life of Zena SteinApr 27 2022 Sign up for Transmission Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers