Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events CESH | Center for Evidence Synthesis in Health Home About People Faculty Staff Doctoral students + Post docs Affiliates Our Areas of Expertise Evidence Based Practice Center Jobs Research Education + Training Resources News Site Navigation Home About People Faculty Staff Doctoral students + Post docs Affiliates Our Areas of Expertise Evidence Based Practice Center Jobs Employment for non-US citizens Research Collaborations Full Catalog of Research Education + Training Resources Software Technical Reports Code + Data Repository Consultation News Affiliates Evangelia Ntzani Adjunct Professor of Health Services, Policy & Practice [email protected] Dr Evangelia Ntzani, MD, PhD is an Adjunct Professor of Health Services, Policy and Practice at the Brown University School of Public Health. Evi is an epidemiologist with a clinical background in pediatrics and serves as Professor and Head of the Department of Hygiene and Epidemiology at the University of Ioannina School of Medicine, Greece. She is a member of the European Food Safety... Read Full Profile Issa J. Dahabreh Assistant Professor [email protected] My work focuses on the synthesis of observational and experimental studies of therapeutic interventions and diagnostic tests. I am also interested in applied work on systematic reviews of treatments, medical tests, and risk factors for disease. Eric Jutkowitz Assistant Professor of Health Services Policy & Practice [email protected] Joseph Lau Professor Emeritus [email protected] My research focuses on applying evidence-based methods to clinical/healthcare problems. I have long-standing interest in validating existing systematic review and meta-analysis methodologies and developing new ones to make the processes more efficient and the products more reliable. For the past 2 years, I have been developing a Systematic Review Data Repository (SRDR) that could be used by... Read Full Profile Rowan Iskandar Adjunct Assistant Professor [email protected] Orestis Panagiotou Adjunct Assistant Professor of Health Services, Policy and Practice (Research) [email protected] Orestis Panagiotou is a physician-scientist with experience in evidence-based medicine, clinical epidemiology, and research methodology. He received his MD and PhD in Epidemiology from the University of Ioannina in Greece and completed a post-doctoral fellowship in Epidemiology and Biostatistics at the National Cancer Institute in Bethesda, MD. His research interests include ... Read Full Profile People Faculty Staff Doctoral students + Post docs Affiliates Center for Evidence Synthesis in Health Center for Evidence Synthesis in Health Brown University Box G-S121-8 School of Public Health Providence, RI 02912 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top