Skip to main content Skip to main navigation School of Engineering and Computer Science Menu Students & Academics Student Services Career Center Student Leadership Learning Resource Center Scholarships List of ECS Scholarships Student Organizations Incoming Students Summer Accelerate Program Summer of Discovery Freshmen Fall Incoming Freshmen Equipment Requirements and Computer Recommendations Transfer Course Recommendations Entrance and Progression Standards ECS Scholars Program Academic Advising Meet with an ECS Advisor Advising Walk-in Hours Course Drops Academic Actions Certification for Graduation ECS Summer Courses Advising Resources Pre-Engineering Requirements ECS Course Repeat Policy Final Exam Policy Teal Residential College ECS ID Management ECS Scholars Program Degree Programs Flow Charts Capstone Meet Our Alumni ECS Digital Brochure ECS Student Organization Fair Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research Bioinformatics Computer Science Electrical and Computer Engineering Mechanical Engineering Engineering Materials Science About Education Materials Science Faculty Get Involved Give Dean's Funding Initiatives Quick Impact Giving Planned Giving Matching Gifts Corporate Collaborations Engineering Corporate Affiliate Program Computer Science Corporate Affiliate Program Cybersecurity Corporate Affiliate Program Alumni ASEE Gulf Southwest Conference 2021 About the ASEE GSW Conference Abstract and Paper Submission Conference Agenda and Program Conference Host Conference Registration Conference Organization About Mission Statement Dean's Welcome Office of the Dean Staff Directory ABET Board of Advocates Board Members Synergy Magazine Synergy Magazine - Archives News Events Admission & Aid Departments Informatics About Us Degree Programs Bachelor of Science in Informatics: Bioinformatics Bachelor of Science in Informatics: Data Science major Research Computer Science About Us ABET Chair's Welcome Degree Programs Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Bachelor of Science in Computer Science: Software Engineering Concentration Bachelor of Science in Computer Science: Cybersecurity Concentration Bachelor of Arts Bachelor of Science with Computer Science Fellows Major Online Master of Science Master of Science Doctor of Philosophy Research Bioinformatics Competitive Learning Cybersecurity & Networking Data Science Human-Computer Interaction Machine Learning Software Engineering VLSI Design Giving Electrical & Computer Engineering About Us ABET Welcome from the Chair eBears Seminars Cadence University Program Programs Bachelor of Science B.S. & M.S. Joint Program B.S. & Master of Engineering Joint Program B.S. & M.S. Joint Program Master of Science Doctor of Philosophy Research Biomedical Computing Engineering and Cyber-Physical Systems Material and Devices Sustainable Energy and Power Systems Wireless & Microwave Circuits & Systems Alumni Giving Open Faculty Positions Mechanical Engineering About Us ABET Welcome from the Chair Programs Bachelor of Science B.S. & M.S. Joint Program B.S. & M.S. Joint Program B.S. & M.E. Joint Program M.S. Ph.D. Research Advance Materials and Additive Manufacturing Biomechanics and Biomedical Engineering Energy Systems Engineering Geriatric Engineering Humanitarian Engineering and Engineering Ethics Sustainable Engineering Thermo-Fluids Engineering Open Faculty Positions Engineering About Us ABET Programs Bachelor of Science B.S. & M.S. Joint Program B.S. & M.E. Joint Program M.B.A. & M.E. Joint Program Master of Science Master of Engineering Research 25th Anniversary School of Engineering and Computer Science Timeline Stories Rick Tullis Kimmie Sandusky Mario Lopez Heather Benoit Jay D. Battershell Denton Wood Videos Marques Jones Heather Benoit Spotlight Timeline Merchandise Baylor>Engineering & Computer Science>Departments>Computer Science>Degree Programs>Bachelor of Science with Computer Science Fellows Major Bachelor of Science with Computer Science Fellows Major The Computer Science Fellows Program is designed for highly motivated students entering the School of Engineering & Computer Science with a wide range of interests who desire a more diverse experience across the disciplines. The program seeks to broaden Computer Science Fellows’ backgrounds in their chosen area(s) of diversification while preparing them for graduate studies or for successful careers. Computer Science Fellows is a major within the School of Engineering & Computer Science that allows Fellows to create an individualized course of study with the advice of a Program Director who mentors them throughout the entire undergraduate experience. In the course of this mentoring process, the Director will in turn call upon the expertise of professors in other departments for assistance in serving the needs of the Fellow. Admission to the Program Admission to the Computer Science Fellows Major is competitive and is separate from and subsequent to admission to Baylor University. Although the major is designed to appeal to students with high ACT/SAT scores and class rank, or National Merit designees, admission is not based solely on scores and grades. Consideration is given to genuine intellectual curiosity and a desire to excel in computer science studies as well as achieve a broad education in the humanities. For new students, after admission to the University, the applicant must apply in writing to the Program Director of the Computer Science Fellows Major. The application includes three letters of recommendation from current or former teachers and an essay explaining how the applicant would benefit from the major. Acceptances are made on a rolling basis, and letters of admission are sent in the month following receipt of a complete application. The major is open to incoming freshman or transfer students with at least three years or 90 hours remaining to complete their undergraduate degree at Baylor. Students who enter late, i.e., after their freshman year or as a transfer student with more than 36 Baylor credit hours, need to seek a special waiver to this requirement from the Program Director before they can be admitted to the program. Maintaining Computer Science Fellow Status Computer Science Fellows will be required to maintain a 3.5 GPA through their sophomore-level courses (including CSI 3471, 3344 and MTH 1322). Once admitted to the Upper Division of the Computer Science Fellows program (courses beyond those listed above), they must have at least a 3.25 GPA to graduate. If dismissed from the program, students must then fulfill the general requirements of the University as well as requirements for a different major to graduate. The Independent Reading List In addition to the assigned texts in the Computer Science Fellows courses, each Fellow will, with the advice and approval of his or her Research Advisor, compose a list of computer science texts and related works. The Fellow will study the additional works independently throughout the junior year in CSF 3101, “Independent Readings I,” and 3102, “Independent Readings II,” in preparation for his or her Senior thesis project. The Junior Readings Interview Computer Science Fellows will take CSF 3001, “Independent Reading Survey,” an interview addressing their independent readings lists, in the spring semester of the junior year. They will meet with a committee composed of faculty members (including their Research Advisor) and a senior Computer Science Fellow to demonstrate their knowledge of the selected texts and related works. Upon approval of the Fellows Committee, the student will be permitted to proceed with work on the senior thesis. The Senior Thesis During their senior year, Computer Science Fellows will be approved to register for CSF 4V01 and CSF 4302, “Senior Computer Science Fellows,” preparing and submitting an extended study on a research topic based on the readings and research conducted during their junior year. The program directors, including the respective Research Advisors, will approve the topic or project and evaluate the completed thesis. Course Requirements The BSC degree with a major in Computer Science Fellows degree has the following course requirements: REL 1310 and 1350 Two semesters of Chapel MTH 1321, 1322, 2311 Eight semester hours of science courses with associated labs chosen from among Biology, Chemistry, Geology, Neuroscience, or Physics. Each course must apply to a major in its department. STA 3381 Computer Science courses: CSI 1430, 1440, 2334, 2350, 3334, 3344, 3471 5 additional upper-level CSI courses CSF 3101, “Independent Readings I,” and 3102, “Independent Readings II,” junior independent readings courses CSF 3001, “Independent Reading Survey,” an exit survey to summarize a student’s independent readings, and ascertain readiness for the senior thesis CSF 4V01, “Research/Fellows Thesis I,” and 4302, “Fellows Thesis” (presentation in the annual ECS Scholar’s Day is mandatory for the fulfillment of CSF 4302) CSI 4001, “Senior Exit Survey,” the exit survey for all Computer Science graduates CSI 4010, “Undergrad Research Seminar” Completion of 124 hours, including 36 hours of “3000” - “4000” level credits The requirements for advanced credit, residence, chapel, and maximum credit are the same as for the Bachelor of Science in Computer Science degree. Additional information about requirements is listed under the “General University Regulations.” Computer Science Fellows are not permitted to declare additional majors. Committee approval is required for graduation. Students who enter the CSF program after the fall of their freshman year should meet with the CSF Director to discuss how best to complete the required courses. Departments Informatics About Us Degree Programs Bachelor of Science in Informatics: Bioinformatics Bachelor of Science in Informatics: Data Science major Research Computer Science About Us ABET Chair's Welcome Degree Programs Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Bachelor of Science in Computer Science: Software Engineering Concentration Bachelor of Science in Computer Science: Cybersecurity Concentration Cyber FAQ Cyber Brochure Bachelor of Arts Bachelor of Science with Computer Science Fellows Major Online Master of Science Master of Science Doctor of Philosophy Research Bioinformatics Competitive Learning Cybersecurity & Networking Data Science Human-Computer Interaction Machine Learning Software Engineering VLSI Design Giving Electrical & Computer Engineering About Us ABET Welcome from the Chair eBears Seminars Cadence University Program Programs Bachelor of Science B.S. & M.S. Joint Program B.S. & Master of Engineering Joint Program B.S. & M.S. Joint Program Master of Science Doctor of Philosophy Research Biomedical Computing Engineering and Cyber-Physical Systems Material and Devices Sustainable Energy and Power Systems Wireless & Microwave Circuits & Systems Alumni Giving Open Faculty Positions Mechanical Engineering About Us ABET Welcome from the Chair Programs Bachelor of Science B.S. & M.S. Joint Program B.S. & M.S. Joint Program B.S. & M.E. Joint Program M.S. Ph.D. Research Advance Materials and Additive Manufacturing Biomechanics and Biomedical Engineering Energy Systems Engineering Geriatric Engineering Humanitarian Engineering and Engineering Ethics Sustainable Engineering Thermo-Fluids Engineering Open Faculty Positions Engineering About Us ABET Programs Bachelor of Science B.S. & M.S. Joint Program B.S. & M.E. Joint Program M.B.A. & M.E. Joint Program Master of Science Master of Engineering Research School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Engineering & Computer Science One Bear Place #97356 Waco, TX 76798-7356 Computer Science One Bear Place #97141 Waco, TX 76798-7141 (254) 710-3890 ECS_Student_Services@baylor.edu Apply Give Questions for Undergraduate Programs Questions for Graduate Programs General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Students & Academics Student Services Career Center Student Leadership Learning Resource Center Scholarships Student Organizations Incoming Students Academic Advising Teal Residential College ECS ID Management ECS Scholars Program Degree Programs Flow Charts Capstone Meet Our Alumni ECS Digital Brochure ECS Student Organization Fair Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research Bioinformatics Computer Science Electrical and Computer Engineering Mechanical Engineering Engineering Materials Science Get Involved Give Dean's Funding Initiatives Quick Impact Giving Planned Giving Matching Gifts Corporate Collaborations Engineering Corporate Affiliate Program Computer Science Corporate Affiliate Program Cybersecurity Corporate Affiliate Program Alumni ASEE Gulf Southwest Conference 2021 About the ASEE GSW Conference Abstract and Paper Submission Conference Agenda and Program Conference Host Conference Registration Conference Organization About Mission Statement Dean's Welcome Office of the Dean Staff Directory ABET Board of Advocates Board Members Synergy Magazine Synergy Magazine - Archives News Events Admission & Aid Departments Informatics About Us Degree Programs Research Computer Science About Us Degree Programs Research Giving Electrical & Computer Engineering About Us Programs Research Alumni Giving Open Faculty Positions Mechanical Engineering About Us Programs Research Open Faculty Positions Engineering About Us Programs Research 25th Anniversary School of Engineering and Computer Science Timeline Stories Rick Tullis Kimmie Sandusky Mario Lopez Heather Benoit Jay D. Battershell Denton Wood Videos Marques Jones Heather Benoit Spotlight Timeline Merchandise