Skip to main content FSU >> FSU LIBRARIES Top Right Search Box Search Our Website... * OneSearch | My Account Florida State University Libraries Search & Find Advanced Search Find a Database Journal Search Special Collections Search DigiNole Search Services & Research All Services Subject Librarians Distance Learning Digital Research & Scholarship Special Collections & Archives Government Information About the Libraries Libraries Overview Member Libraries Departments Accessibility @ FSU Libraries Diversity & Inclusion Giving to the Libraries Facts & Figures Strategic Plan Advancement Board Materials & Borrowing Borrowing Materials Library Express Delivery Interlibrary Loan Materials Purchase Request Help & Support Get Help Library Hours Maps & Directions Visitor Information COVID Guidelines Home >> All Blogs All Blogs FAAHPN Digital Library Workshop Recap and Riley House Partner Grant Update FSU Libraries is proud to be a partner with the City of Tallahassee’s John G. Riley Center and Museum of African American History and Culture on a grant to digitize their archives. As part of the three-year project the grant also provides training for members of the Florida African American Heritage Preservation Network (FAAHPN). The... Digital Book Display: National Pet Month May is National Pet Month! A time to celebrate our four-legged friends and furry companions! Our digital book display this month features titles that honor pets of all kinds and the wonderful impact they have in our daily lives. With this, we are also celebrating the pets of our library staff! Be sure to check out our digital pet gallery below. Pets play an instrumental part in our lives. They are there for us... Celebrating May Day, 2022 This blog post commemorating Emancipation Day was originally posted by former SCA staff member Adam Hunt on May 20, 2021. FSU Special Collections & Archives commemorates May 20th, Florida’s Emancipation Day, and the history of Emancipation in the United States. On January 1, 1863, Abraham Lincoln signed the Emancipation Proclamation.1 Because it only applied to... New to Diginole: Commencement Invitations and Programs The Spring 2022 semester just came to a close and with it meant a new class of graduating Florida State University students. Here at Special Collections & Archives, we have commencement materials from almost every graduating class in the history of FSU. Our Commencement Program collection contains various materials related to commencement, including programs, announcements,... Reflections on “Tikkun Olam” Photo of American Jewish Congress Chartered Bus, New York to Washington for the March on Washington, 1963 found on https://ajhs.org By Priscilla Hunt First proclaimed by President George W. Bush in 2006, May is known for its commemoration of Jewish... Spines of Special Collections Here in the Special Collections & Archives Division of the Florida State University Libraries, we see a variety of spines on our shelves. Sometimes you get so busy you don’t pay them too much mind. Others catch your eye and bring about curiosity about what may lay inside its bindings. We often have books withContinue... Memorial Trees on FSU Campus Located between Landis and Gilchrist Halls and Jefferson Street, there are five live oaks with a long and storied history. These George Washington Memorial Trees have stood watch over campus for almost 100 years. In 1932, the United States celebrated the bicentennial of George Washington’s birth. There were celebrations all across the country to honor... Special Collections & Archives Summer 2022 Hours Special Collections & Archives will have adjusted hours for the FSU Summer semester, May 9 through August 19, 2022. Strozier Research Center Hours: Monday: By appointment T, W, TH: 12-6pm Friday: By appointment Pepper Library Hours: M-F: By appointment Interested in making an appointment for either space? Just fill out our appointment request form https://www.... Diverse Voices in STEM: Year Recap By Emily McClellan FSU Libraries have officially wrapped up our first year with the Diverse Voices in STEM Speaker Series. In the summer of 2021, Denise Wetzel, STEM Research & Learning Librarian at FSU Libraries, as well as others around the libraries, wanted to start a speaker series aimed at showing undergraduate students the variety of journeys researchers take to get where they are today, while highlighting their current work. All of... Pop Lit Tattoo Tuesday Posts, Summer 2022 Scroll to peruse all the Popular Literature Committee’s “Tattoo Tuesday” posts for the months of April and May, 2022. (TW: This book contains references to Sexual Assault, Child Abuse and Violence). This #... Pages 1 2 next › last » About The Florida State University Libraries The mission of the University Libraries is to support and enhance the learning, teaching, research, and service activities of the Florida State University... READ MORE > Library Hours Maps and Directions Our Libraries Staff Directory Subject Librarians All Forms Library News Library Departments Library Events Library Services Employment Visiting the Libraries Giving to the Libraries Policies About the Libraries FAQ Government Information Staff Intranet Content Editor Login Internal Knowledge Base © Florida State University Libraries 116 Honors Way Tallahassee, FL 32306 Website Suggestions Privacy Principles Copyright Policy Contact Us (850) 644-2706 Search Articles, Books and More... * Connect with us!