Skip to Main Content Brown University University Policies Search Menu Site Navigation Home All Policies New & Updated Policies Search University Policies All Policies Policy Contact Kate Vieillard Director of Event Strategy and Management Office of University Communications Email 401-863-5532 Use Of Campus Space By External Third Parties Introduction Under specific circumstances and conditions, events, conferences, seminars, and talks by external third-party users may be accommodated if appropriate on-campus space is available. Policy Statement University-owned facilities are critical resources dedicated to advancing the University’s mission and are primarily reserved for use by students, faculty and staff to support teaching, research and campus life. Ownership of all Brown University space/facilities belongs to the University, rather than individuals, units or departments and is assigned for specific functions that support the educational mission and strategic goals set by the University. Under specific circumstances and conditions, events, conferences, seminars, and talks by external third-party users may be accommodated if appropriate on-campus space is available. The following groups shall be recognized as an external third-party user organization permitted to use University space: a recognized public service organization; a non-profit educational or professional organization; a non-partisan organization; a for-profit or commercial business entity; a government agency or elected or appointed government official (for non-partisan/non-political purposes). Use of Campus Space for Event, Program or Activity Hosted by an External Third-Party Organization An external third-party event, program or activity hosted by an external third-party organization is defined as one that is promoted and executed by an unaffiliated external organization or association that requests use of University facilities, housing accommodations or other amenities for its program. Such an event is not wholly or partially promoted or executed by a Brown individual, department or program. The event is considered an external event, regardless of whether Brown students, faculty or staff have an interest in participating or attending. The organizers of the event are permitted to charge registration fees, membership or admission fees. Requirements External third parties must adhere to the following policies and procedures to access Brown University space: Enter a signed contract with University Events and Conference Services. Provide certificate of liability insurance in the amount of $1,000,000 naming Brown University as additionally insured. The signed contract and associated deposit (if applicable) and certificate of insurance must be on file before any external third-party event can take place on campus. Comply with policies related to Commercial Photography & Filming, Image Use, Use of Brown Name. Use of Campus Space by an External Third Party Sponsored by a Brown Department or Recognized Student Organization In some cases, external third-party organizations may be sponsored by an academic or administrative department of the University. A Brown sponsor would be responsible for ensuring adherence to all requirements outlined in this policy. The Brown sponsor is the primary contact for the event, program or activity and assumes responsibility, including fiscal responsibility for all costs. Recognized student organizations wishing to sponsor an external third-party organization must contact the Student Activities Office at 401-863-2341. When necessary, University Event and Conference Services may connect with appropriate offices or departments within the University to discuss and properly evaluate sponsorship opportunities. Procedures All inquiries, with the exception of requests to use Brown athletic space or fields, must be initiated by contacting University Event and Conference Services at universityevents@brown.edu or by calling 401-863-3100. You may also complete an Event Inquiry Form. If you are requesting the use of Brown athletic space or fields, please refer to Brown Athletics Facilities Rentals for further information. University Event and Conference Services staff will follow up directly with the group and discuss all programmatic needs such as: Organization details Anticipated date(s) and number or participants Types, sizes and number of spaces needed Housing necessities, if applicable Catering/food basics (note all food and beverage must be provided by Brown University Catering or by a Brown-approved vendor) Media Services and room setup Any security concerns and plans for addressing these matters A proposal will be developed that includes an outline of all costs associated with the event, including but not limited to: Rental fees for contracted space(s). Facilities support fees i.e. custodial services, setups of tables/chairs etc. Required 10% facilities use and planning fee Please refer to Fees, Rates and Policies for details. Once appropriate fees and services have been communicated via the proposal and accepted by the third-party user, University Event and Conference Services will generate a Conference Agreement for the third-party organization in order to contract the services. All third-party external organizations using Brown-owned facilities are required to have a signed contract on file with University Event and Conference Services. University Event and Conference Services will only approve space rentals for programs where space and resources allow. Policy Owner Approved By Office of the Provost, Office of University Events and Conference Services Contact Info Kate Vieillard Director of Event Strategy and Management Office of University Communications Email 401-863-5532 Policy Last Reviewed June 28, 2018 Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home All Policies New & Updated Policies This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Use Of Campus Space By External Third Parties Open details for Use Of Campus Space By External Third Parties Bookmark this Page