Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Library “At the Princeton University Library we are committed to discoverability, state-of-the-art technologies, newly designed workspaces, deep subject expertise and the development of our world-renowned collections. It is wonderful to work in such a hub of activity as we seek to enhance the Princeton scholarly experience.” Anne Jarvis Robert H. Taylor 1930 University Librarian Discover New Knowledge Entering Princeton University Library opens the doors to a universe of extraordinary resources where access and discoverability are central priorities. One of the world's foremost research libraries, PUL supports the modern needs of today's researchers through technological advances and in-depth knowledge. The Library's expansive digitization initiatives and informed acquisitions are allowing extensive content to become easily searchable through state-of-the-art platforms and consolidated databases. Support for finding exactly what each researcher needs is readily available through the adept guidance of over 50 dedicated staff subject librarians and curators. Visit the Princeton University Library Website Encounter Global History The Library is at the forefront of creating distinctive collections and continues daily to build upon its holdings of more than 10 million printed volumes, 5 million manuscripts, 2 million non-print items and extensive collections of digital text, data, images, audio, video and online resources. Housed in the Harvey S. Firestone Memorial Library, nine specialized campus branches and three storage facilities, the materials span multiple disciplines and subject areas. Special collections within the Library hold materials of cultural, historical, and artistic significance, representing the diverse populations and cultural traditions of the world’s settled continents. Here one encounters such singular items as an Egyptian Book of the Dead from around 1250 BCE, an original printing of the Declaration of Independence and the Gutenberg Bible, as well as such large archival collections as thousands of Islamic codices, the papers of Toni Morrison, or the official records of the American Civil Liberties Union. Scores of these treasures have been digitized and are freely available to the world at the Princeton University Digital Library. Many Princeton classes and seminars are built around the scholarly significance of these renowned holdings. Specialized reading rooms provide access to special collections for an array of investigations ranging from student projects to advanced scholarly research. Visit Rare Books and Special Collections Find Inspiration in Unexpected Places From Firestone Library's newly renovated reading rooms to the many tucked-away study areas throughout our campus (Architecture Library, East Asian Library, Engineering Library, Lewis Library, Marquand Art Library, Mendel Music Library, Mudd Manuscript Library and Stokes Library), PUL offers students, faculty, and visiting scholars flexible spaces to accommodate a variety of study methods. Whether in search of the ideal writing space, the ideal reading space, the ideal group-work space or the ideal inspirational space, attractive and varied options can be found at the Library. PUL pursues user experience research and testing to develop data that drives decision making for renovation projects and value-added services. New and ongoing initiatives enable us to create a streamlined user experience where space, access to resources and services come together to provide a rich and productive support system for research at the University. Visit Branch Libraries Embrace Innovative Research Methods The Library is spearheading initiatives and collaborations to leverage its holdings in support of new and exciting research and teaching approaches. One such joint initiative is the Center for Digital Humanities in Firestone Library, where groundbreaking projects such as "Mapping Expatriate Paris" allow scholars to recreate worlds and discover never-before-explored connections and insights. Center for Digital Humanities More in Academics Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice