Skip to main content Search Find Your Program Request Info Visit About AU About AU Mission, Vision & Values Statement of Faith Office of the President AU Traditions Campus Map Share Your Photo The University Grace Alma Mater Inclement Weather Information Admission Admission Transfers Special Programs Dual-Enrollment Scholars Program for High School Students Online & Continuous Learning Graduate Veterans Scholarships & Aid Academics Academics Find Your Program College of Arts & Sciences College of Business College of Christian Studies College of Education College of Engineering College of Health Professions School of Interior Design School of Public Service & Administration The South Carolina School of the Arts Center for Cybersecurity Center for Global Engagement Innovation & Digital Learning at AU Summer Online Online Summer Dual Enrollment AU PRO Study Abroad Honors Program Student Diversity and Outcomes Thrift Library Academic Catalog Dean’s List Student Achievement Commencement Definition of Credit Hour Calendars and Schedules Campus Life Campus Life Welcome Week Recreation & Fitness Community & Public Service Christian Life Student Activities Campus Housing Dining at AU Thrive Wellness Center Campus Safety Diversity and Inclusion Student Leader Student Handbook Complaint Procedure Curriculum Enhancement Program (CEP) Athletics Give Give Our Community is Stronger Together Anderson University Magazine A Day-Online Giving Campaign Blackbaud Security Update Board of Visitors Christian Ministry Foundation Development Staff Donor Recognition Gift & Estate Planning Giving to Anderson University Make a Gift Online Parent Association Parent Leadership Council Trojan Athletic Fund Ways to Give Resource Menu Current Students Parents Alumni & Friends Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Online Graduate Request Info Visit Sign In About AU Admission Academics Campus Life Athletics Give Apply Knowledge for your Journey Visit Find Your Program Request Info × Find Your Degree Anderson University provides students with a rigorous and engaging learning experience that emphasizes the knowledge, intellectual skills, and conceptual frameworks central to each discipline. Our students are driven by innovation, engaged in active learning, and eager to bring positive changes to the world around them. Anderson University shares that passion and is committed to helping you discover your calling, your path, and your purpose. With 59 major degree programs, 38 concentrations, 46 minors, 18 master’s and doctoral degrees and 8 certification programs, you’ll experience a first-class, rigorous education at one of the country’s most respected institutions of Christian higher education. Your journey awaits. Top Majors Christian Studies Kinesiology Supply Chain Management Graphic Design Cybersecurity Art Education Political Science Biology Elementary Education Interior Design Search Explore: Bachelor's Master's Doctorate Online #TrueToAU Share a Homecoming 2021 AU families and friends enjoyed homecoming and family day in October! Read More Ceramics Sale! The SCSA Clay Club hosted a 2 day holiday ceramic sale this week in Vandiver... Read More AUthenticity Concert Students in the South Carolina School of the Arts perform in the AUthenticity Concert. Read More Homecoming 2021 AU families and friends enjoyed homecoming and family day in October! Read More ASID at Patrick B. Harris ASID volunteered at Patrick B. Harris Psychiatric Hospital to help decorate for Christmas! Read More ASID at Patrick B. Harris ASID volunteered at Patrick B. Harris Psychiatric Hospital to help decorate for Christmas! Read More ASID at Patrick B. Harris ASID volunteered at Patrick B. Harris Psychiatric Hospital to help decorate for Christmas! Read More ASID Chapter Meeting Suzanna Lawler of Lawler Design Studio in Charlotte, NC came to speak to ASID students... Read More Wind Symphony Concert Students in the South Carolina School of the Arts perform at the Wind Symphony Concert. Read More International Student Organization at the Expo! The International Student Organization (ISO) had fun hosting a table at the Fall '21 EXPO. Read More Previous Next AU at a Glance For God and humanity, Anderson University seeks to be an innovative, entrepreneurial premier comprehensive university where liberal arts, professional studies and graduate studies thrive within an uplifting, welcoming and distinctively Christian community of diverse faculty, staff and students dedicated to intellectually rigorous learning, a caring and hospitable campus culture and personal transformation. Our Journey of Excellence Previous Next Upcoming Events Engineering Summer Institute Jul 11-15 AU Campus AU Repertory Theater Jul 11-30 AU Campus AU Summer Young Adult Creative Writing Camp Jul 11-15 AU Campus All Events AU News May 26 Leadership New Faculty Further Enhance Ph.D. Program Joining the Anderson University Center for Leadership and Organizations faculty are, from left, Drs. Chris Rappazini, Maria Lai-ling Lam and Tony Caito. Read More May 23 School of Interior Design Bautista Awarded Second Place in National Design Competition School of Interior Design student recognized for innovative illumination of supermarket produce. Read More May 10 A Day to Give Anderson University's 2022 A Day: Record Giving Continues Students enjoying A Day festivities April 7 on campus. For 2022, generous donors gave a total of $380,148. That's a 19 percent increase over last year’s campaign. Read More May 09 AU Online AU and Lloyd Partner to Embed Career Coaching for Online Students Career advisors get to know each student, create personalized plans Read More May 04 AU Online Students Can Earn a Master of Medical Science to Become a Pathologists’ Assistant Enrolling Now for Fall 2022 Semester Read More May 04 Athletics Anderson University Begins Construction on Trojan Football Operations Center Facility is the Latest Step in Launching Trojan Football Program Ahead of Inaugural Season in 2024 Read More May 03 Diversity and Inclusion Students Honor Memory of Lynching Victim Anderson University students joined the Anderson University Office of Diversity and Inclusion to remember the life of Elbert Harris, the victim of an 1898 lynching. Read More Apr 21 College of Arts and Sciences Stressed? Go Outdoors! A Biology professor in the College of Arts and Sciences is taking a new look at an old concept. Read More Mar 29 College of Arts and Sciences Learmonth Awarded for Cancer Research Senior Maya Learmonth was awarded for her presentation Feb. 25 at the Ernest E. Just Scientific Symposium. Read More All News Did You Know? 100% of traditional students get financial aid 20+ intramural sports for you to join a team 100+ ongoing students activities for you to attend 76% of students who visit AU decide to enroll Anderson University does not unlawfully discriminate on the basis of race, color, national origin, sex, disability, age, or religion in its programs and activities. Please direct inquiries to Dr. L. Dianne King, Associate Vice President for Student Development/Dean of Student Success/Title IX Coordinator, Thrift Library Office 203, 316 Boulevard, Anderson, SC, 29621, (864) 231-2026, ldking@andersonuniversity.edu or to the Office of Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education at 1-800-421-3481 or ocr@ed.gov 316 Boulevard Anderson, South Carolina 29621 Contact Us | 864.231.2000 Apply Connect Anderson Central AU Webmail AUnited Canvas MyApps Self-Service Campus Safety Zoom Learn AU PRO About AU Accreditations and Affiliations Apple Distinguished School Calendars and Schedules Mobile Learning Initiative Discover Campus Map Library Employment Guest Services Policy/Terms Terms of Use Intellectual Property Rights Consumer Information Disclosure AU Social Copyright © 2022 Anderson University | All rights reserved