Skip to main content Visit Harvard.edu Media Relations Explore More News Resources for Media Photographing and Filming on Harvard Property Multimedia Content Use Policies Harvard Gazette Ordering University Photos Press Releases Popular Topics Student Exchange and Visitor Program (SEVP) Lawsuit Harvard and COVID-19 Contact Admissions Lawsuit Resources for Media Multimedia Content Use Policies Resources for Media Photographing and Filming on Harvard Property Harvard Gazette Multimedia Policies Ordering University Photos Resources for Media Photographing and Filming on Harvard Property Harvard Gazette Multimedia Policies Ordering University Photos More Photo Harvard University photographers are active on campus and around the world, providing insight into Harvard faculty and staff, news, and events. A large selection of these images are available for download by the members of the media, faculty, and staff. Harvard University owns the copyright and all other rights to the photos appearing in this gallery. News organizations have Harvard University’s permission to publish the photos in connection with news articles about Harvard, provided that the photo is not altered in any way (other than for formatting purposes) and that such use does not state or otherwise imply the approval or endorsement by Harvard University or any Harvard School, unit, division, or affiliate of the article’s content, the news organization, or any other organization, person, product, or service. The display of the photo must credit Harvard University, preferably with the name of the photographer, when available. If you are a member of the media seeking a stock image for a story, please see our stock photo gallery. If you would like to order a photo not available in this gallery, please submit an order form. If you are a member of the faculty or staff seeking to order a photo, you can do so via Webdam, a large library of stock images maintained by Harvard Public Affairs and Communications. Video Harvard University’s YouTube channel shares video content about life and learning that takes place on campus and around the world. Media is welcome to embed Harvard videos and audio from our account, but as a general rule, Harvard University does not grant permission to alter or edit University footage. Should you have questions regarding the policy, please email media@harvard.edu. Security & Brand Report Copyright Infringement Report Security Issue Trademark Notice Website Accessibility Digital Accessibility Privacy Statement Get In Touch Contact Harvard Maps & Directions Jobs © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube