Skip to main content Toggle Tools navigation Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Search University of Cincinnati UC Home Visit UC Support UC Directories UC Tools Canopy & Blackboard Catalyst OneStop Student Email Faculty / Staff Email Shuttle Tracker UCFileSpace UC Flex/ESS IT Help UC VPN Concur Success Factors Enter a search term to search UC pages or the directory. Search String University of Cincinnati About Contact Us Policies Procedures Standards Guidelines Awareness How to Manage Your Social Media Privacy Settings National Cybersecurity Awareness Month End Of Support (EOS) Online Meetings Services Two-Factor Authentication Risk Management Shredding Security Certificates Information Security Review McAfee ePolicy Orchestrator (ePO) Encryption Account & Password Help Notifications of Expiration Password Help (PSS) Setup New Accounts How to Choose a Password Compliance & Law Copyright Infringement About Policies Awareness Services Account & Password Help Compliance & Law Copyright Infringement Two-Factor Authentication Free Antivirus Report an Incident Contact Us UCIT Homepage Information Security Review Facebook Twitter Free Antivirus Due to changes in the license with our current vendor we are unable to offer the enterprise version of antivirus we offered in the past for student use. We are in talks with the vendor and may be able to offer it in the future. In the mean time there are several free and paid antivirus solutions. University owned devices use McAfee ePO for Antivirus protection. For more information please visit: https://www.uc.edu/infosec/services/McAfee.html Here are links to some of those solutions, but users should consult their device manufacter or system documentation for compatibility. Also, users are advised to update the software frequently and perform virus/maleware scans often to further ensure your computer is protected. The vendors below offer both free and premium versions of their software not all features are free. Windows OS See recommendations at https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/security. Some third-party software is also available: Avast AVG Avira Bitdefender MacOS See recommendations at https://www.apple.com/macos/security. Some third-party software is also available: Avast Bitdefender Sophos Whichever application you choose, understand that none of them can completely safeguard your data. It’s up to you to keep your system protected by being wary of any suspicious emails or downloads. Also, routinely backup your data! Troubleshooting: ResNet offers IT support for students, faculty, and staff (for non-departmental devices). ResNet will provide software support at no charge, which includes installation of software (AntiVirus) and removal of viruses and malware. ResNet Website: https://www.uc.edu/ucit/services/hardware-software/resnet.html Locations: 535 Steger Student Life Center 103 Kowalewski Hall If you have any questions about the software, please contact the UC Service Desk at 513-556-HELP(4357). University of Cincinnati IT@UC Office of Information Security University Hall 51 Goodman Drive Cincinnati, OH 45221 Phone: 513-558-ISEC (4732) E-mail: infosec@uc.edu Notice of Non-Discrimination Alerts Clery and HEOA Notice Notice of Non-Discrimination eAccessibility Concern Privacy Statement Copyright Information © 2018 University of Cincinnati This website offers many PDF files for download, which require Adobe Reader to view.