Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School Academics & Research Professional Development Graduate Student Digital CV Graduate School Skip to Navigation Graduate Student Digital CV The Graduate Student Digital CV (GSDCV) enables you to track your achievements as a teacher, mentor, and researcher as well as to contemplate what you want to achieve in your graduate career. We hope that you will use it to guide conversations with your faculty mentors and colleagues from early on in your graduate career. The GSDCV was created this to serve students across all of Brown’s academic divisions at every stage of their graduate careers. Because of this, the GSDCV of a first-year student in physics will look different from that of a first-year student in philosophy. These in turn will look much different from the GSDCVs of a third-year in economics or a fifth-year in epidemiology. It is important to talk to your faculty mentors, more senior students in your program, and other professionals around Brown (CareerLAB, Graduate School, etc.) to understand which parts of the GSDCV are most pertinent to your goals. In other words, expect there to be quite a few categories in which you have nothing to list. Graduate study is a process of both successes and failures. We encourage you to record all of your conference abstracts (accepted or rejected), all external fellowships for which you applied (successful or not), articles submitted to journals (rejected, accepted, under review, or sent back for edits), etc. All of these efforts, no matter their outcome, are worthy of record and demonstrate your commitment to your development as a scholar. Questions should be directed to [email protected]. Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Ph.D. Requirements Master's Requirements Fields of Study Post-Baccalaureate Research Education Program (PREP) Fifth-Year Master's Degree Concurrent Bachelor's/Master's Degrees Distinctive Opportunities Graduate Advising and Mentoring Rules & Regulations Course Registration Research Professional Development Training Opportunities, Events & Tools Partnerships & Exchanges Living & Resources Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants