Skip to main content Restrict my search to Office of the Provost Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Office of the Provost About Provost Paula Myrick Short Initiatives Deans of Colleges and Libraries Provost's Cabinet: Vice and Associate Provosts Office of the Provost Staff Presentations by Provost Paula Myrick Short Faculty Current Faculty Faculty Resources Underrepresented Women of Color Coalition Faculty Engagement and Development Faculty Awards Cougar Chairs Leadership Academy Grants Faculty Grievance Non-Tenure Track Faculty New Faculty Prospective Faculty Presidential Frontiers Faculty Faculty/Staff Administrators Student Success Undergraduate Academic Advising Current Students Undergraduate Student Success Center Provost Prizes for Prose & Poetry New Coogs UHin4: Four Year Graduation Plan Cub Camp: Student-Run, Student Led Provost Summer Read Program Peer Assistants Global Students Learning Abroad International Students Graduate Students University Success SACSCOC University Accreditation UH Global Global Initiatives Global Citizens Credential Peace Corps Prep Program Center for ADVANCING UH Faculty Success Cougar Initiative to Engage (CITE) Houston Guided Pathways to Success About People Memorandum of Understanding Foundations of Excellence About Year 1: Foundational Dimensions Year 2: Themes Success Indicators Dashboard Postdoctoral Fellows at UH Academic Program Planning Committee on Academic Centers and Institutes Planning and Budgeting Policies and Resources Academic Honesty Policy Frequently Asked Questions Student Policies and Resources Student Resources Faculty Policies, Programs, and Resources Policies Programs Resources University Policies and Resources FERPA Resources Senate Bill 4 Frequently Asked Questions Honorary Degrees COVID-19 Updates and Resources News News Travels With Shasta Cougar Milestones UH Office of the Provost Marketing and Communications UH Home Office of the Provost Faculty Current Faculty Current Faculty Faculty Resources Faculty Engagement and Development Underrepresented Women of Color Coalition Cougar Chairs Leadership Academy Grants Faculty Awards Faculty Grievance Non-Tenure Track Faculty Contact Information For questions regarding faculty, please email Lisa Farr at lvfarr@uh.edu. Current Faculty Click here for a full list of resources available to faculty Faculty Engagement and Development The Office of Faculty Engagement and Development (FED) is a faculty-driven, administratively supported organization that will provide high quality programming and appropriate resources to support the continual professional development and successful career progression of faculty members at UH. Learn More Faculty Awards A university’s strength, prestige, and national standing are in great part a reflection of its faculty. The University of Houston is no exception – our faculty members are at the core of who we are and how we are perceived. This Faculty Awards event helps us celebrate faculty excellence. Whether in the classroom, in the research laboratory, or mentoring and advising students, our faculty have brought the University of Houston to top-tier national recognition. During these awards, we also acknowledge our faculty colleagues for their years of dedicated service to our students, our university and to the ancient art of teaching. The faculty members honored at this event are the University of Houston, our foundation, and our future. Learn More Underrepresented Women of Color Coalition The Underrepresented Women of Color Coalition is a university-level initiative focused on increasing the retention and promotion of tenured and tenure-track underrepresented women of color faculty members. Learn More Cougar Chairs Leadership Academy CCLA is dedicated to developing a network of problem solvers in all UH departments who will work together to produce and sustain high quality programs through the leadership of Faculty. CCLA will prepare individuals to step into departmental leadership roles to support UH strategic plans, specifically addressing the recruitment, retention, and leadership of outstanding faculty. Activities in CCLA are gauged to support the UH goals of: National Competitiveness Student Success Community Advancement Athletic Competitiveness National and Local Reputation Resource Competitiveness Learn More Faculty Grants The Provost Visiting Scholars Program is designed to support faculty recruitment efforts by building or expanding connections between the University of Houston and extraordinary scholars from other institutions. The Provost’s Faculty Travel Fund is designed to help the University of Houston's tenured and tenure-track faculty members enhance their professional development and increase the visibility of the institution by supporting faculty travel to present the results of their research or creative activity at meetings with a national or international audience. Learn More Faculty Grievance The University of Houston requires that all faculty members be treated fairly and consistently in all matters related to their employment. The university provides faculty with the right to express their grievances through informal and formal avenues. For more information about the faculty grievance policy and information on submitting a grievance, click the link below. Learn More Non-Tenure Track Faculty The non-tenure track faculty is comprised of two primary types of positions, those positions which are on a promotion-eligible (PE) pathway, and those positions which are on a non-promotion eligible (NPE) pathway. For more informatoin about non-tenure track faculty policies and procedures, click the link below. Learn More Promotion and Tenure For information on the Promotion and Tenure process at the University of Houston as well as links to the promotion and tenure processes by college. Learn More Faculty Annual Performance Review Faculty members not only deserve but should expect an open, fair, and transparent annual performance review process that, in turn, will be used to inform and guide decisions on how they should be rewarded. This policy provides a general framework applicable to all academic departments at the University of Houston. Learn More Measurement and Evaluation Center The Measurement and Evaluation Center provides a variety of resources to current faculty, including faculty/course evaluations, exam scoring, program evaluations, survey research, and university scanning services. Learn More Teaching The Office of the Provost is committed to providing useful resources that allow faculty to create classroom environments that facilitate student engagement and success. This includes innovative teaching grants, technology trainings, instructional support, and more. Learn More Research Learn the ins and outs related to research at UH through contracts, compliance, intellectual property, and animal care. Learn More Work-Life Balance Maintain a work-life balance through sick leave, family and medical leave, parental leave, and dual career programs. Find information about the Children’s Learning Centers, Summer Camps, the UH Charter School, and the Collaborative for Children. Learn More Professional Development Strengthen your skills in leadership, management, and professional development through trainings, programs, and funds to make your career a success. Learn More Governance Organizations The following is a collection of links to information about the various governance organizations at the University of Houston central campus. Faculty Senate Research and Scholarship Committee Graduate and Professional Studies Committee Undergraduate Committee Staff Council University Coordinating Commission Student Government Association Board of Regents Meetings and Minutes University of Houston Ezekiel W. Cullen Bldg., Room 203 Houston, TX 77204 832-842-0550 About the Office of the Provost Travels With Shasta Cougar Milestones Office of the Provost Staff Faculty Awards Student Success Undergraduate Academic Advising UHin4: Four Year Graduation Plan Provost Summer Read Program Cub Camp: Student-Run, Student Led University Success Policies and Resources SACSCOC University Accreditation ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies