Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Student Financial Services Welcome to Student Financial Services The quickest way to contact us is through email at studentbillquestions@clemson.edu. In addition, you can contact us by phone or live chat during the hours listed below. Call us at 864-656-5592 8:00 AM to 1:00 PM Monday - Friday Begin a conversation by clicking on the chat icon (available during live hours). 2:00 PM to 4:00 PM Monday - Friday Make a Payment Tuition and Fee Calculator In order to ensure timely posting of your payment, we strongly recommend that you make an online payment via iROAR. Please review our FAQs for additional information. The Office of Student Financial Services is committed to offering students and authorized users support in meeting their financial obligations to the University while serving in an environment of equality, responsibility, and dignity. To best assist the Clemson University community, we strive to provide exceptional customer service in making the student billing and payment process as accurate, accessible and seamless as possible. Email Notification Policy The official method of communication with the Clemson University Student Financial Services Office is via the University issued email account. In order to stay informed and aware, students are required to set up and maintain their email accounts. You should check your email frequently. We recommend that you add the following email address to your "safe" list within your email system's spam filters: studentbillquestions@clemson.edu — our general email account with monitored two-way communication. If you have issues with your email account, go to https://ccit.clemson.edu/support/current-students/email-and-accounts/ for more information. If our office does need to mail a check, document, form or notice, we will use the permanent address from your iROAR account. Important News Summer 2022 tuition and fee payments are due on May 11, 2022. Summer bills will be available on April 25 to view and pay via the student's iROAR account. Financial Responsibility Acknowledgement Since Fall Semester 2016, Clemson University requires all students to accept a Statement of Financial Responsibility. The statement was recently updated. All students will be required to review and accept for Fall Semester 2020, and then every ninety days thereafter. The statement is maintained in iROAR under the Student Billing tab. 2021 1098-T statements will be available online via iROAR no later than January 31, 2022. Please see https://www.clemson.edu/finance/student-financials/1098T.html for more information. Parent PLUS Loan eRefund is now available! Fast Facts about eRefund and eChecks For more information during office hours call 864-656-5592 or email: studentbillquestions@clemson.edu Home Tuition and Fees Paying Your Bill Authorized User/Parent Adjustments 1098-T Non-Enrolled Collections FAQ Contact Us Orientation Resources Related Links Office of the Executive Vice President for Finance and Operations Academic Success Center Financial Aid Housing and Dining Parking Services Tiger 1 Card Registrar's Office Academic Calendar Graduate School Office of Global Engagement Study Abroad Student Insurance Information Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram