Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links About COVID-19 Stories UW Medicine stories Media coverage Experts for journalists FAQ Stories All stories News releases UW News blog UW Notebook Official notices UW in the media Multimedia Video stories Soundbites/b-roll Interactives Experts Directory Expert quotes COVID-19 experts Speakers Bureau Media contacts For Journalists For researchers Media Training Data and Reports UW News Menu About COVID-19 Stories UW Medicine stories Media coverage Experts for journalists FAQ Stories All stories News releases UW News blog UW Notebook Official notices UW in the media Multimedia Video stories Soundbites/b-roll Interactives Experts Directory Expert quotes COVID-19 experts Speakers Bureau Media contacts For Journalists For researchers Media Training Data and Reports Home UW News News releases UW rises to No. 7 in US News’ Best Global Universities ranking News releases October 26, 2021 UW rises to No. 7 in US News’ Best Global Universities ranking Jackson Holtz UW News The UW rose one spot to No. 7 on the U.S. News and World Report’s Best Global University rankings.Pamela Dore/University of Washington The University of Washington climbed one spot to No. 7 on the U.S. News & World Report’s Best Global Universities rankings, released on Oct. 26. The UW maintained its No. 2 ranking among U.S. public institutions. “It is gratifying to see the UW’s impact on people and communities around the world being recognized,” UW President Ana Mari Cauce said. “I’m so proud of the extraordinary talent and effort of our faculty, students and staff, who have risen to the meet the challenges of these difficult and promising times.” U.S. News also ranked several subjects, and the UW landed in the top 10 in eight, including infectious diseases (No. 5), clinical medicine (No. 6), geoscience (No. 6) and others listed below. The ranking methodology — which is based on Web of Science data and metrics provided by Clarivate Analytics InCites — weighs factors that measure a university’s global and regional research reputation and academic research performance. For the overall rankings, this includes bibliometric indicators such as publications, citations and international collaborations. The overall Best Global Universities ranking, now in its eighth year, encompasses the top 1,750 institutions spread across 90 countries, according to U.S. News. American universities make up eight of the top 10 spots. Here are all the subject areas in which the UW placed in the top 10 in U.S. News’ subject rankings: Infectious diseases – No. 5 Clinical medicine – No. 6 Geosciences – No. 6 Microbiology – No. 6 Immunology – No. 7 Molecular biology and genetics – No. 7 Social sciences and public health – No. 7 Oncology – No. 10 Tag(s): Rankings News releases Read more news releases More Search UW News Search for: UW Experts Ukraine Climate COVID-19 Full directory Categories Browse Administrative affairs Arts and entertainment Buildings and grounds Education Engineering Environment For UW employees Health and medicine Honors and awards Interactive Learning News releases News roundups Official notices Politics and government Population Health Profiles Research Science Social science Technology UW and the community UW Notebook UW Today blog Latest news releases Critical race theory at center of UW study of unequal access to treatment for opioid addiction 3 days ago Seattle democracy vouchers increase donations, number of candidates in city elections 4 days ago Social cohesion found to be key risk factor in early COVID infections 1 week ago More Connect UW Today Newsletter Subscribe UW Today Daily UW Today Week in Review If you're trying to subscribe with a non-UW email address, please email uwnews@uw.edu for assistance. For UW employees Submission guidelines Submission form University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA