Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary SCHOOL OF LAW SCHOOL OF LAW LAW (INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY) Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 LAW P 501 Intellectual Property Law Core (6-8) Intensive study of intellectual property law core subjects: patents, copyrights, trade secrets, and trademarks. Examines fundamental principles, their underlying policies, and how the laws inter-relate. Not open to students who have taken LAW A 522, LAW A 546, LAW E 567, or LAW E 588. View course details in MyPlan: LAW P 501 LAW P 502 Trademark and Trade Secret Law (3/4) Knowledge of trade secret law and trademark law is particularly valuable to all intellectual property and business lawyers. Course explore issues relating to protection of trade secrets under state and federal law. Topics include philosophical bases & policies underlying trademark protection; distinctiveness requirement; protection of trade dress and product configurations; priority of usage; infringement/dilution; and the role of remedies. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: LAW P 502 LAW P 503 Introduction to American Legal Systems and Skills (2-3) Introduces the U.S. system of state and federal courts in the context of intellectual property. Discusses how intellectual property laws come from the common law as well as state and federal statutes and regulations. Teaches legal research, writing, case briefing, and analysis skills. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: LAW P 503 LAW P 504 Economic Analysis of Intellectual Property (2-3) Explores the intersection between intellectual property law and economics from both a macro and micro economic perspective; economic justification of intellectual property law; and portfolio management tools that can evaluate intellectual property protection as an investment. Prerequisite: either LAW P 501 or LAW E 567. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: LAW P 504 LAW P 505 International Intellectual Property Law (2-3) Focuses on international treaties as they relate to protection of trademarks and copyrights. Introduces international aspects of branches of intellectual property, including general principles of comparative and international law, and specific law related to obtaining and enforcing intellectual property rights in foreign countries. Prerequisite: either LAW A 522, LAW E 567, LAW E 588, or LAW P 501. View course details in MyPlan: LAW P 505 LAW P 506 Transnational Intellectual Property Law Theory and Practice (4) Takenaka Studies comparative intellectual property law using a series of lectures, license exercises, and a mock trial. Consists of a series of lectures on campus followed by a one-week intensive transnational seminar hosted by a law school in Asia or Europe. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: LAW P 506 LAW P 507 Copyright Law (3/4) Provides overview of copyright law/policy. Learn fundamental features of copyright law, includes validity, infringement, subject matter requirements/limitations, defenses, boundaries between copyright and other IP regimes. Explore source/nature of copyright protection, justifications for such protection, whether are philosophical, economic, or constitutional. Familiar with Copyright Act/extensive case law, gain understanding of copyright policy Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: LAW P 507 LAW P 508 Patent Law ([2-4]-, max. 4) Provides an overview of United States patent law. No technical background is required. The course will analyze the origins, evolution and policy behind our patent law, and will cover topics such as the patent-ability doctrine, the novelty and "inventive step" requirements, the interpretation of patent claims, infringement theories and remedies. A primary focus of the course will be the changing Supreme Court patent law jurisprudence. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: LAW P 508 LAW P 509 Antitrust and Intellectual Property Rights (2-4) Bangasser Examines in-depth application of competition law and policy to the creation and exploration of intellectual property. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: LAW P 509 LAW P 510 Advanced Research and Writing Seminar (2-, max. 4) Gomulkiewicz Instructs IP LL.M students in the research and writing skills necessary to write a major legal research paper. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: LAW P 510 LAW P 520 Intellectual Property Theory Seminar (3) Seminar introduces students to the history and philosophy of intellectual property theories, justifications, and critiques. Students will write and present a substantial research paper. View course details in MyPlan: LAW P 520 LAW P 522 Advanced Copyright Law (2-5) Advanced, in-depth study of copyright law and policy. Explores the boundaries of copyright protection and how copyright law relates to other intellectual property laws. Prerequisite: either LAW A 522, LAW E 567, or LAW P 501. View course details in MyPlan: LAW P 522 LAW P 525 The Right of Publicity ([1-4]-, max. 4) Provides an understanding of the Right of Publicity and its interaction with other types of intellectual property. Drawing principles from trademark, unfair competition, copyright, and privacy law, the Right of Publicity must respect the First Amendment's guarantee of free expression while protecting the commercial interest of individuals in protecting against unauthorized commercial use of their names, likenesses, and personalities. View course details in MyPlan: LAW P 525 LAW P 528 LLM Intellectual Property Law Practicum (1-4, max. 6) Experience with an approved non-profit organization, judicial or legislative body, or governmental agency on issues related to intellectual property law and policy. Students work under the guidance of experienced practitioners; both student and field supervisor provide the supervising law faculty member with a final written evaluation. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: LAW P 528 LAW P 535 Entertainment Law (3) A primer on the various forms of legal protection (trade secrets, copyright, trademarks, publicity law, and licensing) that form the bases for various types of entertainment. Considers key industries: books, music, movies, television, internet, and computer games. Prerequisite: LAW P 501 or permission of the instructor. View course details in MyPlan: LAW P 535 LAW P 536 Music Law and Policy (3) Covers the broad range of legal issues at play in the music ecosystem - broadly construed as the chain of composition, performance, recording, distribution, and playback. Music recording/playback devices have often been at the forefront of each stage of media technology and so the course covers not only copyright issues, but also patents, other IP, and contract issues. View course details in MyPlan: LAW P 536 LAW P 539 Law, Technology, and Development (2-3) Snyder, Winn Provides an overview of selected principles and theories of development economies, and considers the implications of technological innovation, intellectual property rights, government regulation, trade policy, and technical standards for the achievement of development objectives. Mass media coverage of current developments enriches class discussions. View course details in MyPlan: LAW P 539 LAW P 543 Intellectual Property Law in East Asia (2-3) View course details in MyPlan: LAW P 543 LAW P 545 Advanced Patent Law (3) Studies public policy and practice considerations relating to patenting research results in high technology. Examines the most up-to-date issues in legal protection of technology from the comparative law perspective. Prerequisite: either LAW A 546 or LAW P 501. Instructors: Taylor Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: LAW P 545 LAW P 546 Advanced Trademark Law (3) Covers advanced procedural and substantive topics of trademark law including protection of trade dress, online trademark infringement, and global trademark protection including gray market issues. Students write and present a research paper on a topic related to trademark law and policy. Prerequisite: either LAW P 501 or LAW P 567 Instructors: Takenaka Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: LAW P 546 LAW P 547 Legal Protection for Computer Software (3) Addresses copyright, patent, trademark, trade dress, trade secret, and contract protection for software. Also addresses how the law places boundaries around legal protection through anti-trust law and the doctrines of fair use and preemption. View course details in MyPlan: LAW P 547 LAW P 548 Litigation Strategies in Technology Protection (3) Deals with procedural and substantive legal issues in enforcement of patents. Proceeds through a litigation in the order that parties normally would. Teaches substantive legal issues in conjunction with procedural and strategic considerations. Prerequisite: either LAW A 546, LAW P 501, or LAW P 567. View course details in MyPlan: LAW P 548 LAW P 550 Patent Prosecution (4) Addresses fundamentals of patent application drafting, through a combination of lectures and assignments. Addresses all aspects of proceedings before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, including preparing new applications, and examiner interviews. Prerequisite: either LAW A 546, LAW P 501, or LAW P 567. View course details in MyPlan: LAW P 550 LAW P 551 Patent Prosecution and Counseling Practicum (4) Students participate in the representation of under-resourced inventors in prosecuting patent applications before the United States Patent and Trademark Office. Practicing patent attorneys guide the students on the mechanics of patent prosecution. Provides instruction on patent law fundamentals. Includes small group collaborative exercises. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: LAW P 551 LAW P 552 Strategic Intellectual Property Commercialization (3) Comprehensive coverage of issues related to exploitation of intellectual property rights as a business asset for new companies, or as a source of income for existing businesses. Prerequisite: either LAW A 546, LAW P 501, or LAW P 567. View course details in MyPlan: LAW P 552 LAW P 567 Survey of Intellectual Property (3-6, max. 6) Intended for both law students who are only interested in a general overview of intellectual property and non-law students who are seeding a certificate in intellectual property law and policy. Designed as an alternative to Patents, Trademark and Unfair Competition Law, and Copyrights. Prerequisite: either LAW A 522, LAW A 546, LAW E 588, or LAW P 501. Instructors: O' Connor Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: LAW P 567 LAW P 577 Drafting Intellectual Property Licenses (3) Covers advanced drafting and negotiating licenses and other technology agreements. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: LAW P 577 LAW P 589 IP Innovations in Science and Technology (2-, max. 6) Takenaka Covers controversial intellectual property law and policy questions arising from evolving science, technology and e-commerce, and addresses cutting edge issues from a multidisciplinary perspective. Examines the current legal regimes and research environment and explores innovative methods for maximizing the exploitation of advanced science and technology. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: LAW P 589 LAW P 590 Graduate Intellectual Property Law Tutorial (1-4, max. 4) Focuses on a specialized area of intellectual property law. Limited to students in the graduate program in intellectual property law and policy. Tutorial must be approved by the program director. View course details in MyPlan: LAW P 590 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022