Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search within this section Search all sites School of Medicine Salina Student Affairs Policies and Procedures Counseling and Support Services Health Care for Students Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors KU School of Medicine-Salina Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for KU School of Medicine-Salina Academics Academics Premedical Programs MD Program Admission & Aid Curriculum Lukert Society Student and Faculty Awards Standardized Patient Program Student Affairs School of Medicine Salina Student Affairs Student Affairs Policies and Procedures Counseling and Support Services Health Care for Students About About From the Dean Faculty & Staff Salina Facilities Our Community Contact Information Make a Gift Student Affairs Policies and Procedures In general, all policies affecting all KU School of Medicine students can be found on the Policies and Procedures page. Information on how policies are formed and implemented is available on the Office of Compliance Policy Program page. Exceptions and/or modifications for Salina students include (but are not limited to) the following: Attendance Building Emergency Plan Inclement Weather Salina Specific Policies and Procedures Attendance Policy Medical School Attendance in Educational Activities, Excused Absences, Leaves of Absence and Withdrawals: https://kumc-publicpoliciesandprocedures.policystat.com/policy/8404610/latest/ Building Emergency Plan KU School of Medicine Salina uses My-EOP, a custom Emergency Response and Preparedness plan for mobile devices. Once the application and plan is installed users have access to key information even at times when cellular connectivity is not available. The App accommodates both Android and Apple devices. Download Information Policies addressed in KU Salina Health Education Center's Building Emergency Plan include: Building Emergency Response Shelter-In-Place Evacuations Utility Features Building Security Procedures Violent Behavior and Response Active Shooter Protocol Fire Tornado and Severe Weather Medical Emergency/First Aid Hazardous Materials Inclement Weather Inclement Weather Policy - Salina campus KU School of Medicine-Salina KU School of Medicine-Salina Health Education Center 138 N. Santa Fe Salina, KS 67401 Phone: 785-822-0400 KU School of Medicine-Salina Facebook page Make a Gift 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.