Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index International Affairs Menu Search TTU International Affairs International Faculty, Scholars and Staff Labor Certification Procedures for Researchers and Other Non-Teaching Positions Employment-based sponsorship for permanent residency is an employer-driven process. A department will only consider sponsoring positions for permanent residency if the positions are eligible for such sponsorship and it is clearly demonstrated to be in the best interest of the department to do so. Each department will determine in its sole discretion whether or not to sponsor a foreign national. OP 70.38: Employment-based Permanent Residency Petitions must be reviewed in determining sponsorship eligibility. Labor certification is essentially a determination and certification by the U.S. Department of Labor that there are not sufficient workers who are able, willing, and qualified to do the work needed, and that the employment of foreign nationals will not adversely affect the wages and working conditions of similarly employed workers in the U.S. To qualify for a labor certification, the regulations require an employer to prove its good faith efforts to recruit US workers without success through specific recruitment sources. Permanent Residence (a Green Card) through Labor Certification will involve 3 steps: Labor Certification--To apply for a labor certification for a non-teaching position, the University must make a good faith effort to fill the position in question with a qualified United States worker. We must advertise and recruit for the position in conformity with specifications of the U.S. Department of Labor. We must offer prevailing wages and working conditions and demonstrate that there are no minimally qualified U.S. workers available for the position. I-140--Upon receiving a certified labor certification, the OIA will file with USCIS a Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker and department must pay filing fee. I-485--Once the I-140 is approved, the foreign national employee is responsible for personally pursuing adjustment of status on Form I-485, Application to Adjust Status to Permanent Residence, in a timely manner, if an immigrant visa is available. Since the I-485 is a personal application, the OIA is unable to assist with the I-485 preparation or process for TTU employees. Employees can complete the application on their own or can retain their own independent attorney to complete the I-485 petition. THE ADVERTISMENT FOR A NON-TEACHING POSITION NEEDS SPECIAL ATTENTION. Departments should follow these procedures: 1. Draft an advertisement for the position. The advertisement must have the following elements: Name of the employer. Direct applicants to send resumes to the employer. Description of the vacancy specific enough to apprise US workers of the job opportunity for which certification is sought. Indicate the geographic area of employment with enough specificity to apprise applicants of any travel requirements and where applicants will likely have to reside to perform the job opportunity. The job offer and minimum requirements may not be described with "unduly restrictive" job requirements and we must be prepared to justify any requirements if asked to do so. If a preference is stated in the advertisement, the U.S. Department of Labor will treat that preference as a requirement, and we must be prepared to justify it as a requirement; therefore, we suggest that such advertising not state preferences, but be restricted to minimum job requirements. 2. The U.S. Dept. of Labor has specific recruitment steps that must be followed, and which cannot take place more than 180 to 30 days prior to filing of the labor certification: Placement of a Job Order with the State Workforce Agency (SWA). This is the Texas Workforce Commission. Job order must remain open for a period of 30 days. Posting of the advertisement on 2 different Sundays in newspapers of general circulation in the area of intended employment. Departments must undertake three separate additional recruitment steps. The possible recruitment options are: job fairs, employer's web site, job search web site other than the employer's, on-campus recruiting, trade or professional organizations, private employment firms, employee referral program with incentives, campus placement offices, local and ethnic newspapers, and radio and TV advertisements. 3. After the recruitment period (which cannot be more than 180 to 30 days prior to filing of the labor certification); if no minimally qualified U.S. workers have applied for or are available for the position, the department may prepare for submission to OIA the following documents to make up the labor certification application: Copies of all recruitment efforts undertaken (tear sheets from newspapers, copies of website where the ad appeared in, etc.) Copies of all applicants' resumes. A copy of the final candidate's highest diploma and curriculum vita. A recruitment report signed by the dean, department chair or responsible faculty/staff member (one who has hiring authority) describing all of the recruitment efforts, identifying all of the recruitment sources used, and describing the results of the advertising and recruitment efforts. The statement must specifically state the number of U.S. workers who responded to the recruitment efforts, the number of interviews conducted with U.S. workers, and the "lawful job-related reasons for not hiring each U.S. worker interviewed." A copy of the Labor Certification Notice. This notice must be posted in a conspicuous place in the hiring department for ten consecutive business days. OIA will supply this form, properly completed, to the appropriate department for posting. Once this information in satisfactory form is received at OIA, we will submit the application for labor certification via the web. The U.S. Department of Labor's Certifying Officer will then decide upon the labor certification application. It is possible that the U.S. Dept. of Labor will request an audit of the application, or may require the employer to conduct more supervised recruitment. If the final decision of the Certifying Office is to deny the labor certification the denial notice will state the reasons for the denial. If the Certifying Office approves our application, OIA will be notified by email and will let the department and the foreign national employee know the results as soon as they are available. Processing times may vary. Procedures Following Labor Certification Once the U.S. Department of Labor has approved the application for labor certification, the OIA can petition the US Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) on behalf of the faculty member. The OIA will file a Form I-140 with the approved labor certification, appropriate supporting documentation and a check for $700 made payable to the "Department of Homeland Security." The sponsoring department is required to pay for the immigration fee. Questions regarding the Labor Certification process should be directed to the Lead Administrator, International Student and Scholar Services (ISSS) at the Office of International Affairs at 742-3667. Contact TTU Contact Contact TTUContact Contact TTU News News for NewsNews for News Events EventsEvents International Affairs Like International Affairs on FacebookLike International Affairs on Facebook Follow International Affairs on twitterFollow International Affairs on twitter Subscribe to International Affairs on YouTubeSubscribe to International Affairs on YouTube Follow International Affairs on FlickrFollow International Affairs on Flickr Follow International Affairs on InstagramFollow International Affairs on Instagram Address 601 Indiana Avenue, Lubbock, TX 79409-5004 Phone 806.742.3667 Email oia.reception@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityFeb 9, 2022 8:15 AM International Affairs International Students International Affairs International Students Back Admitted international students International Affairs International Students Admitted international students Back Visa Process Housing Health Insurance Pre-Arrival Guide Post-Arrival Checklist Immigration Information International Affairs International Students Immigration Information Back Immigration and Scam Alerts Make an Appointment F1 - Health Insurance F1 - Travel F1 - Employment Your F-1 Student Counselor Other F-1 Services and Processes OPT STEM OPT CPT J1 - Health Insurance J1 - Travel J1 - Employment J1 - Dependents International Student Life International Affairs International Students International Student Life Back Our Services to Incoming Students International Orientation Life in Lubbock Lubbock housing options Events hosted by ISL Get Involved Advice from current students Financial Aid for International Students Scams Against International Student FAQ's Study Abroad International Faculty, Scholars & Alumni International Affairs International Faculty, Scholars & Alumni Back J-1 Exchange Visitors International Affairs International Faculty, Scholars & Alumni J-1 Exchange Visitors Back J-1 Program Information Hosting Department Information International Scholar Resources Make an Appointment/ISSS International Partnerships/Export Control Insurance Requirements Travel Dependents Help with Taxes International Alumni International Affairs International Faculty, Scholars & Alumni International Alumni Back International Alumni Networks Give to Office of International Affairs Update Contact Information Contact Office of International Affairs Employing International Visitors International Affairs International Faculty, Scholars & Alumni Employing International Visitors Back H-1B Work Visa Information Permanent Residency Information Labor Certification for Non-Teaching Faculty Hosting Department Information Visitor Visas Paying International Visitors Fullbright Scholars & Students Make an Appointment International Scholar Resources J-1 Student Intern Information International Partnerships/Exports Help with Taxes Community Outreach & Events International Affairs Community Outreach & Events Back Community Outreach International Affairs Community Outreach & Events Community Outreach Back Art Exhibits Signature Events K-12 Global Education Outreach International Affairs Community Outreach & Events K-12 Global Education Outreach Back Mission Program Options Program Reservations K-12 Geo FAQ's Pre/Post Activities Give to K-12 ICC Facility Rental International Affairs Community Outreach & Events ICC Facility Rental Back Room Rental Information ICC Rules & Regulations Directions Passport Office International Affairs Community Outreach & Events Passport Office Back Passport Office Information Faculty/Staff Resources International Affairs Faculty/Staff Resources Back Faculty/Staff Resources International Affairs Faculty/Staff Resources Faculty/Staff Resources Back Center for Global Communication International Research and Development International Center for Arid and Semi-Arid Land Studies International Partnerships and Export Control Global Roundup Fulbright International Travel Information International Seed Funding Hosting International Students Scholarships International Affairs Scholarships Back First Year & Transfer Students Continuing Students Study Abroad Students National and International Scholarships & Fellowships About Office International Affairs About Office Back The Office of International Affairs International Affairs About Office The Office of International Affairs Back About Us Vice Provost OIA Services and Contact Information Directory Strategic Plan Organizational Chart OIA Year in Review Visitors Guide Visitors Guide - Español News and Events International Affairs About Office News and Events Back International Digest OIA News OIA Events Recent Newsletter Newsletter Archive Media Gallery International Affairs About Office Media Gallery Back Photos Videos Give to OIA International Affairs About Office Give to OIA Back Appeal from the Vice Provost International Affairs Fund for Excellence International Affairs Student Scholarship OIA Committees International Affairs About Office OIA Committees Back Scholarships International Affairs Council Fulbright Information Special Initiatives International Affairs About Office Special Initiatives Back Global Vision Awards Leadership, Management and Governance Program Texas Tech Costa Rica Campus Texas Tech Global Bridge program Mandela Washington Fellowship Ambassadors Forum Contact Us Additional Resources TTU Home Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index