Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of the Provost Provost right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow Meet the Provost right arrow down arrow Event Request Form Leadership Committees Next Lives Here Initiatives right arrow down arrow COACHE Textbook Affordability UC Women Lead Program Dual Career Assistance Program Strategic Hiring Opportunity Program Decanal Searches Faculty right arrow down arrow Reappointment, Promotion, and Tenure right arrow down arrow eRPT Collective Bargaining Agreement Resources right arrow down arrow Faculty Retention Program Proposal Process right arrow down arrow Distance Learning Programs Adjunct Resources Leaves of Absence Associations right arrow down arrow Latino Faculty Association right arrow down arrow About Members Resources Events & Photo Gallery News Emeriti Association right arrow down arrow Membership LGBTQ Faculty and Staff Association Black Faculty Association right arrow down arrow About Resources Events and News Committees Photo Gallery The Academy of Fellows - AFTL right arrow down arrow Members, Eligibility & Benefits Journal for Research & Practice in College Teaching Faculty Enrichment Center right arrow down arrow Programming and Resources Colleges and Offices right arrow down arrow Colleges Offices right arrow down arrow Faculty Affairs & Academic Personnel Enrollment Management Graduate School The Office of Institutional Research right arrow down arrow Facts & Dashboards College Financial Reporting Survey Research & Consulting Resources Contact Us UC International IT @ UC Student Affairs Undergraduate Studies right arrow down arrow Affiliated Offices Integrated Core Learning (ICL) General Education Core Contact Us Awards right arrow down arrow All-University Faculty Awards Home » About UC » Office of the Provost » Colleges and Offices » Offices » Undergraduate Studies » Integrated Core Learning (ICL) Set Navigation title in component Colleges Offices Faculty Affairs & Academic Personnel Enrollment Management Graduate School The Office of Institutional Research Facts & Dashboards Student Dashboards Faculty & Staff Dashboards Financial Dashboards College Financial Reporting Survey Research & Consulting Resources Contact Us UC International IT @ UC Student Affairs Undergraduate Studies Affiliated Offices Integrated Core Learning (ICL) General Education Core Requirements Definitions History Leadership Career Education Learning Outcomes Contact Us Integrated Core Learning (ICL) Integrated Core Learning is the essence of undergraduate learning at UC, reflecting our strengths as one of the nation's top urban research institutions. It's the thoughtful mixing of top-notch academics with real world experiences. What is the result? A learning experience that is exceptionally self-directed, interdisciplinary, global, and in short, transformational. What does "Integrated Core" mean? Integrated = the combining or mixing of professional learning and active learning experiences throughout the undergraduate curriculum; an interdisciplinary approach to teaching; the making of connections to solve problems; learning subjects as part of the whole undergraduate learning experience. (See ICL in action: Great Streets & Gateways Project) Core = a General Education program that promotes four learning outcomes or competencies (critical thinking, effective communication, knowledge integration, social responsibility); a foundational liberal learning experience that follows the undergraduate student through their required courses, experiences, student reflections, and senior capstone course experience. The ICL Vision The goal of the Integrated Core Learning (ICL) initiative is the thoughtful integration of the General Education core, major course work, undergraduate research, practicum, clinical placements, co-op and service learning experiences, co-curricular activities, and faculty-guided reflection throughout the undergraduate curriculum. This holistic approach creates a transformative individual educational experience. ICL is built upon the University of Cincinnati's strength as a leading urban research institution with an emphasis on experiential learning and a high quality academic foundation. Benefits to Students 1. Complex and collaborative settings for learning encourage students to develop skills and tools that distinguish the UC graduate: the ability to integrate and apply what they are learning to think critically to communicate complex ideas in a variety of settings to work effectively in interdisciplinary environments 2. The integration of theory and practice experiences prepare students to transition to a profession or graduate program and continue to assume ownership for life-long learning, civic engagement, and social responsibility. 3. A connected holistic educational model helps students value their comprehensive education - an education that encompasses the liberal arts, applied disciplines, and scientific and technological domains. 4. Hands on experiences with culturally and intellectually diverse groups prepares students to understand and contribute to today's world. 5. Simply put, ICL makes learning fun and engaging! Students are more likely to stick with their academic plans and graduate. The Integrated Core Learning Process The ICL process is built around three touch-points in the undergraduate experience to provide all students with key opportunities to develop, review, and act upon a learning plan for degree completion: Great Beginnings UC's nationally known First Year Experience (FYE) program where students begin a firm foundation in courses (English Composition, common freshman readings, breath of knowledge courses) as well as experiences and reflections (learning communities, first year seminars, first year expo, lab/applied experiences, e-portfolios). Mid-Collegiate Launch Students experience a purposeful curriculum combined with individual reflections and real world experiences (experiential learning) giving the student both disciplinary proficiency as well as contextual understanding. Our students learn to integrate their knowledge of various subjects and apply it to problem solving. Students continue to update e-portfolios, have a specialized upper-level writing course, have Just Community readings regarding diversity, and strengthen information literacy skills. Sophomore year is a special time. The Cincinnati Sophomore Initiative is rooted in ICL with its focus on academic, career, and co-curricular resources to help students succeed. Sophomore Learning Communities have also been added to bring diverse groups of students together to engage with more complex course material. Finale: The Senior Capstone Experience A senior year experience that enables students to transition to a profession or graduate school and continue to pursue life-long learning and social responsibility. The capstone experience is designed to demonstrate proficiency in the General Education Core baccalaureate competencies and in the content/skills of the program/major. This high quality learning experience challenges students to draw upon many disciplines of study and encourages students to think through the myriad connections and inter-relationships among professions, cultures, and civic life. Here are some examples of students’ capstone experiences: Biological Sciences capstone requirement can be met through one of the following options: a research option; a capstone course; a capstone field trip; a senior or honors thesis; assistant TA; or an equivalent experience College of Allied Health Sciences 2010 PRaISE Conference video: Faculty and students talk about the 2010 Presentation of Research and Innovative Scholarly Endeavors (PRaISE, a comprehensive capstone experience) College of Engineering and Applied Science and Design Architecture Art and Planning: a capstone experience that helps a local community Geology capstone includes two major options: a field course/camp experience or individualized training and research projects Environmental Studies capstone projects Solar house capstone experience, an interdisciplinary project including College of Business, Design Architecture Art and Planning, and the College of Engineering and Applied Science Office of the Provost 2614 McMicken Cir, Cincinnati, OH 45219 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Office of the Provost 2614 McMicken Cir, Cincinnati, OH 45219 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top