Skip to main content COVID-19 information and resources School of Arts and Sciences - University of Pennsylvania University of Pennsylvania School of Arts & Sciences College of Arts & Sciences Graduate Division College of Liberal & Professional Studies Search Search Menu School of Arts and Sciences - University of Pennsylvania SAS_logo_white-sticky Main navigation About History Leadership Strategic Plan Inclusion Academics Departments Centers Degree Programs Other Programs Global Inquiries Resources for Faculty People Faculty Dean's Office Board of Advisors Administrative Offices News Events Upcoming Events Event Series All Departments Video Archive Stay Involved & Support Connect Give Learn More Contact Search News J. Dean Amro Endowed Lectureship Fund J. Dean Amro, C’97, and Amira Amro establish lectureship to energize Arabic language study. Learn More Penn Integrates Knowledge University Professor Dirk Trauner will be the George A. Weiss University Professor, with joint appointments in Penn Arts & Sciences and the Perelman School of Medicine. Learn More American Academy of Arts and Sciences Dorothy Roberts of Sociology, Africana Studies, and the Law School; and Nicholas Sambanis of Political Science have been elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Learn More 2022 College Graduation Speakers Amna Nawaz, C’01, Chief Correspondent and Primary Substitute Anchor for PBS NewsHour, and Oliver Kaplan, C’22, will speak at this year’s graduation ceremony for the College of Arts & Sciences. Learn More Previous Next 1 / 4 Arts & Sciences News Penn Arts & Sciences Faculty Among 2022 Mellon Fellows and Penn Fellows Both fellowship programs support faculty at mid-career. View Article 2022 Penn Prize for Excellence in Teaching by Graduate Students Each year, graduate students are nominated by Penn undergraduate and graduate students for their profound impact on teaching at Penn. View Article J. Dean Amro, C’97, and Amira Amro Establish Lectureship to Energize Arabic Language Study The fund will provide financial support for instruction and curriculum development, with a focus on Arabic pedagogy in Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations. View Article Students’ ToxiSense Wins Startup Challenge The venture by four first-year Penn students aims to improve testing for drinking water and biopharma products. View Article Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Next page Next › Last page Last » Browse Archives Omnia Omnia, the premiere publication for all things Penn Arts and Sciences, features a diverse array of faculty, students, and alumni who are blazing trails on a global level. Explore Get in Touch If you have questions or suggestions about content, you can contact the Penn Arts and Sciences Office of Advancement communications staff. Contact College of Arts & Sciences Graduate Division College of Liberal & Professional Studies Quick School Links Penn Arts & Sciences A-Z Academic Departments Faculty Index Computing Resources for Faculty Penn Resources Libraries Directory Calendar News Donate Contact Us Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Penn Weblogin