Skip to main content Support PZ's Reach Who We Are About Commitment to Diversity & Justice Land Acknowledgement People Our First 50 Years Funders FAQs Topics By Subject Area Art & Aesthetics Assessment, Evaluation & Documentation Civic Engagement Cognition, Thinking & Understanding Collaboration & Group Learning Digital Life & Learning Disciplinary & Interdisciplinary Studies dummy Ethics at Work Global & Cultural Understanding Humanities & Liberal Arts Leadership & Organizational Learning Learning Environments Making & Design Science Learning By Level Early Childhood Primary / Elementary School Secondary / High School Higher Education Adult & Lifelong Learning Organizational Learning Projects Projects Column 1 21st Century Excellence Agency by Design Aligned Programs for the 21st Century Artful Thinking Arts as Civic Commons Causal Learning Projects Children Are Citizens Creando Comunidades de Indagación (Creating Communities of Inquiry) Creating Communities of Innovation Cultivating Creative & Civic Capacities Cultures of Thinking EcoLEARN Projects Educating with Digital Dilemmas Envisioning Innovation in Education Global Children Growing Up to Shape Our Place in the World Projects Column 2 Higher Education in the 21st Century Humanities and the Liberal Arts Assessment (HULA) Idea Into Action Inspiring Agents of Change Interdisciplinary & Global Studies Investigating Impacts of Educational Experiences JusticexDesign Leading Learning that Matters Learning Innovations Laboratory Learning to Think, Thinking to Learn Making Across the Curriculum, an initiative of Agency by Design Making Learning and Thinking Visible in Italian Secondary Schools Making Learning Visible Multiple Intelligences Projects Column 3 Out of Eden Learn Pedagogy of Play Reimagining Digital Well-being Re-imagining Migration ROUNDS Signature Pedagogies in Global Education Talking With Artists Who Teach Teaching for Understanding The Good Project The Next Level Lab The Studio Thinking Project The World in DC Transformative Repair Visible Thinking View All Projects Resources At Home with PZ Thinking Routine Toolbox Articles Books Tools Videos Zero In Newsletters View All Resources Professional Development Who We Are About Commitment to Diversity & Justice Land Acknowledgement People Our First 50 Years Funders FAQs Topics By Subject Area Art & Aesthetics Assessment, Evaluation & Documentation Civic Engagement Cognition, Thinking & Understanding Collaboration & Group Learning Digital Life & Learning Disciplinary & Interdisciplinary Studies dummy Ethics at Work Global & Cultural Understanding Humanities & Liberal Arts Leadership & Organizational Learning Learning Environments Making & Design Science Learning By Level Early Childhood Primary / Elementary School Secondary / High School Higher Education Adult & Lifelong Learning Organizational Learning Projects Projects Column 1 21st Century Excellence Agency by Design Aligned Programs for the 21st Century Artful Thinking Arts as Civic Commons Causal Learning Projects Children Are Citizens Creando Comunidades de Indagación (Creating Communities of Inquiry) Creating Communities of Innovation Cultivating Creative & Civic Capacities Cultures of Thinking EcoLEARN Projects Educating with Digital Dilemmas Envisioning Innovation in Education Global Children Growing Up to Shape Our Place in the World Projects Column 2 Higher Education in the 21st Century Humanities and the Liberal Arts Assessment (HULA) Idea Into Action Inspiring Agents of Change Interdisciplinary & Global Studies Investigating Impacts of Educational Experiences JusticexDesign Leading Learning that Matters Learning Innovations Laboratory Learning to Think, Thinking to Learn Making Across the Curriculum, an initiative of Agency by Design Making Learning and Thinking Visible in Italian Secondary Schools Making Learning Visible Multiple Intelligences Projects Column 3 Out of Eden Learn Pedagogy of Play Reimagining Digital Well-being Re-imagining Migration ROUNDS Signature Pedagogies in Global Education Talking With Artists Who Teach Teaching for Understanding The Good Project The Next Level Lab The Studio Thinking Project The World in DC Transformative Repair Visible Thinking View All Projects Resources At Home with PZ Thinking Routine Toolbox Articles Books Tools Videos Zero In Newsletters View All Resources Professional Development Search form Search Search Event Project Zero Online Full Courses 2022 & 2023 Join an engaged community of learners and get support to integrate PZ ideas in your classroom practice. Registration is open for Sept '22 & Feb '23 Visible Thinking & Making Learning Visible online courses! Read More Event Sparks 2022 The Project Zero Sparks Conference (July 21, 2022) is a one-day virtual learning experience featuring new research and fresh takes on some of PZ's most popular and enduring frameworks. Read More Generic Thinkability Episode 5 Slow looking means taking the time to look beyond a first glance. It is a simple move that can open the door to surprisingly powerful learning experiences. Read More Event Learning and Thinking that Make a Difference The Learning and Thinking that Make a Difference (LTMD) conference is a one-day, exciting plunge into inspiring ideas and practical tools developed at Harvard's Project Zero and aimed at engaging students in the deep learning and thinking they need to do in order to succeed in and out of school, both now and in the future. Read More Article Big Picture Thinking How to educate the whole person for an interconnected world Read More Book The Real World of College Why higher education in the United States has lost its way, and how universities and colleges can focus sharply on their core mission. Read More Tool Thinking Routine Toolbox Introducing a new but long anticipated PZ resource! The Thinking Routines Toolbox - a collection of more than 80 PZ Thinking Routines all accessible in one common place. Here's to thinking and learning! Read More Event Project Zero Online Full Courses 2022 & 2023 Join an engaged community of learners and get support to integrate PZ ideas in your classroom practice. Registration is open for Sept... Read More Event Sparks 2022 The Project Zero Sparks Conference (July 21, 2022) is a one-day virtual learning experience featuring new research and fresh takes on some... Read More Generic Thinkability Episode 5 Slow looking means taking the time to look beyond a first glance. It is a simple move that can open the door to surprisingly powerful... Read More Event Learning and Thinking that Make a Difference The Learning and Thinking that Make a Difference (LTMD) conference is a one-day, exciting plunge into inspiring ideas and practical tools... Read More Article Big Picture Thinking How to educate the whole person for an interconnected world Read More Book The Real World of College Why higher education in the United States has lost its way, and how universities and colleges can focus sharply on their core mission. Read More Tool Thinking Routine Toolbox Introducing a new but long anticipated PZ resource! The Thinking Routines Toolbox - a collection of more than 80 PZ Thinking Routines all... Read More Previous Pause Next Event Project Zero Online Full Courses 2022 & 2023 Join an engaged community of learners and get support to integrate PZ ideas in your classroom practice. Registration is open for Sept... Read More Event Sparks 2022 The Project Zero Sparks Conference (July 21, 2022) is a one-day virtual learning experience featuring new research and fresh takes on some... Read More Generic Thinkability Episode 5 Slow looking means taking the time to look beyond a first glance. It is a simple move that can open the door to surprisingly powerful... Read More Event Learning and Thinking that Make a Difference The Learning and Thinking that Make a Difference (LTMD) conference is a one-day, exciting plunge into inspiring ideas and practical tools... Read More Article Big Picture Thinking How to educate the whole person for an interconnected world Read More Book The Real World of College Why higher education in the United States has lost its way, and how universities and colleges can focus sharply on their core mission. Read More Tool Thinking Routine Toolbox Introducing a new but long anticipated PZ resource! The Thinking Routines Toolbox - a collection of more than 80 PZ Thinking Routines all... Read More Previous Pause Next Resources for learning at home, remotely, and in the classroom. Explore by Topic Arts & Aesthetics Making & Design Disciplinary & Interdisciplinary Studies Digital Life & Learning Civic Engagement Collaboration & Group Learning Humanities & Liberal Arts Science Learning Leadership & Organizational Learning From the Blogs > Jun-01, 2022 Playful Schools Conference - Save the Date! From Pedagogy of Play Mar-07, 2022 ¿Pueden las clases de educación superior hacerse a través del juego? (Versión en español) From Pedagogy of Play Feb-25, 2022 Can Higher Ed Classes be Playful? (English version) From Pedagogy of Play View All Blogs > Professional Development > Jun-15, 2022 Learning and Thinking that Make a Difference Jul-21, 2022 Project Zero Sparks 2022 Sep-19, 2022 to Dec-18, 2022 Making Learning Visible: The Power of Documentation to Support Individual and Group Learning (MLV) Sep-19, 2022 to Dec-18, 2022 Visible Thinking: Using Thinking Routines Effectively to Cultivate Dispositions and Support Learning (VT) View All Professional Development > July 20 - 22, 2022 Twitter 6 days ago Join an engaged community of learners and get support to integrate PZ ideas in your classroom practice. Registratio… https://t.co/XEdIc4Hw6K 2 weeks ago Join us at PZ's Sparks 2022! Re-energize your practice through inspiring talks, interactive workshops, and thoughtf… https://t.co/PisQUUPt9F 2 weeks ago Teachers! The Good Project (@GPHarvard) is looking for #teachers to join a study and to become a part of a communit… https://t.co/TVUwXMgogN 3 weeks ago RT @GPHarvard: Teachers, @GPHarvard is excited to announce a new study expected to launch this Fall featuring our Lesson Plans. Find out mo… 4 weeks ago RT @ThinkabilityPZ: Thinking dispositions needed now! Would you agree? Join us for Thinkability podcast episode 4. With @ProjectZeroHGSE’s… 2 months ago RT @DrHowardGardner: Many thanks to @ValerieStrauss and @Washingtonpost for publishing this experpt of our new book The Real World College… 2 months ago RT @ESCCentralOhio: Have you signed up yet? 2 months ago “Taking the course really heightened my awareness of the power of play in learning; building empathy, cultivating t… https://t.co/4B0Zd0ABEF 2 months ago Visible #thinking routines that encourage students to document and share their ideas can have a profound effect on… https://t.co/c1Z0xT4n8M Sitemap Privacy Policy Harvard Graduate School of Education Harvard University Digital Accessibility Policy Copyright 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College | Harvard Graduate School of Education Thanks for signing up! Subscribe to Our Mailing List Email Address First Name Last Name Country Sign Up By submitting this form, you are granting: Project Zero, 13 Appian Way, Cambridge, Massachusetts, 02138, United States, http://www.pz.gse.harvard.edu permission to email you. You may unsubscribe via the link found at the bottom of every email. (See our Email Privacy Policy for details.) Emails are serviced by Constant Contact. Contact Us