COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU News Filter by: News Press Releases News Letters Academe Search Directory Filter Search Harvester Arts interns build creative float for Riverfest Jul 3, 2018 — By Sydney Payne — Wichita State studio art major Mary Alexis Wirths is spending her summer interning with Harvester Arts, a nonprofit organization that brings artists from across the nation for two-week residencies in Wichita. Get to know WSU Tech Jul 2, 2018 — By WSU News Services — When school resumes this fall, students can take advantage of the new affiliation between Wichita State University and WSU Tech -- formerly known as Wichita Area Technical College. Innovation design students win Johnson & Johnson innovation competition Jul 2, 2018 — By Jessa Ragan — A group of six Master of Innovation Design students at Wichita State University won an innovation challenge issued by Johnson & Johnson Innovation Co. College of Engineering sets record, moves into new space Jun 29, 2018 — By WSU News Services — Wichita State's College of Engineering (CoE) is marking two milestones related to its ongoing effort to help grow the Kansas economy by placing more engineering and computing talent into the workforce; new graduates and a new space. Nursing educator named to Janice M. Riordan Distinguished Professorship Jun 22, 2018 — By WSU News Services — Nursing faculty member Jolynn Dowling has been named to the Janice M. Riordan Distinguished Professorship in Maternal Child Health at Wichita State. College of Education changes name to better reflect its offerings Jun 20, 2018 — By WSU News Services — The College of Education at Wichita State University has changed its name to the College of Applied Studies. The change was made to better reflect the broad range of educational and applied learning offerings the college provides. The Future of Wichita and WSU's Critical Role Jun 19, 2018 — By WSU News Services — The Future of Wichita and WSU's Critical Role Wichita State grad's experiences take her around the world Jun 15, 2018 — By Jessa Ragan — Wichita native and 2018 graduate Jenny Nguyen had a busy four years at Wichita State University. Her experiences inside and outside the classroom have brought her around the world. New program can help returning adults finish their degree Jun 12, 2018 — By WSU News Services — Through a new initiative supported by the Kansas Board of Regents, students wanting to return and finish their degree at Wichita State now have an easier road. The initiative is called the Adult High Education Accessible Degrees (AHEAD) and is funded by the Lumina Foundation. Explore what amazing things Wichita has to offer for students Jun 6, 2018 — By Jessa Ragan — Our city has many activities and attractions to get you off-campus and exploring all Wichita has to offer including the Sedgwick County Zoo, Final Fridays, The Keeper of the Plains, The Great Plains Nature Center, Wichita's River Festival and much more. Page 1 of 321 pages 1 2 3 4 5 … Next Last 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment.