Skip to main content UCF News | Stories of Impact + Innovation | Orlando, FL Tuesday, May 31, 2022 88ºF Mostly cloudy Sections × UCF News | Stories of Impact + Innovation | Orlando, FL Arts Business Colleges Community Health Opinions Science & Tech Sports Student Life Tuesday, May 31, 2022 88ºF Mostly cloudy About UCF Today UCF Today shares stories written by UCF authors from each corner of the campus. We hope you share your favorites. UCF Today has five goals: To make UCF more visible To attract new students, faculty, staff, donors and more To gain greater recognition and respect for UCF To build public awareness of UCF as a value-generator To gain greater financial support Have questions? Contact the editor at [email protected]. About UCF Founded in 1963 with a commitment to expanding opportunity and demanding excellence, the University of Central Florida develops the talent needed to advance the prosperity and welfare of our society. With more than 68,500 students, UCF is one of the nation’s largest universities, offering more than 220 degree programs at its main campus in Orlando and more than a dozen other locations in Central Florida and online. UCF Today Disclaimer Information presented on this website is considered public information (unless otherwise noted) and may be distributed or copied. Use of appropriate byline/photo/image credit is requested. We recommend that UCF data be acquired directly from a UCF server and not through other sources that may change the data in some way. While UCF makes every effort to provide accurate and complete information, various data such as names, telephone numbers, etc. may change prior to updating. UCF welcomes suggestions on how to improve UCF Today and correct errors. UCF provides no warranty, expressed or implied, as to the accuracy, reliability or completeness of furnished data. Some of the documents on this server may contain live references (or pointers) to information created and maintained by other organizations. Please note that UCF Today does not control and cannot guarantee the relevance, timeliness, or accuracy of external feeds such as Google, Twitter or comments posted by visitors. For news stories prior to 2012, visit the UCF News and Information Archive. University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida