Request Info Visit Campus COVID-19 Giving I Am a... Current Student Newly Admitted Student Prospective Student Veteran or Military Student International Student Parent of a Student Faculty/Staff Member Alumnus/Alumna Friend of the University Search The university now has summer hours Learn more Toggle navigation About About UofSC Aiken Our Chancellor History of UofSC Aiken Mission & Values Accolades Campus Map & Directions Policies & Procedures Directories Offices and Divisions Academic Departments Faculty and Staff Stay Informed Social Media Press Releases Emergency Notifications COVID-19 Updates Events Campus Events & Calendars Graduation Convocation Center Etherredge Center Academics Academic Programs Majors and Minors Graduate Programs Online Programs Honors Program Colleges and Schools Academic Resources Library Center for Student Achievement Online Learning and Support Office of the Registrar Forms ICE Events Research Research Opportunities Grants & Awards Scholar Showcase Courses & Schedule Academic Calendars Program Bulletins Search for Classes Campus Bookstore Continuing Education Admissions & Aid Requirements Dual Enrollment Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission International Admission Palmetto College Cost & Aid Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Scholarships Payment Plans Legal Residency Visit Schedule a Virtual Tour Open House Campus Map & Directions Office of Admissions About Aiken, SC Admitted Students Next Steps Checklist Apply for Housing Submit Enrollment Deposit Register for Orientation Pay Tuition and Fees Experience Student Life International Programs Student Organizations Athletics Recreation & Wellness Greek Life Opportunities Study Abroad Leadership Programs Career Preparation Equestrian Activities Visit Office of Admissions Schedule a Virtual Tour Open House Campus Map & Directions About Aiken, SC Living on Campus Campus Dining University Housing Campus Events Campus Safety Inclusion & Diversity Athletics Apply Now Online Application Discover your future with us Start today News & Events Celebrating 60 years of Excellence September 10, 2021, marked our 60th Anniversary and we've planned plenty of special events that span the entire academic year to celebrate the occasion. Celebrate with us Press Releases Pacer Achievements Featured Events Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. SEE MORE Experience hands-on programs that enhance STEM education for local elementary and secondary students. The Ruth Patrick Science Education Center is also home to the Dupont Planetarium. Ruth Patrick Science Education Center The Etherredge Center houses two theatres, a box office, and the Department of Visual and Fine Arts. Etherredge Center The Convocation Center is a state of the art facility with capacity ranging from 3,500 - to 4,100 patrons. Convocation Center The Wellness Center includes a large fitness area with cardiovascular equipment, weight equipment, and a 1/16 mile walking track. Wellness Center Our two-story 40,000 square foot library houses an extensive book, periodical, and microform collection. Gregg-Graniteville Library The Office of External Programs, Continuing Education, and Conferences offers a wide selection of certificate and non-credit learning opportunities. Continuing Education Take the Next Step Request More Info Virtual Visits Apply Now Location 471 University Parkway Aiken, South Carolina 29801Map & Directions Summer Hours Mon.-Thurs. 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. Fri. 8:00 a.m. - 12:30 p.m. Contact +1 (803) 648-6851 Emergency (Police) 6111 / 803-648-4011 Directories Give to UofSC Aiken Quick Links Blackboard Campus Technology Help Desk Email Employment Opportunities HR Payroll System my.usca.edu A-Z / Forms Index Follow UofSC AIKEN Copyright © 2022 by the Board of Trustees of The University of South Carolina. All Rights Reserved [email protected] Privacy Policy