Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Staff Directory Melanie J. Bernitz Melanie J. Bernitz Dr. Melanie Bernitz is the Senior Vice President for Columbia Health. She joined Columbia Health in 2016 and served as Associate Vice President and Medical Director through early 2021. Previously she served as the Executive Director of the Student Health Service at Columbia University Medical Center. Prior to that position, Dr. Bernitz was a resident, chief resident, and faculty member in Columbia’s Center for Family and Community Medicine. Growing up in the United Kingdom, she received both her bachelor’s degree in psychology and a degree in medicine at University College London. She then received her master’s degree in public health at Columbia University. Dr. Bernitz's professional experience includes teaching and training of medical students and residents as well as inpatient and outpatient primary care. She is an associate professor of clinical medicine in the Center of Family and Community Medicine and remains committed to ensuring that college students have direct access to high-quality, timely medical care. Education: MPH, Columbia University MD, University College London BSc, University College London Certifications and Licensure: Certified by the American Board of Family Medicine Licensed to practice medicine in the State of New York Professional Experience: Associate Vice President and Medical Director, Columbia Health Executive Director, Student Health Service, Columbia University Medical Center Primary care physician, Student Health Service, Columbia University Medical Center Preceptor, Foundations of Clinical Medicine course, Columbia University College of Physicians & Surgeons Published Articles: Narrative Medicine in Education and Practice. Behavioral Medicine: A Guide for Clinical Practice, Fourth Edition, edited by Drs. Mitchell D. Feldman and John F. Christensen. Burr Ridge, IL: McGraw-Hill. Awards and Honors: Commendation for Excellence in Teaching Medical Students - Columbia University Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Productivity Awards – New York Presbyterian Hospital Department of Medicine Memberships: American College Health Association American Academy of Family Physicians Senior Vice President Contact Info Administration, 2960 Broadway, 102 Wallach Hall, Mail Code 4201, New York, NY 10027 +1 212 854 7426 https://secure.health.columbia.edu/ Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close