Skip to main content Operating Status Face coverings are optional in offices, conference rooms, research labs, housing, and public spaces in buildings. Face coverings are still required in all teaching spaces, teaching labs, computer labs, buses, libraries, clinical facilities, and student-staff and student-faculty meetings spaces. More COVID-19 information Close Search Enter a Search Term Search Rutgers Search Search this site Search all Rutgers Search People Rutgers Logo New Brunswick Newark Camden RBHS/Health Info For: Prospective Students and Parents Current Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Donors Partners Job Seekers News Rutgers Today Rutgers Magazine Events Giving Gcse block (invisible) Open Search Rutgers Logo About Rutgers About the University President Jonathan Holloway Serving New Jersey and the World An Economic Engine A Partner in Research and Innovation United Against COVID-19 Rutgers Excellence Rutgers, By the Numbers Rutgers Rankings Budget Facts Our Structure Governance and Leadership Office of the President Administrative Council Our Revolutionary Roots Rutgers Traditional Songs The Rutgers Experience Discover Rutgers Rutgers–New Brunswick Rutgers–Newark Rutgers–Camden Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences (RBHS) Show Your Rutgers Pride Rutgers Athletics Uniquely New Jersey Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Academics Explore Undergraduate Programs Graduate and Professional Studies Explore Graduate & Professional Programs Top Graduate Programs Schools and Colleges Continuing Education Online Degree Programs Catalogs Libraries Faculty Excellence Global Learning Rutgers at Your Community College Student Support Research Research at Rutgers A Partner in Research and Innovation Health & Patient Care Advancing Treatment and Wellness Admissions & Tuition About Applying Path to Rutgers Tuition and Financial Aid Visits and Tours Getting Here Open Search Open Search Open Menu Close About Rutgers About the University President Jonathan Holloway Serving New Jersey and the World An Economic Engine A Partner in Research and Innovation United Against COVID-19 Rutgers Excellence Rutgers, By the Numbers Rutgers Rankings Budget Facts Our Structure Governance and Leadership Office of the President Administrative Council Our Revolutionary Roots Rutgers Traditional Songs The Rutgers Experience Discover Rutgers Rutgers–New Brunswick Rutgers–Newark Rutgers–Camden Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences (RBHS) Show Your Rutgers Pride Rutgers Athletics Uniquely New Jersey Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Academics Explore Undergraduate Programs Graduate and Professional Studies Explore Graduate & Professional Programs Top Graduate Programs Schools and Colleges Continuing Education Online Degree Programs Catalogs Libraries Faculty Excellence Global Learning Rutgers at Your Community College Student Support Research Research at Rutgers A Partner in Research and Innovation Health & Patient Care Admissions & Tuition About Applying Path to Rutgers Tuition and Financial Aid Visits and Tours Getting Here Utility Mobile Info For: Prospective Students and Parents Current Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Donors Partners Job Seekers News Rutgers Today Rutgers Magazine Events Giving New Brunswick Newark Camden RBHS/Health Office of the President Rutgers’ president is appointed by the Board of Governors with the consent of the Board of Trustees. He or she leads the overall performance and direction of the university with the help and advice of the Rutgers community, including members of the central administration and leaders at Rutgers–New Brunswick, Rutgers–Newark, Rutgers–Camden, and Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences. About President Holloway Jonathan Holloway became the 21st president of Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey, on July 1, 2020. Prior to his appointment, he was provost of Northwestern University. Holloway is an eminent historian specializing in post-emancipation United States history with a focus on social and intellectual history. He is the author of The Cause of Freedom: A Concise History of African Americans (forthcoming); Confronting the Veil: Abram Harris Jr., E. Franklin Frazier, and Ralph Bunche, 1919-1941; and Jim Crow Wisdom: Memory and Identity in Black America Since 1940. Prior to his role at Northwestern, Holloway was the dean of Yale College and the Edmund S. Morgan Professor of African American Studies, History, and American Studies at Yale University. He joined the faculty at Yale in 1999. Holloway began his academic career at the University of California, San Diego. He received a bachelor’s degree with honors in American studies from Stanford University and a PhD in history from Yale University. He serves on boards of the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, the Academic Leadership Institute, and the Organization of American Historians. He previously served on boards of Chicago Botanic Garden, Illinois Humanities, the National Humanities Alliance, and the Society for United States Intellectual History. In April 2020, New Jersey Governor Phil Murphy appointed him to the Governor’s Restart and Recovery Commission. Holloway is an elected member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and the Society of American Historians. He is married to Aisling Colón. They have a daughter, Emerson, and son, Ellison. Historian, Author Jonathan Holloway's latest book, The Cause of Freedom: A Concise History of African Americans, was published in February 2021 by Oxford University Press. The text offers a brief telling of the complex history of African Americans—from the arrival of enslaved Africans at Jamestown to the Black Lives Matter movement—and challenges readers to consider what it means to be an American. Read a sample of The Cause of Freedom. Headlines and Highlights President Holloway Contributing to TV Series on U.S. Presidency Dr. Holloway provides expert commentary in a new HISTORY Channel series. President Holloway Summer Service Internship Initiative President Holloway creates a new opportunity for Rutgers students to serve the common good. President Holloway Faces & Voices of Rutgers President Holloway tells Rutgers’ story by interviewing the students, faculty, staff, and alumni who make it a dynamic place. Continue to the Office of the President Site Footer Rutgers University New Brunswick Newark Camden RBHS/Health Connect Campus Safety Contact Us Continuing Education Giving to Rutgers Graduate Admissions Undergraduate Admissions University Maps Universitywide Offices Work at Rutgers Find a Health Care Provider Rutgers Magazine University Events Academic Academic Calendars Course Catalogs University Libraries myRutgers Portal Notices April 27, 2022: Open Hearing on the University’s Tuition, Fees, and Housing and Dining Charges for 2022–2023 Commencement Information University Operating Status Accessibility Resources Budget Facts Consumer Information Disclosures Follow Us Subscribe to Rutgers News Rutgers is an equal access/equal opportunity institution. Individuals with disabilities are encouraged to direct suggestions, comments, or complaints concerning any accessibility issues with Rutgers websites to accessibility@rutgers.edu or complete the Report Accessibility Barrier / Provide Feedback form. Copyright ©2022, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey. All rights reserved. Contact webmaster