Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Information for Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni Search BC.edu Links Career Center Menu Main Nav Career Center Meet With a Career Coach Back Back Close About Overview Meet Our Team Student Employment Contact and Visit Us Meet with a Career Coach Learning Outcomes Career Clusters Overview Career Exploration Business, Consulting, and Finance Communication, Arts, and Media Education, Nonprofit, and Social Service Government, Law, and Public Policy Healthcare and Nursing Science, Technology, and Engineering Jobs and Internships Overview Be Career Ready Internships Jobs Resumes Cover Letters Online Presence Networking Interviewing Evaluating an Offer and Salary Negotiation Graduate School Overview Applying to Graduate School Law School For Current Graduate Students Events and Programs Overview Event Calendar Careerfest Endeavor Schedule of Events Endeavor Fellows Endeavor Keynote Endeavor FAQs Information for Alumni Envision Designing Your Career Course Alumni Job Shadow Program Career Fairs and Networking Events Campus Recruitment Eagle Intern Fellowship Career Closet Praxis Summer Program Winter Break Challenge Illumination Awards Outcomes Resources Overview Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Handshake Guide Eagle Exchange Guide Meet With a Career Coach Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC Career Center Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Employers Home Sites Employers Employers Why BC? Register in Handshake Recruit at BC Connect with BC Students FAQs Welcome, Employer Partners! Thank you for your interest in recruiting Boston College talent. BC students enter the workforce with strong academic credentials as well as confidence, skills, and the ability to navigate any environment. We look forward to collaborating with you to create a pipeline of strong BC candidates for your organization. Get Started Why Boston College? Boston College graduates are highly sought after by premier employers. See what makes Boston College students and alumni career-ready. Recruit at Boston College Discover the numerous opportunities for you to recruit at BC, including posting job and internship opportunities and recruiting events and services. Connect with Boston College Students Our team will help you gain a competitive advantage through various engagement opportunities and talent development strategies. What's Happening at BC BC Forward | COVID-19 updates A resource on protocols, vaccination, and FAQs related to the 2021-22 academic year. Boston College Class of 2025 Newly admitted students in the class are the most talented and diverse in BC history. Living lives of purpose Survey results show 93 percent of BC Class of 2020 grads are employed, enrolled in graduate school, or engaged in a fellowship or volunteer experience. Engineering a better world Boston College welcomes an impressive inaugural class in human-centered engineering. 2021 'U.S. News' rankings Boston College placed 35th among national universities overall and ranked high in several specialty categories. Starting a career during COVID Boston College’s youngest alumni on navigating virtual interviews, remote offices, and PPE requirements as they pursue professional purpose. Announcements 2022-23 Plans The Career Center plans to host a combination of on-campus, hybrid, and virtual events for the 2022-2023 academic year. Quick Links Contact and Visit Us Handshake Meet Our Team The Employer Engagement Team helps employers and students connect. How can we help you achieve your hiring goals? We invite you to explore our individual areas of focus and contact one of our team members to build your customized recruiting strategy. For general inquiries, please contact us at employer.recruiting@bc.edu or 617-552-4769. Frances Adjorlolo Associate Director, Employer Engagement 617-552-1905 | Linkedin Areas of Focus Working with employers who are looking to recruit students in the fields of: Communications, arts, and media Consumer products and retail Hospitality Marketing/sales Real estate SportsHealthcare and nursing Science Technology Engineering Morenike Eastman Assistant Director, Employer Engagement 617-552-3308 | LinkedIn Areas of Focus Working with employers who are looking to recruit students in the fields of: Education Nonprofit and social service Government, law, and public policy Banking and finance Consulting Human Resources Insurance Carole Flynn Recruiting Assistant 617-552-1582 | LinkedIn Areas of Focus Scheduling for on-campus interviews and information sessions/recruiting events Approving employers and job postings in Handshake Joanne LaRosee Recruiting Manager 617-552-2177 | LinkedIn Areas of Focus Working with employers who are looking to recruit students in the field of accounting Managing relationships with existing employers across industries who participate in our on-campus recruiting program Approving employers and jobs postings in Handshake Who We Serve The Boston College Career Center serves all undergraduate students as well as graduate students in the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences, Connell School of Nursing, Lynch School of Education and Human Development, School of Theology and Ministry, and Woods College of Advancing Studies. To connect with students in other schools, such as the Law School, School of Social Work, and Carroll Graduate School of Management, we recommend reaching out to the career offices within each school. Additional Career Offices on Campus BC Law School of Social Work Carroll Graduate School of Management Visit Boston College We look forward to welcoming you to the Boston College campus in Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts. Directions, Parking, and Accomodations Back To Top Back To Top Career Center Southwell Hall 38 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-3430 About Departments & Programs How can we help you? Events Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College