Skip to main content Skip to main content Degree Programs Perkins Chapel Bridwell Library Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Contact Us Contact Us Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Twitter Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Perkins School of Theology About About Mission Perkins United Methodist Seminaries Accreditation Statement of Educational Effectiveness Executive Board History Administration and Staff Habito Labyrinth Directions Campus Map Faculty & Academics Faculty & Academics Academic Services Bridwell Library Degree Programs Faculty by Teaching Area Faculty Listing A-Z Faculty Publications Perkins Video Library Global Theological Education Home Hybrid Houston-Galveston Extension Program Degree Interest Areas Perkins Intern Program Other Academic Programs Spiritual Formation Program Emeritus Faculty Open Faculty Positions Admission Admission Connect Visit Campus Apply Affording Seminary Admit Portal Student Life Student Life Academic Services Student Engagement Student Resources Alumni/ae & Friends Alumni/ae & Friends Update Your Records How to Get Involved Publications and News Events | Calendar Perkins Scholarship Luncheon Faith and Business Luncheon Series Distinguished Alumnus/a Award Seals Laity Award Make a Gift to Perkins News News News Archives Perkins Perspective Events Calendar External Programs and Centers External Programs and Centers Perkins Summit for Faith & Learning Certificate in Practical Ministry Certificate in Spiritual Direction Perkins Fall Convocation | November 15 - 16, 2021 Webinars & Hybrid Events Perkins School of Youth Ministry Course of Study | Curso de Estudio Center for Methodist Studies Center for Preaching Excellence Center for Religious Leadership Center for the Study of Latino/a Christianity and Religions El Programa de Ministerios Hispan@/Latin@ The Hispanic/Latino/a Ministries Program Video Library Contact Office of External Programs ☰ Perkins School of Theology Giving to Perkins Bolin Family Perkins Scholarship Evening Bolin Family Perkins Scholarship Evening The Bolin Family Perkins Scholarship Luncheon, inaugurated in 2010, is a fundraising and outreach event of Perkins School of Theology in service to the larger community. Each year, a well-known speaker presents a keynote address on a relevant topic related to the Church and culture. Pat and Jane Bolin have been naming sponsors of the luncheon for the last decade. “The Perkins Scholarship Luncheon has been a tradition for more than a decade and is one of the highlights of the Perkins-SMU calendar,” explains Dr. John Martin, Director of Development at Perkins. “The luncheon also provides a way to expose a broader constituency to our educational ministry, as table sponsors invite their friends and associates.” This event serves as a major fundraiser for student scholarships, with proceeds from the luncheon going toward financial aid for Perkins students. The Bolin Family Perkins Scholarship Luncheon will take place at noon Thursday, March 17, 2022, in SMU’s Mack Ballroom This year, the Perkins Scholarship Luncheon welcomes Rev. Richie Butler, Senior Pastor of St. Luke “Community” United Methodist Church in Dallas. Rev. Butler will honor Rev. Dr. Zan Wesley Holmes, Jr. — pastor emeritus of St. Luke “Community” UMC and a former member of the Perkins faculty — and will reflect on the importance and legacy of the Black church in Dallas and at SMU. This year’s presentation is unique in that it will specifically benefit the newly formed Perkins Black/Africana Church Studies Program (BACS), under the direction of Dr. Tamara Lewis, Professor of the Practice of Historical Theology. The BACS Program critically explores Black theology, Black Biblical studies and interpretation, history, pastoral theology, preaching, worship, religious education, ethics, and other practices. It does this in conjunction with African-American, African, and other African Diasporic churches, non-profit organizations, and social justice ministries through programs designed primarily to enrich the educational, cultural, and communal experiences of Black students enrolled in masters’ degree programs at Perkins School of Theology — as well as Doctor of Ministry (D.Min.) and Graduate Program in Religious Studies students — and the broader SMU community. Although the scholarship luncheon was held as virtual event in 2021, this year’s luncheon will return to an in-person event on the SMU campus! Table sponsorships are still available for this fantastic event, and all proceeds will support scholarships for the BACS program. This year’s sponsorship levels: Platinum Sponsorship - $10,000 Donation Gold Sponsorship - $5,000 Donation Silver Sponsorship - $3,000 Donation Bronze Sponsorship - $1,750 Donation All table levels have 10 seats. You can purchase sponsorships at this link, or email johnma@smu.edu with questions. Bolin Family Perkins Scholarship Evening Scholarship Luncheon (Formerly Public Life Personal Faith) Archive An Academy for the Whole Church in the Whole World Prepare to Serve Our groundbreaking Intern Program allows students to transform classroom knowledge into actual practical experience before graduation. Diverse Community We believe cross-cultural immersion experiences best teach students to build intercultural relationships, resolve cultural conflicts and guide intercultural ventures. Academic Excellence The combination of courses taught by renowned scholars with a diverse list of degree programs best prepares students for a wide variety of roles in ministry. Connect Visit Apply Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © SMU Perkins School of Theology, PO Box 750133, Dallas, TX 75275-0133 214-768-8436 or 1-888-843-6564 twitter facebook youtube share