Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Moody Prospective Students Prospective Students Degrees Offered Graduate Admissions Guide Application Deadlines Graduate School Resources International Applicants Diversity Visit SMU Current Students Current Students Forms and Policies Graduation Graduate Writing Center Graduate Student Lounge Career Development Graduate Student Organizations Student Services Events Events Events Calendar Research and Innovation Week Orientation Professional Development Three Minute Thesis Student Life Funding Funding Meet our Ph.D. Fellows Ph.D. Health Insurance Graduate Student Travel Grant Dedman Graduate Student Assembly About About Mission and History Moody Foundation Gift Charter Administrative Handbook Dean's Office Messages from the Dean Graduate Council Graduate Student Advisory Board Contact Us Admissions Contacts Blog ☰ The Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies SMU Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Funding Graduate Student Funding Moody Graduate Fellowships Moody Graduate Fellowships are offered to Ph.D. applicants who show exceptional promise for academic success and are a mark of the University's commitment to excellence in graduate education. They provide tuition waivers, health insurance, and stipends of $30,000 for up to five years. Students who apply to a Ph.D. program at SMU by the priority deadline are eligible for the Moody Graduate Fellowship. Each department may nominate only one candidate, and only candidates nominated by their department will be considered. Meet our Moody Graduate Fellows University Ph.D. Fellowships SMU is proud to offer University Ph.D. Fellowships to outstanding Ph.D. and Ph.D.-equivalent graduate student candidates. This fellowship provides funding above the amount typically available to students through their department, and is renewable for a total of five years of support, contingent upon acceptable progress towards the degree. All students who apply to a Ph.D. program at SMU by the priority deadline are eligible for the University Ph.D. Fellowship. Each department may nominate a limited number of candidates, and only candidates nominated by their department will be considered. Meet our University Ph.D. Fellows Mustang Fellowships Mustang Fellowships provide tuition waivers, health insurance, and stipends of $30,000 for up to five years for Ph.D. students who are US citizens or permanent residents and identify as diverse in their disciplines. Ph.D. program applicants are invited to submit themselves for consideration for this fellowship through a brief essay in their application, explaining why their educational, cultural, geographic, or familial background will contribute to graduate program diversity at SMU. Departments nominate candidates for the Mustang Fellowship as part of their application review process in the Spring. Meet our Mustang Fellows Graduate Student Travel Grants Graduate students are eligible to receive up to $750 in reimbursement for travel expenses to attend a conference to present an accepted paper or poster. Applications are accepted year-round, but only one grant per student per academic year may be awarded. The proposals must be sponsored by the department chair and the graduate advisor. Note that travel grants cannot be awarded retroactively; proposals must be submitted before travel. Travel Grant Application Dedman Graduate Student Assembly Funding The Dedman Graduate Student Assembly provides funding for graduate students in each department in Dedman College. Funding may be used to cover thesis- and dissertation-related expenses, such as presenting a paper or poster at a convention or conference, or other graduate activities, namely attending conferences and purchasing membership in professional organizations and journals. Applications may be submitted any time before the funding is necessary, or within 30 days of the activity for which funds are used (conferences, conventions, etc.). GSA Funding Procedure Moody Dissertation Fellowships These fellowships recognize and support outstanding Ph.D. students as they complete their dissertations. They are reserved for Ph.D. students in the dissertation-writing phase of their degrees whose research shows exceptional promise for impact in their field of study. They provide tuition waivers, health insurance, and a stipend of $30,000 for one year. Recipients commit to complete and defend their dissertations in the fellowship year. Students must be nominated by their departments to be eligible for this fellowship. Meet our Moody Dissertation Fellows Dean's Dissertation Fellowships These fellowships provide support to Ph.D. students in the dissertation-writing phase of their degrees, allowing them to focus on completing and defending their dissertations. They provide tuition waiver, health insurance, and a stipend commensurate with the standard Ph.D. stipend in their department. Recipients commit to complete and defend their dissertations in the fellowship year. Students must be nominated by their departments to be eligible for this fellowship. Meet our Dean's Dissertation Fellows Outside Funding In addition to funding offered by Southern Methodist University, there are a number of grants and awards that are available to students pursuing graduate study. Current and incoming students can learn more about external fellowships by connecting with the Director of Graduate Fellowships and Awards. Book an Appointment Funding Meet our Ph.D. Fellows Ph.D. Health Insurance Graduate Student Travel Grant Dedman Graduate Student Assembly Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share