Skip to main content Search Cornell Cornell Video Explore Home Browse Recent Trending Playlists Series Speakers Topics Contributors Submit MyPlaylist Play all in MyPlaylist Ask a Question tbd Name Email Address Question Send or cancel × Ask a Question Successful Thanks, ! Your question has been submitted. × Research with impact: Jawad Addoum, finance Posted on April 22, 2021 By Dyson School of Applied Economics and Management Video Platform Video Management Video Solutions Video Player facebook twitter share interactive transcript request transcript/captions live captions download HD video SD video audio | MyPlaylist start: now end: now reset copy link copy embed X So I'm Jawad Addoum, I'm an assistant professor of finance in the Dyson School of the Cornell SC Johnson College of Business, and I primarily conduct research in the areas of portfolio choice and empirical asset pricing. Broadly speaking, the big question that I'm after in my portfolio choice research is how households allocate their financial portfolios across different asset classes, such as stocks and bonds, and why such a large proportion of households don't invest anything in the stock market. My second main line of research is asset pricing. A lot of my work in both areas leverages geography and looks at how investors' geographic locations influence their portfolio decisions, and then how these decisions feed into prices and generate geographic patterns and stock returns. In a new line of research that I'm working on, instead of looking at investors' locations, I'm focusing on firms' locations or their geographic footprints. We study how extreme temperature events affect establishment-level sales and productivity growth in the United States, and the work is really motivated by the scientific evidence supporting climate change, and, in particular, evidence of increases in both mean temperatures and extreme weather events, such as heatwaves. Now, in terms of data, what we did is match a sample of really granular climate data that document daily temperatures across over 480,000 grids covering the continental US with sales and productivity measures for over 165,000 establishments where business is conducted, and what we found was that for the average US establishment, there's actually no evidence that abnormal exposure to extreme temperatures affects sales or productivity...so essentially, we documented a non-result. Now, it's really quite rare to publish a non-result, especially in a top journal, but despite not finding an effect, we think that our study is important for at least a few reasons. First, we think this non-result is an important fact in and of itself--it was not previously known, and we're the first to establish it. But second, we think that the fact really sort of prompted us to think about why we were finding the zero effect on average. We might find that some industries are hurt by extreme temperatures while others actually benefit, and these bi-directional effects might offset or average out to zero, but the effects would still be important for stakeholders in each particular industry, and this bi-directional impact of extreme temperatures is exactly what we end up finding in our working paper. So, for example, in the summer months, we find that extreme heat leads to a big drop in profitability among construction firms-- the heat seems to hurt their labor productivity because the work is conducted outdoors and it's really tough to work outdoors when it's extremely hot outside. In contrast, we find that extreme heat is actually good news for electric utilities in the summer, and the idea here is that regulating indoor temperatures requires more electricity when it's very hot outside and so we see electric utilities experience a jump in profits when summer temperatures are extremely hot. Overall, in the paper, we go through and examine the seasonal sensitivity of earnings for 59 different industries, and we find evidence that extreme temperatures are actually important for over 40 percent of these industries. Our work could help financial market participants better understand swings in firm profitability. I think analysts and investors might be able to use our results to sharpen their forecasts before earnings announcements. Politicians and policymakers are a group that could benefit in terms of understanding where and when we might expect the effects of climate change to show up in the economy, and in turn, this could help them decide where they want to deploy resources in terms of mitigating potential impacts of climate change. And then finally, I think executives and decision-makers inside of companies might themselves find our industry results useful: for example, they might be interested in understanding how extreme temperatures affect their own or maybe even their competitors' profitability. Transcript Request Form Name Email Address Disability Accommodation? Disability Accommodation? Yes No Affiliation -Select- Faculty Staff Student Alumni Other Send Request Cancel X We've received your request You will be notified by email when the transcript and captions are available. The process may take up to 5 business days. Please contact cornellcast@cornell.edu if you have any questions about this request. Assistant Professor Jawad Addoum discusses his recent research on the effects of climate change on firms’ overhead costs, particularly looking at firm locations. More About research faculty climate change finance economics business What to watch next 2:38 MyPlaylist Suzanne Shu on the Research With Impact video series 4:36 MyPlaylist Nancy Chau on contract employment and “alternative employment opportunities" 3:31 MyPlaylist Chris Barrett on the post-harvest value chain 3:39 MyPlaylist Alex Susskind on communication in service-based organizations 3:46 MyPlaylist Yuan Shi on the consequences of short-term-ism,industry patience, and the rising influence of consumers 3:44 MyPlaylist Nathan Yang on retail chain dynamics 3:51 MyPlaylist Matt Marx on entrepreneurship, unobserved commercial potential, and enforcement of employee non-compete agreements 3:45 MyPlaylist Asis Martinez-Jerez on servant leadership and incentives to improve team performance 3:28 MyPlaylist Aija Leiponen on firms’ practices in relation to data privacy 3:32 MyPlaylist Kathy LaTour on online learning and memory 3:36 MyPlaylist Chris Forman on IT investment conditions and knowledge sharing 4:00 MyPlaylist John Tobin-de la Puente on conservation finance 3:39 MyPlaylist Simone Tang on the humanization of organizations 4:04 MyPlaylist Heeyon Kim on status and hierarchy 3:38 MyPlaylist Sanjeev Bhojraj stock compensation expense, cash flows, and inflated valuations 3:43 MyPlaylist Khaled Boughanmi on the consumer experience and the dynamics of success 3:22 MyPlaylist Manoj Thomas on unhealthy consumption in certain populations 3:33 MyPlaylist Manoj Thomas on the psychology of price evaluations 3:42 MyPlaylist Emily Garbinsky on motivating consumers to be more fiscally responsible 3:58 MyPlaylist Miguel Gómez on eco-labels and coffee growers 2:35 MyPlaylist Elizabeth McClean on the ways managers within tech firms respond to external pressure to pay women equitably 3:50 MyPlaylist Vishal Gaur on blockchain applications in supply chain management 2:45 MyPlaylist Vishal Gaur on combining the model and the manager 3:46 MyPlaylist Eswar Prasad on new financial technologies 3:57 MyPlaylist Cathy Kling on the economic valuation of ecosystem services 3:54 MyPlaylist Bill Schmidt on information asymmetry 3:10 MyPlaylist Sunita Sah on the dark side of professionalism 3:46 MyPlaylist Kristi Rennekamp on linguistic formality in firm communications 3:27 MyPlaylist Andrew Davis on information disclosure and supply chain negotiations 3:39 MyPlaylist Kaitlin Woolley on goal-setting and motivations 4:10 MyPlaylist Maureen O’Hara on the inside market 3:49 MyPlaylist Rob Bloomfield on moral accounting 3:47 MyPlaylist Sachin Gupta on health care delivery as it reflects the complexities of society and the marketplace 3:50 MyPlaylist Glen Dowell on the effects of beliefs and norms on businesses’ environmental outcomes 3:25 MyPlaylist Will Cong on financial technology, digital economy, entrepreneurship, business data science 3:28 MyPlaylist Chris Anderson on customer reviews in the lodging space 3:32 MyPlaylist Mark Milstein on sustainability practices and policies 4:02 MyPlaylist Research with impact: Vicki L. Bogan, finance 5:14 MyPlaylist Research with impact: Aija Leiponen, strategy and business economics 4:46 MyPlaylist Research with impact: Matt Marx, management and organizations 4:03 MyPlaylist Research with impact: Suzanne B. Shu, marketing and management communication 4:22 MyPlaylist Research with impact: Jura Liaukonyte, marketing and management communication More from Research With Impact 1:28:28 MyPlaylist Iwan Azis unpacks the 2008 Global Financial Crisis 58:45 MyPlaylist 'The Dollar Trap' book talk by Eswar Prasad surprise me Subscribe Submit Content Contact us RSS Cornell on YouTube Give Feedback Name Email Comments Send or cancel × Feedback Thanks for writing. We will be in touch shortly to address any questions, concerns, or technical difficulties you may have. × Schedule of Future Events There are no live broadcasts scheduled. × Email Updates See what's new on CornellCast and find out what's coming up next — and how you can take part. Subscribe to receive weekly CornellCast updates via email. Email address Subscribe or cancel × Subscribe Our hamsters have processed your subscription request and advise that the weekly update messages will contain details on unsubscribing in case you need them. × List Sent Our hamsters have processed your request and advise that a summary has been sent to the email address entered. × RSVP to this Live Event tdb tbd Enter your email below to be notified when this event begins Name Email Address Set reminder for Set reminder for 5 minutes 15 minutes 30 minutes 1 hour 1 day before the event starts. RSVP or cancel × RSVP Successful You should receive an email confirmation shortly. We will send you an email reminder before the show begins. You may request additional reminders for other times if you wish. You can also add this event to a calendar of your choice iCal/Outlook/other Google calendar For iCal, an .ics file will be downloaded to your computer or device. You may need to take additional steps to add the event to your personal calendar. × Settings Let us know your preferences and our accommodating hamsters will snap to it! Autoplay: on off Update or cancel × Follow this tbd tbd Enter your email below to be notified when new related videos become available. Name Email Address Follow or cancel × Thanks for Your Interest You should receive an email confirmation shortly. We will send you an email message when new related videos are posted. ×