Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Topics Health and Medicine Date March 3, 2022 2022-03-03 Media Contact News Staff [email protected] 401-863-2476 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email COVID-19 has taken heavy toll on health workers and systems, Brown physician-scientist tells Congress By Lauren Borsa-Curran Dr. Megan Ranney, a practicing emergency physician and academic dean of Brown’s School of Public Health, told a U.S. House committee that the nation can learn from the past to build stronger, more viable health care systems. PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — Health care staffing and supply chain shortages, unreliable data and rampant misinformation are among the hurdles the country’s health care systems continue to confront as providers work to effectively battle COVID-19 and other potential future pandemics. That’s what Dr. Megan Ranney — a Brown professor of emergency medicine and public health and academic dean at the University’s School of Public Health — told members of Congress in a Wednesday, March 2, hearing. “All of this can be fixed,” Ranney testified. “As Americans, we have a long history of transforming a public health crisis into opportunity.” Ranney was among a panel of experts whom lawmakers tapped into for insights on the struggles that health care workers and health care systems have faced since COVID-19 spread across the nation in 2020. Convened by the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Energy and Commerce’s Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, the hearing was titled “Lessons from the Frontline: COVID-19's Impact on American Health Care.” In her opening remarks, Ranney, who is a practicing emergency physician, detailed the mental and physical impacts suffered by health care providers after working at a feverish pace to treat patients during a pandemic now headed into its third year. Those ranks of health care workers suffered a heavy toll, she said. “The most significant reason for staffing shortages: the mental and emotional effect of repeated COVID-19 surges on our health care providers who keep showing up, but our work is getting tougher, and there are no reinforcements in sight,” she told lawmakers. COVID also exposed weaknesses in health care data and information systems and in the supply chains on which providers rely, Ranney said. “We need good data — timely, accurate, transparent, complete — to make good decisions about what’s needed when, where and for whom,” she said. “Although early PPE shortages have resolved, we face new and worsening problems with key tests, therapeutics and equipment for both COVID and non-COVID-related care.” After the heated political battles prompted by the pandemic, more must be done to reestablish public trust in science and medicine after the past two years, Ranney said. “The increasing politicization, misinformation and public mistrust around COVID has had a deep impact on health care workers, public health and the quality of care provided,” she said. “Three-quarters of health care workers say that misinformation has negatively influenced both patients’ decisions to get vaccinated and patient care.” Ranney outlined numerous solutions to lawmakers, including more support for health care workers, treating the medical supply chain “as a concern of national security and health,” and efforts needed to rebuild public trust. “Every American wants to be able to show up at an emergency department and get timely and appropriate care for their emergency,” she said. “Right now, they cannot. Throughout the pandemic, we have relied too heavily on stop-gap solutions instead of addressing the underlying issues. I urge you. Please. Think bigger and do more.” Ranney’s complete written testimony and a video of the proceedings are available on the House Committee on Energy and Commerce website. Tags COVID-19 School of Public Health Warren Alpert Medical School Related news: Health and Medicine Brown physician, medical student urge stronger federal support for overdose prevention centers May 23, 2022 Elizabeth Samuels, an assistant professor at the Warren Alpert Medical School, and medical student Aneeqah Naeem argued for federal action supporting harm reduction centers such as those authorized in Rhode Island. Read Article Open details for Brown physician, medical student urge stronger federal support for overdose prevention centers Health and Medicine In student address, medical school graduate to reflect on finding strength in uncertainty May 16, 2022 Adriel Barrios-Anderson, who served as a student orator upon earning his bachelor’s degree from Brown in 2017, hopes to inspire newly minted M.D.s to feel confident about embracing the uncertainty of the future. Read Article Open details for In student address, medical school graduate to reflect on finding strength in uncertainty Health and Medicine ‘This was our moment’ — medical students embrace non-traditional timing for long-standing white coat tradition May 3, 2022 The Warren Alpert Medical School’s Class of 2024 celebrated together at an in-person white coat ceremony that was held two years later than usual, but still felt timely. Read Article Open details for ‘This was our moment’ — medical students embrace non-traditional timing for long-standing white coat tradition Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search COVID-19 has taken heavy toll on health workers and systems, Brown physician-scientist tells Congress Open details for COVID-19 has taken heavy toll on health workers and systems, Brown physician-scientist tells Congress Bookmark this Page