Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Current Students Alumni Recruiters Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About Overview Dean's Message Why the Carroll School? Diversity & Inclusion Diversity News Accreditation Board of Advisors Faculty Openings Visit Contact Related Links About Boston College Maps & Directions BC News Undergraduate Overview Academics Advising Peer Advisors Staff Advisors Concentrations Minors The Kevin Eidt Memorial Scholarship Career Accelerator Summer Management Catalyst Program Portico Careers Social Media CSOM Undergraduate Career Resources Placement Data Career Accelerator Study Abroad Community & Student Life FAQ CSOM Undergrad FAQs: COVID-19 Mar 13: Letter From Undergraduate Dean's Office Mar 20: Registration and Advising Updates Contact Graduate Overview Admission Visits and Events Tuition and Aid O’Brien Fellowship Graduate Admission FAQ International Applicants Information for U.S. Military MBA Programs Full-Time MBA Part-Time MBA Data Analytics Sequence Electives Applied Learning BC MBA Ambassadors M.S. Programs M.S. in Finance M.S. in Accounting Ph.D. Programs Ph.D. in Accounting Ph.D. in Finance Ph.D. in Organization Studies Community & Student Life Living in Boston Career Development Faculty Overview Faculty Directory Part-Time Faculty Faculty Expertise Departments Overview Concentrations Academics Accounting Undergraduate Concentrations Seminar Series Careers Message From the Chairperson Business Analytics Concentration & Academics Careers Seminar Series Message From the Chairperson Business Law & Society Finance Academics and Study Abroad F22 Registration Info Faculty Ph.D. Program Seminar Series Job Market Candidates Message From the Chairperson Information Systems Concentration & Academics Message From the Chairperson Seminar Series Management & Organization Concentration & Academics Seminar Series Careers Message From the Chairperson Marketing Concentration & Academics Careers Awards and Appointments Faculty Message From the Chairperson Fall 2022 Registration Centers Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Carroll School Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Current Students Alumni Recruiters BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Graduate Admission Tuition and Aid Tuition and Aid O’Brien Fellowship Tuition and Aid A graduate degree from Boston College is an excellent investment in your future. The Carroll School provides a wide range of merit-based scholarships and assistantships to both domestic and international full-time candidates. Boston College also offers loan and work-study programs to help students finance their educations. Tuition and Expenses Scholarships and Aid Tuition Tuition costs shown below are for the 2022-23 academic year. Full-Time MBA Program Tuition rate per semester: $29,515 Full-Time MSF and MSA Programs Tuition rate per credit hour: $2,012 Program total: $60,360 Part-Time MBA and MSF Programs Tuition rate per credit hour: $2,012 Total credit hours in the part-time MBA program: 57 Total credit hours in the part-time MSF program: 30 Expenses The expenses listed below reflect estimated amounts for the 2022-2023 academic year (a period of nine months). For more information on cost of attendance, visit the Graduate Financial Aid page. Item Cost Graduate Student Activity Fee (7 or more credits) $63 (per semester) Graduate Student Activity Fee (less than 7 credits) $37 (per semester) Initial Boston College ID Card For Entering Students Fee $45 Medical Insurance** $3,535 Rent/Utilities $12,285 Meals $3,200 Transportation $2,020 Personal Expenses $3,255 Books and Supplies $1,300 **Insurance premium per student for the 2021-22 academic year. For part-time students, medical insurance is required if not provided by an employer. Learn more about medical insurance enrollment and waivers. NOTE: Tuition rates, all fees, rules and regulations, courses and course content are subject to revision by the President and Board of Trustees or School Dean at any time. Merit-Based Scholarships and Fellowships All domestic and international applicants to the full-time MBA, MSF, and MSA programs are considered for merit-based scholarships and assistantships. Scholarship decisions are made and communicated with admission decisions. Ninety percent of entering full-time MBA students in 2021 received Dean’s Scholarships, with the average award totaling approximately $19,000. More than half of the entering part-time MBA class in 2021 received awards, with the average award totaling over $7,000. The Chandra International MBA Fellowship Through a gift established in 2003 by Monica Chandra, MBA ’87 and her brother Amit Chandra, MBA ’93, this fund provides scholarship assistance for MBA students enrolled in the Carroll School of Management, with first preference to students from India and second preference to those from Southeast Asia. Dean’s Scholarships These institutional awards are awarded to exceptionally strong MBA, MSA, and MSF candidates. Dean’s Scholarships range in value and provide tuition remission for graduate study in the Carroll School. The Diane H. Weiss MBA ’85 Memorial Fellowship Established by classmates of Diane H. Weiss, MBA/MSW ’85 in consultation with Ms. Weiss’ father, Warren A. Weiss. This fellowship supports a Carroll School of Management student, with first preference for a student in the MBA/MSW dual degree program and second preference for a student in the MBA program, who has a demonstrated focus on professional mission-driven initiatives. The John J. McMullen Fellowship Established in 2003 by John J. McMullen P ’81, the fellowship recognizes exceptional candidates for the full-time MBA, MSF, or dual degree MBA/MSF programs who have graduated from the United States Naval Academy. Recipients recommended by the U.S. Naval Academy may be granted full tuition remission for up to two years (20 months) of graduate study. The Michael F. Price Fellowship: The Wall Street Executive Fellows Program Through a gift established in 2000 by Michael F. Price P ’02, the fellowship provides a full tuition scholarship for a full-time graduate student. The O’Brien Fellowship Established through the generosity of global business leader and philanthropist Denis O’Brien, MBA ’82, the O’Brien Fellowship financially supports individuals pursuing a full-time MBA degree at the Boston College Carroll School of Management with an interest in the economy of Ireland or business development in Ireland. Learn more about the O’Brien Fellowship. The Prospanica Fellowship Prospanica is a non-profit organization that seeks to empower Hispanic professionals to achieve their full educational, economic, and social potential. As a partner school of Prospanica, the Carroll School of Management offers the Prospanica Fellowship to one full-time MBA applicant of Hispanic heritage or an individual who has demonstrated commitment to the Hispanic community. Candidates seeking to apply for this fellowship are required to have a minimum GPA of 3.0 from either a bachelor’s or master’s degree, and must express interest in the fellowship in the essay section of their application. The ROMBA LGBT+ Fellowship The mission of Reaching Out MBA (ROMBA) is to increase the influence of the LGBT+ community in business by educating, inspiring, and connecting MBA students and alumni. As a ROMBA partner school, the Carroll School of Management offers the ROMBA LGBT+ Fellowship to two full-time MBA applicants. Candidates seeking to apply for this fellowship are asked to express interest in the essay section of their application. The Ruth and Stephen Barrett Family Graduate Fellowship Established in 2004 by R. Stephen Barrett, Jr., MBA ’78, P ’02 and Ruth T. Barrett P ’02, the Barrett Family Fellowship provides support for a graduate fellow in the Carroll School. Assistantships Graduate assistantships typically offer a stipend in exchange for either research or administrative responsibility. Assistantships can be offered in combination with scholarship awards, typically to full-time MBA and MSF students. U.S. Military and Veterans’ Benefits Veterans and military personnel are eligible for financial assistance with educational expenses. The GI Bill® provides a variety of resources, while the Yellow Ribbon Program offers support to veterans of the U.S. Armed Forces who are eligible for the Post-9/11 GI Bill. What’s more, military members and veterans who have been on active duty within the past 15 years of their application are eligible for an application fee waiver. For more information about financial assistance programs available to Veterans and active duty service men and women, please visit our U.S. Military and Veterans’ Benefits page. Additionally, AffordableColleges.com provides a helpful Financial Aid Guide for Military Servicemembers. GI Bill® is a registered trademark of the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). More information about education benefits offered by VA is available at the official U.S. government Web site at https://www.benefits.va.gov/gibill. Applying for Financial Aid To apply for merit-based scholarships and assistantships, simply indicate your interest on the application for admission. For questions about need-based or loan-based financial assistance, please contact Boston College’s Office of Financial Services: If your last name begins with a letter from A through F or S through Z, Elaine Holloman is your financial aid counselor. If your last name begins with a letter from G through R, Marsia Hill Kreaime is your financial aid counselor. Graduate Student Financial Aid Forms » ADDITIONAL FINANCIAL AID RESOURCES Students looking to fund their education may wish to consider online resources for information on grants and scholarships. Below is a sample of leading scholarship search providers: FinAid FastWEB CollegeNet The College Board Peterson’s Scholarship Search MoneyGeek Back To Top Back To Top Carroll School of Management Fulton Hall Boston College 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467-3809 About the Carroll School Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Centers Contact Accreditation Apply Visit Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College