COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Physical Therapy, Doctorate DoctoratePhysical Therapy All Programs College of Health Professions Physical Therapy Wichita State’s Doctor of Physical Therapy (DPT) program combines its accredited program with extensive applied learning in Kansas’ health care hub—and the latest in physical therapy equipment and technology. Graduates are prepared for high-paying, high-demand careers in diverse settings as well as for roles as educators in the promotion of wellness and fitness. Learn how Physical Therapy is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program Applicants must have: A bachelor’s degree from regionally accredited institution A minimum 3.0 GPA in the last 60 semester credit hours; 3.0 GPA in prerequisite courses; and 3.0 overall GPA Completed prerequisites by the spring prior to starting the program in the summer For additional admission details, click on the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Collaborative project helps local children with disabilities As a physical therapy student, you have the opportunity to put your classroom knowledge to work in the real world, while also making a difference in children’s lives through GoBabyGo! The program allows physical therapy students to collaborate with engineering and other students with the goal of modifying off-the-shelf toy ride-on cars for children with disabilities. GoBabyGo is an applied learning experience that allows students to practice following a budget, working with children and families, designing and selecting materials, learning new tools, troubleshooting and working in multidisciplinary teams. Learn more about GoBabyGo! Curriculum The DPT program is located at WSU’s Old Town campus. It starts in the summer, requires 36 consecutive months of full-time study and lasts nine semesters. View the curriculum Careers A physical therapy degree from Wichita State will open doors to a rapidly growing, high-demand career in the prevention, rehabilitation and treatment of patients with chronic conditions, illnesses or injuries. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Pre-Medicine 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©