Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Blackboard CyBox CyMail Outlook More Sign Ons... Iowa State University Plant Sciences Institute Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Dashboard Login Home Faculty Scholars Current Faculty Scholars Former Faculty Scholars Advisory Board Current Advisory Board Members Former Advisory Board Members Grant Awards Publications Resources Business Incubators News & Announcements About Us Director Staff Student Assistants Building Location Conference Room Reservations Affiliated Centers Contact Us Roy J. Carver Co-Laboratory, home of the Plant Sciences Institute. The 45,000 square foot facility houses research laboratories and business incubator space to facilitate biotechnology research, technology transfer and economic development related to plant science. The Plant Sciences Institute is housed in the Roy J. Carver Co-Laboratory (1111 WOI Road, Ames, Iowa 50011-1085), which is located north of the communications and molecular biology buildings in the NW corner of the Iowa State University campus. PSI Faculty Scholar Liang Dong, associate professor in electrical and computer engineering, holds a three-inch silicon wafer containing thousands of microscale sensors developed in his Micro-Electro-Mechanical Systems (MEMS) and Biochip Laboratory. The sensors were designed to measure plant and soil nutrients. MEMS and Biochip Laboratory Website $20 million federal grant launches AI institute for better crops, agricultural production Dr. Baskar Ganapathysubramanian launches AI Institute for Resilient Agriculture (AIIRA). The latest artificial intelligence tools will allow researchers to develop digital twins of individual crop plants and entire farm fields, helping plant breeders improve crop varieties and farmers boost production. Read More College of Agriculture and Life Sciences Names Carolyn Lawrence-Dill Associate Dean for Research and Discovery Dr. Carolyn Lawrence-Dill named associate dean for research and discovery for Iowa State University's College of Agriculture and Life Sciences. Read More 1 Roy J. Carver Co-Laboratory, home of the Plant Sciences Institute. The 45,000 square foot facility houses research laboratories and business incubator space to facilitate biotechnology research, technology transfer and economic development related to plant science. 2 The Plant Sciences Institute is housed in the Roy J. Carver Co-Laboratory (1111 WOI Road, Ames, Iowa 50011-1085), which is located north of the communications and molecular biology buildings in the NW corner of the Iowa State University campus. 3 PSI Faculty Scholar Liang Dong, associate professor in electrical and computer engineering, holds a three-inch silicon wafer containing thousands of microscale sensors developed in his Micro-Electro-Mechanical Systems (MEMS) and Biochip Laboratory. The sensors were designed to measure plant and soil nutrients. MEMS and Biochip Laboratory Website 4 Dr. Baskar Ganapathysubramanian launches AI Institute for Resilient Agriculture (AIIRA). The latest artificial intelligence tools will allow researchers to develop digital twins of individual crop plants and entire farm fields, helping plant breeders improve crop varieties and farmers boost production. Read More 5 Dr. Carolyn Lawrence-Dill named associate dean for research and discovery for Iowa State University's College of Agriculture and Life Sciences. Read More About Us The Plant Sciences Institute is dedicated to enhancing Iowa State University's international prominence in the plant sciences. Our research focus is to understand the effects of genotype and environment on phenotypes (traits) sufficiently well that we will be able to predict phenotype of a given genotype in a given environment (i.e., predictive phenomics) Learn More About PSI Faculty Scholars News & Announcements Wednesday February 9, 2022 PSI Scholar Liang Dong honored with new professorship role Read more Thursday January 20, 2022 Plant Sciences Institute Welcomes Four New Faculty Scholars in Third Cohort Read more Monday January 10, 2022 Second round of grants awarded in agriculture genome-to-phenome research Read more Friday January 7, 2022 Liang Dong named director of Microelectronics Research Center Read more Monday November 29, 2021 Two PIRI awards grant $900,000 to support translational artificial intelligence and foster rural innovation Read more Thursday October 28, 2021 Liang Dong, professor of electrical and computer engineering, to the inaugural Vikram L. Dalal Professorship in Electrical and Computer Engineering Read more More News & Announcements Plant Sciences Institute 1111 WOI Road Roy J. Carver Co-Laboratory Iowa State University Ames, IA 50011-1085 psihelp@iastate.edu Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube RSS Copyright © 1995-2022 Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Loading...