Skip to the main content United States Air Force Academy Go to home page image/svg+xml Page 1 Go to home page Link to home page Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Menu Search the Site Academics A rigorous academic program that balances STEM with the arts and humanities. Academics Core Curriculum Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Registrar Faculty and Staff Directory Academic Success Center Request a Transcript Investigator or Verifications Admissions News Research Learn more about cutting-edge research that supports the Air Force and our global society. Research Office of Research Research Centers Cadet Summer Research STEM Outreach Future Conflict Cadet Life Take a peek into the life of a United States Air Force Academy cadet. Cadet Life Dormitories & Dining Cadet Clubs Cadet Support Services Day in the Life Frequently Asked Questions Military With a focus on innovation and adaptation to the changing world of warfare, we’re setting higher expectations for what it means to serve. Military Basic Cadet Training Squadrons Airmanship Military Careers Wings of Blue Athletics About There’s no limit to what you will achieve here. Academics. Athletics. Military training. We deliver the future leaders of modern warfare. About Leadership Character Development History Awards Traditions Educational Innovation More Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today ‘Power of partnerships’: SECDEF gives commencement speech to AF Academy’s Class of 2022 Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin III shakes hands with graduates in the U.S. Air Force Academy’s Class of 2022 May 25, 2022. Austin was the commencement speaker for the graduation ceremony. (U.S. Air Force photo) By Ray Bowden U.S. Air Force Academy Public Affairs U.S. AIR FORCE ACADEMY, Colo. – Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin III said newly commissioned officers graduating from the U.S. Air Force Academy May 25 will bring their dedication to service and innovation to the U.S. Air Force and U.S. Space Force. Austin gave the commencement speech for the Class of 2022 at the school’s graduation ceremony in Falcon Stadium, speaking to 973 graduates, faculty, staff and thousands of friends and relatives. The Secretary of Defense encouraged the graduates to promote democracy, provide for the security of the U.S. and strive for innovation throughout their military careers. “Innovation is the ballgame of the 21st century and countries either lead or get left behind,” he said. “As the Defense Department weaves together our concepts and capabilities in new and networked ways, we’re going to call on you.” Austin said the Class of 2022 serves in an era of complex geopolitical movements but proved its dedication by overcoming the Academy’s academic, military and physical challenges during the coronavirus pandemic and other tests and trials. “In just four years, you’ve seen more changes than many see in a lifetime,” he said. “A pandemic reminded us that some of this century’s biggest threats don’t even notice borders. America’s longest war – one that spanned nearly all of your lifetimes – came to an end and Russia’s cruel and unprovoked invasion of Ukraine dragged Europe into the largest security crisis since World War II. “Graduating from this Academy is hard enough without a global pandemic, and graduating after years clouded by COVID shows serious courage and behavior,” Austin said. “But what counts is how you respond to hard times and I’m told that during lockdown you kept this wing flying and insisted on taking care of each other. Your class motto is ‘strength through sacrifice’ and during a once-in-a-generation pandemic, that’s exactly what you showed.” Specifically referring to Russia, the Secretary of Defense said “America’s adversaries are testing the values cadets have sworn to defend.” “Putin’s war of choice is an affront to the rules-based international order and a challenge to free people everywhere,” he said. “The world has been inspired by the bravery of the Ukrainian people and I know you have as well.” Frank Kendall, Secretary of the Air Force, spoke at the ceremony before Austin, calling Russia an “acute threat” and China a “strategic, well-resourced threat.” “You are graduating during an inflection point in our history,” he said. Austin said the Class of 2022 has a direct role in promoting the international partnerships and teamwork that can quell threats from hostile nations. These partnerships, he said, “are central to our strength.” “The power of partnerships helped us rush aid to let Ukraine defend itself,” he said. “In the Indo-Pacific, it’s helping us counter aggressive behavior from the People’s Republic of China, which our new National Defense Strategy calls the ‘pacing challenge’ for the U.S. military. You’ll see the power of teamwork as Airmen, Guardians and warfighters.” Austin said he expects the graduates to be positive examples to all they come across during their military careers. “You don’t get bogged down in ugliness or division,” he said. “You’re always chasing new horizons. You move faster, see further and fly higher. All of you have answered your country’s call with courage and commitment, with tenacity and teamwork, and with strength and sacrifice. With outstanding young leaders like the Class of 2022, the future of our country is bright.” Older The Breakdown: Stats on the Air Force Academy’s class of ‘22 Share Newer Vietnamese citizen takes part in DOD, Air Force Academy international programs General Audience Vietnamese citizen takes part in DOD, Air Force Academy international... Continue Reading this article General Audience ‘Power of partnerships’: SECDEF gives commencement speech to AF Academy’s... Continue Reading this article General Audience, Space The Breakdown: Stats on the Air Force Academy’s class of... Continue Reading this article Graduates, Space ‘Two services, one Academy’: AF Academy, Space Force teamwork make... Continue Reading this article General Audience, Parents, Prep School 171 cadet-candidates graduate from Academy’s prep school Continue Reading this article Research, Space Innovation at the Academy: It’s like riding a bike Continue Reading this article General Audience, Graduates, Parents, Research Democratizing innovation: Cadet says Air Force Academy research is for... Continue Reading this article General Audience Cadets experience operational Air Force at Cannon ABF, NM Continue Reading this article ACADEMICS Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Research Centers Faculty and Staff Directory CAMPUS Events Employment Emergency Weather Helping Agencies Apps COMMUNITY AF CyberWorx USAFA Band Force Support Wings of Blue VISIT Visitors Campus Map Facilities Cadet Chapel Planetarium Base Access Contact Us Social Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Flickr © 2022 United States Air Force Academy, All Rights Reserved The appearance of hyperlinks does not constitute endorsement by the Department of the Air Force or the information, products, or services contained therein. For other than authorized activities such as military exchanges and morale, welfare and recreation sites, the Department of the Air Force does not exercise any editorial control over the information you may find at these locations. Such links provided are consistent with the stated purpose of this DOD Web site.