COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Hippodrome Section Menu Campus Traditions Event & Ticket Information Past Winners Judge Hippodrome Skit Competition Variety Acts Emcee Information Hippodrome Links Buy Tickets Past Winners Join Campus Traditions Student Activities Council Hippodrome Skit & Talent Competition Hippodrome is a celebration of the arts and features the creative talents of Wichita State Shockers! Students interested in participating in Hippodrome can do so in the following ways: 1) Create a Skit, 2) Showcase a Talent, or 3) Emcee the Show. The 94th Annual Hippodrome will feature these perfromances in the Skit & Talent Competition on April 8, 2022 at 7 p.m. in the CAC Theater. Groups participating in the Skit Competition will perform a 15 to 20 minute scripted performance with the use of this year's theme: Children's Books. The top three winners of the Skit Competition will receive awards for 1st, 2nd and 3rd place, as well as individual awards for Best Actor, Best Use of Mystery Item and Spirit. The talent competition will be hosted in conjunction with the skit competition. Performers will take the stage between skit performances and 1st, 2nd, and 3rd place winners will take home cash prizes up to $150. Hippodrome first appeared in 1928 where students and organizations were invited to enter a stunt competition for a ten dollar prize. This traditional week used to be a one-day event but has since dramatically grown to include a full week’s worth of activities. The early years saw such events as wrestling and boxing matches, organizational booths and a country store. Hippodrome has been cancelled twice since its inception, once during WWII and the most recent during the coronavirus pandemic beginning in 2020. This year, Hippodrome returns to it's original form as a one-day event. Event Info Be a part of the show Skit Competition Find all rules, deadlines and considerations for the 2021 Hippodrome Skit Competition using the link below. The resource page includes everything you need to know to submit a video for consieration. Register your Skit Talent Competition Show us your talent! Hippodrome has welcomed singers, musicians, magicians and so much more! Be part of Hippodrome and show others what you've got! Performers will take the stage between screenings of each short film and will have up to 5 minutes to perform. Enter your talent Emcee Information Wednesday and Thursday Night shows are emceed by a selected student performer. This emcee will introduce videos and keep the audience entertained during any down time. Emcees are provided a small stipend for their time. Register for tryouts Playbill Ads Our primary support is our advertisers, who place ads in our Hippodrome playbill. The playbill is the main keepsake for the week, consisting of: The performing groups and a little about them Contains a special section to commemorate the Hippodrome tradition The Hippodrome playbill will be distributed during the event, April 8. Needless to say, this is a great bargain in advertising, as there are many advantages: Exposure to Wichita State students, faculty and staff, Maximum coverage during all Hippodrome events, Your advertisement will be seen by hundreds of people. The deadline to purchase an ad is Wednesday, March 16. Buy an Ad! Judge Hippodrome Become part of the longest standing tradition that is Hippodrome. The Campus Traditions Committee accepts faculty, staff, alumni and community members who are not affiliated with competing organizations. Apply Now 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©