COVID-19 Information logo Academics ACADEMICS Master’s Programs Master of Social Work MS in Social Policy MSSP+DA MS in Nonprofit Leadership Certificate Programs and Specializations MSW Certificate Programs & Specializations MSSP Certificate Programs NPL Certificate Programs Doctoral Programs PhD in Social Welfare Doctorate in Clinical Social Work Interdisciplinary Partnerships MSW/Certificate in Jewish Communal Service NPL/Center for Social Impact Strategy Executive Program NPL/Certificate in Jewish Communal Service NPL/Certificate in Jewish Nonprofit Management NPL/MA in Hebrew Letters NPL/MA in Jewish Communal Service NPL/Master of Social Welfare Dual Degree Programs Submatriculation for Penn Undergraduates MSW Dual Degree Programs MSSP Dual Degree Programs NPL Dual Degree Programs Continuing Education: OpenSP2 Academics The world needs leaders equipped with tools to make a difference. The School of Social Policy & Practice (SP2) will prepare you to become one of those leaders, as a policy maker, practitioner, educator, activist, and more. Learn More Admissions ADMISSIONS How to Apply Master of Social Work MS in Social Policy MS in Nonprofit Leadership PhD in Social Welfare Doctorate in Clinical Social Work Financial Aid Tuition and Fees Admissions Events Admissions Begin your journey to become part of the next generation of changemakers for social innovation, justice, and impact at the School of Social Policy & Practice (SP2). Learn More Apply Now Research RESEARCH Areas of Research Economic Security Children, Women, & Family Well-Being Data-Driven Policy Analysis + Evidence-Based Practice Health Equity, Mental Health & Aging Mass Incarceration, Homelessness, Substance Use Social Innovation, Philanthropy, + Nonprofit Management Identity, Immigration, + Racism Technology, Ethics, & Social Policy Visiting Students and Scholars Research Cutting-edge research leads to innovation and impact. Research at SP2 is led by renowned faculty who are highly respected practitioners, educators, and mentors. Learn More Faculty FACULTY Faculty News Faculty Directory Faculty Resources Students STUDENTS Student News Accepted Students Student Life Philadelphia Alumni Mentoring Libraries Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Health & Wellness Student Organizations Career & Professional Development Academic and Writing Support Academic Resources Master of Social Work MS in Social Policy MS in Nonprofit Leadership PhD in Social Welfare Doctorate in Clinical Social Work Global Opportunities Academic Policies and Procedures Students Our close-knit community is committed to progress, innovation, and social justice. Learn More Alumni ALUMNI Alumni News Career Services Networking Mentoring Opportunities Get Involved Nonprofit Leadership Alumni Association Dean’s Alumni Advisory Board Alumni Events Alumni Our students graduate committed to bringing innovation and passion to the pursuit of justice and positive social impact. Learn More Info For… INFO FOR Students Accepted Students Staff Faculty Field Instructors Community Partners Media Visitors ABOUT About Who We Are Why Sp2? Quick Facts SP2 Board Inclusion Dean’s Welcome APPLY NOW GIVE Give Giving Opportunities Your Impact Search Education. Action. Impact. PRACTICE AND RESEARCH FOR SOCIAL JUSTICE FACTS AND FIGURES Committed to inclusion, excellence, and impact. 250k Number of hours spent in field placements, internships, and practicums each year 500+ Number of available field placements, internships, and practicum sites #1 1 U.S. News & World Report ranking for Best Grad School Social Work Program 86% Percentage of students who applied for & received financial assistance 7.8k+ SP2 alumni network GIVING Support SP2 When you give to SP2, you ensure our faculty, students, and alumni have the resources they need to be driving forces for positive change in child welfare, homelessness, mental health, public health policy, racial and gender equity, and more. GIVE NOW INCLUSION Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Our commitment to anti-racism, anti-oppression, intersectionality, and social justice is at the core of everything we do. LEARN MORE Pursue Your Passion Master’s PROGRAMS Our diverse master’s programs equip you with the theoretical skills and practical experience you need to make a lifetime of impact. MORE > DOCTORAL PROGRAMS Prepare to make your mark as an advanced social work scholar or practitioner through our rigorous PhD and DSW programs. MORE > Dual degree PROGRAMS We partner with other schools from across Penn to offer dual degrees in a range of different disciplines. MORE > certificate PROGRAMS & specializations Enhance and deepen your SP2 experience by digging deep into a specific sub-specialty or area of interest. MORE > interdisciplinary partnerships Unique partnerships with organizations at Penn and around the world provide novel opportunities for transdisciplinary collaboration. MORE > continuing education: opensp2 We provide a wide range of flexible, convenient, and relevant continuing education and professional development offerings. MORE > Alumni Leaders Shweta Chopra, MSSP+DA’19 Originally from India, Chopra’s undergraduate education in economics and liberal arts helped her make sense of a diverse and unequal world. Today, she’s using her SP2 experience to make a difference as a data scientist for BlueLabs Analytics. Read More Student Stories Codi Smith, PhD in Social Welfare ’22 After working in the nonprofit sector, Smith, who began pursuing her PhD after a stint in the nonprofit sector, is leading research that explores management of the “third sector” in international settings and their place within cross-sector partnerships. REad More Research Areas We’re conducting groundbreaking, transdisciplinary research that explores the root causes of oppression and inequality – and works to produce innovative, effective solutions. Data-Driven Policy Analysis & Evidence-Based Practice Health Equity, Mental Health, & Aging Children, Women, & Family Well-Being Economic Security Mass Incarceration, Homelessness, Substance Use Social Innovation, Philanthropy, & Nonprofit Management Identity, Immigration, & Racism Technology, ethics, & social policy Events 06/24 Last Day of Field Placement for Foundation Year Part-time students MORE > News Faculty & Research 05/25 Exploring Racism’s Health Impact in a VA Renal Clinic A study of Black patients at a Veterans Affairs renal clinic investigated how structural racism impacted their lives and experience being treated for chronic kidney disease. “One of the things […] MORE > Footer DIRECTORY NEWS EVENTS POLICIES & PROCEDURES SP2 Academic Calendar EMPLOYMENT CONTACT US DISCLAIMER PRIVACY STATEMENT REPORT ACCESSIBILITY ISSUES/GET HELP SCHOOL OF SOCIAL POLICY & PRACTICE 3701 Locust Walk Philadelphia, PA 19104-6214 PHONE: 215 898 5512 FAX: 215 573 2099 FOLLOW US pennsp2 View May 27 Open SP2 PhD student Jess Kim is one of the organizers behind a push for AAPI education in K-12 classrooms. Kim says that learning AAPI history can instill a greater sense of identity and belonging, strengthen a sense of civic engagement for Asian Americans and help build multiracial coalitions. Link in bio. ... pennsp2 View May 26 Open A study of Black patients at a Veterans Affairs renal clinic investigated how structural racism impacted their lives and experience being treated for chronic kidney disease. “One of the things we’re working through now is how to provide the evidentiary point that racism is a trauma,” says Kevin Ahmaad Jenkins of the Leonard Davis Institute and SP2. See link in bio. ... pennsp2 View May 20 Open Congratulations, Class of 2022! More photos from the commencement luncheon and commencement ceremony are available at the link in bio. #SP2Grad ...