Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University Strategic Relations and Communications Menu Toggle Search Main navigation About us News and Stories Inside Iowa State Inside Update News Releases Meetings Coverage Regents Updates Change Agent features Five Questions features Futurity.org research headlines Services Internal Communications News Service Photography Social Media University Marketing Videography Public Records Public Records FAQ Public Records Log Reports Transparency Innovation at Work Strengthening Iowa Communities Innovation is the cornerstone of Iowa State University's culture. Faculty, scientists and students are conducting groundbreaking work that improves the quality of life in every corner of the state and beyond. Each story in this series highlights the collaboration and creativity that fuel the drive to find solutions to big challenges. From strengthening mental health to beautifying Iowa communities, to finding new markets for next-generation agricultural products, Iowa State is making a difference. This collection of words, photos and video showcases Iowa State's Innovation at Work. Breaking ground on next-generation agricultural markets Iowa State University scientists are working on innovative ways to grow new value, new markets and new revenue from Iowa soils -- all while protecting the environment and climate. Read more Unconventional methods to boost rural quality of life There’s a surprising similarity between Iowa and the Czech Republic. It’s led to groundbreaking research at Iowa State into why some rural Iowa towns are thriving, even as their populations shrink. Read more Providing guidance for retail and small businesses Iowa State has a long history of helping business owners and entrepreneurs find innovative solutions to grow their business, which strengthens communities and boosts local economies. Read More By the numbers: Fostering economic growth Economic development is a top priority for Iowa State, and the numbers tell a story of the impact university initiatives, services and programs have on the state economy. Read more Building a broadband prairie by expanding rural wireless With a new Center for Wireless, Communities and Innovation, Iowa State is working to be a leader in developing advanced wireless technologies for affordable, universal, rural broadband. Read More Taking the Classroom to Main Street Each semester, student teams partner with a specific community in Iowa, bringing fresh ideas to help businesses stay competitive. Read more Iowa State University Strategic Relations and Communications Contact Strategic Relations and Communications 2420 Lincoln Way, Suite 201 Ames, Iowa 50014-8340 contact@iastate.edu 515-294-7958 phone Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information Loading...