By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home About Community Engagement Programs and Resources More from this Section Partners Request Meeting Space Contact Us Who We Are Programs and Resources COVID-19 Resources and Information Our current COVID level on campus is: BLUE For the latest information on the university’s COVID-19 policies and masking guidelines, visit the Stay Safe website. For more detailed information regarding the University’s current COVID level system and guidance, visit our FAQ page. More information about COVID-19 can be found on the Onondaga County Health Department COVID-19 resource page. Programs Adopt A Classroom The Adopt A Classroom program connects students engaged in programming at the different community centers to students serving as mentors. Contact: Office of Community Engagement Blessings in a Backpack Blessings in a Backpack is a national program with local support organized on campus by two groups of Syracuse University student athletes. The athletes held a fundraising drive entitled “44 Hours of Giving” on November 18-19, 2021, with the goal of raising $20,000 in partnership with the Syracuse City School District. Please consider supporting this effort by donating here. Citizens Academy The Citizens Academy is an interactive educational program that informs Onondaga County citizens how local governments are organized and how services are funded and delivered. It is a place to learn about citizen involvement through an integrated approach to economic vitality, social equity and a healthy environment. Citizens Academy was created and is administered by FOCUS Greater Syracuse and Syracuse University. Contact: Office of Community Engagement Community Engagement Roundtable The Community Engagement Roundtable is a group of Syracuse University faculty and staff engaged in community work that meets once a month to share ideas and work through challenges. Contact: Office of Community Engagement Holiday Giving Programs During the holiday season, the Office of Community Engagement coordinates several holiday giving programs on campus so University faculty and staff can voluntarily contribute to the distribution of holiday items through programs administered by our local nonprofit partners. More information about this year’s programs is available here. Informed Retired People Informed Retired People is a civic engagement program for retired people in the community. The meetings are held on the first and third Thursday of each month during the academic year; coffee and tea are served from 11:30 a.m. to noon and a speaker is featured from noon to 1 p.m. Contact: Office of Community Engagement New York State Mentoring Program Tthe New York State Mentoring Program creates supportive mentor relationships for select students, identified by their own teachers and NYS Mentoring Site Coordinators. This unique program takes place in a school-based setting, one-to-one between the mentor and mentee with a school coordinator present who is selected by the principal. The program provides background checks and training for volunteer mentors and mentees. (This program is currently operating virtually.) Contact: Office of Community Engagement Remote Tutoring Program As schools converted to virtual learning in 2020, the University responded to a critical need in the community for remote tutoring by creating a city-wide remote tutoring program at the North Side Learning Center, offering subject area and educational technology support to K-12 and early college students across the CNY area. This program has now been expanded to include additional higher education partners as well as other community partners and is now drawing volunteers from all across the country through this network. The Office of Community Engagement is now partnering with the Shaw Center for Public and Community Service to continue these services. Contact: Shaw Center Shadow Day Shadow Day brings Seymour Elementary School fifth-graders to campus to experience life as a college student. Seymour Elementary is located in the City of Syracuse’s Near Westside neighborhood, which is economically disadvantaged, yet located close to Syracuse University. The program introduces Seymour students to Syracuse University, showing them it’s “their” university and they can someday be a college student. The Seymour fifth-graders are grouped together with Syracuse University students, attend classes and have lunch on campus. After lunch, students tour the Carmelo K. Anthony Center and meet Syracuse University student-athletes. Contact: Office of Community Engagement Syracuse University Guaranteed Mortgage Program Provides eligible faculty and staff an alternative financing method to purchase a home in designated neighborhoods. For more information, visit the Guaranteed Mortgage Program website. Thursday Morning Roundtable Currently being held via Zoom, Thursday Morning Roundtable is a civic engagement program hosted by Syracuse University. The weekly Thursday morning meetings, held during the academic year, feature a presentation about an issue or topic of general interest. After each presentation, the speaker holds a question-and-answer session. WCNY-FM, 91.3, broadcasts the programs on the following Sundays at 8 p.m. Contact: Office of Community Engagement United Way The Office of Community Engagement serves as the administrative site for the university-wide United Way campaign. Anyone interested in volunteering for the Syracuse University campaign may email the Office of Community Engagement . Resources Meeting Room Request Groups or organizations with nonprofit status and an educational component in their mission may use the Warehouse community spaces, free of charge. For more information and to submit a request, visit our Meeting Room Request page. Campus Filming Office The Campus Filming Office coordinates all aspects of commercial filming and photography on the Syracuse University campus or University-owned property. For more information, visit the Campus Filming Office . Related Pages Community Engagement Partners Our work is not possible without strong collaborators—our partners both on and off campus. Events Connect with the Office of Community Engagement by attending one of our sponsored events! Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy