Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Alumni Association Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Alumni Clubs Alumni Community Benefits CAA Arts Access Career Resources Events Get Involved News Columbia Alumni Association You are here: Home Addressing Implicit Bias as Standard of Care II (CLE) Events Past Event Addressing Implicit Bias as Standard of Care II (CLE) Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo February 10, 2022 6:15 PM - 8:15 PM America/New_York Online The second session of this CLE program will address the ways health care organizations can and should reframe the scope of professional ethical obligations to improve the quality of care for marginalized communities. The panel will discuss the moral obligations of organizations to acknowledge and ameliorate micro-aggression and implicit bias in healthcare settings as part of the standard of care. This program is eligible for Continuing Legal Education (CLE) credits. REGISTER HERE Speakers: David N. Hoffman, Lecturer in the Discipline of Bioethics Jorge Rivera-Agosto, Esq., MS, HEC-C, Health and Health Insurance Associate Counsel, New York State Senate; Course Associate, Bioethics M.S. program, Columbia University Julia Iyasere, Executive Director, Dalio Center for Health Justice, New York Presbyterian Danurys (Didi) Sanchez, Project Coordinator, Washington Heights- Hamilton Heights-Inwood Columbia Aging Project (WHICAP) Information Regarding New York CLE Credits Columbia Law School has been certified by the New York State Continuing Legal Education (CLE) Board as an Accredited Provider of CLE programs. Under New York State CLE regulations, this live simultaneous transmission non-transitional CLE Program will provide 1 credit hour that can be applied toward the Areas of Professional Practice requirement and 1 credit hour that can be applied toward the Diversity, Inclusion & Elimination of Bias requirement. This CLE credit is awarded only to New York attorneys for full attendance of the Program in its entirety. Attorneys attending only part of the program are not eligible for partial credit. Attendance is determined by an attorney's submission of their Attorney Attendance Affirmation with appropriate course codes noted. On submission of the Attorney Attendance Affirmation, attorneys also should submit their completed Evaluation Form, provided by the program organizers. Please note the NYS Certificate of Attendance will be sent to the email address as it appears in the register unless otherwise noted there. For further information please contact Athina Fontenot at [email protected] Contact Information Karen Schimmel 212-851-9356 [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Alumni Center 622 West 113th Street, Mail Code 4525 · New York, NY 10025 Phone 212-851-7800 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close