Javascript must be enabled for the correct page display Skip to Content × Close Menu Close Academics Academics Academic Programs Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Continuing Education Online Programs Dual Degree Programs Certificate Programs Special Programs Summer Sessions International Programs Schools and Colleges Schools and Colleges Arts and Sciences Business Communication and the Arts Diplomacy and International Relations Education and Human Services Health and Medical Sciences Law Medicine Nursing Theology Additional Resources Additional Resources Experiential Learning Advising Faculty Departments Centers and Institutes Core Curriculum University Libraries Academic Calendar Grants and Research Office of the Provost Admissions Admissions Visiting Seton Hall Tour Schedule Monday - Friday: 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. Saturday: 10 a.m., Noon and 2 p.m. Undergraduate Graduate International Students Catholic Mission Catholic Mission Catholic Mission Catholic Mission Mission and Ministry Priest Community Catholic Studies Theology Additional Resources Additional Resources Mass Schedule Centers and Institutes Archdiocese Athletics Athletics SHUPirates.com Athletics Resources Athletics Resources Schedules Tickets Pirate Blue Facilities eSports and Gaming Alumni Alumni Alumni and Friends Alumni and Friends Alumni Home Alumni Directory Share Your News Benefits and Services E-mail Accounts Request a Transcript True Blue Support Seton Hall Support Seton Hall Why Seton Hall? Ways to Give Give Now About About About Seton Hall Hallmarks Rankings Mission Statement Campus Life Diversity and Inclusion History Visit Seton Hall Office of the President Events PirateNet About About Seton Hall Hallmarks Rankings Mission Statement Campus Life Diversity and Inclusion History Visit Seton Hall Office of the President Events PirateNet SUPPORT SHU University Site Search Academics Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Continuing Education Online Programs Dual Degree Programs Certificate Programs Special Programs Summer Sessions International Programs Schools and Colleges Arts and Sciences Business Communication and the Arts Diplomacy and International Relations Education and Human Services Health and Medical Sciences Law Nursing Theology Additional Resources Experiential Learning Advising Faculty Departments Centers and Institutes Core Curriculum University Libraries Academic Calendar Grants and Research Office of the Provost Admissions Visit Campus Tour Schedule Monday - Friday: 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. Saturday: 10 a.m., Noon and 2 p.m. Visiting Seton Hall Admissions Undergraduate Graduate International Students Catholic Mission Catholic Mission Mission and Ministry Priest Community Catholic Studies Theology Additional Resources Mass Schedule Centers and Institutes Archdiocese Athletics Seton Hall Pirates SHUPirates.com Athletics Resources Schedules Tickets Pirate Blue Facilities eSports and Gaming Alumni Alumni and Friends Alumni Home Alumni Directory Share Your News Benefits and Services E-mail Accounts Request a Transcript True Blue Support Seton Hall Why Seton Hall? Ways to Give Give Now Office of the Registrar Registrar Forms and Documents Policies and Procedures Frequently Asked Questions Transcript Requests Menu Registrar Forms and Documents Policies and Procedures Frequently Asked Questions Transcript Requests Seton Hall University Office of the Registrar Transcript Requests The Office of the Registrar is responsible for processing transcript requests. All transcripts cost $6 per copy. In order to receive a copy of your transcript, you can follow these steps: Current Students To request a transcript you must login to your PirateNet account. This is the only method by which current students may request a transcript. Transcript requests should be submitted well in advance of any deadline. Normal processing time is 2-4 business days from the time the transcript request is received. Log into PirateNet Click on Academics Go to Student Records Click on Request Official Transcript A $6 charge will be applied to the student account for each transcript. Graduates and Former Students Not Currently Enrolled Seton Hall University utilizes an online transcript ordering service offered through National Student Clearinghouse. This system allows you the convenience and efficiency of ordering your official transcripts via the Web at any time, 24/7. You can order as many transcripts as you like in one online session using any major credit card. Each transcript costs $6. To order your transcript, click here » OR visit http://www.studentclearinghouse.org/. Click on Order Track Verify Click Order or Track a Transcript Select Seton Hall University from the drop down menu Click Submit Please note Law School Students: This service is not available to Law School graduates and students. Please contact the Law School Registrar to request Law School transcripts. If you attended, or graduated from, both the Main Campus and the Law School, this service will only provide transcripts for your studies at the Main Campus. Please contact the Law School Registrar for Law School transcripts. Project Acceleration Students: Project Acceleration students should also utilize the National Student Clearinghouse to request transcripts. Contact Us If you have questions please contact us at (973) 275-2570 or (973) 275-2285 or email us at transcripts@shu.edu. You can also visit the Office of the Registrar in Bayley Hall, Room 14. Seton Hall University 400 South Orange Ave South Orange, NJ 07079 (973) 761-9000 Privacy Statements Title IX Nondiscrimination Statement and Information Contact Us Student Services Parents and Families Career Center Technology Web Accessibility Visiting Campus Public Safety Disability Support Services Campus Security Report Employment Follow #SetonHall www.shu.edu/social Back to top