Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now College of Engineering and Computer Science The College of Engineering and Computer Science strives to create new solutions to real-world problems through partnerships with some of the biggest names in technology, including NASA, Lockheed Martin, Boeing, Siemens and Walt Disney World. cecs.ucf.edu The Collegiate Cyber Defense Club @ UCF has won three consecutive championships at the annual National Collegiate Cyber Defense Competition. UCF produces more graduates who get jobs in aerospace and defense companies than any other U.S. university (2016 Aviation Week magazine workforce study). A group of volunteer engineering students formed a nonprofit organization (limbitless-solutions.org) to design, build and donate 3-D printed bionic arms to children in need. All seven eligible engineering programs — civil, computer, electrical, environmental, industrial, materials and mechanical — rank in the Top 100 according to U.S. News & World Report’s Best Graduate Schools of 2018. Students transform dreams into reality with 3-D printers, laser cutters and other high-tech equipment at the Texas Instruments Innovation Lab. The college is the No. 1 choice of high school seniors in Florida and the 12 states of the U.S. Southeast region (2016 Cappex College Considerations Report). Explore your opportunities. There are many benefits to taking a more proactive approach to choosing a career. The College of Engineering and Computer Science has curriculum and programs to help you land your next opportunity. Or browse by: Bachelors Undergraduate Certificates Masters Doctorates Graduate Certificates Top College Degrees Top College Degrees Aerospace Engineering (MSAE) Civil Engineering (BSCE) Computer Science (BS) Data Analytics (MS) Digital Forensics (MS) Electrical Engineering (MSEE) Environmental Engineering (BSVE) Industrial Engineering (BSIE) More Engineering & Computer Science Programs… Admissions Info Explore admissions requirements, deadlines, tuition and financial aid, and more. Visit UCF Take a tour of the campus and see what makes UCF so amazing. Apply Now Seeking a bachelor’s degree? Interested in graduate school? Get started today. Engineering and Computer Science News Check out more stories Colleges & Campus UCF Students Oust Top Teams at 2022 North America Collegiate Programming Contest, Advance to World Finals After beating dozens of top teams to earn seventh place, UCF will advance to the World Finals for the 11th consecutive year. Colleges & Campus 5 UCF Scholars to be Inducted into Academy of Science, Engineering and Medicine of Florida The organization’s members are top scholars and researchers from universities, public agencies, and industries statewide who are committed to addressing key issues and challenges impacting… Colleges & Campus Elite Students Coming to UCF for North America Collegiate Programming Contest UCF will host and compete against 49 other top student programming teams — including Stanford, MIT, Harvard, Caltech, UCBerkeley and Georgia Tech. Speak & Spell Was a Game Changer The Speak & Spell was more than a popular kids toy — it broke ground in technology and provided a blueprint for the devices we use today. Read More University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida