Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin Menu Header Helpful Links Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Families & Visitors Search Search Maps Directory UT Direct Give Apply Search Search About Academics Academic Experience Areas of Study Extended Campus Cockrell School of Engineering College of Education College of Fine Arts College of Liberal Arts College of Natural Sciences College of Pharmacy Dell Medical School Graduate School Jackson School of Geosciences LBJ School of Public Affairs McCombs School of Business Moody College of Communication School of Architecture School of Information School of Law School of Nursing Steve Hicks School of Social Work School of Undergraduate Studies Admissions & Aid Be a Longhorn What Starts Here Changes the World. It's more than a motto. It’s what we prove each and every day, as Texas and its Exes advance discovery and innovation on a global stage. Join us. Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions School of Law Admissions Dell Medical School Admissions Tuition & Costs Financial Aid Campus Visits Campus & Community Explore Your Passions Thousands of events, from concerts and film screenings to readings and lectures. More than 1,100 student organizations. Incredible facilities and special attractions. And it's all set in the heart of one of the world's greatest cities. Welcome home. Arts & Culture Campus Destinations Entrepreneurship & Innovation Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Austin Report Misconduct Safety & Security Student Involvement Longhorn Resources Research Change the World Longhorns are passionate about making the world a better place, united by the belief that creating and sharing knowledge can save lives and transform society. Come explore our vast research enterprise — or better yet, create, innovate and discover with us. Overview Student Research Units & Centers Off-Campus Research Sites Libraries Experts Guide Athletics News Home Here, First Class is Public Here, First Class is Public The University of Texas at Austin combines first-class education with public accessibility and a spirit of public service. To be first-class means... … having a reputation that puts us in the top 40 universities in the world. It means breadth — 170 fields of study across 18 colleges and schools — and depth — producing more than 3,000 master’s and 900 doctoral degrees each year. The Cockrell School of Engineering and McCombs School of Business undergraduate programs rank 9th and 6th in the nation respectively. UT Law is No. 16 in America and No. 5 among public universities. First-class means producing alumni who lead in virtually every field. … opportunities for students at every level to do research at a Tier 1 university. While many research universities reserve research for graduate students and upperclassmen, UT’s Freshman Research Initiative in the College of Natural Sciences enables first-year students to get real-world experience solving real-world problems. To be public means... …to do the public’s work. The state and the nation look to Texas for solutions to some of our biggest challenges: energy, national security and health care. Working on public-oriented problems, whether through research or policy, is our obligation and our privilege. …to be affordable. What good is a public university if it is financially out of reach? UT offers a world-class education at a cost well below that of other national public universities. We are the highest-ranked public university in Texas, but rank 13th in tuition cost among the same group. UT has expanded its financial aid program for low and middle-income students. …to be diverse. Interacting with others with a wide range of backgrounds and ideas prepares students to succeed in a diverse state and excel in an increasingly interconnected society. UT has gone to the U.S. Supreme Court to defend the educational benefits of diversity, and all of American higher education has benefitted. Some universities consider themselves first-class despite being public; Texas is first-class because it is public. Affordability is crucial to our mission Learn the real cost of attending Texas. Learn More A World-Class Honors Program Texas offers a wide variety of opportunities for students to pursue a rigorous, research-oriented undergraduate curriculum. We have a range of Honors Programs tailored to foster intellectual curiosity and discovery, and provide you with a one-of-a-kind education. Learn more Student success is everything Ensuring our students have the opportunity to complete a world-class education within four years is an essential part of UT's commitment to serve the people of Texas. Learn More First-Class is Public We Do High-Impact Research We’re Transforming Health Care We Create a More Vibrant Texas Connect with UT Austin Subscribe to our newsletter Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Starts With You Footer Helpful Links Access Course Syllabi and Instructor CVs Campus Carry Contact Counseling and Mental Health Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan Diversity, Equity, and Disability Resources ♿ Emergency Information Fraud, Waste, or Abuse Hazing Prevention and Response HEERF/CARES Act Compliance Jobs Online Institutional Resumes Public Forum On Campus Site Policies State of Texas Statewide Search Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Title IX Reporting (Sexual Misconduct) UT System Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy © The University of Texas at Austin 2022