Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University Keep Iowa State Beautiful Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search FPM Home | FPM Index About KISB Adopt Campus Program Keep Beautiful Programs KISB Posters Iowa State University is known for its beautiful campus, which received a medallion award from the American Society of Landscape Architects in 1999. With that, the Keep Iowa State Beautiful initiative was established to maintain this high standard. The initiative's campaign slogan: "Cy Says... Keep It Clean, Keep It Green." Mission Create a culture of beautification on campus, to encourage individuals and teams to monitor designated areas, and to host events for the campus and community to remove litter thereby beautifying campus and the surrounding areas. Goals Program goals include: Making the campus community more aware of the need to stop littering and to remove litter from university grounds Helping student groups who organize events monitor their trash procedures and thus limit litter Creating teams of people to periodically pick up campus areas Collaborate with the Spring Stash the Trash event to pick up litter on and off campus Contact E-mail: kisb@iastate.edu Adopt Campus Program The Adopt Campus Program is an opportunity to beautify Iowa State on your own schedule. It is designed for groups of people (e.g., students, faculty, staff, and community members) to remove litter from campus. Recruit your student organization members, your staff, your house mates, your friends, or anyone you can find to help beautify campus. For more information, e-mail kisb@iastate.edu. To get started: Complete the Adopt Campus Form View the areas currently adopted on campus Agronomy Hall Buchanan Residence Hall, Knoll and Jack Trice Stadium Durham Center Hamilton Hall Kildee Hall Knoll and Buchanan Res Hall Lagomarcino, Kildee and Bessey Lake LaVerne Library, Durham and Hub Maple-Willow-Larch Commons Maple-Willow-Larch Commons, Friley Res Hall and Willow Res Hall Maple-Willow-Larch Commons, Linden Residence Hall and Geoffroy Hall have been assigned. Martin Residence Hall Ross Hall Sukup Basketball Complex and Jack Trice Stadium More Programs Iowa State Recycling Services Division of Operations and Finance Facilities Planning and Management Keep Iowa State Beautiful 154 General Services Building 700 Wallace Road Ames, Iowa 50011 (515) 509-9785 kisb@iastate.edu Get Acrobat Reader Copyright © 1995-2022 Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access and Accessibility