Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index University Career Center Menu Search TTU University Career Center Career Exploration Information About Career Assessments The University Career Center offers 5 assessments to assist students in understanding their strengths, interests, and personality further. Our hope is that that by taking these career assessments students learn new information about themselves that they otherwise might not have known and use it to their advantage during their career journey. All of these assessments can be taken online and are free for TTU students & alumni. To learn more about how students can take these assessments, you can contact the University Career Center at careercenter@ttu.edu or (806) 742-2210. Strong Interest Inventory This assessment requires a scheduled appointment to interpret your results with a UCC staff member. This assessment is most commonly used and recommended for upper-level students and alumni who are interested in exploring occupations. It compares your pattern of responses to a pattern of responses of people in various occupations to help you identify how likely you are to find satisfaction in the work typically done in a given occupation. FOCUS 2 CAREER This assessment is ideal for first-year and sophomore students who are interested in exploring majors and careers. It will help you develop an accurate picture of your personal strengths, needs, and preferences; create a sound career plan; and you with exact majors we have here at Texas Tech. StrengthsQuest® Students will receive one complimentary code to take the StrengthsQuest® assessment. This assessment is designed to help you understand your talents and invest in them to develop your strengths. This knowledge has the potential to help them strategically choose a successful career path, conquer job and internship interviews, and gain a better understanding of what they do best. Myers-Briggs Type Indicator This assessment requires a scheduled appointment to interpret your results with a UCC staff member. This assessment measures your personality preferences to help you understand your behavior and communication habits. By meeting with a UCC staff member, you can explore the implications of your personality preferences and communication habits on your job search and career choice. TypeFocus Personality Assessment This assessment uses a personality, interest, and values assessment to identify potential occupations. Additionally, the success factors questionnaire allows you to learn more about yourself and how to prepare for success. You results will help you identify occupations that align with your personality preferences, set goals, and create a plan to achieve those goals. These assessments are for the sole use of current TTU students, faculty, staff and alumni of Texas Tech University. Unauthorized use is prohibited as this site is protected by copyright of TypeFocus. Login to your Hire Red Raiders account and schedule an appointment online. If you have any questions navigating the site, please call our office at (806) 742-2210. Hours of Operation: Monday - Friday 8 a.m. - 5 p.m. View Map Meet the Staff The University Career Center encourages persons with disabilities to participate in our programs and activities. If you anticipate needing any type of accommodation or have questions about accessibility, please call 806-742-2210 in advance of your participation or visit. Are you starting a full-time job? Have you been accepted into graduate school? Are you still deciding? The University Career Center (UCC) wants to know your post-grad plans! Report your Outcome! University Career Center Like University Career Center on FacebookLike University Career Center on Facebook Follow University Career Center on twitterFollow University Career Center on twitter Subscribe to University Career Center on YouTubeSubscribe to University Career Center on YouTube Follow University Career Center on InstagramFollow University Career Center on Instagram Connect with University Career Center on LinkedInConnect with University Career Center on LinkedIn Address Texas Tech University Career Center, Wiggins Complex - Box 45006, Lubbock, Texas 79409 Phone 806.742.2210 Email careercenter@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityJul 5, 2021 8:39 AM University Career Center Students & Alumni University Career Center Back What We Do What to Expect Design Your Life Develop Your Job Search Skills Search for Jobs Additional Resources University Career Center Back Techsan Connection Network COVID-19 Career Resources TTU Wellbeing | Beyond Okay Employers University Career Center Back Recruiting & Engagement Employer Event Calendar Hire Red Raiders Parker Dewey: Mirco-Internships Employer Brochure Faculty/Staff University Career Center Back Request a Presentation Career Assessments Frequently Asked Questions Families University Career Center Back Career Development Checklist Assessments for Your Student What Can I Do With This Major? Parent & Family Relations Events University Career Center Back All Events Career Fairs Career Development Events Virtual Events Webinars Employer & Graduate School Information Sessions Hire Red Raiders University Career Center Back HRR Homepage Students Employers Alumni Report Your Outcome Meet the Staff Admin Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index