Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Parents Search BC.edu Links Alumni Menu Main Nav Alumni Donate Back Back Close About Overview Alumni Association Alumni Board Alumni Association Staff Past Alumni Board Presidents Annual Report Leadership Terms of Service Join Our Team Connect Overview Volunteer Councils & Groups Chapters International Hong Kong London Germany Madrid Panama Paris Philippines Singapore Arizona Phoenix California Los Angeles Northern California Orange County Sacramento San Diego Colorado Denver Connecticut Fairfield Hartford Delaware Delaware District of Columbia Washington, D.C. Florida Fort Lauderdale Jacksonville Miami Orlando Palm Beach Sarasota Southwest Florida Tampa Georgia Atlanta Hawaii Hawaii Illinois Chicago Indiana Indianapolis Kentucky Kentucky Louisiana New Orleans Maine Maine Maryland Baltimore Massachusetts Boston Cape Cod Western Massachusetts Michigan Detroit Minnesota Minnesota Missouri Kansas City St. Louis Nebraska Omaha Nevada Las Vegas New Hampshire New Hampshire New Jersey Jersey Shore New Jersey New York Albany Buffalo Long Island New York City Rochester Westchester North Carolina Charlotte Triangle Ohio Cincinnati Cleveland Columbus Oregon Portland Pennsylvania Philadelphia Pittsburgh Puerto Rico Puerto Rico Rhode Island Rhode Island South Carolina South Carolina Tennessee Nashville Texas Austin Dallas Houston San Antonio Utah Utah Vermont Vermont Washington Seattle Wisconsin Milwaukee Class and School Engagement Spirituality On Eagles Wings Reflections Advent Reflections Lenten Reflections Reflections Reflections Social Media Pine Manor Alumni Hub Related Links Reunion BC Athletics Events Overview Reunion Weekend Pops on the Heights Family Weekend Global Days of Service Distinguished Volunteer Awards Dinner Winter Wonderland Benefits & Services Overview Career & Networking Alumni Benefits Giving Overview Gift Policy The Impact of Your Gift Give Online Gift Planning Giving Societies The 1863 Society McElroy Circle Bapst Circle Fulton Circle Gasson Circle Monan Circle The William B. Neenan, S.J., Society The Shaw Society Boston College Call Center Apply to Work at the Boston College Call Center Donate Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Alumni & Friends Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Parents BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Fulton Circle Home Giving Giving Societies The 1863 Society Fulton Circle The 1863 Society McElroy Circle Bapst Circle Fulton Circle Gasson Circle Monan Circle Fulton Circle — $5,000 to $9,999 Named for Boston College’s first academic dean, Robert Fulton, SJ, the Fulton Circle honors BC donors who champion Jesuit Catholic education. Father Fulton launched BC’s first-ever public relations campaign to promote the value of Jesuit higher education. Fulton’s focus on a liberal arts foundation and student formation remain BC’s core tenets which set the University apart to this day. Fulton Circle donors believe deeply in BC’s value and mission. With an annual gift of $5,000 to $9,999, donors join the Fulton Circle to continue their journey of philanthropic impact and engagement with BC. Benefits Membership in the Fulton Circle, the third donor circle of the 1863 Society, comes with many benefits: Opportunity to have your story featured in BC communications Personal University liaison to facilitate your 1863 Society membership Opportunities to participate in BC giveaways Opt-in to receive an e-book by a BC author (selection will change annually) Member discounts for BC Athletics tickets (selection will change annually) Impact updates on how your giving helps thousands of students fulfill their potential Invitations to exclusive events recognizing your leadership support throughout the year Private reception with the President during your Reunion Weekend at BC How Your Donation Makes a Difference Boston College Fund Fulton gifts to the BC Fund provide seed money for Connell School of Nursing faculty to research ideas that can attract larger national grants. *This unrestricted fund provides flexibility for fund designation to those areas in most need. William J. Flynn Fund Fulton gifts to the Flynn Fund help fuel the men’s and women’s basketball teams for an entire away game road trip throughout ACC territory. Student Financial Aid Fulton gifts to student financial aid enable BC to award aid and grants totaling more than $114 million to deserving students, regardless of their economic background. BC Law School Fund Fulton gifts to the Law School Fund provide select 1L and 2L students with a Clough Center for the Study of Constitutional Democracy grant for uncompensated public interest work. “I give, quite simply, to 'pay it forward.' My life's work as a nursing clinician, practitioner, and educator is only possible because of my Boston College education. I'm proud to call myself a BC nurse, and I'm proud to show my support for BC.” Elaine Gustafson '65 Join Fulton ►How to Join Interested in joining or learning more about the Fulton Circle? Fill out our contact form below and a BC representative will contact you within 48 hours. Back To Top Back To Top Boston College Alumni Association Cadigan Alumni Center 140 Commonwealth Ave. Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College For updates on Boston College's reopening for fall semester visit bc.edu/reopen. Ok