Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links University Catalog Menu Main Nav University Catalog University Catalog Back Back Close Undergraduate Programs Overview Carroll School of Management Accounting Business Analytics Business Law and Society Finance General Management Information Systems Management and Organization Marketing Connell School of Nursing Lynch School of Education and Human Development Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences African and African Diaspora Studies Art, Art History, and Film Biochemistry Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Eastern, Slavic, and German Studies Economics Engineering English Environmental Studies History Interdisciplinary Programs and Minors (MCAS) International Studies Islamic Civilization and Societies Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology and Neuroscience Romance Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology University Courses Schiller Institute for Integrated Science and Society Woods College of Advancing Studies Summer Session Graduate Programs Overview Boston College Law School Boston College School of Social Work Carroll School of Management Connell School of Nursing Lynch School of Education and Human Development Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics English History Islamic Civilization and Societies Mathematics Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology and Neuroscience Romance Languages and Literatures Sociology Theology School of Theology and Ministry Woods College of Advancing Studies Courses Overview Boston College Law School Boston College School of Social Work Carroll School of Management Accounting Courses Business Analytics Courses Business Law and Society Courses Business Writing and Communication Courses Finance Courses Information Systems Courses Management and Organization Courses Management Elective Courses Management Required Courses Marketing Courses Portico Courses Undergraduate Management Courses Connell School of Nursing Nursing Courses Forensics Courses Palliative Care Courses Lynch School of Education and Human Development Counseling, Developmental, and Educational Psychology Courses Educational Leadership and Higher Education Courses Experience, Reflection, Action Courses Learning Engineering Courses Measurement, Evaluation, Statistics, and Assessment Courses Teacher Education and Curriculum and Instruction Courses Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences African and African Diaspora Studies Courses Art History Courses Biology Courses Capstone Courses Chemistry Courses Classical Studies Courses Communication Courses Computer Science Courses Cornerstone Courses Earth and Environmental Sciences Courses East Asian Languages and Civilizations Courses Economics Courses Engineering Courses English Courses Environmental Studies Courses Film Courses French Courses German Studies Courses Hispanic Studies Courses History Courses Italian Courses International Studies Courses Islamic Civilization and Societies Courses Jesuit Studies Courses Journalism Courses Linguistics Courses Mathematics Courses Music Academic Courses Music Performance Courses Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations Courses Philosophy Courses Physics Courses Political Science Courses Psychology and Neuroscience Courses Romance Languages and Literatures Courses Slavic Studies Courses Sociology Courses Studio Art Courses Theatre Courses Theology Courses University Courses Schiller Institute for Integrated Science and Society School of Theology and Ministry Christian Ethics Courses Course Area Unspecified Courses History of Christianity Courses New Testament Courses Old Testament Courses Pastoral Studies Courses Practical Theology Courses Religious Education Courses Systematic and Historical Theology Courses Woods College of Advancing Studies Accounting Courses Administrative Studies Courses Biology Courses Business Management Courses Communication Courses Corporate Systems Courses Criminal Justice Courses Cybersecurity Courses Economics Courses Education Courses English Courses Examined Life Courses Film Courses Finance Courses Fine Arts Courses Geology Courses Healthcare Administration Courses History Courses Information Technology Courses Journalism Courses Law Courses Leadership Studies Courses Marketing Courses Mathematics Courses Philosophy Courses Political Science Courses Psychology Courses Romance Languages Courses Sociology Courses Spanish Courses Sports Administration Courses Sustainability Courses Theology Courses Policies and Procedures Catalog Archive Close Directory A to Z Listing Search University Catalog Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Undergraduate Programs Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Philosophy Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences African and African Diaspora Studies Art, Art History, and Film Biochemistry Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Eastern, Slavic, and German Studies Economics Engineering English Environmental Studies History Interdisciplinary Programs and Minors (MCAS) International Studies Islamic Civilization and Societies Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology and Neuroscience Romance Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology University Courses Philosophy To study philosophy is to engage in systematic reflection on the most fundamental questions about ourselves and our world. Studying philosophy provides the critical skills, the historical understanding, and the vision necessary to meet existential and ethical challenges, and live richer, more self-aware lives. As students prepare to become citizens, professionals, parents, and men and women for others, the study of philosophy is strong preparation for a wide variety of enterprises. Both as a Core requirement and as a major, Philosophy is foundational in helping us appropriate our intellectual and spiritual heritage and develop self-understanding anew. Philosophy has been central to the educational mission of Boston College since its founding. The prominence of philosophy in the curriculum reflects our Jesuit heritage. From the beginning, Jesuit colleges emphasized the values of authentic Christian humanism, the power of human intelligence, and the mutual compatibility of faith and reason. The study of philosophy remains among the most relevant and urgent of pursuits. It investigates life's perennial questions—questions of ultimate meaning and value, truth and rationality, being and transcendence. The mission of the Philosophy Department at Boston College is to provide an encouraging and supportive environment for the exploration of these questions, and for the critical examination of philosophical traditions that inform our personal and professional lives. Toward that end, we offer a broad spectrum of courses with a special focus on the history of philosophy, and fundamental contemporary problems in practical philosophy. A Philosophy major is excellent preparation for careers in numerous fields including law, business, and medicine. The study of philosophy teaches highly useful and highly transferrable skills. Philosophy also blends well with other majors because it speaks to issues that are foundational to numerous disciplines and career paths. For students entering fields such as science, medicine, law, public service, economics, finance and management, the Philosophy Department offers optional tracks within the major to provide focus and direction toward career goals. Philosophy Courses Philosophy Faculty Philosophy Website Print Open All Close All Major Requirements Major Requirements All Philosophy Majors must complete a total of 30 credits in Philosophy, as follows: Two Core courses in Philosophy (6 credits) Eight Philosophy electives (24 credits): 1 course in the History of Philosophy 1 course in Knowledge and Reality 1 course in Ethics and Value 5 free electives Lists of courses satisfying each of the three distribution requirements (2a-c) can be found on the Philosophy Department website. Students may take up to two cognate courses in other departments for elective credit toward the Philosophy major. The courses must be philosophical in content and/or substantially contribute to the enhancement of the student’s chosen area of study. Cognate courses must be approved by the Director of Undergraduate Studies. Students wanting further focus for their electives may select a track within the major. Tracks are satisfied by completing two electives from within the track area, in consultation with the major advisor. The Philosophy Department offers the following major tracks: Science, Ethics, and Humanity Track Designed for students preparing for careers in science and medicine Law, Public Policy, and Economics Track Designed for students preparing for careers in law, politics, economics, or business/finance Philosophy, Religion, and the Arts Track Designed for students preparing for careers in theology, ministry, or the arts Philosophy Minor Philosophy Minor All Philosophy Minors must complete a total of 18 credits in Philosophy, as follows: Two Core courses in Philosophy (6 credits) Four Philosophy electives (12 credits) No particular course or course distribution is required of minors. Each student will design his or her own minor in consultation with a faculty advisor. Core Requirement in Philosophy Core Requirement in Philosophy As part of the Core Curriculum at Boston College, all students take a two-semester Philosophy Core sequence. There are several ways to complete the Philosophy Core requirement: PHIL1070–1071 Philosophy of the Person I and II Fall/Spring: 3 credits per semester. Satisfies Philosophy Core. PHIL1090–1091 Perspectives on Western Culture I and II Fall/Spring: 6 credits per semester. Satisfies Philosophy Core and Theology Core. PHIL1088–1089 Person and Social Responsibility I and II (PULSE) Fall/Spring: 6 credits per semester. Satisfies Philosophy Core and Theology Core. PHIL 2150–2151 Philosophical Perspectives on Science Fall/Spring: 3 credits per semester. Satisfies Philosophy Core. Designed for students majoring in the natural and social sciences. One of our new Enduring Questions courses, available to freshmen only. One 3-credit Philosophy Core course paired with a Core course from another discipline. Satisfies one semester of the two-semester Philosophy Core requirement. Students complete the second semester of Philosophy Core with Philosophy of the Person I or II. It is strongly recommended that students complete the Philosophy Core requirement by the end of sophomore year. Core courses are foundational, providing skills and background knowledge presupposed by more advanced courses in the college. Philosophy of the Person, PULSE, and Perspectives are each two-semester sequences, with the second semester designed to build upon the first, and thus should be taken in order—e.g., Philosophy of the Person I before Philosophy of the Person II. The Honors Program in Philosophy The Honors Program in Philosophy The Philosophy Department offers highly qualified majors the opportunity to participate in a departmental honors program. Application to the honors program is by invitation only, based on GPA and/or nomination by a member of the faculty. Invitations to apply will be extended by the Director of Undergraduate studies in the fall of the junior year. Applications are due early in the spring of the junior year. Accepted students will pursue a year-long research project in the senior year, under the direction of a faculty mentor, culminating in a thesis of approximately 50–75 pages. Honors students participate in a Philosophy Honors Seminar in the fall semester of senior year and complete the project in consultation with a faculty advisor in the spring. The department arranges seminar meetings and social events to provide an intellectual community for honors program participants. The Department also participates in the Scholar of the College Program, details of which can be found in the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences section. Perspectives Program I–IV Perspectives Program I–IV The Perspectives Program at Boston College is a four-year interdisciplinary program centered upon the great books of the Western intellectual tradition. It integrates the humanities and natural sciences in order to help students work out for themselves a set of coherent answers to such questions as the following: Who are we? Where do we come from? Where are we going? The Perspectives Program seeks (1) to educate the whole person, (2) to help students develop skills in practical living and critical thinking, and (3) to form students who are intelligent, responsible, reasonable, attentive, and loving. Students in the Perspectives Program complete the Philosophy major by completing the following sequence of four Perspectives courses: Perspectives I PHIL1090–1091 (THEO1090–1091) Perspectives on Western Culture I and II Fall/Spring: 6 credits per semester. Satisfies 6-credit Philosophy Core and 6-credit Theology Core. Normally open to freshmen only. Perspectives II UNAS1104–1105/UNAS1106–1107 Modernism and the Arts I and II Fall/Spring: 6 credits per semester. Satisfies 6-credit Philosophy Core, 3-credit Fine Arts Core, 3-credit Literature Core. Perspectives III UNAS1109–1110/UNAS1111–1112 Horizons of the New Social Sciences I and II Fall/Spring: 6 credits per semester. Satisfies 6-credit Philosophy Core, 6-credit Social Sciences Core. Perspectives IV UNAS1119–1120/UNAS1121–1122 New Scientific Visions I and II Fall/Spring: 6 credits per semester. Satisfies 6-credit Philosophy Core and either 6-credit Natural Science Core or 3-credit Mathematics Core, 3-credit Natural Science Core. Each Perspectives course is a year-long, 12-credit course. Each is designed to fulfill the Core requirements of the relevant departments. While Perspectives I is normally open only to freshmen, Perspectives II, III, and IV are open to students at any rank, and need not be taken in order. Descriptions of Perspectives II, III, and IV are in the University Courses section of the course catalog. The Perspectives Concentration in Philosophy By taking more than one Perspectives course, students can pursue a Perspectives Concentration towards either a major or a minor in Philosophy. Students who complete any three Perspectives courses will, in addition to fulfilling various Core requirements, fulfill the requirements for a minor in Philosophy. Students who complete all four Perspectives courses, plus two philosophy elective courses, fulfill the requirements for a major in Philosophy. Admission to the Perspectives concentration in philosophy comes at the end of the sophomore year. A minimum GPA of 3.50 will be required for admission. Questions concerning the requirements for the concentration, or other opportunities and possibilities within the Perspectives Program, can be directed to perspectives@bc.edu. The PULSE Program for Service Learning The PULSE Program for Service Learning With its mission to educate Boston College students for social justice, the PULSE Program for Service Learning educates more than 500 undergraduates each year through the integration of community-based social service and social advocacy fieldwork with the study of theology and philosophy. The PULSE Program offers its signature Core course, "Person and Social Responsibility," in addition to a few elective courses. For a full description of the program, please visit the PULSE website at bc.edu/pulse. Fifth Year B.A./M.A. Program Fifth Year B.A./M.A. Program Undergraduate Philosophy majors may opt to enter a five-year B.A./M.A. program. Application to the program will normally take place during the junior year. Students admitted to the B.A./M.A. program will follow the curriculum for Philosophy majors, except that two courses taken during the senior year must be eligible for graduate credit. These two courses will count toward both the M.A. and the B.A. The remainder of the M.A. may be completed by taking eight additional graduate courses, submitting an M.A. qualifying paper in the fifth year, and satisfying the M.A. language requirement. Interested undergraduate Philosophy majors should consult with the Director of the Graduate Program during junior year and must apply to the Graduate School of the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences. Expectations are that such applicants will have achieved an overall GPA of at least 3.33 and a major GPA of 3.5 or above. For internal applicants, the application fee is waived, and the GRE is not required. Back To Top Back To Top Managed By University Catalog Office of Student Services Lyons Hall 103 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College