COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Alert File your 2022-2023 FAFSA now! The Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) allows you to apply for the full range of possible financial aid programs, including work-study, grants, and loans. Learn more! Cost of Attendance Section Menu Home About Us Consumer Information Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Forms Financial Aid Policies International Students Scholarships Types of Aid Cost of Attendance What does it cost to attend Wichita State? Besides calculating the obvious costs such as tuition, fees, room and meals, you should include estimated costs for books, personal expenses, and transportation. These estimates combine to build your total "Cost of Attendance" for one academic year. The Cost of Attendance is an estimate of a student's educational expenses for their period of enrollment. It establishes average costs for different categories of students (i.e. full time vs. part time, in-state tuition vs. out of state tuition, etc) and is the cornerstone for determining a student's financial need for "need-based" grants, loans, and work-study. It also sets a limit on the total federal aid that a student may receive. The Office of Financial Aid reviews the average costs of these items every year to establish a "budget" for our students. The budget varies depending on whether a student lives on campus, off campus, or at home with family. Although we cannot anticipate precisely what each individual student's exact cost of attendance will be, the budget we develop for determining financial need considers most variable educational costs. For information on Wichita State University's Tuition and Fees, please visit the Tuition and Fees website. Cost of Attendance Estimates Undergraduate Student Cost of Attendance View Undergraduate Cost of Attendance Graduate Student Cost of Attendance View Graduate Cost of Attendance How can I estimate my net costs? Estimate your costs using our Net Price Calculator. This calculator provides an estimated net cost of attendance. It includes tuition and required fees, books and supplies, room and meals, and other related expenses like transportation and modest personal expensives. It subtracts any anticipated grant and scholarship aid and then estimates your net costs. Once you have been offered financial aid, you can view your estimated cost of attendance through your myWSU account: Log into myWSU by entering your myWSU ID and password. Select the "myFinances" tab. Select "Financial Aid Dashboard". Select the appropriate "Award Year" in the upper right-hand corner. Select the "Award Offer" tab. To estimate the total costs for your program, multiply the costs by the total length (in years) of your program/major. Why do my actual costs differ from the Cost of Attendance amounts? Our cost of attendance amounts are estimates. The exact amount you will pay may depend on your major, the courses you enroll in, where you decide to live, the meal plan you choose, and your own personal choices regarding your living expenses, such as clothing, recreation, transportation, etc. What are the other options, besides financial aid, to meet my costs? Review various payment options here. Estimate Your Net Costs Use our Net Price Calculator to estimate your costs after scholarships, grants, and discounts. Net Price Calculator Cost Glossary Tuition & Fees: The amount of money that must be paid for classes; amounts may be based on residency status, course level, and instructional method. Other fees may be assessed in addition to tuition. Rates are approved by the Kansas Board of Regents each year, and are available in early July. More information about tuition More information about fees Books & Supplies: The estimated amount for required course materials and books. Room & Meals: The estimated costs for rent, utilities, and meals. Your actual amount may vary based on your personal choices and whether you live at home with a family member, on campus in a residence hall, or off campus. Personal Expenses: This is an estimate of costs for clothing, haircuts, entertainment, etc. for the year. Money actually spent on these types of items will vary from student to student. These items will not appear on your Wichita State bill. Transportation Expenses: This is an estimate of the cost of traveling to and from campus or the cost of operating and maintaining a vehicle. With the exception of the transportation fee for the campus shuttle bus and the optional parking permit, you will not be billed directly for transportation costs. Loan Fees: There is an origination fee for Federal Direct Subsidized and Unsubsidized student loans, which is taken out of the loan before funds are sent to Wichita State. These funds help cover the costs associated with the loan servicer companies that manage your student loans. The amount listed is the average fee for students who borrow these loans. Actual fees will depend on the amount you borrow (if any). 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©