Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Research at Brown Show/Hide Home Conducting Research at Brown Centers, Institutes and Libraries Undergraduate Research Assistance How Do I...? Managing an Award The Award Lifecycle Brown’s Office of Sponsored Projects (OSP) has adopted a lifecycle management approach to research administration. The Pre-Award team negotiates and accepts all sponsored agreement ensuring Brown’s academic freedoms are upheld. At this stage Pre-Award staff prepare the award for setup by verifying approval for applicable IRB and IACUC procedures. The Research Subcontracting team is responsible for creation and issuance of subaward agreement and subrecipient monitoring before passing the award to the Post-Award team for account creation. Throughout the life of the award, Post-Award staff provide assistance to faculty and staff in managing sponsored awards that support scholarly activities. The Post-Award team provides guidance to assure proper stewardship of funds that are received and work closely with faculty and department administrators to ensure financial compliance and proper accounting of externally sponsored funds. OSP’s financial management responsibilities include cash management, financial reporting, award closeout, and effort reporting. In addition, the Pre-Award staff work closely with department administrators to prepare, review, and submit non-financial post-award changes (e.g., No-cost extensions, Rebudgeting, Change of PI, Award transfer, etc.). A comprehensive description of each stage of the award lifecycle, along with applicable forms and policies, can be found at the links below. Setting Up an Award Award Management Closing Out an Award Obtaining regulatory approvals & Maintaining compliance Brown’s Office of Research Integrity (ORI) partners with investigators and staff to ensure that all requisite protocol approvals for human and animal subject activities are secured prior to the start of research. ORI also works with OSP to facilitate compliance with conflict of interest assurance, disclosure and training requirements, and to identify any potential export control compliance requirements at the proposal submission stage, and throughout the lifetime of an award. ORI continues to support investigators once an award is made, by providing education in the ethical and responsible conduct of research and handling allegations of possible research misconduct. ORI’s primary goal is to facilitate research at Brown and its multidisciplinary team offers a variety of resources tailored to investigators’ needs. Conducting Research at Brown Finding Funding Research Strategy and Development (ORSD) Preparing and Submitting a Proposal Managing an Award Setting Up an Award Award Management Closing Out an Award Sponsored Projects (OSP) Research Compliance (IRB, IACUC, COI, Export Control, Research Data Management and Data Use Agreements) Brown Technology Innovations Research Administration Information Systems (RAIS) Research Management Support (RMS) Research Agreements and Contracting International Research & Activities Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR) How Do I...? 2022 Research Achievement Award Winners About the Office Newsletter Forms and Policies Training and Outreach Graduate Student Resources Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Office of the Vice President for Research 350 Eddy Street | Brown University | Box 1937 | Providence, RI 02912 Vice President for Research 401-863-7408 [email protected] Research Strategy and Development 401-863-7999 [email protected] Brown Technology Innovations 401-863-7499 [email protected] Office of Sponsored Projects 401-863-2777 [email protected] Research Administration and Information Systems 401-863-2777 [email protected] Office of Research Integrity 401-863-3050 [email protected] @brownuresearch Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat