Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin Menu Header Helpful Links Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Families & Visitors Search Search Maps Directory UT Direct Give Apply Search Search About Academics Academic Experience Areas of Study Extended Campus Cockrell School of Engineering College of Education College of Fine Arts College of Liberal Arts College of Natural Sciences College of Pharmacy Dell Medical School Graduate School Jackson School of Geosciences LBJ School of Public Affairs McCombs School of Business Moody College of Communication School of Architecture School of Information School of Law School of Nursing Steve Hicks School of Social Work School of Undergraduate Studies Admissions & Aid Be a Longhorn What Starts Here Changes the World. It's more than a motto. It’s what we prove each and every day, as Texas and its Exes advance discovery and innovation on a global stage. Join us. Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions School of Law Admissions Dell Medical School Admissions Tuition & Costs Financial Aid Campus Visits Campus & Community Explore Your Passions Thousands of events, from concerts and film screenings to readings and lectures. More than 1,100 student organizations. Incredible facilities and special attractions. And it's all set in the heart of one of the world's greatest cities. Welcome home. Arts & Culture Campus Destinations Entrepreneurship & Innovation Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Austin Report Misconduct Safety & Security Student Involvement Longhorn Resources Research Change the World Longhorns are passionate about making the world a better place, united by the belief that creating and sharing knowledge can save lives and transform society. Come explore our vast research enterprise — or better yet, create, innovate and discover with us. Overview Student Research Units & Centers Off-Campus Research Sites Libraries Experts Guide Athletics News Home Research : Libraries Libraries For more than 125 years, The University of Texas Libraries have been committed to building one of the greatest library collections in the world. Maintaining more than 10 million volumes and providing access to the latest digital journals, databases, and web resources, our libraries collect and preserve the finest achievements of human knowledge in support of not only research and instruction needs, but also the exploration of deep intellectual curiosities. Quick Links University of Texas Libraries Library Services Research by Subject Architecture and Planning Library Supporting the curriculum of the School of Architecture, the Architecture and Planning Library collection covers subjects including architectural design, theory, history and criticism. The Library is also home to the Alexander Architectural Archive. Learn more Benson Latin American Collection The Nettie Lee Benson Latin American Collection is one of the premier libraries in the world focused on Latin America and Latina/o Studies, excelling in the humanities and social sciences. Learn more Classics Library The Classics Library prides itself in having one of the best classical studies collections in the world, with a focus on classical philology, Greek and Latin literature, Greek and Roman history, and classical civilization. Learn more Fine Arts Library The Fine Arts Library supports research and instruction in the College of Fine Arts, as well as other liberal arts disciplines. Its collections include more than 500,000 books, scores, and pamphlets on art, art history, music, theatre and dance, as well as an expansive audio-visual collection. Learn more Human Rights Documentation Initiative (HRDI) Dedicated to preserving and making accessible the historical record of genocide and human rights violations, the HRDI aims to preserve the most fragile human rights struggles worldwide, promote the security and use of these archival materials, and advance human rights research and advocacy around the world. Learn more Kuehne Physics Mathematics Astronomy Library The John M. Kuehne Physics Mathematics Astronomy Library serves the physics, mathematics and astronomy information needs of the entire university community, as well as the research information needs of the Physics, Mathematics and Astronomy departments. Learn more Life Science Library The Life Science Library is housed in the historic space that served as the original library for the university until 1977. Its extensive collections support cutting-edge scholarship in the biosciences, with a focus on biology, medicine, nutrition and pharmacy. Learn more Mallet Chemistry Library Supporting the departments of Chemistry, Molecular Biosciences and Chemical Engineering, the Mallet Chemistry Library collection contains more than 100,000 volumes on chemistry, biochemistry, chemical engineering and food technology. Learn more Marine Science Library Located at the Marine Science Institute in Port Aransas, the Marine Science Library is a primary source for marine-related information in the state and in the Gulf of Mexico. Learn more McKinney Engineering Library A designated Patent and Trademark Resource Center, the Richard W. McKinney Engineering Library supports teaching and research in all fields of engineering. Learn more Perry-Castañeda Library The Perry-Castañeda Library (PCL) is The University of Texas at Austin's main research library. The six-level, open-stack flagship library has holdings in all subject fields, with a strong emphasis on the humanities, social sciences, business and education. Learn more Texas ScholarWorks The online-only Texas ScholarWorks was established to provide open, online access to the products of UT Austin research and scholarship, to preserve these works for future generations, to promote new models of scholarly communication, and to help deepen community understanding of the value of higher education. Learn more Walter Geology Library The Walter Geology Library serves as the regional library for the earth sciences — including geophysics, paleontology, geology, mineralogy, petrology and groundwater hydrology. Learn more Other Libraries and Research Resources Dolph Briscoe Center for American History H.J. Lutcher Stark Center for Physical Culture and Sports Harry Ransom Center LBJ Library and Museum Tarlton Law Library Texas Digital Library Connect with UT Libraries Facebook Twitter YouTube Flickr Latest Tweets UT Libraries utlibraries New job posting for a Development Specialist, working with LILLAS Benson Latin American Studies and Collections. Pl… https://t.co/xlKT6tjFNR 3 ds ago Reply2 Retweet Star UT Libraries utlibraries New job posting for a Branch Supervisor (Sr. Circulation Specialist), based in the Physics, Mathematics, and Astron… https://t.co/lCRRPZ0NlO 1 week ago Reply2 Retweet Star UT Libraries utlibraries New job posting for a Diversity Resident Librarian (Assistant Librarian), geared towards entry-level or early caree… https://t.co/tnMzlyw63l 1 week ago Reply2 Retweet Star UT Libraries utlibraries Grant Lifecycle Support – Need help identifying funding opportunities for your research? Do you need to learn to us… https://t.co/yiNxkvOoUb 1 month ago Reply2 Retweet Star UT Libraries utlibraries Math+Poetry – It’s #nationalpoetrymonth and Math & Stats Awareness Month, so join us and share your STEM (Science T… https://t.co/usG7qJS80F 1 month ago Reply2 Retweet StarView all tweets Connect with UT Austin Subscribe to our newsletter Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Starts With You Footer Helpful Links Access Course Syllabi and Instructor CVs Campus Carry Contact Counseling and Mental Health Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan Diversity, Equity, and Disability Resources ♿ Emergency Information Fraud, Waste, or Abuse Hazing Prevention and Response HEERF/CARES Act Compliance Jobs Online Institutional Resumes Public Forum On Campus Site Policies State of Texas Statewide Search Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Title IX Reporting (Sexual Misconduct) UT System Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy © The University of Texas at Austin 2022