Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Student Affairs Dean of Students Main Navigation About Us Show Extended About Us Meet Our Staff Mission and Values Contact Us Student Services Tell Us Your Issue Basic Needs Services Request Dean's Certification Faculty & Staff Services Academic Integrity Violation Referral Student Conduct Referral Student in Distress Referral Care Services Student Conduct Tuffy's Basic Needs Services Clery Act COVID-19 Resources Dean's Certification Required Notices Virtual Workshops When to Refer a Student Make a Referral What Happens Afterwards? Immediate or Imminent Concerns Behavioral Intervention Team Helping Students in Distress: A Guide for Faculty and Staff CAPS Virtual Walk Over Instructions Welfare Check Request Guide Examples of Student Distress Campus Resources Trainings and Presentations Behavioral Intervention Team Under the leadership of the Dean of Students, the CSUF Behavioral Intervention Team (BIT) serves as the centralized body for discussion and coordinated action regarding disruptive, problematic, or concerning student behavior. The BIT team responds to non-emergency concerns and uses a proactive approach to discuss potential problems, intervene early, and develop appropriate courses of action for referred students. The goal is to support students who may be in distress or whose behavior is of concern to others before they rise to crisis levels. The BIT team shares membership with Title IX, Workplace Violence, and Threat Assessment committees and is thus tasked with sharing information regarding crisis situations and cases. BIT Members Core membership of BIT is made of staff representatives from: Counseling and Psychological Services Dean of Students Office the CSUF Cares and Student Conduct teams Disability Support Services University Police The Behavioral Intervention Team can also include members from Academic Affairs, Human Resources, Diversity, and Inclusion; International Programs, University Legal Counsel, Housing and Residential Engagement, Title IX, and Extended Education, among others. Staff from these departments may be invited to attend a BIT meeting for consultation and assessment to address or resolve certain referrals. BIT Responsibilities and Services Ad-hoc Consultation and Assessment The BIT meets bi-weekly to consult on, assess, and triage referrals for students who display troubling or worrisome behaviors. This function includes the following: Gather and analyze information Assess needs of those impacted Determine and implement plans for individuals of concern, including both immediate and ongoing strategies Provide and make referrals for advice, support, and assistance. Follow-up and Reporting Staff follows up on referrals and reports outcomes to BIT and appropriate staff. The BIT generates an annual report that includes pertinent data about the types of cases and referrals made each academic year. Case and Policy Review The BIT reviews various cases, discusses policy and protocol implications, and makes recommendations to administrators. Campus Training The BIT develops and implements training material for faculty and staff. Behavioral Intervention Team Goals To lead a collaborative multidisciplinary effort that promotes health and safety for all members of the campus community. To develop strategies that best utilize campus and community resources to assist students, faculty, and staff and provide early intervention for problem behaviors. To generate training and awareness programs for all members of the CSUF campus. This site is maintained by Dean of Students. Last Published 4/12/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact deanofstudents@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.