HOME Make a Gift Clemson Home Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift Toggle navigation HOME DIVISIONS Medical Services Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) Healthy Campus HEALTH TOPICS ADHD Alcohol and Other Drugs Antibiotics Body Image Building Social Connections Fitness Interpersonal Violence Mental Health Nutrition Social Media and Internet Use Sexual Health Sleep Spring Break Safety Stress Suicide Sustainibility Tobacco Wellness When to See a Provider CONTACT ABOUT POLICIES & RECORDS Advance Directives Diversity Eligibility Health Fee Privacy Practice Records & Confidentiality Rights & Responsibilities Appointments/Access to Care Face masks are required in Redfern Health Center. Medical, Pharmacy, Radiology and Lab Services Student Health Services (SHS) operates on an appointment-based system. Visits can be in-person or virtual, and many medical appointments can be scheduled for the same day. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, please call before walking-in without an appointment. Appointments for annual gynecological exams, physical exams, allergy injections and travel consultations should be made in advance. Our pharmacy is available to students who need new prescriptions filled or refills, with curbside, walk-up or pick-up service. TO MAKE AN APPOINTMENT: Schedule Online In MyHealth-e Call the Appointment Line: 864-656-1541 How To Check In for Virtual Appointments (PDF) Expectations and Reminders Please arrive 15 minutes before your scheduled appointment and check in at Registration. If you arrive more than five minutes late for your medical appointment, you will be asked to reschedule. If you have a virtual appointment, you will need to start the check-in process at least 20 minutes prior to your scheduled appointment as you must complete all online questionnaires before your appointment time. If you do not allow yourself sufficient time and try to join the meeting later than five minutes after your appointment time, you will not be able to join and must reschedule. See check-in instructions above. Bring a list of your current medications. Upload your medical and pharmacy insurance cards to MyHealth-e or bring them with you to your appointment (if not already on file). You will need to provide your primary policy holder/guarantor information. If you require specialized paperwork, please complete your portion and bring the paperwork with you to your appointment. Make sure your information is up-to-date in MyHealth-e. Text Message Appointment Reminders To receive automated text message appointment reminders from SHS on your cell phone, go to MyHealth-e and update your profile by entering your mobile phone number and carrier. If your phone number or carrier change, don't forget to update this information in MyHealth-e. Fees for Missed Appointments Student Health Services charges a fee for missed appointments. Charges vary by visit type. If necessary, cancel or reschedule your appointment in MyHealth-e. Please arrive 15 minutes before your scheduled appointment and check in at Registration. If you arrive more than five minutes late for your medical appointment, you will be asked to reschedule. Counseling and Psychological Services Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) provides counseling and psychiatric services to support students. These services are being delivered through in-person, videoconference or phone visits, promoting social distancing and reducing the spread of the virus to both the students and the providers. In-person visits will continue to follow Clemson University guidelines for social distancing. Emphasis is on assisting students to adapt and cope with factors outside their control while courageously acting on those factors within their power. Our overnight and over-the-weekend emergency phone-support service is available by calling the Clemson University Police Department at 864-656-2222 and asking to speak with the CAPS counselor on call. Initiating New Services Students seeking services should call CAPS reception at 864-656-2451 during business hours (8 a.m.-4:30 p.m.). Counselors will be available to conduct a brief phone screen to determine the best way to serve your needs. Ongoing Individual Counseling Students in established individual counseling relationships are to reply to secure messages from their counselors. Look for these secure messages in the MyHealth-e portal. Groups and Workshops Established groups will continue to be offered via videoconference. Group facilitators will reach out to group members, and group members are to reply promptly to the counselor’s secure message for instructions. Psychiatric Services Both Dr. Mouzon and the Medical University of South Carolina (MUSC) telepsychiatrist will continue to provide services through in-person, videoconference or phone visits. These providers will contact students with scheduled appointments. Juanita Foster, RN, is the point of contact for the MUSC psychiatrist and will facilitate the visit. New appointments can be scheduled by calling CAPS reception at 864-656-2451. Students must call CAPS (864-656-2451) and undergo an intake assessment prior to scheduling an appointment with a psychiatrist. Text Message Appointment Reminders To receive automated text message appointment reminders from SHS on your cell phone, go to MyHealth-e and update your profile by entering your mobile phone number and carrier. If your phone number or carrier change, don't forget to update this information in MyHealth-e. Fees for Missed Appointments or Late Cancellation Student Health Services charges a fee for missed appointments and late cancellations. Charges vary by visit type; missed appointments with the psychiatrist incur the same charge as the visit charge. If necessary, cancel or reschedule your appointment by 11:59 p.m. the day before the scheduled appointment. This can be done in MyHealth-e. Please arrive 15 minutes prior to your scheduled appointment and check in at Registration. If you arrive more than 15 minutes late for your CAPS appointment, you may be charged a fee. Please note that CAPS providers abide by licensing laws and provide services, including remote services, in the state in which they are licensed. Therefore, students located outside South Carolina will be assisted with accessing care in their communities. The CAPS staff remains committed to supporting the Clemson University student population. Hours of Operation Monday, Tuesday, Thursday, Friday 8 a.m.- 4:30 p.m. Wednesday 9 a.m.- 4:30 p.m. Closed University Holidays Redfern Health Center General Information: 864-656-2233 Emergency/After-Hours Care COVID-19 Information Redfern COVID-19 Information Line: 864-656-3571 This phone line is available Monday-Friday from 10 a.m.-2 p.m. and is closed University holidays. If you are a student and need care after hours, please visit our emergency/after-hours care webpage to see your options, including MUSC Virtual Urgent Care and our Nurse Line: 855-771-6077. You will be asked to provide your name, birthdate and CUID number. Isolation and Quarantine Information and FAQs Mental Health and Well-being Tips Clemson COVID-19 Updates Student Health Services offers translation services for more than 200 languages, including American sign language. CONTACT DIVISION OF STUDENT AFFAIRS 202 Sikes Hall, Clemson, SC Copyright 2020 Webmaster