Skip navigation About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information for Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors menu Brown University About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information for Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Global Global Brown Research & Curriculum Global Engagement International Programs Programs & Initiatives Community & Support Office of International Programs Brown in Italy Bologna PorticosWe are pleased to be able to resume the Brown in Italy program for the Fall 2021 and Spring 2022 semesters. Students should note that program start dates, co-curricular activities, academic offerings, and other logistics may be adjusted in order to comply with health and safety considerations on site. At a Glance City: Bologna Partner: Università di Bologna Housing: Student residence Language Requirement: Intermediate; ITAL 0300/Third-semester college-level Italian Calendar: Semester or Year Accepts Non-Brown Students: Yes Overview The ancient city of Bologna is one of Europe’s great centers of learning and a superbly preserved jewel of medieval charm. Our program is based at the Brown in Italy office in Bologna, near our partner institution, the University of Bologna (UniBo), the oldest in Europe, with a proud history of dynamic, well-respected scholars like Dante, Petrarch, Erasmus, and Copernicus. Orientation A mandatory credit-bearing pro-seminar is offered at the beginning of the semester, focusing on Italian language, history, and culture. During the first month of the program, students also participate in on-site orientation activities, during which they learn about the city of Bologna and the Italian university system and meet with on-site staff to discuss course selection. Academics The Bologna Resident Director oversee all academic matters. Once on site in Bologna, students will meet with the Resident Director to determine which University of Bologna courses they will take. Students studying abroad for the fall semester or spring semester are required to take the pro-seminar course (the equiavelent of one (1) Brown course credit, along with university coursework totaling 24 European Credit Transfer System (ECTS) credits (typically 3 semester-long courses). Academic-year students are required to take the pro-seminar course, along with 24 ECTS during the fall semester; during the spring semester, full-year students will take 32 ECTS at the University (typically 3-4 semester-long courses). Course Modules Courses at the University of Bologna are taught in a single semester, as either a full-term course or half-term course. If taking a full-term course, students must enroll in both halves of the course. Under special circumstances, with the advanced approval of the resident director, one of the semester-long courses can be replaced by two half-semester modules, selected in consultation with the resident director, and provided that the half-semester courses are not taken at the same time. One Italian credit (CFU, Credito Formativo Universitario) equals one ECTS credit. Courses Required Course Brown in Italy Pro-seminar The Intensive Language and Culture Proseminar is a mandatory course designed to prepare students enrolled in the program to function well within the academic and social context of Bologna and to deepen their knowledge of the environment in which they will be living for the duration of the semester. Elective Courses Actual course offerings at the University of Bologna often are not posted until just before the semester begins, and final course registration takes place in Bologna. Because this is a direct enrollment program and specific courses may not be offered by the host institution each semester, students need to be flexible with their course selections. Students have access to the full range of academic offerings at the University. Courses for most scuole, or schools, begin toward the end of September or beginning of October for the Fall and end of January/beginning of February for the Spring. Each scuola of the university operates according to its own calendar. There is no common schedule of classes containing all the information about the academic year. Not all classes begin at the same time; the schedule depends on the particular scuola and on the individual professor. University of Bologna course offerings can be found here, but syllabi typically are not available in advance. Because this is a direct enrollment program, students need to be flexible with their course selections. Review to this sample list of University of Bologna courses to see the types of courses students on the Brown in Italy program have taken in the past. Special Course Options With the advance approval of the Bologna resident diretor, students studying in Bologna in the spring semester may take one studio/visual arts course at the Accademia di Belle Arti (Academy of Fine Arts); students must provide a portfolio of their previous work. Courses taken at the Academy of Fine Arts are worth 6 ECTS each. Program Dates Approximate dates are provided based on past programs; students should expect them to vary by year. Please refer to the program calendar for more specific information about program dates. Academic Year: early September - early June Fall Semester: early September to third week of December Spring Semester: Early January - early June Housing Housing is provided in a student residential facility, in furnished private or shared rooms with bathroom and access to common areas including a study lounge, laundry room, gym, pool, and shared kitchen. The residence is in walking and biking distance to the city center, museums, universities, tram and bus stops, and Bologna Centrale train station. Students cook for themselves or eat out at the numerous local restaurants. Bologna is famed for its cuisine, so many wonderful opportunities exist to explore this aspect of Italian and Bolognese culture. Eligibility and Requirements The Brown in Italy program is open to Brown and visiting undergraduate students. Students must be in good academic standing and have completed Intermediate Italian/ITAL 0300 (third-semester college-level Italian language), or the equivalent, before beginning studies in Bologna. Application Instructions Apply by the deadline using Brown's online application system via the "apply now" and "return to application" buttons on the right side of this page. Applications typically require faculty recommendations so it is important to begin the process early. Related Files Brown in Italy Bologna Calendar 2021-22 Sample List of University of Bologna Courses Brown in Italy Bologna Predeparture Outline Fall 2021 Universitaly Registration & Pre-Enrollment Guide (UNIBO) Brown in Italy Bologna Proseminar Syllabus Fall 2021 Related Links 2021/22 Estimated Program Costs Visa Information University of Bologna Course Listings Italian Studies at Brown Brown in Bologna Blog Home Study Abroad COVID-19 Updates Programs Distinctively Brown/Consortium for Advanced Studies Abroad (CASA) programs Consortium for Advanced Studies Abroad (CASA) Argentina Brazil Chile Cuba France Germany Hong Kong Ireland Italy Japan Spain Approved Programs Petition Process Summer Programs Consortium for Advanced Studies Abroad (CASA) Independent Study and Undergraduate Research Application Deadlines Meet with an Advisor Study Abroad Peer Advisors Faculty Advisors for Study Abroad FinancIal Information Getting Started Health & Safety Resources for Abroad Returning to Brown For Families Faculty & Staff OIP Events & Activities About the OIP Print this Page Share this Page Office of International Programs Brown University Box 1973 Page-Robinson Hall 420 Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3555 Fax 401-863-3311 [email protected] For Global Travelers Controller's Office Travel Policies and Procedures International Health Insurance Register with Brown's International SOS Service Tips While Abroad - The Take It With You Guide Brown Travel Portal IT Security Travel Tips International Research Administration Travel Clinic For Global Visitors Office of International Student & Scholar Services (OISSS) International Health Insurance Brown Travel Portal International Student Resources Visiting Undergraduate Students Visiting Research Fellows and Non-Degree Graduate Students Study Abroad Office of International Programs - Undergraduate Study Abroad Undergraduate Teaching and Research Awards Graduate School Partnerships and Exchanges Grant Opportunities Our grant database offers a wide range of funding opportunities for undergraduate and graduate students, faculty, and researcher in different fields of work. Search Grants Social Media Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Top Destinations Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Map & Directions Social Media Dashboard Contact Us Giving to Brown