Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Sexual Harassment Policies Get Help Get Help Medical care Confidential help Academic and campus help Help for faculty and staff How faculty and staff can help students Report Report Report to police Report to SMU Report anonymously Report retaliation Protective orders Learn More Learn More SMU Title IX Sexual Harassment Policy Sexual assault and consent Definitions and examples Campus security Message from President Turner SMU Task Force Get involved Get involved Education and prevention Awareness tips Request a presentation Resources ☰ Sexual Harassment Learn More Message from President Turner A message from President Turner regarding sexual harassment September 2, 2021 Dear SMU Community, SMU is committed to providing a campus environment where every Mustang is valued. Our University continues to work on multiple fronts to eliminate sexual harassment, provide care and support to those who experience it, and hold violators accountable while treating all parties in a fair manner. Each semester we share important information about sexual harassment resources, policies and procedures that support the safety and well-being of all members of the SMU community. All forms of sexual harassment – including sexual assault, dating violence, domestic violence and stalking – are violations of University policy, state law and the federal law Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972. Also, sexual assault and relationship violence are crimes under Texas law punishable by imprisonment. SMU will not tolerate sexual harassment in any form, and will vigorously enforce our University policies and support state and federal laws. I urge all SMU community members to review the SMU Title IX Sexual Harassment Policy. The policy is also available on the Office of Institutional Access and Equity website, smu.edu/iae. SMU Title IX Coordinator Samantha Thomas may be reached at 214-768-3601, by email at accessequity@smu.edu, or at the Perkins Administration Building, Room 204, for questions or to report sexual harassment. Help is available Anyone in our community who experiences sexual harassment is urged to seek help as soon as possible. SMU resources include SMU Police, the SMU Title IX coordinator and deputy coordinators, the Office of the Dean of Students, confidential counselors at SMU Counseling Services and confidential pastoral support at the SMU Chaplain’s Office. They will provide support and information about campus and community resources, including options to pursue criminal charges and SMU’s internal grievance process. More information about resources for students and faculty and staff, including the Employee Assistance Program, is available online. Mandatory reporting If faculty or staff members receive reports of sexual harassment from students, other employees or campus visitors, please remember that you are a mandatory reporter and must notify the SMU Title IX coordinator. Under Texas law, failure to make a report may also result in criminal penalties and termination of employment. This requirement applies to all employees, including confidential counselors in Counseling Services and confidential pastoral support in the Chaplain’s Office, although these employees are only required to report the type of incident and may not include any information that would violate a student’s expectation of privacy. Please consult Section 6 of the Title IX Sexual Harassment Policy for more information. By being aware of SMU resources and policies, each of us can contribute to our community’s ongoing efforts to prevent sexual harassment. Please visit smu.edu/sexualharassment for more information. Sincerely, R. Gerald Turner Learn More SMU Title IX Sexual Harassment Policy Sexual assault and consent Definitions and examples Campus security Message from President Turner SMU Task Force Resources In case of emergency or for criminal reporting, please call SMU Police, 214-768-3333, or pick up a blue-light phone on campus. Confidential Resources SMU Counseling Services 214-768-2277 SMU Chaplain’s Office 214-768-4502 Additional SMU resources SMU Title IX Coordinator (for internal grievance information and reporting) 214-768-3601 Office of Student Advocacy & Support 214-768-4512 Anonymous reporting 214-768-2TIP (2847) Community resources Dallas Area Rape Crisis Center (DARCC) 972-641-7273 Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner (SANE) Program 214-345-6203 Learn more about resources. Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share