Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links The Jesuit Institute Menu Main Nav The Jesuit Institute The Jesuit Institute Contact Back Back Close About Overview History of the Jesuit Institute Contact Conferences Overview Amoris Laetitia Toward a Culture of University Ethics Growing Apart Our Common Home International Networking in the Society of Jesus Secularization and the Jesuits Jesuit Survival and Restoration Events Overview Lectures Past Events Programs Overview Interdisciplinary Seminars Visiting Fellows Close Contact Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Conferences Growing Apart Conferences Amoris Laetitia Toward a Culture of University Ethics Growing Apart Our Common Home International Networking in the Society of Jesus Secularization and the Jesuits Jesuit Survival and Restoration Growing Apart: The Implications of Economic Inequality April 8–9, 2016 Plenary Speakers Event Schedule Senator Elizabeth Warren Elizabeth Warren is an American academic and politician, who is the senior U.S. Senator from Massachusetts. She is a member of the Democratic Party, and was previously a Harvard Law School professor specializing in bankruptcy law. A prominent legal scholar, Warren was among the most cited in the field of commercial law while at Harvard University. She is an active consumer protection advocate whose scholarship led to the conception and establishment of the U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. Warren has written a number of academic and popular works, and is a frequent subject of media interviews regarding the American economy and personal finance. Victor Tan Chen Victor Tan Chen is a sociology professor at Virginia Commonwealth University who studies economic inequality. He is the author of Cut Loose: Jobless and Hopeless in an Unfair Economy, and The Missing Class: Portraits of the Near Poor in America, one of the top-selling sociology books of recent years. Chen’s work has been featured in the New York Times, NPR, BBC News, Atlantic Monthly, the Boston Globe, and C-SPAN’s Book TV. Chen received his degrees from Harvard University and was a National Science Foundation postdoctoral fellow at the University of California, Berkeley. Shaji George Kochuthara Shaji George Kochuthara, CMI, teaches moral theology at Dharmaram Vidya Kshetram (DVK) (Pontifical Athenaeum of Theology, Philosophy and Canon Law), Bangalore, India. He has published The Concept of Sexual Pleasure in the Catholic Moral Tradition and writes on ethics of sex and gender, globalization, and economic life. He is the editor-in-chief of Asian Horizons: Dharmaram Journal of Theology and the Chairperson of the Institutional Ethical Review Board of St. John's Medical College, Bangalore. Dr. Kochuthara is a visiting scholar in residence at Boston College's Jesuit Institute for the spring semester. Friday, April 8 Concurrent Sessions I Addressing Inequality: Solutions and Cautions (Stokes N228) Micah Lott, Boston College Equality and Freedom Joe Quinn, Boston College The Relative Effectiveness of the Minimum Wage and the Earned Income Tax Credit as Anti-Poverty Tools Jeffrey L. Sternberg, Northeastern University The Politics of Knowledge Production: The Embeddedness of Knowledge Producers within Institutions of Power Kate Ward, Boston College (convener) Inequality and the Moral Life: A Virtue Perspective Inequality, Sustainability and Ideology (Stokes N428) Rachel Madsen, Brandeis University Pursuing Equity in Sustainability Policies: Contributions from Environmental Sociology Rosalia Greco, Boston College Redistribution, Polarization, and Ideology Sandra Waddock (convener) Inequality, Dignity, and the Sustainability Challenge Inequality and Difference (Undergraduate Panel) (Stokes N325) Noah W. Fitzgerel, Brown University Squandering a Legacy: Investigating the Civil Rights Movement, Economic Inequality and the Failure of the Congress of Racial Equality (CORE) Devon Breton-Pakozdi, Yale Federalism and the “Color Line:” Rethinking the Politics of Racial Inequalities Hochan Kim, Brown University Income Inequality and the Difference Principle Respondent: James O’Sullivan, Boston College Plenary Session Sen. Elizabeth Warren Robsham Theater Concurrent Sessions II Comparative Inequality Policies (Undergraduate Panel) Annalyn H. Bachmann, Emmanuel College Stability of Socioeconomic Development and the Implications for Southeast Asia Felicia Choo, Georgetown University Missing Women in the Workplace: Firm Characteristics Affecting the Hiring of Females in Bangladesh Cassandra Jagroop, St. John’s University The Economic Loss of Innocence: Child Soldiers in Yemen and Darfur and Economic Inequality Respondent: Rosalia Greco, Boston College Inequality in Global Perspective (Stokes S117) James O’Sullivan, Boston College Twenty First Century Global Goal Setting addressing Global Inequality: An Interdisciplinary Ethical Analysis Sylvia Cesar, Georgetown University Where Do Losers Lose the Least? Regime Type and the Unequal Gains from Trade Frank Garcia, Boston College (convener) Globalization, Inequality and International Economic Law Community, Education and Inequality (Stokes S133) Dustin Crummett, University of Notre Dame Wealth, Well-Being, and the Danger of Having Too Much Tiziana Dearing, Boston College Social Policy, Social Work and Income Inequality - How One "Helping" Discipline Can Help Solve an Intractable Problem Mary Walsh, Boston College (convener) Inequality and Education Saturday, April 9 Plenary Session Victor Tan Chen, Virginia Commonwealth University Introduction: Ken Himes, Boston College Concurrent Sessions III Cross-disciplinary Perspectives on Economics John Buchmann, University of Chicago Divinity School Did I Do That? Adam Smith, Inequality and Supply-Side Ethics Manon Garcia, Tufts University “Are women Homo Economicus?” Economic Inequality and gender differences among economic agents. Kyle M. Nicholas, University of Notre Dame Sharing the Revolution: Moral Theology and the Sharing Economy Wages and Inequality (Stokes S115) Stephen R. Leccese, Fordham University Areas of Study: Intellectual/Labor History, Economics, Economic Theory Historical Arguments for a Wage Increase Joyce Konigsburg, Duquesne The Economic and Ethical Implications of a Living Wage Ken Himes, Boston College (Convener) John A. Ryan and living/family wage Evaluating Solutions to Inequality (Undergraduate Panel) Lucas Allen, Boston College Universalizing Access to Medicine: Brazil’s Response to AIDS, Inequality, and Institutionalized Scarcity Marissa Marandola, Boston College The Dollar Debates: Comparing the Implications of Judicial versus Political Intervention for School Finance Reform Lindsey Connors, University of Massachusetts, Boston Arts-Based Workforce Training: Creative Action against Community Economic Inequality Plenary Session Shaji George Kochuthara Dharmaram Vidya Kshetram, Bangalore, India Intro: Kate Ward, Boston College Back To Top Back To Top The Jesuit Institute Faber House 102 College Road Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-8290 james.keenan.2@bc.edu 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College