HOME Make a Gift Clemson Home Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift Toggle navigation ABOUT CSL&E ACCEPTED STUDENTS Welcome Week Orientation Orientation Ambassadors CURRENT STUDENTS Leadership and Service Student Organizations Student Involvement FAMILY PROGRAMS FACULTY & STAFF COMMUNITY MEMBERS Clemson University New Student Orientation 2022 Welcome to Clemson University! The New Student Orientation program at Clemson University is the first step in ensuring that new students have a successful transition and integration into college life. Click below to learn more! Click to know for Undergraduate Students Undergraduate Students New Undergraduate students to Clemson University, your journey starts here! Orientation is a required component of your transition. Click here to learn more about our Spring Orientation programs. Click to know for Undergraduate Students Undergraduate Students New Undergraduate students to Clemson University, your journey starts here! Orientation is a required component of your transition. Click here to learn more about our Spring Orientation programs. Click to know for Graduate Students Graduate Students Graduate Students, click here to learn more about our optional Spring programs designed to connect you to resources and other incoming students. Click to know for Graduate Students Graduate Students Graduate Students, click here to learn more about our optional Spring programs designed to connect you to resources and other incoming students. Parents and Families information Parents & Families We invite you to learn more about your student’s transition to campus by joining the Clemson Parent and Family Experience. Parents and Families information Parents & Families We invite you to learn more about your student’s transition to campus by joining the Clemson Parent and Family Experience. CONTACT DIVISION OF STUDENT AFFAIRS 202 Sikes Hall, Clemson, SC Copyright 2020 Webmaster