Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary INTERDISCIPLINARY GRADUATE PROGRAMS NEUROSCIENCE Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 NEURO 501 Introduction to Neurobiology (3) Carlson Survey of molecular, cellular, and developmental neuroscience, including gene regulation, the cytoskeleton, protein sorting in the secretory pathway, growth factors, and neurotransmitter receptors. Includes lecture discussion of original literature. View course details in MyPlan: NEURO 501 NEURO 502 Introduction to Neurobiology (5) Sherk Systems level survey of vertebrate system, focusing on sensory system, on motor system, and on neuroanatomy. Lectures cover topics in sensory and motor systems. Laboratory includes brain dissection and study of intact, prosected, and sectioned brain and spinal cord. Emphasis is on human nervous system. View course details in MyPlan: NEURO 502 NEURO 503 Cognitive and Integrative Neurobiology (4) Phillips Survey of all aspects of neuroscience, including a discussion of higher neural processes like motivation, decision making, attention, learning, and memory. Lecture and discussion of original literature. View course details in MyPlan: NEURO 503 NEURO 504 Biophysics of Nerve, Muscle, and Synapse (3) Sullivan Introduces biophysical properties of nerve and muscle cells. Topics include intrinsic electrical properties of neurons, ion channels, receptor signaling, calcium signaling, contraction of muscles, and synaptic function. Offered: jointly with P BIO 504. View course details in MyPlan: NEURO 504 NEURO 510 Seminar in Neurobiology and Behavior (0.5, max. 30) Biweekly seminar on current topics. Required for students in the graduate program in neurobiology and behavior and for students supported on Graduate Neuroscience Program Training Grant. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: NEURO 510 NEURO 511 Seminar in Advanced Neurobiology (1-3, max. 30) Weekly faculty lectures, student presentations, and discussions of past and current scientific literature in neurobiology and behavior. View course details in MyPlan: NEURO 511 NEURO 512 Readings in Advanced Neurobiology and Behavior (1-3, max. 30) Guided study of the primary literature of neurobiology and behavior. Emphasizes critical analysis, accuracy of expression, bibliographical technique, and other factors of good scholarship. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: NEURO 512 NEURO 515 Teaching Practicum in Neurobiology and Behavior (3-6, max. 30) Supervised training in the teaching of neuroscience and related scientific topics. Prerequisite: graduate standing in the neurobiology and behavior graduate program and permission of the instructor. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: NEURO 515 NEURO 526 Introduction to Laboratory Research in Neurobiology (4, max. 30) Students become familiar with, and assist in, the performance of research on ongoing projects in designated laboratories. Emphasis on employed methodology and techniques. Prerequisite: first-year graduate students in neurobiology. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: NEURO 526 NEURO 527 Current Topics in Neurobiology and Behavior (1, max. 30) Presentation and discussion of current research provides exposure to diverse areas of neurobiology and behavior research. Prerequisite: graduate student in neurobiology and behavior program or permission of instructor. Instructors: Rieke Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: NEURO 527 NEURO 528 Computational Neuroscience (3) Introduction to computational methods for understanding nervous systems and the principles governing their operation. Topics include representation of information by spiking neurons, information processing in neural circuits, and algorithms for adaptation and learning. Prerequisite: elementary calculus, linear algebra, and statistics, or permission of instructor. Offered: jointly with CSE 528. View course details in MyPlan: NEURO 528 NEURO 529 Experimental Design and Grant Writing (2) Horacio O. De La Iglesia, Paul E. M. Phillips Provides an introduction to science philosophy and the different methods currently available to address a scientific question. Focuses on the development and completion of a written research proposal. Students apply the concepts to progressively elaborate a proposal, evaluate proposals from their peers, and eventually complete a proposal with the goal of a submitting to the National Science Foundation (NSF). Prerequisite: enrolled in the Graduate Program in Neuroscience, or permission of instructor; recommended: concurrently working in a research lab setting. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: NEURO 529 NEURO 535 Research Opportunities in Neurobiology and Behavior (1) View course details in MyPlan: NEURO 535 NEURO 541 Neuroendocrinology (3) Emphasizes the cellular and molecular aspects of several topics in neuroendocrinology, including neuropeptide genes, reproduction, steroid hormone regulation of gene expression, mechanisms of hormone action, endocrine rhythms, and neural oscillations. Prerequisite: BIOL 220; BIOC 442 or permission of instructor. Instructors: Steiner Offered: jointly with P BIO 509; W, even years. View course details in MyPlan: NEURO 541 NEURO 545 Quantitative Methods in Neuroscience (3) Discusses quantitative methods applicable to the study of the nervous system. Revolves around computer exercises/discussion of journal papers. May include linear systems theory, Fourier analysis, ordinary differential equations, stochastic processes, signal detection, and information theory. Prerequisite: NEUBEH 501, NEUBEH 502, NEUBEH 503, or permission of instructor. Instructors: Rieke Offered: jointly with P BIO 545. View course details in MyPlan: NEURO 545 NEURO 548 Molecular Mechanisms of Synaptic Plasticity (2) Barria Discusses recent primary literature on the molecular mechanisms underlying structural and functional changes of dendritic spines and synapses in the mammalian brain as result of synaptic activity and experience. Offered: jointly with P BIO 548; Sp, even years. View course details in MyPlan: NEURO 548 NEURO 550 Biophysics of Calcium Signaling (1) Introduction to cellular calcium signaling including theoretical and technical issues of calcium signal detection and biological conclusions. Prerequisite: CONJ 531. Instructors: Hille, Santana Offered: jointly with P BIO 550; Sp, odd years. View course details in MyPlan: NEURO 550 NEURO 554 Motor Learning: Cellular and Network Mechanisms (1) Fetz, Perlmutter Five-week mini-course reviews the current state of research on cellular and network mechanisms of motor learning. After an introductory overview of behavioral and physiological examples of motor learning in various species and systems, students choose specific topics for discussion, using the primary literature as a source. Offered: jointly with P BIO 554. View course details in MyPlan: NEURO 554 NEURO 555 Sensory Receptors (1) Detwiler, Rieke Five-lecture mini-course examines how different kinds of sensory receptors detect and respond to different modalities of sensory stimuli. Discussion focuses on the cellular and molecular mechanisms of the underlying transduction processes and the experimental evidence that they are based on. Offered: jointly with P BIO 555. View course details in MyPlan: NEURO 555 NEURO 556 Axon Pathfinding Mechanisms (1) Bothwell Examines mechanisms governing axon growth cone behavior during embryonic development and during regeneration in the injured adult. Discusses approaches employing both invertebrate and vertebrate model systems. Offered: jointly with P BIO 556. View course details in MyPlan: NEURO 556 NEURO 557 Ion Channel Gating (1) Zagotta Compares and contrasts mechanisms of gating in ligand-gated and voltage-gated ion channels. Covers basics of ligand gating and voltage gating, kinetic schemes, inactivation and desensitization, gating currents and partial agonists, and ion channel structure. Offered: jointly with P BIO 557. View course details in MyPlan: NEURO 557 NEURO 559 Neurobiology of Disease (3) Introduces medically important neurological and psychiatric diseases and experimental approaches to understanding the basis for diseases and their treatments. Covers stroke, epilepsy, autoimmune diseases of the CNS, neurodegenerative diseases, autism, psychosis, anxiety disorders, and mood disorders. Offered: jointly with NEURL 559/P BIO 559. View course details in MyPlan: NEURO 559 NEURO 561 From Biophysics to Neural Computation (2) Introduces the mathematics and methods of neuronal modeling. Develops, compares, and relates dynamical systems approaches and empirical characterizations of neuronal function. Includes lectures, student-led journal paper discussions, biweekly computational workshops on neuronal modeling packages, and a computations project. Offered: jointly with P BIO 561; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: NEURO 561 NEURO 600 Independent Study or Research (*-) Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: NEURO 600 NEURO 700 Master's Thesis (*-) View course details in MyPlan: NEURO 700 NEURO 800 Doctoral Dissertation (*-) View course details in MyPlan: NEURO 800 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022