Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open the search panel Open the main menu Search Go Close the search panel Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers News Events Alumni Giving About Library Login Open the Search panel Admissions Admissions Why Columbia J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics Academics J.D. Program and Curriculum LL.M. Program and Curriculum Executive LL.M. Program and Curriculum J.S.D. Program and Curriculum Dual and Joint Degrees International Programs Public Interest and Public Service Experiential Learning Courses Registration Services Academic Calendar Executive Education Areas of Study Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Criminal Justice Data Analytics Environment and Energy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Intellectual Property and Technology International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace Leadership Legal History Litigation and Dispute Resolution National Security and Privacy Social Justice and Human Rights Faculty & Scholarship Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Directory Research Centers and Programs Scholarship Archive Workshops, Lectures, and Colloquia Careers Careers Private Sector Careers Public Interest and Public Service Careers Academic Careers Judicial Clerkships Employment Statistics Employment Policies Community Life Community Life Visit Campus Dean’s Welcome Your Campus, Your City Student Life Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Strategic Initiatives Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Community Life Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Columbia Law School’s inclusive and engaging community encourages students to learn from viewpoints and experiences different from their own in a supportive and welcoming environment. More in this Section Explore Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion: Anti-Racism Grantmaking Program (ARGP) Racial and Social Justice Fellowships A Diverse Community At Columbia Law, we cultivate and value a talented community that is broadly and multidimensionally representative. Our students come from countries around the world, speak hundreds of languages, and have earned degrees in every subject, from comparative literature to particle physics. And they have educational backgrounds as diverse as they are, whether they have lawyers in their families or are the first in their family to attend college. Support and Engagement Events and programs addressing issues at the intersection of diversity, equity, and inclusion are a fixture of the Columbia Law experience, beginning before new student orientation and continuing well after graduation. For incoming students: Connecting Columbia Law, our pre-orientation event focused on welcoming and empowering incoming 1Ls who are from communities that have been historically underrepresented in law schools. Student workshops and trainings focusing on the Law School's commitment to equity and sharing tools for cultivating inclusion and resiliency (for example, our Creating an Inclusive Community workshop during 1L Orientation, Campus Conversations, and the Community Citizenship Initiative for all new students). Beginning in Fall 2021, the Law School will create and award five new need-based awards, the Columbia Law Diversity and Opportunity Scholarships, for incoming J.D. and LL.M. students who are socioeconomically disadvantaged, who have experience living or working in diverse environments, and/or who have demonstrated experience in or commitment to working with historically underserved or underprivileged populations. For current students: Social Justice Initiatives' weekly lunchtime discussion series, SJI Mondays, featuring speakers and discussion topics on a range of pressing issues, including social activism, civil and human rights, racial justice, law and the arts, and mass incarceration. The Beyond the Casebook Series, faculty led lunchtime discussions around timely, relevant issues outside of the classroom setting. This year's discussions center on the theme of “lawyers and the challenges of inclusive democracy.” Professional development programs and mentorship opportunities with Social Justice Initiatives, the Office of Career Services, and the Office of Judicial Clerkships. The Academic Scholars Program, which identifies and provides academic and financial support for J.D. candidates who want to pursue a career in legal academia. Faculty guidance and support from the Committee on Teaching on best practices for inclusive teaching, as well as for innovating and collaborating on ways to address race and inequality through course materials and coverage. Frequent events—from weekly panels to annual conferences—sponsored by student affinity groups and journals. The Fellowship in Support of Careers in Racial and Social Justice, provides a $25,000 grant in the fall of the 3L year to J.D. students who intend to pursue racial justice legal work after graduation and/or students of color who intend to pursue other social justice legal work after graduation. The Anti-Racism Grantmaking Program. Lawyers, Community, and Impact Series, with Columbia Law experts, community advocates, and practicing lawyers to discuss the most pressing issues of our time, such as criminal justice reform. The Paralegal Pathways Initiative, which seeks to amplify the talents of formerly incarcerated individuals by providing skills-based legal training and professional mentorship, advance racial equity in the legal field, build knowledge of the impacts of the criminal legal system among current and future legal professionals, and expose the legal profession to an untapped wealth of legal experience and talent. The Loan Repayment Assistance Program for J.D. students interested in becoming public interest lawyers. It is among the most generous in the country to ensure that law school debt does not prevent graduates from entering the public interest sector. The Artist-in-Residence Program to highlight the vibrancy and diversity of the Law School community and broaden representation among artists, media, and subject matter within the art collection. Academic advising resources, panels, and lunches to help all students acclimate to and navigate the Law School. The development of new pro bono projects and experiential learning opportunities in Harlem, such as the Neighborhood Defender Service of Harlem Community Defense Externship. Regular meetings between affinity group leaders and directors from Student Services and Social Justice Initiatives in which administrators hear directly from student leaders; share resources and updates; and give leaders another opportunity to discuss their plans, concerns, and efforts with each other. For alumni: Opportunities for networking and connection, including the Alumni of Color initiative. Our Commitment to Anti-Racism In May 2021, Dean Lester announced the convening of the Anti-Racism Coordinating Committee for the 2021-2022 academic year. This Committee will track and support the work the Law School began in the summer of 2020 through the Anti-Racism Steering Committee agenda, as well as help to establish new initiatives. The Anti-Racism Coordinating Committee is part of Columbia Law's ongoing commitment to engage in the hard work of self-examination—our past, our values, our responsibilities—and charting a course for a future built on a strong and indefatigable commitment to combating structural racism. On November 10, 2021, the ARCC hosted a forum to update the Law School community about its work during the Fall 2021 semester. A recording of that forum is available here. Click to Open 2021-2022 Committee Membership Faculty Richard Briffault, Joseph P. Chamberlain Professor of Legislation Philip Genty, Vice Dean for Experiential Education and Everett B. Birch Innovative Teaching Clinical Professor in Professional Responsibility Michael A. Heller, Vice Dean for Curriculum and Lawrence A. Wien Professor of Real Estate Law Bert Huang, Michael I. Sovern Professor of Law Olatunde C. Johnson, Jerome B. Sherman Professor of Law Jeremy Kessler, Professor of Law Gillian Lester, Dean and Lucy G. Moses Professor of Law (ex officio) Edward R. Morrison, Charles Evans Gerber Professor of Law Christina D. Ponsa-Kraus, George Welwood Murray Professor of Legal History David Pozen, Vice Dean for Intellectual Life and Charles Keller Beekman Professor of Law (Chair) Colleen F. Shanahan, Clinical Professor of Law Jane Spinak, Edward Ross Aranow Clinical Professor of Law Kendall Thomas, Nash Professor of Law Administrators Robert Ford, Executive Director of Student Services, Community Engagement, and Equity Yadira Ramos-Herbert, Associate Dean for Student and Registration Services Erica Smock, Assistant Dean and Dean for Social Justice Initiatives and Public Service Lawyering Students Anu Chugh, Class of 2022 Julianna Simms, Class of 2023 Dante Violette, Class of 2022 Matthew Ybarra, Class of 2023 Anti-Racism Coordinating Committee Goals and Plans 1. Increasing recruitment and hiring of faculty from underrepresented minority groups 2. Promoting inclusive pedagogy and enhancing the cultural competency of classroom instructors 3. Enhancing attention to issues of racial justice and related topics in the classroom and curriculum 4. Ensuring appropriate anti-bias training and oversight of on-campus security 5. Promoting racial justice work in Harlem and strengthening the Law School’s relationships with the Harlem community and surrounding neighborhoods 6. Expanding professional pathways for students from underrepresented minority groups 7. Enhancing financial support for students pursuing racial justice work and for students of color pursuing social justice work 8. Supporting ongoing anti-racist initiatives at the Law School 9. Supporting future anti-racist initiatives at the Law School For more information Read the Committee's Agenda Download here. Related News & Stories Read All Stories More in The Press Students News 2022 Racial and Social Justice Fellows The five fellowship recipients—all members of the Class of 2023—are dedicated to pursuing careers in social and racial justice. Alumni News In Memoriam: Morton L. Janklow ’53, Preeminent Literary Agent In The Press Who Should Regulate? A Review of “The Chevron Doctrine” Thomas W. Merrill | New York Review of Books In The Press Is Musk Getting Cold Feet About Acquiring Twitter? Eric Talley | Bloomberg Law Podcast Columbia's Commitment to Diversity Columbia University values educational diversity has established a variety of initiatives designed to recruit and support a community of students, faculty, and staff that is diverse in every way. Learn More Columbia Diversity Offices and Initiatives Columbia’s commitment to diversity is supported by a variety of offices and initiatives across the University. Learn More Inclusion and Belonging at Columbia Columbia's Office of University Life is a hub for campus-wide programming, initiatives, and resources to promote inclusion and belonging. Learn More Events & Programs View All Events Jun 1 2022 Revolution 12/13 | Abolition Feminism with Sarah Haley Wed, 6:00 p.m. - 8:00 p.m. The People's Forum, 320 W. 37th St., New York, NY 10018 Jun 7 2022 Spring 2023 Pro Bono Scholars Program Tue, 12:00 p.m. - 1:00 p.m. Online Event Jun 20 2022 Deadline: Public Interest Enhanced LRAP Fellowships Mon, All Day Online View All Events Student Affinity Groups at Columbia Law Asian Pacific American Law Student Association (APALSA) Black Law Students Association (BLSA) California Society Columbia Law Couples and Families Association (CL-CFA) Columbia Law Feminist Society (CLFS) First Generation Professionals (FGP) Columbia Law Students for Disability Rights (CLSDR) Columbia Law School Brazil Association Columbia Law School Women’s Association (CLWA) Columbia Texas Society (TexSoc) District of Columbia Law Students Empowering Women of Color Law in Africa Students Society (LASS) Latinx Law Students Association (LaLSA) Middle Eastern Law Students Association (MELSA) Midwest Society Native American Law Students Association (NALSA) New England Law Students Association (NELSA) Muslim Law Students Association (MLSA) NHK: Japanese Legal Studies Association Outlaws Queer and Trans People of Color (QTPOC) South Asian Law Students Association (SALSA) Society for Chinese Law (SCL) Society for Korean Legal Studies (SKLS) Taiwanese Law and Culture Club (TLCC) Empowering Women of Color: Strengthening a Growing Intersectional Community Women of color make up nearly 20 percent of Columbia Law School’s student body. Now in its 10th year, student organization Empowering Women of Color (EWOC) supports this community and helps individuals face challenges through mentorship and professional development opportunities as well as academic and social events. Watch Kori Cooper ’21, Seojin Park ’21, and Lorena Rodriguez ’21 share what the student organization means to them. Related Student Organizations All Student Organizations Asian Pacific American Law Student Association (APALSA) Asian Pacific American Law Students Association (APALSA) facilitates academic and professional development and hosts numerous social events throughout the school year. Members build incredibly strong friendships that carry us through law school and last well beyond graduation. It also works with APALSA chapters at other New York area law schools to build a network within our wider community. Contact: [email protected] Organization Type Personal, Identity, Culture, and Origin Student Groups Black Law Students Association (BLSA) Black Law Students Association (BLSA) is an inclusive organization where students can learn and develop the tools necessary to achieve academic and professional success. It provides academic support, alumni resources, and career opportunities to its membership, and raises awareness within the Law School community about issues that disproportionately impact poor and minority communities. BLSA is a chapter of the National Black Law Students Association, the largest law student-run organization in the United States. Contact: [email protected] Organization Type Personal, Identity, Culture, and Origin Student Groups Latinx Law Students Association (LaLSA) The Latinx Law Students Association (LaLSA) sponsors academic, professional, social, and community service activities to promote understanding of the Latino community, and serves as a liaison between its members and the administration, alumni, and other professionals in the legal field. The association also works to increase the number of Latinx students and faculty at Columbia Law School and to ensure that students receive the necessary support to achieve academic and professional success. Contact: [email protected] Organization Type Personal, Identity, Culture, and Origin Student Groups South Asian Law Students Association (SALSA) The South Asian Law Students Association (SALSA) promotes discussion and awareness of issues affecting South Asians, particularly with respect to the law. We also strive to create a sense of community among students of South Asian heritage as well as those interested in South Asia by organizing numerous social, cultural, educational, and professional events throughout the year. Contact: [email protected] Organization Type Personal, Identity, Culture, and Origin Student Groups All Student Organizations Student Stories All News & Stories A Lawyer’s Responsibility: Class of 2022 Graduates Reflect on Law School and What’s Next All News & Stories Admissions Why Columbia Visit 435 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 212-854-2640 Contact Us Social Media (Administrative Title) Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Instagram Admissions Academics Areas of Study Faculty & Scholarship Careers Community Life Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers Login News Events Alumni Giving About Library Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Donate © Copyright 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York.