Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Sociology About Us People Research Undergraduate Graduate Resources Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Graduate Resources About the Program Contact the Advisor How to Apply MA Degree Requirements Graduate Student Handbook Graduate Assistantships Opportunities for Support Course Descriptions Graduate Catalog Forms and Links Graduate Student Profiles Student Placements Student Publications Forthcoming201420132012Prior 2012 Student Presentations Student Theses Student Awards Take Action Community Out of Chaos Online B.A. Contact Us Follow Us Online Facebook Home Sociology Graduate Sociology Graduate Assistantships Graduate Assistantships The Department of Sociology awards full-time and part-time graduate assistantships to its most qualified applicants. Full-time assistantships require 20 hours of work per week in the department, pay a monthly stipend for eight months, and include a full tuition and fee waiver (including out-of-state tuition, if applicable). Part-time assistantships require 10 hours of work per week, pay a monthly stipend for eight months, and include a waiver of half the student's tuition and fees. Students who receive full-time or part-time assistantships must enroll for 12 credit hours per semester, maintain satisfactory work performance, and maintain a GPA of "3.0" or higher. Students usually remain on assistantships for two years. Although the deadline for applying for Fall admission to our program is July 1, students should apply by March 1 to receive full consideration for an assistantship. Students interested in applying for an assistantship should fill out the "Application for Graduate Admission/Assistantship in Sociology" form (Sociology Application for Graduate Admission (PDF)) and send it along with their personal statement and letters of recommendation to Wesley James, Graduate Coordinator, Department of Sociology, University of Memphis, Memphis, TN, 38152. Students who apply for a graduate assistantship should also apply for work-study support through the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). When filling out the application, be sure to ask for work-study support. Students who want to apply for graduate assistantships are not required to apply for work-study support. However, students who apply and qualify for this support earn more as graduate assistants than students who do not apply. To receive priority consideration for work-study support, you should apply by March 1 for the Fall semester and by October 1 for the Spring semester. The University of Memphis Financial Aid website will explain how to begin the process. You can access the electronic form you need to fill out at Federal Government FAFSA website. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 1/26/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.