Home Home Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni College of Arts and Sciences Asian Languages and Literature 225 Gowen Hall 206-543-4996 Website Faculty Website asianll@uw.edu Over half the world's population lives in Asia, home to many of the oldest and most vibrant cultures in human history. We explore these cultures through literary, linguistic, and textual analysis, illuminating vital connections between East and West from our vantage point on the Pacific Rim. Undergraduate Programs Program of Study: Major: Asian Languages and Cultures Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Asian Languages and Cultures Program of Study: Major: Chinese Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Chinese Program of Study: Major: Japanese Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Japanese Program of Study: Major: Korean Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Korean Program of Study: Major: South Asian Languages Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in South Asian Languages Program of Study: Minor: Asian Languages and Cultures Minor in Asian Languages and Cultures Program of Study: Minor: Chinese Minor in Chinese Program of Study: Minor: Indonesian Language and Culture Minor in Indonesian Language and Culture Program of Study: Minor: Japanese Minor in Japanese Program of Study: Minor: Korean Minor in Korean Program of Study: Minor: South Asian Languages Minor in South Asian Languages Program of Study: Minor: Vietnamese Language and Culture Minor in Vietnamese Language and Culture Graduate Programs Program of Study: Doctor Of Philosophy (Asian Languages And Literature) Doctor Of Philosophy (Asian Languages And Literature) Doctor Of Philosophy (Asian Languages And Literature: Textual Studies) Doctor Of Philosophy (Asian Languages And Literature: Theory And Criticism) Program of Study: Master Of Arts (Asian Languages And Literature) Master Of Arts (Asian Languages And Literature) Undergraduate Programs Asian Languages and Literature 223A Gowen Hall 206-543-4996 Program of Study: Major: Asian Languages and Cultures Program Overview The Department of Asian Languages and Literature offers an undergraduate major in Asian Languages and Cultures. Students will develop their ability to read, write, and speak one or more Asian languages and will combine those language skills with Asia-related studies in various humanities disciplines. Students are encouraged to explore wider interests by taking courses in other units and to take advantage of numerous study abroad opportunities. A popular option for many undergraduates at the University of Washington is to combine a minor in Asian Languages and Cultures with a major from another department, such as Computer Science, Business Administration, or International Studies. Graduates of the Department go on to a wide variety of careers, reflecting the indispensability of knowledge of Asian languages and cultures in our increasingly interconnected world. This program of study leads to the following credential: Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Asian Languages and Cultures Recommended Preparation Suggested First- and Second-Year College Courses: First year of an Asian language, or languages. Any courses relating to the area or discipline of major study. Admission Requirements Students in good academic standing may declare this major at any time. Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Asian Languages and Cultures Completion Requirements 60 credits Core Courses Primary language. Second-year level (course numbered 203 or above) in one Asian language (15 credits) Literature, culture, linguistics at 300-400 level, chosen from Asian Languages and Literature courses, not primarily using original-language materials. See department for list of approved courses. (5 credits) Electives Literature, culture, linguistics, chosen from Asian Languages and Literature courses, not primarily using original-language materials. See department for list of approved courses. (10 credits) Language, literature, culture, linguistics. Any combination of language and/or disciplinary Asian Languages and Literature courses, subject to major's other requirements. See department for list of approved courses. (30 credits; 10 credits may be chosen from outside Asian Languages and Literature.) At least 30 credits at the 300-400 level Minimum 2.0 cumulative GPA for courses applied to the major Minimum 30 credits taken in residence through the UW Back to Top Program of Study: Major: Chinese Program Overview The Department of Asian Languages and Literature offers an undergraduate major and minor in Chinese. In the major and minor, students will develop their ability to read, write, and speak Chinese and will combine those language skills with an understanding and appreciation of the literature, linguistics, and culture associated with the language. Students are encouraged to explore wider interests by taking courses in other units and to take advantage of numerous study abroad opportunities. A popular option for many undergraduates at the University of Washington is to combine a major in Chinese with a second major from another department, such as Computer Science, Business Administration, or International Studies. Graduates of the Department go on to a wide variety of careers, reflecting the indispensability of knowledge of Asian languages and cultures in our increasingly interconnected world. This program of study leads to the following credential: Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Chinese Recommended Preparation Suggested First- and Second-Year College Courses: First- and second-year Chinese language. Any courses relating to the area or discipline of major study. Admission Requirements Minimum 20 credits of college coursework (or department-approved equivalent) in the intended primary language of concentration. The most recent course completed in the intended primary language of concentration must be taken through the UW, with a minimum 2.5 Completion of one writing course (W-prefix) taught in English with a minimum 2.0 grade. The department prefers that prospective majors present a cumulative 2.50 GPA. Students with a cumulative GPA below 2.50 may be considered for the major if they submit materials in addition to transcripts, clarifying any aspect of past coursework. Denied applicants may appeal. Transfer students must be enrolled at the UW before applying to the major. Note: Students entering the junior year without two years of the appropriate foreign language are not able to complete the degree requirements in two years unless they take accelerated courses through the UW during summer quarter. Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Chinese Completion Requirements Minimum 50 credits Minimum 50 credits in Chinese language, linguistics, literature, and/or culture. Maximum 10 credits may be in courses outside Asian Languages and Literature. See department for list of courses outside Asian Languages and Literature that may apply. (Students who begin language study with first-quarter Chinese need 75 credits to complete the major.) Language: CHIN 213 (heritage-track Chinese, considered equivalent of third-year level) or CHIN 303 required, unless waived because of advanced skills. Students may take additional modern Chinese language courses (CHIN 411, CHIN 412, CHIN 413, CHIN 445, I BUS 490 [when the topic is business Chinese], CHIN 470, CHIN 482, CHIN 496 [when the topic is advanced language instruction]) toward the major, or may take additional courses in linguistics, literature, culture, and/or classical language beyond the minimum 30 credits required as shown in 3, below. No more than 20 credits of modern Chinese language courses may apply toward the major, although students may need to take more to reach the required third-year level of language competence. Linguistics, literature, culture, and/or classical language courses (minimum 30 credits), to include CHIN 451, CHIN 452 (10 credits); CHIN 342 or CHIN 442 (5 credits); CHIN 461, CHIN 463 (10 credits). See department for additional courses in linguistics, literature, culture, and/or classical language that may apply. Back to Top Program of Study: Major: Japanese Program Overview The Department of Asian Languages and Literature offers an undergraduate major and minor in Japanese. In the major and minor, students will develop their ability to read, write, and speak Japanese and will combine those language skills with an understanding and appreciation of the literature, linguistics, and culture associated with the language. Students are encouraged to explore wider interests by taking courses in other units and to take advantage of numerous study abroad opportunities. A popular option for many undergraduates at the University of Washington is to combine a major in Japanese with a second major from another department, such as Computer Science, Business Administration, or International Studies. Graduates of the Department go on to a wide variety of careers, reflecting the indispensability of knowledge of Asian languages and cultures in our increasingly interconnected world. This program of study leads to the following credential: Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Japanese Recommended Preparation Suggested First- and Second-Year College Courses: First- and second-year Japanese language. Any courses relating to the area or discipline of major study. Admission Requirements Minimum 20 credits of college coursework (or department-approved equivalent) in the intended primary language of concentration. The most recent course completed in the intended primary language of concentration must be taken through the UW, with a minimum 2.5 Completion of one writing course (W-prefix) taught in English with a minimum 2.0 grade. The department prefers that prospective majors present a cumulative 2.50 GPA. Students with a cumulative GPA below 2.50 may be considered for the major if they submit materials in addition to transcripts, clarifying any aspect of past coursework. Denied applicants may appeal. Transfer students must be enrolled at the UW before applying to the major. Note: Students entering the junior year without two years of the appropriate foreign language are not able to complete the degree requirements in two years unless they take accelerated courses through the UW during summer quarter. Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Japanese Completion Requirements Minimum 50 credits Minimum 50 credits in Japanese language, linguistics, literature, and/or culture. (Students who begin language study with first-quarter Japanese need 75 credits to complete the major.) Language: JAPAN 303 (or JAPAN 334) required, unless waived because of advanced skills. Maximum 20 language credits may be counted toward the major, chosen from JAPAN 203 (or five credits of JAPAN 234); JAPAN 245; or any 300- or 400-level Japanese language courses. See department for list of approved language courses. Linguistics, literature, and/or culture courses (minimum 30 credits, including at least 25 credits taken in the department.) Minimum 5 credits of advanced work, which may require linguistics, literature, and/or culture prerequisites. Any such prerequisites also count toward the 30-credit requirement. See department for list of approved courses. Students entering with advanced language skills complete a placement test and interview to determine language course placement. Students who need fewer than 20 credits to complete JAPAN 303, or for whom JAPAN 303 is waived because of advanced skills, must still earn a minimum 50 credits for the major. These students may take 400-level Japanese language courses (placement interview may be required), or additional linguistics, literature, and/or culture courses. Students are strongly encouraged to consult an adviser to determine both language and other course options. Back to Top Program of Study: Major: Korean Program Overview The Department of Asian Languages and Literature offers an undergraduate major and minor in Korean. In the major and minor, students will develop their ability to read, write, and speak Korean and will combine those language skills with an understanding and appreciation of the literature, linguistics, and culture associated with the language. Students are encouraged to explore wider interests by taking courses in other units and to take advantage of numerous study abroad opportunities. A popular option for many undergraduates at the University of Washington is to combine a major in Korean with a second major from another department, such as Computer Science, Business Administration, or International Studies. Graduates of the Department go on to a wide variety of careers, reflecting the indispensability of knowledge of Asian languages and cultures in our increasingly interconnected world. This program of study leads to the following credential: Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Korean Recommended Preparation Suggested First- and Second-Year College Courses: First- and second-year Korean language. Any courses relating to the area or discipline of major study. Admission Requirements Minimum 20 credits of college coursework (or department-approved equivalent) in the intended primary language of concentration. The most recent course completed in the intended primary language of concentration must be taken through the UW, with a minimum 2.5 Completion of one writing course (W-prefix) taught in English with a minimum 2.0 grade. The department prefers that prospective majors present a cumulative 2.50 GPA. Students with a cumulative GPA below 2.50 may be considered for the major if they submit materials in addition to transcripts, clarifying any aspect of past coursework. Denied applicants may appeal. Transfer students must be enrolled at the UW before applying to the major. Note: Students entering the junior year without two years of the appropriate foreign language are not able to complete the degree requirements in two years unless they take accelerated courses through the UW during summer quarter. Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Korean Completion Requirements 50-75 credits Language: (15-45 credits; minimum 15 credits beyond second year) Area-related humanities and social science courses (30-35 credits, to reach minimum 50 credits for the major). Students placed beyond second year Korean must take 35 credits of area-related humanities and social science courses. Back to Top Program of Study: Major: South Asian Languages Program Overview The Department of Asian Languages and Literature offers undergraduate majors in Hindi and Sanskrit. Undergraduate minors include Bengali, Hindi, Sanskrit, and Urdu. In these majors and minors, students will develop their ability to read, write, and speak South Asian languages and will combine these language skills with an understanding and appreciation of the literature, linguistics, and culture associated with the languages. Students are encouraged to explore wider interests by taking courses in other units and to take advantage of numerous study abroad opportunities. A popular option for many undergraduates is to combine a major in South Asian languages with a second major from another department, such as Business Administration, International Studies, Biology, or Computer Science. Graduates of AL&L go on to a wide variety of careers, reflecting the indispensability of knowledge of Asian languages and cultures in our increasingly interconnected world. This program of study leads to the following credential: Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in South Asian Languages Recommended Preparation Suggested First- and Second-Year College Courses: First- and second-year South Asian language (Hindi or Sanskrit). Any courses relating to the area or discipline of major study. Admission Requirements Minimum 20 credits of college coursework (or department-approved equivalent) in the intended primary language of concentration. The most recent course completed in the intended primary language of concentration must be taken through the UW, with a minimum 2.5 Completion of one writing course (W-prefix) taught in English with a minimum 2.0 grade. The department prefers that prospective majors present a cumulative 2.50 GPA. Students with a cumulative GPA below 2.50 may be considered for the major if they submit materials in addition to transcripts, clarifying any aspect of past coursework. Denied applicants may appeal. Transfer students must be enrolled at the UW before applying to the major. Note: Students entering the junior year without two years of the appropriate foreign language are not able to complete the degree requirements in two years unless they take accelerated courses through the UW during summer quarter. Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in South Asian Languages Credential Overview The Department of Asian Languages and Literature offers undergraduate majors in Hindi and Sanskrit, with a comparable track for Urdu under development. Undergraduate minors include Bengali, Hindi, Sanskrit, and Urdu. In these majors and minors, students will develop their ability to read, write, and speak South Asian languages and will combine these language skills with an understanding and appreciation of the literature, linguistics, and culture associated with the languages. Students are encouraged to explore wider interests by taking courses in other units and to take advantage of numerous study abroad opportunities. A popular option for many undergraduates is to combine a major in South Asian languages with a second major from another department, such as Business Administration, International Studies, Biology, or Computer Science. Graduates of AL&L go on to a wide variety of careers, reflecting the indispensability of knowledge of Asian languages and cultures in our increasingly interconnected world. Completion Requirements 70 credits Language: 45 credits beyond first-year level in a single South Asian language (Hindi or Sanskrit) Basic Language: For Hindi - HINDI 201, HINDI 202, HINDI 203, HINDI 301, HINDI 302, HINDI 303; for Sanskrit - SNKRT 201, SNKRT 202, SNKRT 203, SNKRT 311, SNKRT 312, SNKRT 313 Advanced Language, Literature, and Linguistics: 15 credits at 400 level, all drawn from either the following Hindi or Sanskrit courses, depending on the basic language selected: For Hindi - HINDI 404, HINDI 421, HINDI 422, HINDI 423, HINDI 431, HINDI 451; for Sanskrit - SNKRT 491, SNKRT 492, INDN 401, INDN 402, INDN 410 Literature in Translation (10 credits): ASIAN 203, ASIAN 206 South Asian History (5 credits): One course from among HSTAS 202, HSTAS 401, HSTAS 402, HSTAS 403, HSTAS 404 South Asian Humanities and Social Sciences (5 credits): Chosen in consultation with adviser. A list of courses that satisfy this requirement is included on the expanded description of the major available from the adviser. Capstone Seminar (5 credits): INDN 490 Back to Top Program of Study: Minor: Asian Languages and Cultures Program Overview The Department of Asian Languages and Literature offers an undergraduate minor in Asian Languages and Cultures. Students will develop their ability to read, write, and speak one or more Asian languages and will combine those language skills with Asia-related studies in various humanities disciplines. Students are encouraged to explore wider interests by taking courses in other units and to take advantage of numerous study abroad opportunities. A popular option for many undergraduates at the University of Washington is to combine a minor in Asian Languages and Cultures with a major from another department, such as Computer Science, Business Administration, or International Studies. Graduates of the Department go on to a wide variety of careers, reflecting the indispensability of knowledge of Asian languages and cultures in our increasingly interconnected world. This program of study leads to the following credential: Minor in Asian Languages and Cultures Minor in Asian Languages and Cultures Completion Requirements 30 credits Primary language (15 credits): second-year (200-level) courses, or above, in one Asian language Language, literature, culture, linguistics (15) credits: 10 credits of disciplinary (non-language) courses; 5 credits may be chosen from outside Asian Languages and Literature. (See department for list of approved courses.) Minimum 15 credits at the 300-400 level Minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA for courses applied to the minor Minimum 15 credits taken in residence through the UW Back to Top Program of Study: Minor: Chinese Program Overview The Department of Asian Languages and Literature offers an undergraduate major and minor in Chinese. In the major and minor, students will develop their ability to read, write, and speak Chinese and will combine those language skills with an understanding and appreciation of the literature, linguistics, and culture associated with the language. Students are encouraged to explore wider interests by taking courses in other units and to take advantage of numerous study abroad opportunities. A popular option for many undergraduates at the University of Washington is to combine a major in Chinese with a second major from another department, such as Computer Science, Business Administration, or International Studies. Graduates of the Department go on to a wide variety of careers, reflecting the indispensability of knowledge of Asian languages and cultures in our increasingly interconnected world. This program of study leads to the following credential: Minor in Chinese Minor in Chinese Completion Requirements 30 credits Minimum 30 credits in modern Chinese language, linguistics, literature, culture, and/or classical language, taken within Asian Languages and Literature. (See department for Asian Languages and Literature courses other than Chinese that may be counted toward the minor.) Language: CHIN 213 (heritage-track Chinese, considered equivalent to third-year level) or CHIN 303 (or equivalent). Maximum 15 credits of modern Chinese language, which may include CHIN 213, CHIN 301, CHIN 302, CHIN 303, or certain 400-level Chinese courses. First and second-year Chinese courses may not apply to the minor. Linguistics, literature, culture, and/or classical language: Minimum 15 credits to include CHIN 342 or CHIN 442 (5 credits) and CHIN 461 or CHIN 463 (5 credits). Additional credits in linguistics, literature, culture, and/or classical language may be taken from courses on the department website. Back to Top Program of Study: Minor: Indonesian Language and Culture Program Overview Students who earn a minor in Indonesian achieve proficiency in Bahasa Indonesian, the national language of Indonesia, and gain an in-depth knowledge of Indonesian culture. Language is taught using a communicative method, emphasizing not only grammar but also speaking and listening, so students learn to converse, read, and write in real-life situations. Courses emphasize exploring Indonesia’s diverse culture, including literature as well as videos, music, and current events. By pairing the minor with a major in the College of Arts and Sciences or a professional field, students find an advantage after graduation as they enter business and nonprofit work, STEM fields, graduate programs, and more across the globe. This program of study leads to the following credential: Minor in Indonesian Language and Culture Minor in Indonesian Language and Culture Completion Requirements 30 credits Language Courses: 15 credits of second- and/or third-year Indonesian language (INDO 211, INDO 212, INDO 213; INDO 311, INDO 312, INDO 313) Culture Courses: 15 credits of humanities and social science courses offered through the UW, chosen from approved Indonesian-related content courses or joint-listed equivalents. See department website for approved list. Minimum 15 credits from 1 and 2 (above) taken at the 300 level or above Minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA for courses applied to the minor Back to Top Program of Study: Minor: Japanese Program Overview The Department of Asian Languages and Literature offers an undergraduate major and minor in Japanese. In the major and minor, students will develop their ability to read, write, and speak Japanese and will combine those language skills with an understanding and appreciation of the literature, linguistics, and culture associated with the language. Students are encouraged to explore wider interests by taking courses in other units and to take advantage of numerous study abroad opportunities. A popular option for many undergraduates at the University of Washington is to combine a major in Japanese with a second major from another department, such as Computer Science, Business Administration, or International Studies. Graduates of the Department go on to a wide variety of careers, reflecting the indispensability of knowledge of Asian languages and cultures in our increasingly interconnected world. This program of study leads to the following credential: Minor in Japanese Minor in Japanese Completion Requirements 30 credits Minimum 30 credits in Japanese language, linguistics, literature, and culture Minimum 15 credits at the 300 or 400 level Language: JAPAN 303 (or equivalent). Maximum 15 credits of Japanese language, which may include 300- or 400-level Japanese language courses. See department for list of approved courses. First and second-year Japanese courses may not apply to the minor. Students entering with advanced language skills complete a placement test and interview to determine language course placement. Students for whom JAPAN 303 is waived because of advanced skills must still earn a minimum 30 credits for the minor. These students may take 400-level Japanese language courses (placement interview may be required), or additional linguistics, literature, and/or culture courses. Students should consult an adviser to determine both language and other course options. Linguistics, literature, and culture: Minimum 15 credits, all taken in the department. See department for list of approved courses. In addition to JAPAN 303 and 15 credits of Japanese linguistics, literature, and culture, students choose 10 additional credits in language, linguistics, literature, or culture. Minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA for all courses applied to the minor Minimum 15 credits taken in residence through the UW Back to Top Program of Study: Minor: Korean Program Overview The Department of Asian Languages and Literature offers an undergraduate major and minor in Korean. In the major and minor, students will develop their ability to read, write, and speak Korean and will combine those language skills with an understanding and appreciation of the literature, linguistics, and culture associated with the language. Students are encouraged to explore wider interests by taking courses in other units and to take advantage of numerous study abroad opportunities. A popular option for many undergraduates at the University of Washington is to combine a major in Korean with a second major from another department, such as Computer Science, Business Administration, or International Studies. Graduates of the Department go on to a wide variety of careers, reflecting the indispensability of knowledge of Asian languages and cultures in our increasingly interconnected world. This program of study leads to the following credential: Minor in Korean Minor in Korean Completion Requirements 30 credits Language courses: 15 credits at or above third-year level (KOREAN 301, KOREAN 302, KOREAN 303, and/or KOREAN 345) 15 credits in Korea-related humanities and social sciences courses: ASIAN 207 (when Korea is the topic), ASIAN 498 (when Korea is the topic), HSTAS 212, HSTAS 481, HSTAS 482, KOREAN 415, KOREAN 416, KOREAN 417, KOREAN 445, KOREAN 499, JSIS A 448 Minimum 15 credits taken in residence through the UW. Back to Top Program of Study: Minor: South Asian Languages Program Overview The Department of Asian Languages and Literature offers undergraduate majors in Hindi and Sanskrit. Undergraduate minors include Bengali, Hindi, Sanskrit, and Urdu. In these majors and minors, students will develop their ability to read, write, and speak South Asian languages and will combine these language skills with an understanding and appreciation of the literature, linguistics, and culture associated with the languages. Students are encouraged to explore wider interests by taking courses in other units and to take advantage of numerous study abroad opportunities. A popular option for many undergraduates is to combine a major in South Asian languages with a second major from another department, such as Business Administration, International Studies, Biology, or Computer Science. Graduates of AL&L go on to a wide variety of careers, reflecting the indispensability of knowledge of Asian languages and cultures in our increasingly interconnected world. This program of study leads to the following credential: Minor in South Asian Languages Minor in South Asian Languages Credential Overview The Department of Asian Languages and Literature offers undergraduate majors in Hindi and Sanskrit, with a comparable track for Urdu under development. Undergraduate minors include Bengali, Hindi, Sanskrit, and Urdu. In these majors and minors, students will develop their ability to read, write, and speak South Asian languages and will combine these language skills with an understanding and appreciation of the literature, linguistics, and culture associated with the languages. Students are encouraged to explore wider interests by taking courses in other units and to take advantage of numerous study abroad opportunities. A popular option for many undergraduates is to combine a major in South Asian languages with a second major from another department, such as Business Administration, International Studies, Biology, or Computer Science. Graduates of AL&L go on to a wide variety of careers, reflecting the indispensability of knowledge of Asian languages and cultures in our increasingly interconnected world. Completion Requirements 30 credits Language courses: 15 credits at the second-year level or above in a single Indic language: for Bengali, BENG 201, BENG 202, BENG 203; for Hindi, HINDI 201, HINDI 202, HINDI 203; for Sanskrit, SNKRT 201, SNKRT 202, SNKRT 203; for Urdu, URDU 201, URDU 202, URDU 203 South Asia related humanities and social science courses (15 credits): Literature (5 credits) ASIAN 203 or ASIAN 206; South Asia area studies (10 credits) chosen in consultation with adviser. A list of courses that satisfy this requirement may be found on the department website. Minimum 15 credits taken in residence through the UW. Back to Top Program of Study: Minor: Vietnamese Language and Culture Program Overview A minor in Vietnamese language and culture allows students the opportunity to further their interests in pursuing Vietnamese language beyond the elementary level and also delve deeper into the vibrant and complex history and culture of Vietnam. Advanced language courses and Vietnam-related content courses will strengthen students' competitiveness in the internationalized job market and broaden their global perspective. This program of study leads to the following credential: Minor in Vietnamese Language and Culture Minor in Vietnamese Language and Culture Credential Overview A minor in Vietnamese language and culture allows students the opportunity to further their interests in pursuing Vietnamese language beyond the elementary level and also delve deeper into the vibrant and complex history and culture of Vietnam. Advanced language courses and Vietnam-related content courses will strengthen students' competitiveness in the internationalized job market and broaden their global perspective. Completion Requirements 30 credits Language: 15 credits of second and/or third year Vietnamese (VIET 211, VIET 212, VIET 213, VIET 214, VIET 311, VIET 312, VIET 313) Culture: 15 credits of Vietnamese-related humanities and social science courses offered at UW, chosen from approved list. See department for approved courses. Minimum 15 credits at the 300 level or above Minimum cumulative 2.00 GPA for courses applied to the minor Back to Top Additional Information Student Outcomes and Opportunities Learning Objectives and Expected Outcomes: Language: A student of one of the languages achieves competency in speaking, listening, reading, and writing. Skills acquired for the minor include the ability to manage simple spoken communicative tasks and social situations; to understand sentence-length utterances on familiar topics in face-to-face situations; to read simple connected texts dealing with personal and social topics; to write short essays on familiar topics grounded in personal experience and immediate surroundings. Skills acquired for the major include the ability to manage spoken communicative tasks, including topics of common interest, description and narration, expression of personal viewpoints, and presentation and support of an argument; to understand the main idea and important details of connected spoken discourse, ranging from face-to-face situations to radio and TV broadcasting; to understand the main idea and important details of written texts in a range of styles and registers; to write routine social correspondence using the appropriate conventions, and to write connected essays of several paragraphs in an appropriate linguistic register. Linguistics: A student with a minor achieves competency in understanding the basic structure of the language, including its grammatical forms, writing system, and phonology; recognizing the language's historical relationships with other languages in the geographical region; understanding the structured and hierarchical nature of linguistic systems. A student with a major additionally achieves competency in understanding basic linguistic concepts and terminology in such fields as syntax, morphology, and phonology, and applying them to the analysis of the linguistic structures of the language; understanding the historical development of the language, including its historical linguistic features and dialectal development; recognizing the relationship between linguistic structures and literary forms and devices. Literature: A student with a minor achieves competency in identifying major works and forms within the literary tradition; understanding the place of selected literary texts within the ongoing tradition; understanding the historical and cultural contexts of major literary forms and works; understanding the roles of literary works and literary activity within the culture; utilizing basic research skills. A student with a major additionally achieves competency in reading selected literary texts in the original; employing linguistic and philological analysis as tools for understanding literary texts; performing formal analysis of literary texts; analyzing literary texts with reference to relevant literary traditions and intertextual dynamics; analyzing literary texts with reference to their historical background and broader cultural context; practicing critical reading of primary and secondary texts; employing research and writing skills to produce formal written analysis of literary texts. Asian Languages and Cultures: Common Skills: Basic foundation in at least one Asian language, including competency in speaking listening, reading, and writing; fundamental skills in critical thinking, research, and oral and written communication; knowledge of various Asian cultural traditions, familiarity with disciplinary methodologies of the humanities. Shared Outlook: Appreciation of Asian cultures in broader regional and international contexts, emphasizing mutual relations and influences. Skills Specific to Students Individual Choices: Varying levels of competence in from one to three Asian languages; advanced proficiency in disciplinary methodologies; more in-depth knowledge of selected Asian cultural traditions; comparative understanding of cultural phenomena and their history across different regions of Asia. Career Preparation: Skills in one or more languages, critical thinking, research, and written and oral communication; capacity to explore and find connections among diverse fields of knowledge; adaptability, broad skill set, and learning capacity (as opposed to narrow specialization) necessary to succeed within the diverse and rapidly changing technological, economic, social, and cultural environments of today's global economy in such fields as teaching and research, professional programs, consulting firms, commerce, law, the media, museums, cultural institutions, public administration, government agencies, and non-governmental organizations. Instructional and Research Facilities: None Honors Program: With College Honors (Completion of Honors Core Curriculum and Departmental Honors). With Distinction (Completion of Departmental Honors requirements in the major). See adviser for requirements. Research, Internships, and Service Learning: None offered Department Scholarships: None offered Student Organizations/Associations: None Graduate Programs Asian Languages and Literature asianapp@uw.edu Program of Study: Doctor Of Philosophy (Asian Languages And Literature) This program of study leads to the following credentials: Doctor Of Philosophy (Asian Languages And Literature) Doctor Of Philosophy (Asian Languages And Literature: Textual Studies) Doctor Of Philosophy (Asian Languages And Literature: Theory And Criticism) Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Doctor Of Philosophy (Asian Languages And Literature) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Doctor Of Philosophy (Asian Languages And Literature: Textual Studies) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Doctor Of Philosophy (Asian Languages And Literature: Theory And Criticism) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Program of Study: Master Of Arts (Asian Languages And Literature) This program of study leads to the following credential: Master Of Arts (Asian Languages And Literature) Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Master Of Arts (Asian Languages And Literature) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © University of Washington | Seattle, WA