Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Facilities Management University Event and Conference Services Show/Hide Services Event Management Virtual Events For Brown Departments For Other Organizations & Individuals Event Support Fees & Labor Rates Related Services Events Toolkit Virtual Events Planning Guide Step by Step Planning Guide Facilities Fees & Labor Rates Visiting Guest and Dignitaries Campus Event Venues Campus Partners Commencement Departmental Ceremonies Events Policies Postering and Publicity About Us Staff See What We Do Virtual Event Gallery Volunteer with us Contact Us Presidential Host Program Planon Work with Us Event Support To make your event look its best and for all of your equipment rental and set-up needs, please fill out an Event Request form. Event Management Are you hosting an event with complex logistics or are you an external group? Fill out an Inquiry Form for assistance from an Event Management team member. Healthy Brown Update Events may proceed on-campus and can be entered directly into Planon. Please visit healthy.brown.edu for the latest information on campus COVID-19 restrictions. All event participants and attendees must comply with all University policies and protocols in place at the time of the event, particularly the visitor and guest policy. Virtual Events Virtual Events Planning Resources Events at Brown play a significant role in developing a sense of community both on campus and beyond. While in person events remain limited, we remain committed to connecting through virtual community engagement. We've put together some resources to help you start planning virtual events and our team is available to offer assistance and guidance. View some of our virtual events Home Welcome to University Event & Conference Services at Brown University. The Office of University Event & Conference Services works with students, staff and faculty to produce successful events on the Brown campus. Consultation and professional management is provided by the Event Management group. Equipment rental, pricing and coordination of event set-ups is provided by the Event Support group. Summer and Fall Events As announced on June 23, many campus COVID-19 event restrictions will be lifted as of August 15, 2021. Undergraduate student organizations should work with the Student Activities Office for guidance and support related to in-person meetings and activities. Effective August 15, all visitors and guests must comply with the University’s COVID-19 Campus Safety Visitors Policy and follow all guidance, direction and requirements regarding COVID-19 health and safety protocols, including at events. Host departments are responsible for their visitors and guests, including ensuring that they are aware of and comply with all relevant policies and protocols. Departments should pay particular attention to the vaccination attestation requirements for long-term and short-term visitors to ensure full compliance with the policy. Upcoming Events There are no upcoming events. Event Support Request Event Management Inquiry Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Office of University Event & Conference Services Brown University 295 Lloyd Ave., Box 1941 Providence, RI 02912 Conferences & Event Support: Phone: (401) 863-3100 Fax: (401) 863-1943 Office Hours: 8:30AM-5:00PM FM Home Maps Feedback Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat