Page Top First Time Login Login HELP Give About About Us Alumni FAQ University Benefits & Alumni Discounts Alumni Career Services Notable Alumni Joan H. Wish Alumni Center Staff Directory Programs and Events Calendar of Events Blue Demon Day Alumni & Family Weekend Virtual Programs and Events Alumni Awards Vincentian Service Day Communities Alumni Board Student Engagement Chapters and Groups Class of 2021 DePaul Emeritus Society DePaul Pride Alumni Experts Publications Digital DePaul Class Notes Watch BDC Live! Volunteer Appreciation Month Support DePaul Give Now Corporate and Foundation Relations Inspire DePaul Gift Announcements Planned Giving Athletics Giving Societies Schools and Colleges The Finish Line Fund Student Organization Fundraising Site Search About About Us Alumni FAQ University Benefits & Alumni Discounts Alumni Lifelong Email Alumni ID Cards Alumni Career Services Notable Alumni Joan H. Wish Alumni Center Staff Directory Programs and Events Calendar of Events Blue Demon Day Alumni & Family Weekend 2021 Alumni & Family Weekend Photo Gallery Make a Gift Virtual Programs and Events Perspectives on Racial Justice Health and Wellness Crafts and Demos Educational Alumni Awards Vincentian Service Day Communities Alumni Board Student Engagement Chapters and Groups Southern California Alumni Chapter New York City Alumnni Chapter Arizona Alumni Chapter Bay Area Alumni Chapter Washington, D.C., Alumni Chapter Chicagoland Alumni Chapter Black Alumni Chapter Latinx Alumni Chapter Young Alumni Committee Fifty Year Club Faculty/Staff Alumni Regional and International Contacts Class of 2021 DePaul Emeritus Society DePaul Pride Alumni Experts Publications Digital DePaul Holiday Virtual Backgrounds Class Notes Watch BDC Live! Volunteer Appreciation Month Antonia Creteanu Volunteer Profile Carrie Emge Volunteer Profile Artina Graves Volunteer Profile Sam Odishoo Volunteer Profile Support DePaul Give Now Corporate and Foundation Relations Inspire DePaul Gift Announcements Kopple Scholars Endowment Announcement Conrad N. Hilton Foundation Makes $1 Million Grant RSM $1 Million Gift Endows Accounting Faculty Fellowships $1 Million Gift Honors the Legacy of Harrison I. Steans First Midwest Bank Gift Announcement Harczak Gift Announcement Atwood Gift Announcement Steans Gift Announcement Gifts totaling $21 million will support scholarships and homelessness mitigation Ruff Challenge Holland Gift Announcement Velasquez Gift Announcement Major Gift Creates Emerging Company Program Planned Giving Athletics Giving Societies Schools and Colleges The Finish Line Fund Student Organization Fundraising First Time Login Login HELP Give Home Page Welcome home. DePaul University's Office of Alumni Relations invites all members of the DePaul family—including alumni, students, parents, faculty, staff and friends—to engage with our online alumni community. Our powerful alumni network—more than 200,000 strong—is an invaluable resource. We invite you to take advantage of the many ways to stay connected and opportunities available to you, including networking and social events, university benefits and discounts and more. Go Blue Demons! Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube flickr Instagram Sign Up for Vincentian Service Day on Saturday, May 7! Be a part of this time-honored tradition and “live the mission” in your community. Click here to register! Dr. Robert L. Manuel Named DePaul's 13th President Manuel is an accomplished, transformative leader in higher education who has dedicated his career to creating life-changing opportunities for students and to elevating the impact of the institutions he has served. Read more. Support a DePaul University crowdfunding project! Support crowdfunding projects led by DePaul students, faculty and staff who are enacting our Vincentian mission in their communities. The Latest Upcoming Events 02 Jun *Cancelled* Pride Month Alumni Reception 03 Jun Latinx Alumni Chapter Rooftop Fiesta 04 Jun Cantigny Gardens and First Division Museum Outing View All Events The Latest News Stories Transformative Gift to DePaul University Renames College of Computing and Digital Media We are excited to announce Eugene P. Jarvis, a trailblazer in the video game industry, and his wife, Sasha L. Gerritson (MUS '99), a DePaul trustee and alumna, are advancing DePaul University's innovative College of Computing and Digital Media (CDM) to the next level with a landmark gift, the largest in the university's history. Read more. DePaul Enrolls 100 Ukrainian Students in Online Courses Russian attacks have disrupted almost every facet of daily life in Ukraine, including the education of many college students. In response to a call for help from Ukrainian Catholic University and other higher education institutions in the region, DePaul University has welcomed more than 100 Ukrainian college students into 42 of its online courses this spring quarter. Read more. NIH Awards Joseph Mikels $2.6 Million to Research Motivation and Health Psychology professor Joseph Mikels has been awarded a $2.6 million grant from the National Institutes of Health to continue his work on emotion, aging and decision-making throughout the life span. Read more. More News Division of Advancement & External Relations 1 E. Jackson Blvd, Chicago, IL 60604 Phone: (312) 362-8666 Fax: (312) 476-3288 Email: giving@depaul.edu Office of Alumni Relations Phone: (773) 325-8390 Toll Free: (800) 437-1898 Fax: (312) 476-3330 Email: dpalumni@depaul.edu Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Flickr Instagram Back to Top Show Modal ×