Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Forward Arrow Undergraduate Admissions Cost and Aid Admissions Statistics Virtual Engagement Opportunities Contact Undergraduate Admissions Back Arrow Back Graduate School Admissions Visit Forward Arrow Visit Choose Your Tour Visitor Parking and Accommodations Things To Do in Clemson Back Arrow Back Applying to Clemson Forward Arrow Applying to Clemson First-Year Application Process Transfer Application Process International Application Process Counselor Information Veterans Back Arrow Back Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close Admissions Undergraduate Admissions show submenu for Undergraduate Admissions Cost and Aid Admissions Statistics Virtual Engagement Opportunities Contact Undergraduate Admissions Graduate School Admissions Visit show submenu for Visit Choose Your Tour Visitor Parking and Accommodations Things To Do in Clemson Applying to Clemson show submenu for Applying to Clemson First-Year Application Process Transfer Application Process International Application Process Counselor Information Veterans Clemson Home Admissions Applying to Clemson Current: Counselor Information Counselor Information Clemson values the work of high school counselors to inspire and assist students pursuing higher education. The academic and social path you are guiding your students down is paramount to the successes they can expect to enjoy and the challenges they will overcome while working toward a college degree. We want to give you the tools you need to help your college-bound students learn about Clemson and navigate the application process. If you don’t find something here that you need, please call the Office of Admissions at 864-656-2287. Check out our digital Counselor’s Report for answers to the most-asked questions your students may have about Clemson University, as well as up-to-date facts and information about applying, gaining acceptance and the undergraduate experience here. Connect with Clemson Undergraduate Admissions Join the Clemson Admissions Counselor Mailing List Application Information Information regarding important dates and deadlines, the application process, preferred academic credentials and decision types can be found at Applying as a First-Year Student. Applying as a First-Year Student SELF-REPORTED ACADEMIC RECORD (SRAR) Clemson University requires first-year applicants to self-report their high school transcripts. Students who are admitted to Clemson will be required to send official transcripts prior to enrollment. After submitting the application, a link to the SRAR system will be available in students’ Applicant Portal. Learn how to help students complete their Self-Reported Academic Record (SRAR). Submitting Documents The official high school transcript will not need to be submitted to Clemson until after students are admitted and confirm their enrollment. Official, final high school transcripts can be sent electronically through electronic transcript services such as Parchment, Common App or Coalition, or mailed in a sealed envelope to the following address: Clemson University Undergraduate Admissions 105 Sikes Hall Box 345124 Clemson, SC 29634-5124 For the 2022 admissions cycle, Clemson has adopted a test-optional policy. Applicants are not required to submit a standardized test score to be considered for admission to Clemson for the 2022-2023 academic year. If a student chooses that test scores should be used, the scores must be submitted electronically by the respective testing agency. We will automatically update students' application file with any new test scores we receive by our application deadlines. Clemson does not require the SAT or ACT essay. Clemson University super-scores both the SAT and the ACT. For the SAT, this means that the overall total SAT score will then be derived by taking the highest of the evidence-based reading and writing/math scores. According to The ACT, superscoring at Clemson means that we “consider a student’s highest ACT section (or subtest) scores regardless of test date. The super composite ACT score is calculated as the average of the best ACT English, Reading, Math, and Science subject scores and is used as one of multiple factors in admission and financial aid.” Recommended High School Curriculum A high school diploma is required. Most students admitted to Clemson have taken college preparatory programs in high school. Clemson recommends applicants for freshman admission complete the following high school courses. English - 4 credits All four courses must have strong grammar and composition components with at least one English literature and at least one American literature. College preparatory English I, II, III and IV will meet these requirements. Mathematics - 3 credits These include algebra I (for which applied mathematics I and II might count together as a substitute if a student successfully completes algebra II), algebra II and geometry. Laboratory Science - 3 credits Two credits must be selected from biology I, chemistry I or physics I. Physical science does not typically count as a lab science. Foreign Language - 3 credits All credits must be earned in the same language, and students who have completed fewer than three credits of the same foreign language are still encouraged to apply. Social Sciences - 3 credits American history is required. A half credit of government and a half credit of economics are also recommended. Other - 2 credits One of these must be a fourth year of mathematics, laboratory science or foreign language. Students interested in engineering are strongly encouraged to take a fourth year of mathematics. This course should be selected from precalculus, calculus, statistics or discrete mathematics. The second credit must be in advanced mathematics, computer science or a combination of these. Alternatively, one unit of world history, world geography or Western civilization is acceptable. Physical Education/ROTC - 1 credit Fine Arts - 1 credit One unit in appreciation of, history of or performance in one of the fine arts is required. While not normally recommended for new freshmen, a few Clemson departments accept credit for College-Level Examination Program (CLEP) subject matter examinations. However, CLEP general examinations are not recognized. CLEP was designed primarily for adults with nontraditional learning experiences. See the Undergraduate Catalog for more information. Financial Aid Scholarship award amounts and eligibility criteria vary widely. All admitted entering freshmen who have their admissions application complete by the end of December will be given primary consideration for University-administered scholarships for which they may be eligible. Clemson University’s FAFSA code is 003425. Visit the Office of Financial Aid for more information on completing financial aid forms. For more information on tuition and grants, visit Cost and Aid. Counselor Events Counselor Breakfasts Our partnership with the University of South Carolina and the College of Charleston makes these breakfasts a one-stop shop for higher education in the Palmetto State. We provide the most up-to-date statistical information at these informal gatherings in addition to other important admissions details. Our goal is to give guidance counselors all the tools they need to help prospective college students make an informed decision about pursuing higher education in state. This year, we are excited to provide these events virtually! Dates include September 7, September 8, and September 9. Register for a Virtual Counselor Breakfast Virtual Counselor Events Join Clemson Admissions staff for a virtual information session geared toward high school counselors! The session will equip counselors with the information needed to guide students through the application and admissions process, as well as help them determine whether Clemson is the right college for them. There will also be time to ask questions about all things Clemson! Register for a South Carolina Counselor Event Register for an Out-of-State Counselor Event Counselor Fly-in /Drive-in Events We can’t wait to show you our beautiful campus. Join us for a counselor fly-in or drive-in event to get a firsthand look at the Clemson experience and opportunities available to your students. Email griffi3@clemson.edu for more information. Contact us for more information >> Clemson in Your Area Clemson Admissions staff members travel across South Carolina and the United States to meet with prospective students and counselors. Want us to visit your school or attend a college fair in your area? Email us at apply@admission.clemson.edu. Request a school or college fair visit >> Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson