COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Computing, Major MajorComputing All Programs College of Engineering School of Computing The dual/accelerated Bachelor of Science (BS) to Master of Science (MS) in computing from Wichita State allows you to pursue dual degrees in an accelerated time frame. Upon graduation, you'll be well prepared for a high-paying, high-demand career in the computing industry—as well as for success in a future Ph.D. program. You’ll have access to some of the best research facilities in the country and the chance to work and research with faculty and industry professionals on campus and throughout Kansas’ largest city. Learn how Computing is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program For admission consideration, students must have successfully completed at least 90 credit hours with a GPA of at least 3.250 (or equivalent score from another country) in their bachelor’s degree. For complete requirements, including eligible undergraduate programs and majors, please consult the Graduate Catalog and/or the EECS department’s website. Admission requirements Inside the Program Computer science major enhanced studies through IT internship Computer science major Jimmy Vu spent time as a software developer intern at Ennovar, WSU's Institute for Emerging Technologies and Market Solutions. The internship allowed him to apply his studies to his work and gain a deeper understanding of his school work. “It's definitely enhanced my studies,” he says. “Before the internship, it felt like I was learning because I had to. Now, I'm applying what I'm learning and doing what I love. It feels like this is something that I want to do and keep getting better at." Curriculum Each student must take at least 18 credit hours of MSCN major courses. Only MSCN major courses at the 700 level and above can be used for dual credit hours. Up to nine credit hours can be used for the combined undergraduate and graduate program. Until the bachelor’s degree is awarded, a Dual/Accelerated Enrollment Form must be completed for each semester in which the student takes qualifying courses at the graduate level. Up to 12 credit hours of electives may be taken. Of these 12 credit hours, up to six credit hours may be from outside the EECS department. View the curriculum Careers Whether you’re pursuing a promotion or preparing for a Ph.D., WSU’s vast industry connections, research opportunities and unmatched facilities create an environment for our engineering students to gain the expertise that leads to dream careers. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Computer Science Computer Engineering Applied Computing Electrical Engineering 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©