Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Population Studies and Training Center Research Themes Project Categories Cite and Send Selected Faculty Publications News Training and Education Postdoctoral Research Associates Predoctoral Trainees Undergraduates Alumni Events PSTC Colloquia Speaker Series Workshops and Professionalization Spatial Structures in the Social Sciences (S4) Working Group in Anthropology and Population (WGAP) Migration Studies Initiative Special Events People Faculty Postdoctoral Research Associates Predoctoral Trainees Staff Undergraduate Fellows Programs and Initiatives About Leadership Sidney Goldstein, PSTC Founder Affiliation Services and Facilities Employment Opportunities External Funding Research Themes Children, Families, and Health Social Foundations of Health Disparities Migration and Urbanization Population, Development, and Environment Reproductive Health and HIV/AIDS Social Inequalities Funding Progressivity, COVID-19, and Inequality of School Resources by Race and SES How Changing Neighborhood and School Contexts Shape Mental Health and Educational Attainment from Childhood to Early Adulthood Project Categories Rhode Island Domestic International Research to Policy Spatial Cite and Send Selected Faculty Publications News Training and Education Postdoctoral Research Associates NICHD Postdoctoral Fellows Predoctoral Trainees NICHD Predoctoral Fellows Past NICHD Fellows Admission and Requirements Funding Opportunities Workshops Predoctoral Training Program Application 2021-22 Undergraduates Migration Studies Certificate PSTC Undergraduate Fellows Program Alumni Events PSTC Colloquia Speaker Series Workshops and Professionalization Spatial Structures in the Social Sciences (S4) Working Group in Anthropology and Population (WGAP) Migration Studies Initiative Special Events People Faculty Postdoctoral Research Associates Predoctoral Trainees Staff Undergraduate Fellows Programs and Initiatives Spatial Structures in the Social Sciences (S4) Migration Studies Initiative About Leadership Sidney Goldstein, PSTC Founder Remembering Sidney Goldstein Affiliation Services and Facilities Employment Opportunities 2022 Postdoctoral Fellowship Manager of Communications and Outreach Postdoctoral Research Associate in Population Studies Summer 2021 Proctorship Program for predocs External Funding Cite and Send & PSTC Templates For any research project that has received support or benefit from the PSTC (see below), it is an NIH requirement and the law to do the following: 1. CITE the PSTC grant number in any current or future publications that have benefited from PSTC services, tools, or funding. (Grant numbers and example acknowledgments provided below.) This acknowledgment of support is tracked and reported to the NIH. It is used as a key metric of the PSTC's productivity (publications) to ensure continued funding for the Center. 2. SEND the final, pre-formatted version of all peer-reviewed publications to [email protected]. The articles must also be deposited in NIH's PubMed Central upon acceptance for publication. It is the author's responsibility to ensure this is done. Some journals make deposits automatically; this can also be done by the author or by PSTC staff, if requested. Authors should always verify that their articles have been submitted in order to comply with the NIH public access policy. To add your article to PubMed Central, log in to the NIH manuscript submission system using an eRA Commons ID. The system will generate an email message asking you to verify the submission. PSTC support and benefits Support from the PSTC includes: computing and programming support editing funding including programming, seed, training, and travel funding grant submission and management reimbursements travel arrangement services for PSTC affiliates and visitors use of office or meeting space use of tools and equipment Grant numbers Center grant: P2C HD041020 (to be acknowledged by all affiliates) Training grant: T32 HD007338 (to be acknowledged by all trainees and trainee collaborators) Example acknowledgments For PSTC center support: Research reported in this publication was supported by the Population Studies and Training Center at Brown University through the generosity of the Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development (P2C HD041020). We are grateful to the Population Studies and Training Center at Brown University, which receives funding from the NIH (P2C HD041020), for general support. For training support: Research reported in this publication was supported by Population Studies and Training Center at Brown University through the generosity of the Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development (P2C HD041020 and T32 HD007338). We are grateful to the Population Studies and Training Center at Brown University, which receives funding from the NIH, for training support (T32 HD007338) and for general support (P2C HD041020). NSF requirements Researchers with grants from NSF must follow similar guidelines, effective January 25, 2016. PSTC templates If you are presenting work at a conference that was supported in whole or part by PSTC, please indicate your PSTC affiliation and acknowledge PSTC support, as outlined above, on your PowerPoint slides and/or posters. PSTC slide and poster templates are also here: PSTC PowerPoint template PSTC poster template Additional resources NIH FAQs about the public access policy NIH FAQs about manuscript submission PubMed Central FAQs NIH tutorials about manuscript submission NIH overview of submission methods Questions? Please email [email protected] for further assistance. Back to top Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Population Studies and Training Center Population Studies and Training Center Brown University Box 1836 68 Waterman St. Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2668 Email [email protected] Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat