Skip to Main Content Brown University Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan (DIAP) Search Menu Site Navigation Home About History Oversight Action Plans & Reports University DIAP (2016) DIAP Phase II (2021) DIAP Annual Reports DIAP Formative Assessment Report Departmental Plans & Reports Progress People Academic Excellence Curriculum Community Knowledge Accountability Overview of All Actions Data Diversity Dashboard Campus Climate Surveys Awards Resources & Training Departmental DIAP Rubric Search Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan (DIAP) Accountability Breadcrumb Home Progress Sub Navigation In This Section People Academic Excellence Curriculum Community Knowledge Accountability Overview of All Actions Accountability To ensure progress for Brown’s diversity and inclusion initiatives, the DIAP established systems of responsibility and accountability. The Diversity and Inclusion Oversight Board, composed of students, faculty and staff, meets monthly to review and discuss progress toward the goals of the DIAP. Each year, the board shares its findings with Brown’s president and provost via a public memo. The president and provost share with the community their response to any concerns raised regarding progress on diversity and inclusion goals. The Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity has published an annual DIAP report since 2017 that details data, activities, programs and initiatives that have contributed to fulfilling the DIAP goals. All academic and administrative departments and centers at Brown are required to develop multi-year plans for diversity and inclusion. Progress on goals and actions outlined in these Departmental Diversity and Inclusion Action Plans are reviewed on an annual basis. As of 2020, 91 academic and administrative departments had submitted DDIAPs and provided an annual update to OIED. In DIAP Phase II (launched in 2021), the University is focused on improving processes to assess DIAP implementation and its impact at the University and departmental levels. Additional Areas of Progress People The DIAP recognizes that the foundation of Brown is its people, and so the plan focuses first on the composition of our community and ensuring that all community members can thrive. Visit Page Open details for People Academic Excellence Our actions in the area of academic excellence reflect a commitment to increase scholarly resources to support education and leading-edge research on issues of race, ethnicity, inequality, and justice around the globe. Visit Page Open details for Academic Excellence Curriculum To support diversity and inclusion goals, the College convened a Task Force on Diversity in the Curriculum, which identified several measures for diversifying elements of the Brown education. Visit Page Open details for Curriculum Community The DIAP reflects a commitment to create a community that works actively to counteract inequity and injustice and that promotes an attitude of mutual respect. Visit Page Open details for Community Knowledge As a benchmark against which to measure progress in diversity and inclusion goals, Brown committed in the DIAP to pursuing more robust and extensive data collection. Visit Page Open details for Knowledge Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About History Oversight Action Plans & Reports University DIAP (2016) DIAP Phase II (2021) DIAP Annual Reports DIAP Formative Assessment Report Departmental Plans & Reports Progress People Academic Excellence Curriculum Community Knowledge Accountability Overview of All Actions Data Diversity Dashboard Campus Climate Surveys Awards Resources & Training Departmental DIAP Rubric This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Accountability Open details for Accountability Bookmark this Page