Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Office of the Registrar Menu Baylor>Registrar>Transfer Credit>Transfer Credit FAQs Transfer Credit Frequently Asked Questions Transfer Credit 1. Does Baylor accept online courses? 2. How can I determine if a course I want to take elsewhere is equivalent to a Baylor course? 3. If a course I intend to take IS found using the Equivalent Course Tool (ECT), do I need to submit an Equivalent Course Request (ECR) in order to take the course? 4. What are the steps for the Equivalent Course Request approval process? 5. What documentation will I need when I submit an Equivalent Course Request? 6. When I click on the link for the Equivalent Course Tool, my browser keeps spinning and nothing comes up. Is there something wrong with the Equivalent Course Tool? 7. What are the deadlines for submitting an Equivalent Course Request? 8. How does Baylor determine which courses are equivalent? 9. After I have completed a course elsewhere, what address should I use when sending a transcript to Baylor? 10. The transfer credit policies use the terms "pre-matriculation" and "post-matriculation". What is the difference? 11. How can I tell if my completed transfer work has been added to my Baylor record? 12. How often do course equivalencies change? 13. Assuming that a course is equivalent, how do I know if the course will satisfy a requirement within my degree plan? 14. Can I earn credit by exam at Baylor? 15. Does a grade of "C-" meet the requirement of "a grade of 'C' or better" that must be earned in all courses transferred to Baylor? 16. If an international student plans to take a class at a university in his or her home country, how can they request equivalency? Transfer Credit 1. Does Baylor accept online courses? Courses taught electronically or in hybrid (meaning partly electronic or partly face-to-face) format are acceptable provided that they meet all other expectations with regard to the course characteristics used to determine equivalencies (see question #5). 2. How can I determine if a course I want to take elsewhere is equivalent to a Baylor course? Course equivalencies can be found using the Equivalent Course Tool. 3. If a course I intend to take IS found using the Equivalent Course Tool (ECT), do I need to submit an Equivalent Course Request (ECR) in order to take the course? No. Once you have found the course you intend to take using the Equivalent Course Tool, you should use the print feature to print a copy of the equivalency for your records. Before enrolling in the course, however, you need to make sure that you have read all transfer credit policies carefully to ensure that you are eligible to complete any additional transfer courses. 4. What are the steps for the Equivalent Course Request approval process? The steps are as follows: -Once submitted, your request will be reviewed by the Office of the Registrar to determine if you are eligible to transfer hours at this point in your Baylor career (please refer to the post-matriculation transfer credit policies for more information). -If approved by the Office of the Registrar, your request will be reviewed by the appropriate academic department to determine if the requested equivalency is acceptable for transfer. -Once the review is complete, you will receive an email instructing you to check the results of the request by clicking the "View My Requests" link on the ECR web page. At any time, a student can check the status of their requests by clicking on "My Requests" at the top right of the opening page of the ECR process. 5. What documentation will I need when I submit an Equivalent Course Request? When submitting an Equivalent Course Request, students must have the following information/documentation regarding the course they would like to take elsewhere. Students should have this information at hand prior to starting a request: -Name of Institution and the state in which it is located -Title of course -Course prefix and number -Credit hours -Course description from the catalog -Course syllabus (as recent as possible) -Name of textbook (Name, author, and edition) Students also must have the following information about the potential Baylor equivalent course: -Course prefix and number -Credit hours 6. When I click on the link for the Equivalent Course Tool, my browser keeps spinning and nothing comes up. Is there something wrong with the Equivalent Course Tool? No. If this occurs, the problem is with the browser that you are using, not with the Equivalent Course Tool. If you experience this problem, you need to clear the history in your browser, including the "cookies". Once you have cleared the history and all cookies (which will empty the cache), restart the browser and try the Equivalent Course Tool again. That should fix the problem. If you are using Mozilla Firefox or Internet Explorer as your browser, switching to Safari or Google Chrome may fix the problem as well. If you experience further difficulties, contact the Baylor HELP desk at (254) 710-HELP (4357). 7. What are the deadlines for submitting an Equivalent Course Request? The deadlines are as follow. Students MUST meet these deadlines if they expect to have a request considered for the term indicated. -For all summer terms, student requests must be received by MAY 15th. -For all fall terms, student requests must be received by AUGUST 15th. -For all spring terms, student requests must be received by DECEMBER 15th. 8. How does Baylor determine which courses are equivalent? Equivalent courses are determined by department chairs based upon the following course characteristics: course description, textbook, course objectives, assignments, number of credit hours, course prerequisites, and program quality (determined based on a process designed by Institutional Research and Testing in consultation with the relevant department chair and the Vice Provost for Undergraduate Education). Courses found using the Equivalent Course Tool have already been determined as equivalent. 9. After I have completed a course elsewhere, what address should I use when sending a transcript to Baylor? Increasingly, colleges can deliver PDF transcripts directly to Baylor. However, if you are ordering a paper transcript, the address to use is as follows: Office of the Registrar Attn: Transfer Credit Evaluation One Bear Place #97068 Waco, TX 76798 10. The transfer credit policies use the terms "pre-matriculation" and "post-matriculation". What is the difference? Pre-matriculation means before enrolling as an official Baylor student. Post-matriculation means after a student has officially enrolled at Baylor. A student's matriculation date is the date they begin coursework at Baylor. 11. How can I tell if my completed transfer work has been added to my Baylor record? Students will receive notification emails from the Registrar's Office when transcripts are received and when transfer credit has been added. Students should then check their degree audit using BearWeb to verify that all transfer work is appearing as expected. 12. How often do course equivalencies change? Department chairs participate in an equivalent course review process at least every three years. The review normally takes place during the summer, and any changes made are effective for the following summer. 13. Assuming that a course is equivalent, how do I know if the course will satisfy a requirement within my degree plan? To answer this question, students need to check their degree audit to determine where the course fits within their academic requirements. For accurate information, be sure to contact your assigned academic advisor. You can find contact information for your advisor by logging into Bearweb and then following "Student Services and Financial Aid", then "Advisement", and finally "Advisement Contact Information". 14. Can I earn credit by exam at Baylor? Credit by Exam information is available through Student Testing Services. More Information: https://www.baylor.edu/studenttesting 15. Does a grade of "C-" meet the requirement of "a grade of 'C' or better" that must be earned in all courses transferred to Baylor? No, a grade of "C-" is not sufficient to meet this requirement and cannot be transferred to Baylor. 16. If an international student plans to take a class at a university in his or her home country, how can they request equivalency? The student will need to complete and submit the Abroad Equivalent Course Approval Form prior to studying abroad independently. More Information: https://www.baylor.edu/registrar/index.php?id=948449 BACK TO TOP Registrar Dates and Deadlines Registering for Classes Steps for Registration Registration + Planning Instructional Videos View Class Schedule in BearWeb Summer/Fall 2022 BearWeb Early Registration Schedule Waitlist Information Waitlist FAQs Returning Student Reactivation Returning Student Reactivation FAQs Wintermester Academic Services Transcript Information Additional Information Current Student Online Ordering Former Student Online Ordering Name and Address Change Enrollment/Degree Certification Commencement Information Non-certified Commencement Participation Policy Diploma Information Diploma Distribution for Current Graduates Duplicate Diploma Orders for Alumni Duplicate Diploma Order Form Dean's Academic Honor List Degree Audits GPA Slip/Final Grades Enrollment Status Undergraduate Course Repeat Policy FAQ's - Undergraduate Course Repeat and Academic Forgiveness Policy U.Achieve Instructional Videos Schedule of Classes & Catalogs Schedule of Classes University Catalogs Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Law School Catalog Seminary Catalog Final Exam Schedule Spring 2022 Fall 2022 Transfer Credit Transfer Credit Policies Equivalent Course Tool (ECT) Search by Outside Institution Search by Baylor Course Equivalent Course Request (ECR) Transfer Credit FAQs Abroad Equivalent Course Approval VA Education Benefits Announcements Apply for VA Educational Benefits Meet our VA Benefits Team VA Benefits Contact Information Military Scholarships VA Chapter Benefits Chapter 33 John Fry Scholarship Chapter 35 Chapter 31 Chapter 30, 1606 VA Forms / Resources FAQs Ineligible Programs The Effects of Schedule Changes (Debt Info) Terminology VA COE Submission Yellow Ribbon Program Room Scheduling Faculty/Staff Resources Class Scheduling Schedule Build Timeline Development Grading Resources Class Roster Verification Electronic Catalog Implementation FERPA FERPA Policy Faculty/Staff Quick Guide Student Annual Notification FERPA Consent Form FAQs Office Information Mission Statement Staff Directory Activities and Responsibilities Organizational Chart Search the Site Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Dates and Deadlines Registering for Classes Steps for Registration Registration + Planning Instructional Videos View Class Schedule in BearWeb Summer/Fall 2022 BearWeb Early Registration Schedule Waitlist Information Waitlist FAQs Returning Student Reactivation Returning Student Reactivation FAQs Wintermester Academic Services Transcript Information Additional Information Current Student Online Ordering Former Student Online Ordering Name and Address Change Enrollment/Degree Certification Commencement Information Non-certified Commencement Participation Policy Diploma Information Diploma Distribution for Current Graduates Duplicate Diploma Orders for Alumni Duplicate Diploma Order Form Dean's Academic Honor List Degree Audits GPA Slip/Final Grades Enrollment Status Undergraduate Course Repeat Policy FAQ's - Undergraduate Course Repeat and Academic Forgiveness Policy U.Achieve Instructional Videos Schedule of Classes & Catalogs Schedule of Classes University Catalogs Undergraduate Catalog Previous Undergraduate Catalogs Graduate Catalog Law School Catalog Seminary Catalog Final Exam Schedule Spring 2022 Fall 2022 Transfer Credit Transfer Credit Policies Equivalent Course Tool (ECT) Search by Outside Institution Search by Baylor Course Equivalent Course Request (ECR) Transfer Credit FAQs Abroad Equivalent Course Approval VA Education Benefits Announcements Apply for VA Educational Benefits Meet our VA Benefits Team VA Benefits Contact Information VA Benefits Appointment Scheduling Military Scholarships VA Chapter Benefits Chapter 33 Chapter 33 Application Process - Veterans or Active Duty Chapter 33 Application Process - Spouses or Dependents Chapter 33 - Private School Tuition & Fee Cap Timeline of VA Chapter 33 Certification Procedure VA CH 33 Refund Procedure Example Email John Fry Scholarship Chapter 35 Chapter 31 VA CH 31 Refund Procedure Chapter 30, 1606 VA Forms / Resources FAQs Ineligible Programs The Effects of Schedule Changes (Debt Info) Terminology VA COE Submission Yellow Ribbon Program Room Scheduling Faculty/Staff Resources Class Scheduling Schedule Build Timeline Development Grading Resources Class Roster Verification Electronic Catalog Implementation FERPA FERPA Policy Faculty/Staff Quick Guide Student Annual Notification FERPA Consent Form FAQs Office Information Mission Statement Staff Directory Activities and Responsibilities Organizational Chart Search the Site