Skip to main content Restrict my search to Tilman J. Fertitta Family College of Medicine Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to College of Medicine Search Tilman J. Fertitta Family College of Medicine About Why Tilman J. Fertitta Family College of Medicine? Leadership Faculty Future Tilman J. Fertitta Family College of Medicine Building Admissions Application Process Life in Houston Scholarships and Financial Aid Tuition and Fees Types of Scholarships and Financial Aid How to Apply for Financial Aid Managing Your Finances Policies & Procedures FAQs Education MD Program Graduate Medical Education Contact Tracer Training Departments Office of Medical Education Research Humana Institute Welcome Research Education Community Project Announcements Events & Programs Courses & Workshops Office of Research Welcome OHD PRIDE Current Students Academic & Conduct Policies Diversity & Outreach Learning Communities Student Life Student Organizations Office of Academic Support Office of Student Affairs Community Health Household-Centered Care Program Healthy Connections | Conexiónes Saludables Interprofessional Teams Community Partners Community Working Groups (East End & Third Ward) Coordinated Care Network Engaged Health – Research & Data Giving Giving Opportunities Make a Gift Today Thank You News & Events News Archive Dean's Newsletter Archive Featured Events Upcoming Events Healing Arts Houston: Innovations in Arts and Health Faculty in the News Contact Us COVID-19 Vaccine Resources Patient Care Direct Primary Care Clinic UH Health | Family Care Center The Future of Medicine is Here Rendering of future Tilman J. Fertitta Family College of Medicine building lobby. Learn more about the future building. COVID-19 Updates our-program Our Program admissions Admissions financial-aid Financial Aid Dean Spann’s Letter to Faculty and Staff on the Impact of Structural Racism and Social Injustice on the Health of Our Community Join Us The Tilman J. Fertitta Family College of Medicine is taking a bold and fresh new approach to medical education. The status quo hasn’t improved health. The U.S. spends more on health care than any other developed nation; yet, we have some of the poorest health outcomes. To end the downward trend, Fertitta Family College of Medicine is tackling a key contributor to poor health — a shortage of primary care doctors. We will groom students to become primary care physicians who deliver compassionate, high-value care to underserved communities in Houston and Texas. At the College of Medicine, our focus is on preventing and improving poor health — not simply treating it. Students will receive the highest quality medical training to provide comprehensive health care. By teaching students to address key factors that affect their patients' health — such as food insecurity, the environment and housing — we can help eliminate health disparities in our urban and rural areas. The future of medicine is here. Come help shape it for a better tomorrow. Join our mission to improve health. Learn Why Tilman J. Fertitta Family College of Medicine is for You Meet the Team Departments Countdown to Accreditation The Tilman J. Fertitta Family College of Medicine received preliminary accreditation status from the Liaison Committee on Medical Education in February 2020. Anticipated Timeline Board of Regents Approval for establishment of College of Medicine November 16, 2017 Graduate & Professional Studies Approval for Medical Degree February 2018 Board of Regents Approval for Medical Degree March 8, 2018 Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board Approval for Medical Degree October 2018 Initiate Liaison Committee on Medical Education (LCME) Application October 2018 Submission of Application to the LCME for Accreditation March 2019 Southern Association of Colleges & Schools (SACSCOC) Prospectus Submitted May 2019 Texas Legislature & Governor Approval for Funding May 2019 Southern Association of Colleges & Schools (SACSCOC) Approval to offer a Doctor of Medicine Degree Program Aug 2019 LCME-Preliminary Accreditation Awarded February 2020 Admit First Class July 2020 Estimated LCME Provisional Accreditation June 2022 Full Accreditation January 2024 Nov 2017 Feb 2018 Mar 2018 Oct 2018 Oct 2018 Mar 2019 May 2019 May 2019 Aug 2019 Feb 2020 Jul 2020 Jun 2022 Jan 2024 COVID-19 Fertitta Family College of Medicine Faculty in the news Health Matters is a News 88.7 radio series, brought to you by the Tilman J. Fertitta Family College of Medicine, that empowers listeners to lead healthy lives. Host and founding dean Dr. Stephen Spann, along with doctors from the medical school, provide practical health care information to the community. $376.6 MILLION Tilman J. Fertitta Family College of Medicine Total Income Added to Greater Houston Following LCME approval, the medical school will begin producing doctors who will address Texas’ shortage of primary care physicians and lack of coverage in underserved communities. During its first decade of operation, it’s predicted to generate a $4.13 return for every $1 spent on it. View Fertitta Family College of Medicine Economic Impact Analysis In The News View News Archive Fox 26 Houston UH medical school named after Tilman J. Fertitta family following legacy-defining $50 million gift May 19, 2022 Forbes University Of Houston Announces $50 Million Gift For Its Medical School May 19, 2022 Houston Business Journal Tilman Fertitta family makes massive donation to UH College of Medicine May 19, 2022 CBS News, Channel 11 Fertitta family makes massive $50M donation to University of Houston College of Medicine May 19, 2022 NBC News, Channel 2 ‘New Era of Health Care’: UH College of Medicine renamed in honor of Tilman Fertitta after $50M pledge May 19, 2022 ABC News, Channel 13 UH names Fertitta Family College of Medicine after $50M donation from Houston entrepreneur May 19, 2022 Houston Chronicle Tilman Fertitta donating $50 million to UH medical school, which will be renamed after him May 19, 2022 The Daily Cougar College of Medicine renamed after Tilman Fertitta’s ‘legacy-defining’ donation May 19, 2022 University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies