Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Giving to Baylor Menu About Us Leadership Directory News Stories of Giving Give Light Ways to Give Gifts of Cash Gifts of Securities, Real Estate and Personal Property Matching Gifts Memorials and Tributes Memorial and Tribute Funds Bricks and Pavers Gift and Estate Planning Corporate Gifts Priorities Academic Units College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering and Computer Science School of Music University Libraries Athletics Athletics Excellence Fund Baylor Spirit Squad Bear Foundation Dutch Schroeder Letterwinners' Legacy Endowment Fund Parents Baylor Parent Fund Library Excellence Fund Parents Endowed Scholarship Student Emergency Fund Student Life Excellence Fund Special Interests Baylor in Washington Excellence Fund Baylor/Waco Foundation Museums Senior Class Gift Student Life Baylor Line Camp Student Emergency Fund Student Foundation Student Life Excellence Fund Student Missions Student Scholarships General Scholarship Fund Establishing an Endowed Scholarship The Torch (crowdfunding) Giving Societies 1845 Society 1845 Society Impact Report 2021 Old Main Society Make a Gift Baylor>Giving to Baylor>Ways to Give>Memorials and Tributes>Memorial and Tribute Funds Memorial and Tribute Funds There are many ways to honor loved ones at Baylor University. The following featured Memorial and Tribute Funds were established to provide a lasting memory and to celebrate members of the Baylor Family. In Memory of Jim Bargainer In 1979 Jim became the Director of The Institute of Engineering Science at Baylor University. He guided the program for the next 20 years including achieving accreditation of several disciplines including the first, the Bachelor of Science in Computer Science from the Accrediting Board for Engineering in 1986. He became the first Dean of the School of Engineering and Computer Science in June of 1995. Gifts can be made to the Dr. James D. Bargainer, Jr. Endowed Scholarship to honor his memory. In Memory of Jane Meyer Baylor University mourns the loss of longtime friend and philanthropist, Jane Meyer. Honored as a Baylor Founder for her support of the university, Jane’s strong Christian faith informed her philanthropy, and as president of the Paul and Jane Meyer Family Foundation, she built upon a legacy of generosity toward Baylor’s students. The Meyers established the Paul J. Meyer Christian Leadership in Business Endowed Fund to promote a Christian perspective on business leadership. Gifts can be made to this fund to honor her memory. In Memory of Steve Hunter Steve Hunter’s love for Baylor and Baylor Athletics spanned more than 55 years. From the 1974 SWC Championship, to seeing the 2004 Tennis team as they brought the first National Championship to Baylor, to the first of three Lady Bears Basketball National Championships, to Back-to-Back Big 12 Championships, and the joy of our Men’s Basketball National Championship in 2021, his passionate support and belief that Baylor’s mission to win with integrity and build champions for life was unwavering. Steve established the Hunter Family Endowed Scholarship in Athletics to foster the spiritual and athletic growth of our Baylor Athletes. Gifts can be made to this fund to honor his memory. In Memory of Kathy Tinius Baylor University mourns the loss of beloved alumna, Kathy Tinius. Kathy had a lifelong love of Baylor, which was reflected through her faithful support of the Louise Herrington School of Nursing and the Film and Digital Media department. Kathy established the Tinius Family Endowed Fund in Film and Digital Media for Baylor in LA through which she hoped young, Christian people could achieve their dreams and provide a positive influence in the entertainment industry. Gifts may be made to this fund to honor her memory. Ways to Give Gifts of Cash Gifts of Securities, Real Estate and Personal Property Matching Gifts Memorials and Tributes Memorial and Tribute Funds In Memory of Jim Bargainer In Memory of Jane Meyer In Memory of Steve Hunter In Memory of Kathy Tinius Bricks and Pavers Gift and Estate Planning Corporate Gifts Office of University Advancement Clifton Robinson Tower, Ste. 800 One Bear Place #97026 Waco, TX 76798-7026 (254) 710-2561 (800) 229-5678, option 4 University_Advancement@baylor.edu Alumni Connect Give Light Campaign Give Online Memorials and Tributes General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Us Leadership Directory News Stories of Giving Give Light Ways to Give Gifts of Cash Gifts of Securities, Real Estate and Personal Property Matching Gifts Memorials and Tributes Memorial and Tribute Funds Bricks and Pavers Gift and Estate Planning Corporate Gifts Priorities Academic Units College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering and Computer Science School of Music University Libraries Athletics Athletics Excellence Fund Baylor Spirit Squad Bear Foundation Dutch Schroeder Letterwinners' Legacy Endowment Fund Parents Baylor Parent Fund Library Excellence Fund Parents Endowed Scholarship Student Emergency Fund Student Life Excellence Fund Special Interests Baylor in Washington Excellence Fund Baylor/Waco Foundation Museums Senior Class Gift Student Life Baylor Line Camp Student Emergency Fund Student Foundation Student Life Excellence Fund Student Missions Student Scholarships General Scholarship Fund Establishing an Endowed Scholarship The Torch (crowdfunding) Giving Societies 1845 Society 1845 Society Impact Report 2021 Old Main Society Make a Gift