Skip to content Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Main Menu About A Brief Introduction | Engineering Study Abroad Milestone Events Student Life Annual Safety Security Report Academics Courses Academic Calendars Current GT Students Transient Students Graduate Programs MS Analytics MS Computer Science MS Electrical and Computer Engineering MS Environmental Engineering Master of Industrial Design Exchange To GT-Atlanta MS Analytics MS CS MS ECE MS ENVE Master of Industrial Design To GT-Shenzhen To GT-Lorraine Faculty Georgia Tech Faculty with Rotational Assignment to Shenzhen Faculty Positions Financial Scholarships Coulter Scholarships Merit-Based Scholarships NACA Scholarships Tuition and Fees Industry FAQ FAQ on Admission FAQ on Financial Matters FAQ on Programmatic Issues FAQ on GT MS Degree FAQ on PhD Ugrad Summer Contact Us Search Search for: Search MS Electrical and Computer Engineering General Information Students admitted through the GT-Shenzhen campus must commit to spending the first two semesters of academic studies at GT-Shenzhen. Most GT-Shenzhen students will complete the MS ECE degree in 3 semesters. Students have the option to enroll at GT-Shenzhen, or GT-Atlanta, or GT-Lorraine in France during their last semester. Participation in internships under a GT graduate co-op arrangement is encouraged. GT-Shenzhen provides a framework for the students to mix-and-match academic, industrial, and study abroad experiences and still graduate in 1-2 years. GT-Shenzhen aims to develop the whole student and will provide communication and leadership development opportunities for students. Generally, students matriculate in the fall semester, although the program will enroll new students for both fall and spring. Curriculum Courses are flexible enough to meet the individual needs of ECE graduate students while at the same time ensuring that all graduates complete a well-rounded program of study to support their professional goals. Courses should be divided into three groups to meet the MS ECE degree requirements. Note that only the non-thesis option is available at GT-Shenzhen. The GT non-thesis MS degree in ECE requires 30 credit hours; please see the degree requirements here http://www.ece.gatech.edu/academics/graduate/msreq.html. ECE’s graduate level courses are grouped among 11 Technical Interest Areas (TIAs), listed below: Bioengineering (BIO) Computer Systems & Software (CSS) Digital Signal Processing (DSP) Electrical Energy (EE) Electromagnetics (EM) Electronic Design & Applications (EDA) Microelectronics (Micro) Modern Optics (Opt) Systems & Controls (S&C) Telecommunications (Telecom) VLSI Systems & Digital Design (VSDD) GT-Shenzhen MS ECE Program Director Admissions Diploma Coursework Planning Degree Requirements MS Graduation Process Professional Development Option (PDO) Upcoming Events There are no upcoming events at this time. Contact the Institute Directory Offices Campus Map Apply Support / Give Log in Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404-894-2000 Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment ©2022 Georgia Institute of Technology