Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Menu Interdepartmental Microbiology Graduate Program Open Search Bar Search Submit search Main navigation Home People Open dropdown menu Faculty Collaborators Students Future Students Current Students News MGSO Alumni Success Stories Advanced Homepage About The Interdepartmental Microbiology (IM) Graduate Program at Iowa State University offers both M.S. and Ph. D. degree opportunities in all aspects of prokaryotic and eukaryotic microbiology. A large number of University departments and affiliated national laboratories in Ames participate, bringing together faculty with expertise in biochemistry, ecology, genetics and molecular biology, biogeochemistry, biorenewables, food safety and security, veterinary microbiology, medical microbiology, plant pathology, virology, entomology, immunology, parasitology, mycology, and microbial genomics, among others. The interdepartmental nature of the program enables a curriculum of breadth, depth, and rigor, and maximizes opportunities for graduate students to pursue the research topic of their choice. As a major research university, Iowa State offers state-of-the-art facilities and instrumentation, both in individual labs and university wide service facilities. If you are ready to take the next step toward a successful career in microbiology or a related field, apply now. For further details on the IM Graduate Program, including orientation materials, curriculum and degree requirements, policies and procedures, forms and templates, health insurance, and other topics, download the Graduate Student Handbook (2021-2022 Handbook). For questions about the program or the application process please contact Dai Nguyen at dna112@iastate.edu Microbiology Governance Document Follow this link if you are looking for the Undergraduate Microbiology Program. Alumni Success Stories Recent News Interdepartmental Microbiology Graduate Program Fall 2021 Newsletter Dec 20, 2021 Welcoming the incoming cohort of students Sep 30, 2021 Recent Publications and Presentations by IM Students and Faculty - July 2021 Aug 3, 2021 Congratulations to IM Students, Chloe Wasendorf and Joel Maki, for their achievements! Jun 1, 2021 Recent Publications by IM Students and Faculty - May 2021 Jun 1, 2021 All news Associates College of Agriculture and Life Sciences Interdepartmental Microbiology Graduate Program 207 Science 2237 Osborn Dr Ames, IA 50011-1027 Copyright Information Copyright © Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Legal and Privacy Links Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer Information