Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links UW Alene Moris Women’s Center About us Advisory board Executive director Our team Annual reports Women of Courage Gala Programs Alene Moris National Education for Women’s Leadership Anti-Human Trafficking Research & Policy Development Lifelong Learning Making Connections Returning Student Program Violence Prevention & Gender Equity Get involved Scholarships Job openings Donate News & events Resources Homepage Alene Moris Women’s Center Menu UW Alene Moris Women’s Center About us Advisory board Executive director Our team Annual reports Women of Courage Gala Programs Alene Moris National Education for Women’s Leadership Anti-Human Trafficking Research & Policy Development Lifelong Learning Making Connections Returning Student Program Violence Prevention & Gender Equity Get involved Scholarships Job openings Donate News & events Resources Home Alene Moris Women’s Center Alene Moris Women’s Center Autumn Quarter 2021 Safe Return to Campus Face coverings are required indoors regardless of vaccination status. For the latest compliance requirements with state and university rules, see the UW COVID-19 resources page. The Moris Women’s Center is open Monday thru Friday 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. For questions or to schedule an appointment, please call 206-685-1090 or email womens@uw.edu. Educating for Life and Leadership The UW Alene Moris Women’s Center is a catalyst for change. We disrupt cycles of oppression and break down gender-based barriers through transformational education programs, leadership development, and advocacy for girls and womxn. We believe womxn’s rights are human rights. Programs and services are open to all students, staff, faculty and community members. Leadership development We provide access to resources and opportunities that promote gender equity and amplify womxn’s voices in addressing the issues that impact them. Current program Alene Moris National Education for Women’s Leadership Tools for success We emphasize supporting girls and womxn who are first-generation to higher education, returning or non-traditional students, and aspiring leaders on their career paths. Current programs Lifelong Learning Making Connections Returning Students Program Education and advocacy We build towards a more just and equitable society with programs globally recognized for their success. Current programs Anti-Human Trafficking Research & Policy Development Violence Prevention & Gender Equity Message from the director The Women’s Center welcomes both women and men of all ages. It has a vital mission to build a culture of gender equity on our campus, in our community and around the world. The programs of the center promote access to excellence and inspires students and community members to achieve their educational and life aspirations. Read More I want there to be a place in the world where people can engage in one another’s differences in a way that is redemptive, full of hope and possibility. —Bell Hooks The history of the UW Alene Moris Women's Center The Women’s Center is housed in historic Cunningham Hall. Since its inception over 100 years ago, the Women’s Center has served the community in a multitude of ways –- including acting as meeting place for the suffragists who fought for women’s right to vote in our state. Learn more Get involved Job and volunteer opportunities Donate to the UW Alene Moris Women’s Center Scholarships Advisory board Our team Annual reports Connect with us Twitter Facebook Sign-up for our email newsletter News and events Upcoming activities and news from the UW Alene Moris Women's Center. Learn more Contact Cunningham Hall, 4101 George Washington Lane, Seattle, WA 98195 Hours: 9 a.m. – 5 p.m. | womens@uw.edu | Phone: 206-685-1090 | Fax: 206-685-4490 Women’s Center Programs Alene Moris National Education for Women’s Leadership Anti-Human Trafficking Research & Policy Development Lifelong Learning Making Connections Returning Student Program Violence Prevention & Gender Equity Connect with us Twitter Facebook Sign-up for our email newsletter Contact us 206-685-1090womens@uw.edu University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA