Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Home Ways to give Get involved Alumni and friends Students Parents Faculty and staff Corporations and foundations Recognition Be Boundless Campaign The President’s Circle Cumulative Giving Recognition Henry Suzzallo Society Gates Volunteer Service Award Report to Contributors Contacts Giving FAQs Give now My UW Giving Give to the UW Menu Home Ways to give Get involved Alumni and friends Students Parents Faculty and staff Corporations and foundations Recognition Be Boundless Campaign The President’s Circle Cumulative Giving Recognition Henry Suzzallo Society Gates Volunteer Service Award Report to Contributors Contacts Giving FAQs Give now My UW Giving Home Give to the UW Contact us FAQ FAQ Close Menu Home Contact us FAQ Why does the University of Washington need my gift? Where can I mail a check to support the UW? What are the tax benefits of a gift to the UW? Does the UW use a portion of my gift for administrative or other purposes? How can I view my giving history to the UW online? How can I update my contact information? What calendar does the University of Washington use to recognize gifts? How do I specify that my gift is in honor or in memory of someone? How can I determine if my company has a matching gift program? Am I able to set up a monthly or recurring gift to the UW? I am a UW faculty member or staff person. May I use payroll deduction to support the UW? I still can’t find an answer to my question. What should I do next? Why does the University of Washington need my gift? Gifts to the UW enrich the student experience, support ground-breaking research and strengthen programs that benefit the community and world at large. Where can I mail a check to support the UW? Please make your check payable to the University of Washington Foundation and indicate which fund or program you wish to support. You can mail your check to the following address. University of Washington Foundation Box 359505 Seattle, WA 98195 What are the tax benefits of a gift to the UW? Your gift may be tax deductible as charitable contributions for federal tax purposes as allowed by IRS regulations. The UW Foundation’s federal tax id is 94-3079432. Gifts of securities (tax id# 91-6001537) may have additional tax benefits. Does the UW use a portion of my gift for administrative or other purposes? As is customary with universities and other non-profit organizations, a gift assessment is applied to select current use gifts upon their receipt, providing essential support to the University of Washington’s advancement efforts and institutional priorities. The assessment is 5 percent and applies only to contributions over $1,000 and under $5 million. Since 1990, endowed gifts are assessed an annual fee (between .9-1%) of the five-year rolling average market value, which supports the UW’s advancement efforts and offsets internal investment management costs. How can I view my giving history to the UW online? Please visit My UW Giving where you can track your giving history, print gift receipts and more. How can I update my contact information? You can update your information online, send an email to UW Updates or call 1-800-326-7566 from 8am to 5pm to update your information. You can also update your information in My UW Giving. What calendar does the University of Washington use to recognize gifts? The UW recognizes gifts according to the University’s fiscal year, which runs from July 1 to June 30. How do I specify that my gift is in honor or in memory of someone? You may make your gift in honor or in memory of a special person in your life when you make your gift online. Please specify whether your gift is in honor or in memory of someone using the buttons provided on the giving form as you enter your personal information. How can I determine if my company has a matching gift program? You can look up your employer using our matching company form. Some companies will double or even triple your contribution to the UW and some will even match retirees! Am I able to set up a monthly or recurring gift to the UW? Yes, you may choose this type of gift when you make your gift online. On the giving form, just below your gift amount, you may select your gift frequency. You will have the option for a one-time, monthly, or recurring gift. I am a UW faculty member or staff person. May I use payroll deduction to support the UW? Yes, payroll deduction is available to UW employees. Please visit our faculty and staff page to learn more. I still can’t find an answer to my question. What should I do next? Please contact us via email at give2uw@uw.edu or phone at 1-800-326-7566 or 206-685-1980. We are here to help! Home Contact us FAQ Search for: University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA