Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Residence Life & Student Housing (RLSH) About Apply for Housing Apply for Housing SMU Housing Portal Rate and Fees Living On Campus Living On Campus Residential Commons Upper-Division Housing Apartments Policies Get Involved Get Involved Dallas Community Departments Faculty Graduate Students Staff Undergraduate Students Make A Request ☰ RLSH Get Involved Dallas Community Dallas Community Residence Life & Student Housing (RLSH) sponsors unique programs throughout the academic year for residents to engage with their city. Our programs are designed to assist students with career preparation, community engagement opportunities, and unique field experiences in the city of Dallas. Career Preparation Our Faculty-in-Residence (FiR) and professional staff use our networks to place opportunities in front of talented students. Our networks are in addition to the plethora of career advising and resources available from our friends in the Hegi Career Center. If you have opportunities for SMU students sponsored by your organization, we can help you find the right person for advertising those opportunities. City Life Dallas is now home to more than 3,300 students living on the Hilltop. We provide numerous opportunities to get students out into the community—theater performances, unique cultural events and festivals, and learning about public policy and service. If you or your organization have an opportunity to offer students, we can support the logistics to leverage the experience. Community Engagement In multiple ways, RLSH engages with the wider Dallas / Fort Worth community. Namely, we work to develop and sustain partnerships with city nonprofits, agencies, and organizations to provide students with volunteer and community service. One of the key ways is via Engage Dallas. Engage Dallas is a place-based community engagement initiative via SMU’s Residential Commons to address community needs focusing on south and west Dallas. The initiative is a long-term, university-wide commitment led by students to partner with local residents, organizations, and other leaders to positively impact the community. There is equal emphasis on campus and community impact stemming from the initiative. Think big and do good today. Get in touch so we can explore opportunities for partnership. Our director of academic initiatives will help you connect with the right campus contact. More Ways to Connect with SMU External Affairs Community Engagement Office Career Center Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share