COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU Trending Topics Section Menu WSU Public Records Home Public Records Available Online Open Records FAQs WSU Open Records Policy How to Make an Open Records Request Open Records Request Log Open Records Request Payment Information Submit a question or comment Looking for all the latest Wichita State news?Check out our newsroom In keeping with the spirit of openness and transparency, we've created this Trending Topics page to outline some of the most crucial topics facing the WSU community. WSU and KU propose health sciences education center in Wichita As community leaders plan for the growth and economic prosperity of our state, Wichita State University and the University of Kansas are bolstering those efforts through an initiative to build a joint health sciences education center in Wichita. Read more about the proposed center MRO program is an employment powerhouse The Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul program at WSU is currently converting a Boeing 777 from a passenger aircraft to a freighter and conducting special-missions modifications for the Boeing 737. WSU's MRO is one of only three in the world and two in the nation. Wichita State helps our Kansas business community thrive Everything WSU does is driven by the desire to help grow the communities we serve. One of those communities is our Kansas business community, the people who hire our graduates; and we’ve made it a priority to build our partnerships with them across the state to help them prosper. WSU is easing the financial burden for Kansas families Need-based aid is vital to ensuring higher education is affordable and accessible to Kansas families. WSU is bringing in new populations to college, and we’re helping to ease the financial burden of higher education for families in our state. Name, image and likeness efforts at Wichita State Recently, NIL collectives have become a popular topic as people try to understand and adapt to the new environment for college athletics and Wichita State University’s association with these collectives. 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©