Skip to Main Content Brown University The College Secondary Navigation Navigation About For Faculty Search Menu Site Navigation Home Design Your Education Explore the Open Curriculum Choose A Focus Complete Your Degree Review Academic Policies Learn Beyond the Classroom International Study Opportunities U.S. Study Opportunities BE^3 Brown Experiential Learning Programs Engaged Learning Entrepreneurship Internships Fellowships & Research Funding Seek Advising & Support Speak with an Academic Dean Search for a Contact Advising By Year Personal Support Academic Support Writing Support Science Support Launch A Career Search The College Complete Your Degree As an undergraduate student at Brown, you have enormous latitude to shape your own course of study while completing the requirements to earn your degree. Breadcrumb Home Design Your Education Sub Navigation In This Section Explore the Open Curriculum Choose A Focus Complete Your Degree Degree Requirements Degree Options Culminating Experiences Commencement Review Academic Policies Complete Your Degree As an undergraduate student at Brown, you have enormous latitude to shape your own course of study while completing the requirements to earn your degree. Brown University awards two baccalaureate degrees: the bachelor of arts (A.B.) and the bachelor of science (Sc.B.). There are also options to pursue a combined A.B.-Sc.B., or a five-year bachelor’s and master’s degree. In order to graduate with a Brown baccalaureate degree, you must satisfy the requirements of your chosen concentration in addition to other undergraduate degree requirements established by Brown as outlined below. These requirements are designed to ensure that you engage in the full breadth of your chosen area of study, including its foundation and methods and depth in a focus area within the field. Degree Requirements To earn your Brown degree, you must earn at least 30 course credits, fulfill the requirements of a concentration, demonstrate writing competence, and be enrolled for the equivalent of eight fall and spring full-time semesters of instruction, with a reduced number of semesters of enrollment required for transfer students based on their prior studies. Degree Options As an undergraduate at Brown, you may choose to complete more than one concentration, as approximately twenty percent of students do. You can pursue this option as part of a single degree, or a five-year combined degree (A.B.-Sc.B.) program. You also may pursue options to complete both a bachelor’s and master’s degree within four or five years. Culminating Experiences Many Brown students spend a portion of their senior year hard at work on an independent project of their own design or a capstone experience that allows them to synthesize what they have learned in their studies in and beyond the classroom. Midyear Completion The Midyear Completion Ceremony is held annually in honor of students completing degree requirements in the summer and fall semester (affectionately called ".5ers"). Hosted by the College, the event allows students, family, and friends to celebrate seniors' achievements. Commencement Brown's Commencement ceremony is held every year on the Sunday of Memorial Day weekend. The ceremony takes place outdoors on the historic College Green, with separate ceremonies for each academic department following the main event. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Persona 1 Persona 2 Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Design Your Education Explore the Open Curriculum Choose A Focus Complete Your Degree Review Academic Policies Learn Beyond the Classroom International Study Opportunities U.S. Study Opportunities BE^3 Brown Experiential Learning Programs Engaged Learning Entrepreneurship Internships Fellowships & Research Funding Seek Advising & Support Speak with an Academic Dean Search for a Contact Advising By Year Personal Support Academic Support Writing Support Science Support Launch A Career Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About For Faculty This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Complete Your Degree Open details for Complete Your Degree Bookmark this Page