Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Human Resources Human Resources Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Employee Handbook Menu Main Nav Employee Handbook A–Z Index Back Back Close Policies & Procedures Compensation Benefits BC Resources A–Z Index Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Human Resources Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Welcome to the online version of the Boston College Employee Handbook, originally published in October 1996. The information provided in this handbook applies to full-time professional/administrative staff and to full-time office/clerical and service staff. Most of the information also applies to part-time staff working at least 20 hours per week. The handbook is intended to serve as a general guide, both for new employees as they become acclimated to Boston College and for all employees as a reference. About the Handbook A–Z Index Benefits News & Updates New Employee Welcome Welcome Letters William P. Leahy, S.J., President David Trainor, Vice President for Human Resources Welcome Letter from William P. Leahy, S.J., President Dear Fellow Employee: The strength and vitality that Boston College today enjoys is due in no small part to the many important contributions made by each of its members. The University benefits greatly from the dedication and professionalism that each of you brings to your work. As a Jesuit institution, Boston College takes special interest in the well-being of everyone in its community. The policies, benefits, and services described in this handbook reflect that concern. I encourage you to take advantage of the many opportunities and resources available to you for your personal growth and professional development. I hope you will derive much satisfaction and personal fulfillment in knowing the vital contribution that you make to the success of our University. Sincerely, William P. Leahy, S.J. President Welcome Letter from David Trainor, Vice President for Human Resources Dear Colleague: It is with great pleasure that I welcome you to Boston College! As a member of our staff, you are a part of an institution that is proud of its Jesuit heritage and the accomplishments that have made it an outstanding national university. Boston College, as an employer, is committed to providing an environment that is conducive to carrying out the University’s mission. For our valued employees, we strive to administer our policies, as well as our benefit and compensation programs, in a manner that is competitive, fair, and understandable. This handbook intends to communicate terms and conditions of employment that apply to each of us as we carry out our important responsibilities at Boston College. The policies, benefits, and services detailed herein reflect a concern not only for the well-being but also for the personal growth and development of all members of the Boston College Community. While the handbook provides important information relative to all aspects of your employment at Boston College, it cannot be used as the basis for all decisions. To that end, I encourage you to consult your supervisors and the members of our Human Resources staff. The Human Resources Department is structured to provide a full range of services, including benefits administration, recruiting and placement, classification and compensation, and employee relations. We also focus great attention on institutional diversity, employee development, faculty/staff assistance, and child care. We invite your comments on the contents of this handbook, as well as any other observations that may be helpful in the delivery of services to the Boston College Community. On behalf of the entire Human Resources staff, I give you our very best wishes for fulfillment and success at Boston College. Go Eagles!!!! Best regards, David P. Trainor Vice President for Human Resources Back To Top Back To Top Human Resources 129 Lake Street Brighton Campus 617-552-3330 Policies & Procedures Compensation Benefits BC Resources Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College