Javascript must be enabled for the correct page display Skip to Content × Close Menu Close Academics Academics Academic Programs Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Continuing Education Online Programs Dual Degree Programs Certificate Programs Special Programs Summer Sessions International Programs Schools and Colleges Schools and Colleges Arts and Sciences Business Communication and the Arts Diplomacy and International Relations Education and Human Services Health and Medical Sciences Law Medicine Nursing Theology Additional Resources Additional Resources Experiential Learning Advising Faculty Departments Centers and Institutes Core Curriculum University Libraries Academic Calendar Grants and Research Office of the Provost Admissions Admissions Visiting Seton Hall Tour Schedule Monday - Friday: 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. Saturday: 10 a.m., Noon and 2 p.m. Undergraduate Graduate International Students Catholic Mission Catholic Mission Catholic Mission Catholic Mission Mission and Ministry Priest Community Catholic Studies Theology Additional Resources Additional Resources Mass Schedule Centers and Institutes Archdiocese Athletics Athletics SHUPirates.com Athletics Resources Athletics Resources Schedules Tickets Pirate Blue Facilities eSports and Gaming Alumni Alumni Alumni and Friends Alumni and Friends Alumni Home Alumni Directory Share Your News Benefits and Services E-mail Accounts Request a Transcript True Blue Support Seton Hall Support Seton Hall Why Seton Hall? Ways to Give Give Now About About About Seton Hall Hallmarks Rankings Mission Statement Campus Life Diversity and Inclusion History Visit Seton Hall Office of the President Events PirateNet About About Seton Hall Hallmarks Rankings Mission Statement Campus Life Diversity and Inclusion History Visit Seton Hall Office of the President Events PirateNet SUPPORT SHU University Site Search Academics Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Continuing Education Online Programs Dual Degree Programs Certificate Programs Special Programs Summer Sessions International Programs Schools and Colleges Arts and Sciences Business Communication and the Arts Diplomacy and International Relations Education and Human Services Health and Medical Sciences Law Nursing Theology Additional Resources Experiential Learning Advising Faculty Departments Centers and Institutes Core Curriculum University Libraries Academic Calendar Grants and Research Office of the Provost Admissions Visit Campus Tour Schedule Monday - Friday: 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. Saturday: 10 a.m., Noon and 2 p.m. Visiting Seton Hall Admissions Undergraduate Graduate International Students Catholic Mission Catholic Mission Mission and Ministry Priest Community Catholic Studies Theology Additional Resources Mass Schedule Centers and Institutes Archdiocese Athletics Seton Hall Pirates SHUPirates.com Athletics Resources Schedules Tickets Pirate Blue Facilities eSports and Gaming Alumni Alumni and Friends Alumni Home Alumni Directory Share Your News Benefits and Services E-mail Accounts Request a Transcript True Blue Support Seton Hall Why Seton Hall? Ways to Give Give Now Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Celebrating Diversity Institutional Statement DEI Committee DEI Survey Initiatives and Events Resources and Training Bias Education Support Team Get Involved Heritage Month Celebrations Black History Month Women's History Month Celebrate Love Month Asian American Pacific Islander LGBTQ+ Pride Month and Juneteenth Hispanic Heritage Month Native American Heritage Month Menu Celebrating Diversity Institutional Statement DEI Committee DEI Survey Initiatives and Events Resources and Training Bias Education Support Team Get Involved Heritage Month Celebrations Black History Month Women's History Month Celebrate Love Month Asian American Pacific Islander LGBTQ+ Pride Month and Juneteenth Hispanic Heritage Month Native American Heritage Month Seton Hall University Celebrating Diversity Since 1856, Seton Hall University has been a place where leaders learn. When Bishop James Roosevelt Bayley founded Seton Hall, he envisioned a home for the mind, the heart, and the spirit. Today, we celebrate a diverse tapestry of ideas and perspectives that enrich the dialogue and academic discussion in the classroom. We are proud that our diversity stimulates innovative teaching and learning, and believe that it prepares our students to live and work in a global society. The statue of Elizabeth Ann Seton at the heart of our campus is a daily reminder of the kind of community we strive to be—one that recognizes the dignity of all, welcomes each student fully, and treasures their gifts. Seton Hall University attracts students from every corner of the United States and from more than 70 countries around the world. Nearly 40 percent of our undergraduates identify themselves as students of color. Outside of the U.S., China, Colombia, India, Saudi Arabia and Thailand are the most represented countries at the University. News Library Professors Publish with Two Diplomacy Students Professors Chelsea Barrett and Brooke Duffy collaborated with two School of Diplomacy undergraduates, Dia Bolton, ’22, and Akaysha Palmer, ’22, to publish a book chapter. Diplomacy Faculty Receive Three University Awards This year, three professors from the School of Diplomacy and International Relations received awards highlighting their achievements – Professors Huang, de Silva, and Murphy. Diplomacy Alumna Runs for Hawaii State Legislature Diplomacy alumna Shaira G. Taylor, MS '21, is running for Hawaii's state legislature after her graduation from the Executive MS in International Affairs program. Diplomacy Student Delivers Presentation at Yale Franklin Shobe, a graduate student at the School of Diplomacy, delivered a presentation titled "Ukrainian Political Economy: An Analysis of Past, Present, and Future Trends" at Yale University. WSOU`s TGFM Radio Show Highlights AAPI Heritage Month On Saturday, May 14, WSOU's Thank God For Mondays interviewed Dr. Monica Burnette and Dr. KC Choi on diversity, equity and inclusion, and AAPI Heritage Month. Sophomores Win Atlantic Council Competition Diplomacy sophomores Andrea Hebel, Jasmine De Leon, Shweta Parthasarathy, and Jackalyn Ballard won a competition on March 28, 2022, put on by the Atlantic Council’s New American Engagement Initiative. Diplomacy Students Learn about Sierra Leone Politics Mr. Andrew Lavali spoke to students in Professor M’Cormack-Hale’s classes about service delivery reform in Sierra Leone on April 11, 2022. Nobel Laureate, U.S. Amb to the UN, Speak at SHU The School of Diplomacy is hosting World Leaders with speaker events featuring Nobel Peace Prize Laureate Leymah Gbowee and U.S. Ambassador to the UN Linda Thomas-Greenfield. Upcoming Events There are currently no upcoming events. About Seton Hall Seton Hall also has an outstanding reputation for providing an accessible and affordable education for students. We continue to stay true to our mission of being a University of opportunity by distributing more than $80 million in financial aid annually. Overall, 98 percent of our undergraduates receive financial aid, and 30 percent are awarded Pell grants. In addition, many of our students are the first in their family to attend college. Seton Hall Fast Facts » Seton Hall Factbooks » Seton Hall University 400 South Orange Ave South Orange, NJ 07079 (973) 761-9000 Privacy Statements Title IX Nondiscrimination Statement and Information Contact Us Student Services Parents and Families Career Center Technology Web Accessibility Visiting Campus Public Safety Disability Support Services Campus Security Report Employment Follow #SetonHall www.shu.edu/social Back to top