Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Civil Engineering Students Research People News Accreditation Programs Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact News Herff College of Engineering Contact Us Apply to Our Undergraduate Program Apply to Our Graduate Program Take Action Support Civil Engineering Forms Herff College of Engineering Contact Us Follow Us Online FacebooktwitterYoutube Home Civil Engineering News News Nicole Arellano taking 3rd place in the Daniel Mead competition Nicole Arellano, a University of Memphis ASCE Student Chapter member, was recently awarded third place in the 2022 ASCE Daniel W. Mead Student Paper Competition. This competition is named after the 67th president of ASCE, who established and endowed the prize money for the competition in 1939. The competition addresses specific issues in professional ethics and is open to ASCE Student Chapter members around the world. In 2020, ASCE completely rewrote their code of ethics and this year’s paper topic was on the impact those changes would have on the civil engineering profession. Congratulations, Nicole! The Department of Civil Engineering at the University of Memphis welcomes Herff students back to campus! It was great to see our first year and returning civil engineering students during Herff Welcome Week activities! Thank you to our student chapters of the American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE), the Instititue of Transportation Engineers (ITE) and the Earthquake Engineering Research Institute (EERI) for meeting and talking to all Herff students about membership and the goals of each organization. We are looking forward to a great semester! Civil Engineering Researcher, Dr. Maryam Salehi, Receives NSF CAREER Award Dr. Maryam Salehi, assistant professor in the Department of Civil Engineering in the Herff College of Engineering at the University of Memphis, was recently awarded a $453,144 National Science Foundation (NSF) CAREER Award for her project titled, “An Investigation of Microplastics Fate and Contaminant Transport in Storm Runoff, The Nexus of Environmental Engineering and Material Sciences.” “I am so excited and honored to receive this NSF CAREER Award to study the microplastics fate and contaminant transport behavior in stormwater runoff,” said Salehi, principal investigator (PI) on the project. Click HERE to read more about Dr. Salehi's NSF Award. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/30/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.