Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Marketing + Communications Marketing + Communications right arrow down arrow Creative + Brand right arrow down arrow Photo + Video right arrow down arrow Photocatalog Brand + Design right arrow down arrow University Brand Guide Brand Guide for Digital Use Brand Resources Digital + User Experience right arrow down arrow Analytics Web (AEM) right arrow down arrow Accessibility Digital Governance right arrow down arrow DNS Requests Web Policy AEM User Guide right arrow down arrow Getting Started in AEM Sites Console Creating Pages Editing Pages Advanced Tips & Tricks News Social right arrow down arrow Social Media Policy Social Media Strategy Social Media Account Request Form Social Media Content Request Form Social Media Feedback Form Social Media Ambassador Program Marketing + Advertising Media + Content right arrow down arrow UC News UC Magazine Media Contacts Resources right arrow down arrow Push Forward Push Forward Toolkit Contact Home » About UC » Marketing + Communications » Digital + User Experience » Web (AEM) Set Navigation title in component Analytics Web (AEM) Accessibility Digital Governance DNS Requests Web Policy AEM User Guide Getting Started in AEM Sites Console Creating Pages Editing Pages Advanced Tips & Tricks News Social Social Media Policy Social Media Strategy Social Media Account Request Form Social Media Content Request Form Social Media Feedback Form Social Media Ambassador Program Web Access & Training Adobe Experience Manager or AEM is the official content management system for websites at the University of Cincinnati. AEM empowers web editors to confidently create and manage accessible content. The Digital + Social team has designed a suite of components that allow non-technical authors to optimize their content Have you Completed your Accessibility Training? Remember that in order to gain access to AEM Training you must first verify that you have completed your accessibility training. This training is required for anyone at UC that is contributing digital content, including websites. It must be completed before you can complete AEM training. Request AEM Access The process for gaining access to AEM is as follows: Submit a ticket and select "Touch UI" as the system. You will also select a date for you AEM training from the available dates. You must include as an attachment a screenshot of your Accessibility Compliance Training grades. Uploading this when submitting your initial request, will expedite your request. If you do not submit this, your request will not be processed. After you provide proof of your Accessibility Compliance Training, you will receive a meeting invite via teams for our virtual training. The training is two hours and occurs select Mondays. Training tickets are processed weekly, please allow us time to process and send out meeting invites. Please be prepared to respond to emails sent through the ticketing system. It is the only way to communicate with us on the status of your ticket. Lack of response can cause your ticket to stall or be closed incomplete. Frequently Asked Questions The Accessibility Compliance Training doesn't appear in my Canvas? right arrow down arrow If the course doesn't appear in Canvas, you may need to request to be enrolled. Please contact the Accessibility Network if you need to be added to the course. I haven't recieved a teams invite yet for my training? right arrow down arrow Because our training is held once every three weeks, tickets are processed on a weekly basis. Please allow one week for your training invite to be sent after you have provided your Accessibility Compliance Training verification. Can I request a training on behalf of someone? right arrow down arrow You can submit a ticket requesting training on behalf of someone, however there are a few notes to remember: If you don't upload their Accessibility Compliance Training verification with the original submission, they will need to follow up with that before their ticket is processed. All communication on the ticket status and updates will only come to the person who is needing training. The original requestor does not receive updates. I selected three training date on my ticket, does that mean there are three trainings? right arrow down arrow No, you will only need to attend a single AEM training. The first date selected is your preferred training date, followed by second and third choices should we have a training that is full. How do I verify my Accessibility Compliance Training? right arrow down arrow If you received an email asking you to verify your Accessibility Compliance Training, you will need to reply to the email with proof that you have completed the course. The easiest way to do this is to take a screenshot of your scores and included it as an attachment in your reply. You will not be able to attend training until this step is completed. University of Cincinnati Edwards 2, Suite 3300 Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-3001 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati Edwards 2, Suite 3300 Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-3001 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top