Skip to content Xavier University Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Giving to Xavier Open search dialog Open Navigation Menu Undergraduate Admission Admission Process Undergraduate Application Tuition and Aid Visit Campus Make Your Commitment Contact Us Close Undergraduate Admission sub menu Graduate Admission Apply to Xavier Graduate Financial Aid Events and Information Sessions Contact Us Close Graduate Admission sub menu Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Student Outcomes Academic Support Education Abroad Honors Programs Xavier University Colleges Close Academics sub menu Campus Life Residence Halls Campus Dining Options Clubs and Organizations Diversity Faith and Service Recreational Sports Cincinnati Health and Wellness First-Year Experience Close Campus Life sub menu Athletics goxavier.com Close Athletics sub menu About Xavier Xavier University Rankings Mission, Vision, and Values What is Jesuit Education? Close About Xavier sub menu Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Giving to Xavier Current Students Alumni Relations Employees Parents and Families Employment Opportunities Maps and Directions Search Xavier University: Search Residence Halls Residence Halls Campus Dining Options Clubs and Organizations Diversity Faith and Service Health and Wellness Xavier Home Campus Life Residence Halls Menu Residence Halls Campus Dining Options Clubs and Organizations Diversity Faith and Service Health and Wellness First-Year Student Housing Residence halls are equipped with wireless internet, air conditioning, cable and comfortable furniture. Most feature suite-style living arrangements, with private bedrooms and a shared bathroom. All halls include free laundry facilities. Typically, first-year students live in these buildings. Residential Mall Virtual Tour Launch Residential Mall Brockman Hall Features mostly double rooms, community-style bathroom and shower areas, and furnished, air-conditioned rooms. Brockman Hall Room Details Buenger Hall Features mostly double rooms, community-style bathroom and shower areas, and furnished, air-conditioned rooms. Buenger Hall Room Details Kuhlman Hall Features mostly double rooms, suite-style bathroom and shower areas, and furnished, air-conditioned rooms. Kuhlman Hall Room Details Husman Hall Features mostly double rooms, suite-style bathroom and shower areas, and furnished, air-conditioned rooms. Husman Hall Room Details Sophomore, Junior and Senior Student Housing While Buenger and Kuhlman are also considered traditional upperclass student residences, sophomore, junior and senior students have the opportunity to branch out into other living arrangements, too. Justice Hall Features suite-style rooms in two, three or four doubles, limited single rooms also available, extra-long twin beds and furnished, air-conditioned rooms. Justice Hall Room Details Commons Apartments Offers mostly four-bedroom suites. Suites share a kitchen and common area with two full bathrooms. Rooms are furnished with internet connectivity and cable hookups. Commons Apartments Details University Apartments Features a 1-bedroom apartment shared by three occupants, 1 full kitchen and 1 full bathroom per unit. Rooms are furnished with internet connectivity and cable hookups. University Apartments Details Village Apartments Offers two to four-bedroom townhouses and flats for occupants. Rooms are furnished with internet connectivity and cable hookups. Village Apartments Details 1019 Dana Apartments Apartment units are available for 1-2 students and include a large bedroom/common room combination. Rooms are furnished with internet connectivity and cable hookups. 1019 Dana Details Manor House Features double-occupancy units with a kitchenette and one bathroom per unit. Rooms are furnished with internet connectivity and cable hookups. Manor House Details Dana Avenue Houses These houses are managed by the Office of Residence Life and are fully furnished and include internet connectivity and cable hookups. Ideal for groups of four. Dana Ave. Details Take the Next Step Loading... Get More Information Campus Dining For Parents Important Dates Room Rates Get More Information Campus Dining For Parents Important Dates Room Rates Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Xavier University 3800 Victory Parkway Cincinnati, OH 45207 513-745-3000 Privacy Policy Accessibility Policy Non-Discrimination Policy Editor Access Xavier University on facebook Xavier University on twitter Xavier University on linkedin Xavier University on youtube Xavier University on instagram