Skip to main content Restrict my search to College of Nursing Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search College of Nursing About Us Dean's Message Mission Faculty Staff Instructional Design and Technology News and Events Organizational Chart Prospective Students Doctor of Nursing Practice program Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs How to apply Students with International Transcripts Information Sessions Tuition and Fees Current Students Scholarships Student Expectations Student Resources Policy Orientation Computer Requirements Commencement and Pinning Ceremony Diversity Center for Diversity and Inclusion Division of Student Affairs and Enrollment Services Simulation Center Preceptors Community Health Clinic Contact Tracer Program Alumni Giving Giving Opportunities Giving FAQ Thank You to Our Supporters Make a Gift Today! Development Office Contact Us UH Home College of Nursing Prospective Students Undergraduate Programs Second Degree BSN Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Student Handbook RN to BSN Second Degree BSN Program Requirements Degree Plan and Schedule of Courses Application Checklist Frequently Asked Questions Traditional BSN Track Scholarships Search CON search Second Degree BSN The Second Degree BSN track is offered face-to-face at the University of Houston at Sugar Land. Admission to this fast track is every Spring semester. It is twelve-months long, intensive and full-time for people holding bachelor’s or master’s degrees in other fields who want to become registered nurses (RNs). This accelerated track is designed to facilitate a career change for the more mature and experienced student. Admission to this program is every Spring. The deadline for application is August 1. Please see the Second Degree BSN check list for additional information. Program Description The objective of the Second Degree BSN program is to produce graduates for professional nursing practice who can draw upon knowledge from the biological sciences, social sciences, humanities, and nursing to critically analyze human responses to actual and potential health problems and provide appropriate nursing interventions. Program Goals Synthesize knowledge from the biological sciences, social sciences, behavioral sciences, humanities and nursing to provide appropriate culturally sensitive care to individuals, families and communities. Demonstrate effective interpersonal communication, collaboration with other professionals and leadership and management skills. Critically analyze and apply research findings to nursing practice related to disease prevention, health promotion, illness care and restoration of health. Utilize critical thinking skills to evaluate the outcomes of nursing care. Serve as client advocates by providing health education and in monitoring and promoting access to cost-effective care. Encourage lifelong learning and create a foundation for graduate study. Integrate professional values and ethical, moral and legal aspects of nursing into practice in a variety of structured and unstructured settings. Graduates of the Second Degree BSN program are eligible to apply to take the examination for licensure as registered nurses. To find out more about the Second Degree BSN program click Program Requirements or email nursing@uh.edu for general information. Student testimonial on Second Degree BSN Program Related Links Faculty Directory Mission Information Sessions How to Apply University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies