Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Fogelman College - Department of Economics Welcome Programs Faculty Research Admissions & Current Students FCBE Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Home Prospective Students Admissions Graduate Assistantships Expenses Structure of Program Accelerated BA/MA Program Frequently Asked Questions Current Students Curriculum RequirementsGraduation RequirementsPre-Registration FormGraduate School FormsOther Student Resources Faculty Take Action Undergraduate Programs Seminars Contact Us Return to FCBE Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Home ECON Master of Arts in Economics Accelerated B.A./M.A. Program Accelerated B.A./M.A. Program Outstanding undergraduate Economics majors at the University of Memphis may begin coursework for the MA in Economics during their senior year. Up to 12 hours of graduate coursework may count for both the B.A. and M.A. degrees. Students may complete the M.A. degree in one additional year (after completion of the B.A. degree). Requirements Be a rising senior with a grade point average of at least 3.00; Submit a copy of your transcript to the Department of Economics; Receive three endorsements from department faculty members; Complete an interview with the M.A. Coordinator; Apply for full admission into the Graduate School and into the M.A. Economics upon completion of the undergraduate degree. Suggested Structure of Program Senior Year Fall Semester Econ 6810: Quantitative Economic Analysis Econ 7125: Applied Statistical Methods for Business and Economics Other undergraduate courses Spring Semester Econ 6315: Applied Macroeconomics Econ 7810: Econometrics I Other undergraduate courses Masters Year Fall Semester Econ 7300: Economic Theory and Decisions Econ 7320: Advanced Macroeconomics Econ 7811: Econometrics II Spring Semester Econ 7310: Advanced Microeconomics I Econ 7812: Econometrics III Economics elective field course You will need one additional course, taken either in the Fall, Spring, or Summer between the two years, to graduate with 33 hours. If you are interested, you are encouraged to begin planning for it early in your undergraduate career. Consult your undergraduate advisor and the M.A. Coordinator of the Department of Economics. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/8/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.