Staff Council - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Staff Council Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Staff Council About Member Roster Constitution Bylaws History University System Staff Executive Council (USSEC) Committees Staff Council Standing Committees University-Wide Committees University System Staff Executive Council (USSEC) Staff Council Community Outreach (Ad Hoc) Committee Events Conversations with Staff Cougar First Impressions CFI Volunteer Binder Homecoming Spirit Bell Competition Sock & Blanket Drive Spring Egg Hunt Staff Affairs - Events & Initiatives Staff Council Member Elections Voters' Guide Staff Focus Staff Tailgates Staff Weeks of Welcome Take Your Child to Work Day Virtual TYCTWD Tax Preparation Day Workplace Conversations Member Resources New Member Orientation Staff Council Calendar Staff Resources Staff Council Leadership Recognition Staff Resources DEI Resources Cougar Cudos (Staff Recognition) #WhyIVote Campaign Staff Council Scholarship & Programs Staff Council Scholarship Updates Staff Council & WGRC Scholarships Staff Council B. Renae Milton Students of Staff Scholarship Staff Council Rebecca Szwarc Professional Development Reimbursement Give to Staff Council Make a difference... Give to Staff Council UH COVID-19 Updates Events Calendar Submit a Question UH Home Staff Council The University of Houston Staff Council is an advisory body to the President of the University and the University administration. Staff Council consists of elected staff members from each division who represent the entire staff body. News Staff Council General Meeting is Open to All Staff Join Staff Council during its monthly General Meeting on June 2, 2022, from 1:00 pm to 3:00 pm via MS Teams. Featuring University of Houston’s Human Resources, Dr. Emily Messa, Senior Associate VC/VP Administration. To submit a question use this Staff Council Special Guest Question Form. Staff Council announces its inaugural Staff Council Awards! The Staff Council Awards recognize employee excellence at the University of Houston. Nominees must encompass qualities in alignment with Staff Council values: Service, Training, Advocacy, Networking, Diversity, and Sustainability (STANDS). The Staff Council Awards nomination period is from Monday, May 2, 2022, to Friday, June 3, 2022, at 5:00 pm. Ready to get involved on campus? Staff Council is now accepting nominations for the 2022 Staff Council Elections. The 2022 Staff Council Membership Elections Nomination Form is available through Office 365. UH staff will have to log in using their Office 365 credentials. Nominations will be accepted from Friday, May 20, 2022, to Friday, June 3, 2022. The 2022 Staff Council Elections will run from Wednesday, June 15, 2022, 6:00 a.m. to Friday, July 8, 2021, 5:00 p.m. For more information, please visit the Staff Council Elections page. Meet Your Staff Council Representatives! Join us at the Staff Council Meet and Greet gatherings The next Staff Council Meet and Greet will take place on Wednesday, June 8, 2022 and Friday, July 8, 2022, from 11:30 am to 1:30 pm. The June and July Meet and Greet gatherings will take place at the Moody Towers Dining Commons. All staff members will be responsible for covering their own entrance to Moody Towers Dining Commons. Register for Take Your Child To Work Day! TYCTWD will take place on Friday, June 10, 2022 from 9:00 am to 12:30 pm at various locations across campus. Registration is now and will close no later than June 3, 2022 at 11:59 p.m. Scheduled programs will run from 9 am to 12:30 pm and the full schedule of events will be provided when your registration is confirmed. Event time may vary by TYCTWD host location. Staff Council needs volunteers to help during Take Your Child To Work Day (TYCTWD). UH students, staff, and faculty are welcome to volunteer. Register to participate in TYCTWD. Sign up to volunteer using the TYCTWD Volunteer Form. Congratulations! Staff Recognized with Cougar Cudos at June General Meeting Congratulations! Thank you for your contributions to the University of Houston. Rafael Arroyo Ivey Davis Angela Green Matthew Harvey Vanessa Stepney Cory Thaxton Kevin Vu Shanequea White A Book Drive for Kids, Monday, May 23 to Monday, June 6 Staff Council in partnership with Books Between Kids presents “A Book Drive for Kids” at the University of Houston. Books Between Kids is a non-profit organization serving Houston’s at-risk children by providing them with books to build their own home libraries. Donation sites will be set-up in E-Cullen, Agnes Arnold Hall, and Technology Bridge. Give new and like-new books for Pre-K through 5th grade students. Staff Affairs Professional Development Series: Developing Competencies Through Change, Tuesday, June 21 UH Human Resources’ CATALYST Learning Programs in partnership with Staff Council present a special professional development webinar. Staff will learn competencies dealing with strategic collaboration, social and emotional awareness, career progression, and future planning through the lens of change. “Developing Competencies Through Change” is the first event in the new Staff Affairs Professional Development series by Staff Council. Make a gift to Staff Council today! Support Student Success and Staff Professional Development. Staff Council is excited to introduce a Text-to-Give option to make it easier to give monetary donations to Staff Council initiatives. You can make a gift in any dollar amount by texting UHStaffCouncil to 71777. You can make a one-time or recurring gift and you can encourage others to give by sharing on your social media. Help us celebrate the University’s 95th birthday by making a gift to one of our four Staff Council funds today! Powerful Impact 8University Divisions 44 Staff Council Representatives 3,548Full-time staff members $15,5002022 Staff Scholarships awarded Upcoming Events Staff Council Calendar Jun 01 11:00 am Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) Committee Meeting Staff Council’s Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Committee’s mission are to recommend and promote diverse, equitable, and inclusive initiatives in alignment with UH’s values to enrich the University’s culture and enhance the staff’s experience. Jun 02 1:00 pm Staff Council General Meeting The UH Staff Council meets on the first Thursday of the month from 1:00 PM to 3:00 PM. These General Meetings are open to all UH staff. Jun 08 11:30 am Staff Council Meet & Greet The Staff Council Meet and Greet offers UH staff members an opportunity to meet Staff Council members over lunch at Moody Towers Dining Commons. Jun 09 2:30 pm Awards & Advancement Committee Meeting The Awards and Advancement Committee is responsible for matters relating to scholarships, recognition and awards, and advancement initiatives including donor relations and fundraising. Jun 10 8:30 am Take Your Child To Work Day TYCTWD will take place on Friday, June 10, 2022 from 9:00 am to 12:30 pm* at various locations across campus. All children must be accompanied by a UH employed parent for the entire day. Children must be between the ages of 5 and 15. Jun 21 12:00 pm Staff Affairs Professional Development Series: Developing Competencies Through Change UH Human Resources’ CATALYST Learning Programs in partnership with Staff Council present a special professional development webinar. Staff will learn competencies dealing with strategic collaboration, social and emotional awareness, career progression, and future planning through the lens of change. Staff Resources Visit the Staff Resources & Opportunities page to discover more. Catalyst Training Interested in further developing your career? Catalyst will equip you with tools that will result in peak performance and career enrichment. Volunteer's Needed Staff Council needs volunteers to help with our events. Staff, faculty and student volunteers are all welcome to sign up. Cougar Cudos We are excited to announce the return of Cougar Cudos! Cougar Cudos is a program that allows staff to recognize other staff members for exceptional service to the University of Houston. Nominate a coworker today. PowerUP Wellness Get connected with resources and tools for health-related events and activities for employee wellness by checking out PowerUp Wellness. Public Art: Off Site Public Art's new Off Site hub brings together a variety of content that can be enjoyed wherever you are, from artist-focused conversations to interactive experiences or art-making tutorials, video series, and deep dives into our archives and publications. HR Online Resource Guide This online guide will provide information and links to online resources for the UH community. You can also view the HR team on the About HR page. Employee Assistance Program Visit the UH Employee Assistance Program (EAP) page to find self-help tools and learn more about the resources available to you. UIT Software Downloads The UIT Software Download page provides a variety of software at no charge to students, faculty and staff. Your CougarNet username and password must be entered to download software. E Cullen Building, Room 25 Houston, TX 77204-2018 713-743-1578 staffcouncil@uh.edu Staff Council Calendar Academic Calendar Campus Maps Get Help Libraries Parking Human Resources Jobs at UH A-Z Offices Directories Emergency President Policies Fraud Reporting Title IX - Sexual Conduct ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies