Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Master of Science (MS) in Civil Engineering Join a Top 40 Civil Engineering Program Nationally Request Info Program at a Glance Program Master College(s) College of Engineering and Computer Science Department(s) Civil, Environ, & Constr Engr 2 Years In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $369.65 per credit hour $1,194.05 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Create Safe and Sustainable Solutions That Make a Positive Mark on Communities The MS in Civil Engineering degree program at UCF reflects the very broad nature of the field, which encompasses the design, construction and enhancement of the infrastructure of society. It’s an opportunity to advance your knowledge and specialize in one of four subdisciplines, including structural and geotechnical engineering, transportation systems engineering, water resources engineering and smart cities. Plus, civil engineering tracks are available fully online, offering the flexibility and convenience for you to balance work, school and life. As a transportation gateway for global commerce, Central Florida’s become a hub with various connectivity options. You’ll have the opportunity to help develop transportation science and technology innovations that will create safe and sustainable solutions for generations to come. Throughout the program, you’ll also participate in two project design courses which allow you to duplicate real-world engineering problems and work through them with a small design team. Civil engineering graduates often find positions in consulting firms, construction and construction-related industries, government agencies and academic institutions. Additionally, this program prepares you for professional licensure and certification opportunities to help further your career. Smart Cities Track FUTURe CITy initiative at UCF brings together a group of researchers and educators with a vision to synergistically explore the wide-ranging technological advances towards better serving urban residents. The initiative is a pioneering effort in the state and country. It is geared toward many aspects of CECE including: Smart transportation, Smart and resilient infrastructure, Smart and technological advancements in environmental engineering, and water resources. Structural and Geotechnical Engineering Track The Structural and Geotechnical Engineering track in the Civil Engineering MS program reflects the very broad nature of the field, which encompasses the design, construction, and enhancement of the structural and geotechnical infrastructure of society. Transportation Systems Engineering Track The Transportation Systems Engineering track in the Civil Engineering MS program reflects the very broad nature of the field, which encompasses the design, construction, and enhancement of the transportation infrastructure of society. The program’s course work focuses on transportation planning and operations, traffic engineering and construction engineering. Water Resources Engineering Track The Water Resources Engineering track in the Civil Engineering MS program reflects the very broad nature of the field, which encompasses the design, construction, and enhancement of the sustainable infrastructure for society. The program’s course work focuses on water resources modeling, hydraulics and hydrology. Request Information Highlights UCF’s smart cities master’s degree track in civil engineering is the nation’s first such degree offered in the engineering field. UCF’s civil engineering program ranks in the top 40 nationwide according to ShanghaiRanking’s Global Ranking of Academic Subjects 2020. Nationwide, the projected job growth for civil engineers is expected to increase by more than 6% in the coming years. Civil engineer graduates earn an annual average salary of $92K. Application Deadlines Fall July 1 Spring December 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Course Overview Smart City Built Infrastructure Get an introduction to concepts, methods and technologies related to design, assessment, analysis, monitoring and non-destructive evaluation methods with specific applications for smart city built infrastructure. Matrix Methods for Structural Analysis Implement the matrix methods for structural analysis that are commonly and currently used in practice and in research, special topics such as finite element formulations, special analysis procedures and use of software packages. Traffic Engineering Study operator and vehicle characteristics, and design for street capacity, signals, signs, and markings. Hydraulic Engineering Gain an understanding of the concepts of fluid mechanics and hydrodynamics applied to natural and man-made flow of intent to civil and environmental engineering. Civil Engineering Skills You'll Learn Apply engineering design to produce solutions that meet specified needs with consideration of public health, safety and welfare, as well as global, cultural, social, environmental and economic factors. Identify, formulate and solve complex engineering problems by applying principles of engineering, science and mathematics. Develop and conduct appropriate experimentation, analyze and interpret data, and use engineering judgment to draw conclusions. Communicate effectively with a range of audiences and function effectively on a team whose members together provide leadership, create a collaborative and inclusive environment, establish goals, plan tasks and meet objectives. Career Opportunities Water/Wastewater Engineer Environmental Engineer Transportation Engineer Civil Engineer Engineering Manager Construction Manager Site Engineer Structural Engineer Geotechnical Engineer Admission Requirements The MS in Civil Engineering degree at UCF offers four tracks. Each track may have different requirements, including what’s needed to submit an application and articulation courses. The number of prerequisites depend on whether or not your background is within the discipline of civil engineering. Please note that all requested materials must be submitted by the application deadline. Request Information Check the specific track for required application materials. They may include: Resume Official transcripts Statement of educational, research and professional career objectives Letters of recommendation Request Information Civil Engineering News Check out more stories Science & Technology New Tool from UCF-led Team Shows Homeowners and Renters the True Cost of Disasters The tool can provide disaster readiness reports for 13.3 million addresses in 196 counties along the Gulf of Mexico — including all of Florida, and… Science & Technology Researchers Develop Method to Determine Where Storm Surges Are Increasing Most The study analyzed tide gauge observations along coastlines in Europe, and the researchers have plans to further develop the method for use in the U.S.… Research 4 UCF Researchers Named as Highly Cited Researchers for 2021 The annual list identifies researchers who demonstrated significant influence in their chosen field. Science & Technology UCF Researcher is Part of New $20 Million NSF Megalopolitan Coastal Project The project aims to create climate-resilient decision-making frameworks to equitably support coastal communities. Degree Search College of Engineering and Computer Science programs Masters Civil Engineering (MS) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management Request Information × Enter your information below to receive more information about the Civil Engineering (MS) program offered at UCF. Loading... University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida