Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Office of University Communications Office of University Communications Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links BC Forward Menu Main Nav BC Forward COVID Testing Back Back Close Updates Overview Mar 30: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau Feb 21: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau February 10: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau Jan 28: Letter From The Commonwealth of Massachusetts Jan 26: Letter From VP Shawna Cooper-Gibson and Dr. Douglas Comeau Jan 5: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau Dec 22: Letter From Larry Pickener Dec 14: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau Nov 12: Student Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau October 29: Student Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau September 23: Student Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau September 23: Faculty & Staff Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau September 10: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau August 25: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau & VP David Trainor August 11: Letter from Provost David Quigley & EVP Michael Lochhead July 29: Letter from EVP Michael Lochhead July 26: Letter to International Students from the Office of International Students & Scholars July 23: Letter to Students from the Office of Residential Life July 1: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau June 4: Letter From the Office of International Programs May 28: Letter From VP David Trainor May 21: Letter from Dr. Douglas Comeau May 13: Letter From VP David Trainor May 10: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau Apr 23: Letter From University President William P. Leahy S.J. Faculty & Staff Students & Parents Visitors COVID Testing Results COVID Testing Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Apr 23: Letter From University President William P. Leahy S.J. Home Updates Apr 23: Letter From University President William P. Leahy S.J. Updates Mar 30: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau Feb 21: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau February 10: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau Jan 28: Letter From The Commonwealth of Massachusetts Jan 26: Letter From VP Shawna Cooper-Gibson and Dr. Douglas Comeau Jan 5: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau Dec 22: Letter From Larry Pickener Dec 14: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau Nov 12: Student Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau October 29: Student Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau September 23: Student Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau September 23: Faculty & Staff Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau September 10: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau August 25: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau & VP David Trainor August 11: Letter from Provost David Quigley & EVP Michael Lochhead July 29: Letter from EVP Michael Lochhead July 26: Letter to International Students from the Office of International Students & Scholars July 23: Letter to Students from the Office of Residential Life July 1: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau June 4: Letter From the Office of International Programs May 28: Letter From VP David Trainor May 21: Letter from Dr. Douglas Comeau May 13: Letter From VP David Trainor May 10: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau Apr 23: Letter From University President William P. Leahy S.J. April 23, 2021 Dear Members of the Boston College Community: I want to provide important information about COVID-19 vaccination at Boston College. First, promoting the health and safety of our campus community and surrounding neighborhood is essential and a priority for everyone. In light of that goal, the University will require all students, faculty, and staff to be fully vaccinated (with FDA-approved vaccines) against COVID-19 before participating in any on-campus activity related to the 2021-2022 academic year. Exceptions will be granted for legitimate religious and medical reasons. Boston College staff will assist international students and faculty who may have difficulty in meeting this vaccination requirement. Second, the University learned two days ago that 4,500 doses of the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine will be available from the federal government for distribution on campus next week. Opportunity for vaccination will be offered first to all currently enrolled undergraduates, given that almost all live on or adjacent to campus. Additional vaccines for campus distribution may become available for graduate and professional students, staff, and faculty in the near future. The vaccine will be administered in Conte Forum on April 26 from 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m., and on April 27 and 28 from 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. The corresponding second dose will be provided on May 17, 18, and 19 for those still on campus or who live within driving distance. Students who will already be at home can obtain their second Pfizer dose at a Walgreens or CVS Pharmacy, or through their state and local vaccination sites. This weekend all enrolled BC undergraduates will be sent a link via email to a reservation system to book their appointments, which will be on a first-come, first-served basis. They will also receive a consent form, which will include a request for individual or parental medical insurance information. This document must be printed, completed, and presented at Conte Forum. I urge that undergraduates reserve their times as soon as possible to assist the vaccination process. Any unfilled appointment times will be offered to other members of the Boston College community via email. The months since COVID-19 surfaced more than a year ago have been challenging, but our campus community has responded with generosity, commitment, and grace. I ask that we continue to help and care for one another as the spring semester comes to an end and planning for another academic year moves forward. Sincerely, William P. Leahy, S.J. President Back To Top Back To Top 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College