Menu Home Research Cellular Transformation Tumorigenesis Translational Research Education Undergraduate Postdoctoral Research Graduate Medical Training Faculty Resources Events AFCRI-PCR Postdoctoral Symposium Distinguished Lectures in Cancer Research Giving Close mobile menu Close Menu Abramson Family Cancer Research Institute Home Research Cellular Transformation Tumorigenesis Translational Research Education Undergraduate Postdoctoral Research Graduate Medical Training Faculty Resources Events AFCRI-PCR Postdoctoral Symposium Distinguished Lectures in Cancer Research Giving Locust Walk ImaTumor cells imaged with unique lineage tracing (termed “Confetti”) by Ravi Maddipati (Stanger Lab) Use arrow keys to view slides Move to previous gallery slide Move to next gallery slide Welcome At the Abramson Family Cancer Research Institute (AFCRI), our primary goal is to transform scientific breakthroughs into innovative cancer treatments. Our researchers and physicians work in comprehensive teams dedicated to ultimately curing multiple types of cancer. Scientists, medical oncologists, pathologists, and surgeons work together to turn discoveries into personalized therapies that will benefit cancer patients throughout the world. Our focus is aimed toward the following primary research areas: Cellular Transformation Tumorigenesis Translational Research Leading Cancer Research Researchers at the AFCRI are making rapid progress in gaining a better understanding of cancer cell metabolism, tumor microenvironment, cancer genetics/genomics, immunotherapy, responses to DNA-damaging treatments, and other scientific areas to improve treatment outcomes for those afflicted with this disease. In fact, the first personalized cellular therapy in treating cancer to be approved by the FDA, CAR T-cell therapy, was developed largely by AFCRI Investigator Dr. Carl June in collaboration with Novartis and The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia (CHOP). Read more here. Additionally, AFCRI Investigator Dr. Lewis Chodosh as received one of the nation's highest honors in biomedicine, being elected into the National Academy of Medicine. Dr. Chodosh was recognized for his contributions to the fight against breast cancer. Press release here. Commitment to Educational Programs The faculty of the Abramson Family Cancer Research Institute maintain important leadership roles in undergraduate, graduate, medical, and postdoctoral educational programs at the University of Pennsylvania. In addition, the Abramson Family Cancer Research Institute directs a number of related programs, including a formal seminar series organized in partnership with the The Wistar Institute, the Division of Hematology and Oncology, and the Vet Cancer Center. Educational Opportunities Choose the Abramson Family Cancer Research Institute to learn from leaders in cancer research. AFCRI Faculty continue to make fundamental contributions to the educational mission at the undergraduate, graduate, medical student, and postdoctoral levels. AFCRI Events More Events Contact Us Abramson Family Cancer Research Institute 421 Curie Boulevard 450 BRB II/III Philadelphia, PA 19104 215-746-5515 © The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania | Site best viewed in a supported browser. | Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help | Privacy Policy | Site Design: DART Web Team.