Skip to main content Search form Search < Back to Columbia Public Health Search Menu Information For Alumni Search You are here Home Alumni Stay Connected Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. Stay Connected Alumni Board News & Events Alumni Giving Benefits and Services Contact Us Alumni Directory Committees Pharmacy Alumni Volunteer Opportunities Address Update Alumni Directory Committees Pharmacy Alumni Volunteer Opportunities Address Update Stay Connected The Alumni Association, comprised of all graduates of the Mailman School of Public Health and the former College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, fosters participation in educational activities, student and peer mentoring, affinity and regional groups, and career networks to promote the collective knowledge sharing and effective leadership in the public health field. Browse the Alumni Association’s bylaws (PDF) to learn more. For more details about how you can get involved, please e-mail the Office of Development and Alumni Relations at msphalum [at] columbia.edu. Join the Alumni Community! We have recently launched a mentor and networking platform. Join the 550+ Alumni and Student participants on Columbia Mailman Connect - an exclusive place to meet fellow alumni, volunteer as a mentor, and learn about upcoming events and opportunities. Create your profile by clicking here. Social Networking Join Mailman School alumni, students, and faculty on LinkedIn, Facebook, Youtube, or Twitter. Address Update Update your contact information using this the Address Update form. More to Explore Friday 03June COVID-19: From Causes to ConsequencesMay 27 2022 Family Size May Influence Cognitive Functioning in Later LifeMay 12 2022 Public Health Leaders Urge SCOTUS to Uphold Roe v. WadeMay 4 2022 Asia and Africa Have Similar Aging Burden as the WestMay 4 2022 Sign up for Transmission Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers