Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Protect the Pack COVID-19 Readiness Personal Precautions Community Standards COVID-19 Health Services Updates COVID-19 Readiness Personal Precautions sub navigation menuPersonal Precautions COVID-19 Health Services Updates Full Site Navigation Personal Precautions Community Standards Community Standards Being part of the Pack means taking steps to keep ourselves safe, look out for one another and keep our community strong. NC State Community Standards Doing Our Part to Protect The Pack Pack responsibility means personal responsibility. Being part of the Pack means taking steps to keep ourselves safe, look out for one another and keep our community strong. The obligation falls on each of us to take personal responsibility for our actions and do our part to help keep the NC State community safe from the spread of COVID-19. Please continue to make well-informed decisions about protecting your own personal safety and the health and safety of others. The university encourages you to practice the following: Wear face coverings. All university community members are encouraged to continue wearing face coverings indoors, especially in instructional settings. Face coverings are also encouraged on public transportation, including Wolfline buses, but not required. When sick, stay home from work or class. All NC State students, faculty and staff are expected to self-assess and monitor their health daily, before coming to work or class, for the COVID-19 symptoms identified by the CDC. If you have symptoms, do not attend work or class, and contact your medical provider. Notify your instructor and/or supervisor if you need to miss class or work. Practice good hand hygiene. Wash hands frequently for 20 seconds at a time. If soap and water are not readily available, use alcohol-based sanitizer containing at least 60% alcohol. Follow all directions given by university officials and public health authorities. This includes directions related to testing, masking requirements per federal guidance (where applicable), and adherence to isolation and quarantine requirements if you have been diagnosed with COVID-19, have possible COVID-19 symptoms, or deemed a close contact of someone diagnosed with COVID-19. Comply with all local and state laws and ordinances. This includes state and local directives as implemented and any other directives in place to reduce the transmission of COVID-19. Although the university has instituted many reasonable practices in an attempt to reduce the risk of spread of COVID-19, NC State cannot guarantee a COVID-19-free environment. It is possible to contract COVID-19 even when following safety precautions recommended by government authorities, agencies, and university policies and practices, and the pandemic could cause further interruption to academic and campus activities and operations. However, working together, we can strive to keep ourselves and our community healthy, slow the spread and each do our part to protect the Pack. Steps NC State Is Taking To Reduce the Spread of COVID-19 The safety of the NC State community is the university’s top priority. As part of its efforts, NC State has taken many actions for the purpose of reducing the risk of transmission of COVID-19 on campus and in the NC State community. These practices were developed based on the prevailing data, review, and recommendations from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the UNC System and other local authorities. These practices include: NC State requires face coverings and/or personal protective equipment as required by state or federal law or regulation. Face coverings are required in clinical and health care settings, and identified research laboratories. The university has face coverings available upon request for students and employees, and provides hand sanitizer for common areas of campus. Departments can request additional supplies. The university has provided and posted appropriate signage in campus buildings. The university has enhanced protocols for cleaning and sanitizing common spaces. NC State is providing guidance for employees for effectively cleaning their workplace surfaces. NC State is strongly encouraging personal hygiene, including frequent hand-washing with soap and water for at least 20 seconds or the use of alcohol-based hand sanitizer. The university has established guidelines for employees and students who are feeling ill or displaying symptoms that could indicate COVID-19. Students and employees are expected to monitor their health for symptoms daily. Students who have symptoms should immediately contact Student Health Services. Faculty and staff who have symptoms should contact their health care provider. Students, faculty and staff who have possible COVID-19 symptoms should stay home from work or class. Through Student Health Services, the university is conducting free COVID-19 testing for all students, faculty and staff, no appointment required. NC State offers COVID-19 vaccines to all University faculty, staff and students. The university is highly encouraging all students, faculty, and staff to receive a COVID-19 vaccination and boosters to help aid in a safer campus for everyone and speed the university’s return to normal operations. Protect the Pack Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Academic Calendar Accessibility Apply Contact Copyright COVID-19 Updates Directory Emergency Information Free Speech Jobs Libraries MyPack Portal Policies Privacy Social Media Strategic Plan Campus Map facebook you tube twitter instagram linked in © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.