Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Financial Aid Home Getting started Eligibility How need is determined Expected family contribution Net price calculator Student budgets Husky Promise Applying for aid Key dates and deadlines Application process Award process Maintain eligibility Summer quarter Types of aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Childcare Assistance Program Veterans Benefits Emergency aid Emergency Food Assistance Other assistance Receiving aid Disbursement Appeals and special circumstances Request changes to your award Satisfactory academic progress Forms & resources Forms Consumer Information Glossary of Terms for Award Notifications Loan repayment Tax benefits Withdrawal and refund Financial aid code of conduct Money management Emergency Relief Fund Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund III Washington Emergency Relief Grant Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund II CARES Act FAQs Processing and Response Timelines Contact us My Financial Aid How need is determined Menu Financial Aid Home Getting started Eligibility How need is determined Expected family contribution Net price calculator Student budgets Husky Promise Applying for aid Key dates and deadlines Application process Award process Maintain eligibility Summer quarter Types of aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Childcare Assistance Program Veterans Benefits Emergency aid Emergency Food Assistance Other assistance Receiving aid Disbursement Appeals and special circumstances Request changes to your award Satisfactory academic progress Forms & resources Forms Consumer Information Glossary of Terms for Award Notifications Loan repayment Tax benefits Withdrawal and refund Financial aid code of conduct Money management Emergency Relief Fund Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund III Washington Emergency Relief Grant Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund II CARES Act FAQs Processing and Response Timelines Contact us My Financial Aid Home Student Financial Aid Getting started How need is determined Getting started Home Getting started Eligibility Fee-based programs Non-matriculated students International students How need is determined Expected family contribution Net price calculator Student budgets Prior year budgets Husky Promise For most types of financial aid we need to determine your financial need for the aid. There is no “income cutoff” or other simple method of determining whether you will qualify for need-based financial aid. If you think you need help paying for college, we strongly encourage you to apply. In general terms, “financial need” is defined as the difference between what it costs you to attend school and what you and your family can afford to pay. Cost (Student’s Budget) – Student’s Resources Financial Need/Maximum Eligibility Your student resources are the amount you and your family are expected to have available for school and is calculated based on the information on your FAFSA. A standard government formula is used to determine the family’s contribution. It takes into account the family size, number in college, total income from the previous calendar year, and assets. Our office will review and may recalculate your expected family contribution. Recalculation may include available income or assets not considered by the initial federal calculation, but that represent a more realistic amount that your family can pay for your education. In addition, other resources you have such as private scholarships, other UW departmental scholarships, educational benefits, long-term loans, resident assistant benefits, and all other sources of assistance must be considered in determining your total resources. Please report to our office any other resources you have as soon as you know about them. Home Getting started Eligibility Fee-based programs Non-matriculated students International students How need is determined Expected family contribution Net price calculator Student budgets Prior year budgets Husky Promise Resources Applying for Financial Aid Parent Plus Loan New Borrowers of Federal Student Loans Contact us Send us a message Visit Contact us for office location, directions and mailing address. Federal School Code Our Title IV federal school code is 003798. This code is used for Seattle, Bothell and Tacoma campuses. About us Our mission is to provide educational access and opportunity for all students. We promote participation in higher education by providing programs of assistance to help bridge the gap between the cost of attending the University and the family’s own resources. We believe students from all economic backgrounds should have the opportunity to attend the University of Washington. Finances should not be a barrier to getting a world-class education. University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA