Skip to main content Operating Status Face coverings are optional in offices, conference rooms, research labs, housing, and public spaces in buildings. Face coverings are still required in all teaching spaces, teaching labs, computer labs, buses, libraries, clinical facilities, and student-staff and student-faculty meetings spaces. More COVID-19 information Close Search Enter a Search Term Search Rutgers Search Search this site Search all Rutgers Search People Rutgers Logo New Brunswick Newark Camden RBHS/Health Info For: Prospective Students and Parents Current Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Donors Partners Job Seekers News Rutgers Today Rutgers Magazine Events Giving Gcse block (invisible) Open Search Rutgers Logo About Rutgers About the University President Jonathan Holloway Serving New Jersey and the World An Economic Engine A Partner in Research and Innovation United Against COVID-19 Rutgers Excellence Rutgers, By the Numbers Rutgers Rankings Budget Facts Our Structure Governance and Leadership Office of the President Administrative Council Our Revolutionary Roots Rutgers Traditional Songs The Rutgers Experience Discover Rutgers Rutgers–New Brunswick Rutgers–Newark Rutgers–Camden Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences (RBHS) Show Your Rutgers Pride Rutgers Athletics Uniquely New Jersey Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Academics Explore Undergraduate Programs Graduate and Professional Studies Explore Graduate & Professional Programs Top Graduate Programs Schools and Colleges Continuing Education Online Degree Programs Catalogs Libraries Faculty Excellence Global Learning Rutgers at Your Community College Student Support Research Research at Rutgers A Partner in Research and Innovation Health & Patient Care Advancing Treatment and Wellness Admissions & Tuition About Applying Path to Rutgers Tuition and Financial Aid Visits and Tours Getting Here Open Search Open Search Open Menu Close About Rutgers About the University President Jonathan Holloway Serving New Jersey and the World An Economic Engine A Partner in Research and Innovation United Against COVID-19 Rutgers Excellence Rutgers, By the Numbers Rutgers Rankings Budget Facts Our Structure Governance and Leadership Office of the President Administrative Council Our Revolutionary Roots Rutgers Traditional Songs The Rutgers Experience Discover Rutgers Rutgers–New Brunswick Rutgers–Newark Rutgers–Camden Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences (RBHS) Show Your Rutgers Pride Rutgers Athletics Uniquely New Jersey Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Academics Explore Undergraduate Programs Graduate and Professional Studies Explore Graduate & Professional Programs Top Graduate Programs Schools and Colleges Continuing Education Online Degree Programs Catalogs Libraries Faculty Excellence Global Learning Rutgers at Your Community College Student Support Research Research at Rutgers A Partner in Research and Innovation Health & Patient Care Admissions & Tuition About Applying Path to Rutgers Tuition and Financial Aid Visits and Tours Getting Here Utility Mobile Info For: Prospective Students and Parents Current Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Donors Partners Job Seekers News Rutgers Today Rutgers Magazine Events Giving New Brunswick Newark Camden RBHS/Health About Rutgers Our Revolutionary Roots Rutgers Traditional Songs Rutgers Traditional Songs Rutgers has a long and abundant tradition of school songs that dates back to 1873. Hearing songs like “On the Banks of the Old Raritan” gives students, alumni, and fans a sense of pride, nostalgia, and reverence for “Dear Old Rutgers.” On the Banks of the Old Raritan (Alma Mater) In 1873, the Rutgers Glee Club commissioned Howard Fuller to write a formal alma mater that would inspire students and alumni. Fuller modified the song 30 years later. The Glee Club added verses in following decades as the university expanded and revised the piece in 2013 to reflect the composition of the modern student body. Whichever version you choose to sing, the song still stirs the hearts of loyal sons and daughters more than 140 years later. View Transcript On the Banks of the Old Raritan Lyrics From far and near we came to Rutgers, And resolved to learn all that we can; And so we settled down, In that noisy college town, On the banks of the old Raritan. Refrain: On the banks of the old Raritan (my friends) Where old Rutgers evermore shall stand, For has she not stood Since the time of the flood, On the banks of the old Raritan. Then sing aloud to Alma Mater And keep the scarlet in the van' For with her motto high Rutgers' name shall never die On the banks of the old Raritan. (Refrain) 1914 single-gender text My father sent me to old Rutgers, And resolv'd that I should be a man; And so I settled down, In that noisy college town, On the banks of the old Raritan. Close Transcript The Bells Must Ring (Rutgers' Fight Song) Go to a Rutgers football game and you will hear students chanting phrases like “RU Rah, Rah!” from the university’s fight song “The Bells Must Ring.” The song was inspired by the famed bell that hangs in the cupola of Old Queens and was originally rung to signal the change of classes. Now the bell rings for convocation and other great occasions in university life such as a winning football season! View Transcript The Bells Must Ring Lyrics March, men of Rutgers Down the field today. March to another score, Forward to the fray; Fight, men of Rutgers As in days gone by Fight! For the Scarlet Flag over the rest must fly. Keep Rutgers colors to the fore For they must win so fight, fight, fight! And we'll advance some more to score, The Rutgers flag flies high tonight, alright, alright We'll fling the Scarlet Banner out, And Rutgers men will fight, fight, fight, fight, fight; The bells of Queens each victory shout The bells of Queens must ring tonight. RU, Rah, Rah; RU, Rah, Rah, Whoo-Rah, Whoo-Rah; Rutgers Rah Up Stream Red Team Red Team Up Stream Rah, Rah, Rutgers Rah Keep Rutgers colors to the fore For they must win so fight, fight, fight! And we'll advance some more to score, The Rutgers flag flies high tonight, alright, alright We'll fling the Scarlet Banner out, And Rutgers men will fight, fight, fight, fight, fight; The bells of Queens each victory shout The bells of Queens must ring tonight. Close Transcript A Hymn to Queens Queen’s College, the forerunner of Rutgers University, was chartered on November 10, 1766, by William Franklin, Royal Governor of New Jersey. “A Hymn to Queens” explores Rutgers roots back to its origins as a Dutch Reformed college for the training of church ministers. View Transcript A Hymn to Queens Lyrics The evening shadows soft are falling, The twilight glows from out the West, The charm of darkness gently calling, Sweeps all the world to peace and rest. Tis then the sons of Rutgers meeting, Brush mould'ring dust from mem'ry's screens, And deep in faith renew our greeting, For love we bear to Queens. And deep in faith renew our greeting, For love we bear to Queens. Our college years are swiftly ending, And we must leave the place we love, Yet faith and loyalty e'er blending, Feelings of deepest passions move. We pledge our faith to Alma Mater, Our love to all the fond old scenes, And e'er through life we stand together, For love we bear to Queens. And e'er through life we stand together, For love we bear to Queens. Close Transcript In a Quaint Old Jersey Town A tongue-in-cheek rendition of the typical four-year experience of a Rutgers undergraduate in the 19th century. Although Latin and Greek are no longer core requirements for today’s students, they can still relate to this song, which describes college life within these ivy-covered walls of stone. View Transcript In a Quaint Old Jersey Town Lyrics In a quaint old Jersey town, That I've learned to call my own, Stands a college that has long been known to fame; Where the hardy ivy clings to the walls of ancient stone, Ever changing yet eternally the same. Refrain: Alma Mater, Alma Mater, Plucky college by the gentle Raritan You're the apple of my eye, Brightest star in all the sky, Rutgers College by the gentle Raritan. When the Freshmen young and green, With his self important mien, Comes to add more knowledge to his little store; But in just about a week he is feeling very meek, For he's interviewed the warlike Sophomore. (Refrain) When the Junior year comes round, There are some who can't be found, Who enlisted with the Freshmen at the start; For they thought it wrong to toil, and their logic was not sound, So the faculty and they were forced to part. (Refrain) But when in the Senior year, Oh how wise they do appear, Who have clung to plucky Rutgers all the way; Who in Latin and in Greek, and in football have no fear, For in both they've scored their points on many a day. Close Transcript Nobody Ever Died for Dear Old Rutgers The song “Nobody Ever Died for Dear Old Rutgers” from the 1947 musical High Button Shoes, set in New Brunswick, New Jersey, refers to Rutgers legend Frank “Pop” Grant, who broke his leg in an 1892 football game against Princeton, and was rumored to say, “I'd die for dear old Rutgers” as he was carried off the field. View Transcript Nobody Ever Died for Dear Old Rutgers Lyrics From the 1947 musical High Button Shoes Nobody ever died for dear old Rutgers, Nobody ever had a life to give When you're clipped by someone in the rear You hear a mighty cheer, But you're laid up for a year. So nobody ever died for dear old Rutgers Strangely enough they simply want to live The alumni won't admit it's true, but Nobody ever died for Rutgers U. Rutgers, Rutgers, Rah, Rah, Rah, Rah, Rah, Rah, Rah, Rah Nobody ever died for dear old Rutgers, Giving away your life would be extreme When the coach says smash the Princeton line, His reasoning is fine, But it's no good for your spine, So nobody ever died for dear old Rutgers But there's a lot of valor on the team You can get a little black and blue, but Nobody ever died for Rutgers U. Close Transcript The Rutgers History Lesson One of the most educational of all Rutgers songs. “The Rutgers History Lesson” explores the university’s Dutch heritage and its participation in the American Revolutionary War. The song introduces students to the grand history of the university. View Transcript The Rutgers History Lesson Lyrics In seventeen and sixty six On the banks of the old Raritan A Dutchman's college in the sticks Oh, then began. The Revolution came, With a boom, boom, boom, And a zoom, zoom, zoom, With a boom, and a zoom, and a boom. But all through the shot and shell The Dutchmen, they fought like—well The old Queens flag on high shall fly forevermore. In eighteen hundred sixty nine From a place with a mild bid to fame Came twenty five Tigers in their prime To play a game. And football then was born, With a punt, punt, punt, And a grunt, grunt, grunt, With a punt, and a grunt, and a punt. But although the Princeton yell Resounded as loud as—well The old Queens flag on high shall fly forevermore. Close Transcript Site Footer Rutgers University New Brunswick Newark Camden RBHS/Health Connect Campus Safety Contact Us Continuing Education Giving to Rutgers Graduate Admissions Undergraduate Admissions University Maps Universitywide Offices Work at Rutgers Find a Health Care Provider Rutgers Magazine University Events Academic Academic Calendars Course Catalogs University Libraries myRutgers Portal Notices April 27, 2022: Open Hearing on the University’s Tuition, Fees, and Housing and Dining Charges for 2022–2023 Commencement Information University Operating Status Accessibility Resources Budget Facts Consumer Information Disclosures Follow Us Subscribe to Rutgers News Rutgers is an equal access/equal opportunity institution. Individuals with disabilities are encouraged to direct suggestions, comments, or complaints concerning any accessibility issues with Rutgers websites to accessibility@rutgers.edu or complete the Report Accessibility Barrier / Provide Feedback form. Copyright ©2022, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey. All rights reserved. Contact webmaster