Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search within this section Search all sites School of Medicine Wichita About Services & Resources Databases Catalog Publication Support About Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors George J. Farha Medical Library-Wichita Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for George J. Farha Medical Library-Wichita Services & Resources Databases Databases Visit our frequently accessed databases. All links open in new tabs and go directly to database websites. AccessMedicine Cochrane Library PubMed ClinicalKey UpToDate Additional List Catalog Publication Support About About The George J. Farha Medical Library is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week to the KU School of Medicine-Wichita community. Security cards are required outside of regular hours. Staff Earl L. Mills Trust Directions Welcome to George J. Farha Medical Library PubMed Current Students Clinical Key Find Advanced Quick Links Popular Databases PubMed AccessMedicine ClinicalKey Cochrane Library Google Scholar UpToDate Web Science All Databases Popular Resources E-Journal Finder FreeMedicalJournals Renew Online Mobile Apps Dykes Library Events Calendar Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Hours and Contact Info The library is accessible 24-7 with a security badge. Staff availability varies 8 a.m. - 5 p.m. Monday - Friday 316-293-2629 medref@kumc.edu Leave us Feedback Meet with a Dykes Librarian Virtually All students, faculty and staff can meet virtually with a research librarian at KU Medical Center for assistance with research, EndNote, copyright questions, publishing and more. Follow this link and click on "Schedule an Appointment," or call 913-945-5990. KU School of Medicine-Wichita University of Kansas Medical Center George J. Farha Medical Library-Wichita 1010 North Kansas Wichita, KS 67214-3199 316-293-2635 Facebook Wichita Twitter Wichita Youtube Wichita LinkedIn Wichita Instagram Wichita KU School of Medicine-Wichita Make a Gift 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.