About Directors Research Associates Research Staff Alumni Current Post-docs Participate Research PAMLab Publications Complete List of Publications Current Research Research Tools MouselabWEB Virtual Lab Columbia Card Task DEEP DOSPERT Scale Events Speaker Series CDS Calendar News Resources Wiki Center for Decision Sciences About Directors Research Associates Research Staff Alumni Current Post-docs Participate Research PAMLab Publications Complete List of Publications Current Research Research Tools MouselabWEB Virtual Lab Columbia Card Task DEEP DOSPERT Scale Events Speaker Series CDS Calendar News Resources Wiki h-decision-sciences.jpg Understanding Human Decision Making The center facilitates research and understanding on consumer behavior, the implications of decision making on public policy, and the neurological underpinnings of judgment and decision making. Columbia Business School four-block Join the Mailing List Keep up with the latest decision science news by joining our mailing list. Sign Up Now Columbia Business School 310 Uris Hall 3022 Broadway New York, NY 10027-6902 212-854-5513 [email protected] four-block DEEP DEEP is an adaptive method to elicit risk and time preference parameters. It presents individuals with series of choices which are dynamically adjusted as they answer to estimate preferences more quickly and precisely than through traditional methods. More about DEEP → News Decision Sciences News December 6, 2021 | Kansas Public Radio Conversations: Eric J. Johnson, "The Elements of Choice: Why the Way We Decide Matters" November 27, 2021 | Salon Among Social Scientists, a Vigorous Debate over Loss Aversion February 10, 2021 | Marketplace Radio What Happens When You’re Vaccinated and Your Partner Isn’t? August 13, 2020 Hating to Lose: For Consumers, Concerns of Losing Drive Purchasing Columbia Business School study finds that the majority of consumers are loss averse, but results vary by age, education level and financial experience October 30, 2019 CDS Goes to ACR! From October 17 to October 20 three members of CDS, Kellen Mrkva, Atonia Krefeld-Schwalb, and Byung Cheol Lee, traveled to Atlanta to attend the 2019 Association for Consumer Research Conference (ACR). All three organized special sessions around their research. April 16, 2019 Defaults Are Not the Same by Default Defaults are one of applied behavioral science’s biggest success stories. Despite, or perhaps because of, the widespread use and success of defaults, a few important questions have remained in the background: How have defaults been implemented? Does it matter how they are implemented? This was the aim of a recent meta-analysis of all prior default studies conductd by the Center for Decision Sciences, which we recently published in Behavioural Public Policy (authors Jon Jachimowicz, Shannon Duncan, Elke Weber and Eric Johnson). October 29, 2018 Why ultra-low fees can be a serious red flag for unwary ETF investors The number 1 rule for long-term individual investors picking funds used to be simple: look for low fees, also known as low expense ratios. Investors do get rewards from low fees; but they should also watch out for higher, hidden fees in the same funds, as well as strategies that lure investors into higher-priced products or into paying more for advice. Instead of asking about low fees alone, ask what you are paying over 10 years, including all fees. "What is the cost, all in, for 10 years?" said Eric Johnson, Director of the Center for Decision Sciences. February 8, 2018 Columbia University’s Center for Decision Sciences Gives Retailers Valuable Insights into What Drives Consumer Spending Habits CDS director Eric Johnson talks with Deal Crunch about the research that the center does on consumer decisions. January 18, 2018 The mystery of the missing airfare CDS director Eric Johnson discusses bait-and-switch airline fares. May 3, 2017 Can we design a better fuel economy label? Transportation contributes approximately 26 percent to greenhouse gas emissions. As a result, governments around the world are looking for ways to increase consumers’ use of fuel-efficient vehicles. One of the most straightforward ways to provide this information is in the form of labels. In the United States, the so-called Monroney sticker – named after an Oklahoma senator who sponsored a law to disclose more vehicle information to consumers – is the label required to be displayed in all new automobiles, which describes various fuel economy metrics. Make a Gift About Us Directories RSS Feeds Hiring Media Inquiries Contact Us Directions Follow on Twitter instagram Like on Facebook Follow on YouTube Connect on LinkedIn © Columbia University Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 212-854-1100 Privacy and Policy Statements Return to Top