Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information Upcoming 2022 Columbia Graduations May 11, 2022 Share this page Share on Facebook Tweet Share on Linkedin Share by email After two years of virtual ceremonies, graduates in the Class of 2022 will be able to attend Columbia's commencement and school ceremonies in person. Columbia Commencement Wednesday, May 18, 10:30 a.m. on the Morningside campus Speaker: Lee Bollinger, JD, president of Columbia University All April, May, and June 2022 degree candidates, as well as February 2022 and October 2021 graduates, are invited to attend the university-wide ceremony. A make-up University commencement ceremony for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 will follow on Thursday, May 19, at 9 a.m. Faculty Awards At commencement, Devon M. Rupley, MD, assistant professor of obstetrics & gynecology at VP&S, will be presented with a Presidential Award for Outstanding Teaching. The awards are given to faculty instructors who have significantly influenced the intellectual development of Columbia students. Three VP&S faculty will receive awards at Columbia Commencement in 2022. Devon Rupley (left) will receive a Presidential Teaching Award; Jeanine D'Armiento (middle) and Marisa Spann (right) will receive Faculty Service Awards. Two VP&S faculty will receive Faculty Service Awards, which recognize full-time faculty whose extraordinary and creative voluntary service has contributed significantly to the University’s diversity, equity, and inclusion efforts: Jeanine D’Armiento, MD, PhD, professor of medicine (in anesthesiology and physiology & cellular biophysics), and Marisa Spann, PhD, the Herbert Irving Associate Professor of Medical Psychology in the Department of Psychiatry. For more information about the 2022 university ceremonies, visit the Columbia Commencement site. CUIMC Graduation Ceremonies In addition to Columbia's commencement ceremony, each school will hold its own graduation ceremony. The CUIMC school ceremonies will be held in the New Balance Track & Field Center at the Armory adjacent to the CUIMC campus. Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Wednesday, May 18, 2 p.m. Speaker: Mary Bassett, MD’79, MPH, commissioner of the New York State Department of Health and former associate professor of clinical epidemiology at the Mailman School of Public Health Mailman School of Public Health Tuesday, May 17, 4 p.m. Speaker: Gina McCarthy, the first White House National Climate Advisor under President Joe Biden and former administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency under President Barack Obama School of Nursing Tuesday, May 17, 10 a.m. Speaker: Katrina Armstrong, MD, chief executive officer of CUIMC and dean of the Faculties of Health Sciences and the Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons College of Dental Medicine Thursday, May 19, 11:30 a.m. Speaker: Lisa Tedesco, PhD, dean in residence for the Council of Graduate Schools and vice provost emerita of academic affairs and dean emerita of the James T. Laney School of Graduate Studies at Emory University Individual programs—occupational therapy, physical therapy, genetic counseling, and the Institute of Human Nutrition—also have ceremonies planned. Details are available here. Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top