Skip to main content UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS URBANA-CHAMPAIGN Toggle navigation Research Dropdown menu toggle Artificial Intelligence Arts and Humanities Astrophysics Digital Agriculture Earth and Environment Engineering Health Sciences Project Highlights Expertise Dropdown menu toggle Compute Resources Data Analytics Facilities Innovative Systems Integrated Cyberinfrastructure Program Administration Software and Applications User Services Visualization People Dropdown menu toggle Leadership Directorates Staff Directory News & Events Dropdown menu toggle News Calendar Press Room Tours About Dropdown menu toggle Careers Fellowships & Internships Industry Partner Program Institutional Partnerships Diversity History Giving Contact Search Search Toggle navigation The National Center for Supercomputing Applications is a leader in advanced computing, software, data, networking, and visualization resources. » COVID-19 Update: NCSA is doing our part to protect the health and wellbeing of our employees and the community » News Announcements Meet HOLL-I: NCSA, Cerebras Systems Unveil New Artificial Intelligence Machine NCSA unveils new system, HOLL-I, equipped with Cerebras CS-2 for public and industrial artificial intelligence research and development. May 31, 2022 Profiles Exploring the Universe Through Gravitational Physics CAPS and ICASU fellow Scott Perkins explains his passion for astrophysics May 26, 2022 Honors and Awards NCSA Awards 2022 Fiddler Innovation Fellowship Gabe Tavas won the $10K fellowship award for developing a sustainable wood alternative to mitigate deforestation. May 18, 2022 Science Features A Reimagined Internet NCSA helps explore an updated network infrastructure as part of the multi-million-dollar FABRIC project. May 13, 2022 All News Calendar Research Focus We enable the bold collaborations that drive discovery across a broad range of scientific fields. Explore: Artificial Intelligence Arts and Humanities Astrophysics Digital Agriculture Earth and Environment Engineering Health Sciences Expertise From world-renowned experts to world-class support, we provide the tools you need to excel. Explore: Compute Resources Data Analytics Facilities Integrated Cyberinfrastructure Innovative Systems Program Administration Software and Applications User Services Visualization NCSA Partners With Government Groups and Global Companies Explore Industry Program NCSA research internships, fellowships, post doc opportunities available View Opportunities High-Performance Computing Systems Since being founded by the National Science Foundation and the state of Illinois in 1986, NCSA has been a leader in advanced computing, software, data, networking and visualization resources. As supercomputing has become more essential to research disciplines, our expertise enables scientists, researchers, engineers and scholars to take on the grand challenges that benefit science and society. Project Highlights Help Desk is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week, 365 days a year. Get User Support For Students For Researchers For Industry Partners NCSA is a hub of trans-disciplinary research and digital scholarship. We partner with the University of Illinois and the world. Don’t know where to start? CONTACT US Book a Tour Subscribe to News & Events Find Career Opportunities NCSA A-Z National Center for Supercomputing Applications 1205 W Clark Street, Urbana, IL 61801 info@ncsa.illinois.edu All rights reserved. ©2021 Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois Web Privacy Notice | About Cookies Back to top