Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index eLearning & Academic Partnerships Menu Search TTU eLearning & Academic Partnerships Remote #IAmARedRaider Texas Tech Worldwide eLearning Resources for Faculty Using Online Delivery Our Instructional Design, Accessibility and Blackboard Support teams showcased several presentations in celebration of National Distance Learning Week (NDLW), November 9-13, 2020. View recordings of these sessions. Access your Blackboard course shell. Upload your syllabus into Blackboard. Post your PowerPoint presentations, lecture notes, and/or other instructional materials in Blackboard. Post discussion questions in Blackboard to continue your face-to-face conversations. Communicate with your students using Announcements, Course Messages, and Email in Blackboard. Use Bb Collaborate Ultra to hold live virtual sessions with students. You can access Blackboard Collaborate Ultra from your Blackboard shell. Simple quizzes and assignments where students can upload work could all be helpful as you teach at a distance. Training and support documents for developing assignments and quizzes are also available. Be flexible and patient. This may be the first time both you and your students are using Blackboard for course assignments. For more information, visit: eLearning Faculty ServicesIT Resources and GuidelinesResources for Teaching Well OnlineClassroom Layouts and ResourcesAdditional Resources:Moving a Lab Course Online California Virtual Campus Learning Resources for Online Science Lab CoursesKent State University and other groups Online Resources for Science Laboratories (POD) - Remote TeachingMembers of the National Council for Online Education Contact Us For Help Contact eLearning at elearning.id@ttu.edu for assistance. An instructional designer can serve as your point of contact, guide you through this process, or direct you to others who can assist. We are here to help you. Preventing Academic Misconduct in Online Classrooms Blackboard Basics Collaborate Ultra in a Blackboard Course Online Assessment Basics For StudentsOnline Student TTU Resources Training Sessions for Faculty / Staff NDLW 2020 Sessions Course Structure and Organization for Online Courses View the recording from Monday, Nov 9 This session provides best-practices information for course structure and organization in your online classroom. Keeping Online Students Engaged View the recording from Tuesday, Nov 10 This session provides strategies and tools for keeping your students engaged in your online class. Best Practices for Online Assessment View the recording from Wednesday, Nov 11, 10 a.m. This session focuses on alternative assessment and explain the best practices for creating and delivering online assessments. Using Proctorio for Remote Proctoring of Online Exams View the recording from Wednesday, Nov 11, 1 p.m. This session explains requirements and procedures for using the online proctoring tool Proctorio to ensure academic integrity. Video Creation for Online Courses View the recording from Thursday, Nov 12 This explains different ways to capture and use video in your online courses. Accessibility Basics for Online Courses View the recording from Friday, Nov 13 This session explains the necessity for accessible content and how to make sure your course content meets accessibility standards. Recorded Sessions Blackboard Q & A View the recording of the session hosted on May 1. In this session, eLearning Instructional Designers answered questions about using Blackboard and went over some common areas of concern about transitioning to an online class. Blackboard Interaction Tools View the recording of the session hosted on May 1. It can be hard for instructors and students when they transition from face-to-face to online instruction. This session will help instructors evaluate their lower-stakes formative assessments and orient them to the tools available and how each one can help bridge the distance learning gap. Blackboard Assessment Tools View the recording of the session hosted on April 30. In this session, eLearning Instructional Designers explained the tools to create and deliver online assessments in Blackboard. Accessibility: PowerPoint Presentations View the recording of the session hosted on May 4. In this session, eLearning Instructional Designers explained how to structure, outfit and check your PowerPoint Presentations to ensure your course materials are accessible. Accessibility: PDF Documents View the recording of the session hosted on May 4. In this session, eLearning Instructional Designers explained how to structure, outfit and check your PDF Documents to ensure your course materials are accessible. Accessibility: Word Documents View the recording of the session hosted on April 30. In this session, eLearning Instructional Designers explained how to structure, outfit and check your Word Documents to ensure your course materials are accessible. Accessibility: Captioning Videos View the recording of the session hosted on April 29. In this session, eLearning Instructional Designers explained the necessity for captioning videos and discussed the many options available to ensure your video content is accessible. Mediasite Training View the recording of the session hosted on April 29. Mediasite is a video delivery system that can help automate the recording, distribution, management, and analytics of video and multimedia presentations. This session covers basic audio video tips, use of the Mediasite version 6 management portal, how to use Mediasite with Blackboard, and how to upload any video content for secure streaming via TTU systems. Video Creation View the recording of the session hosted on April 28. In this session, eLearning Instructional Designers explained different ways to capture and use video in online courses. Welcome Messages and Instructor Videos View the recording of the session hosted on April 27. In this session, eLearning Instructional Designers provided strategies for utilizing videos to make a connection with students and keep them engaged with dynamic course content. Module Design: Structure and Organization View the recording of the session hosted on April 28. In this session, eLearning Instructional Designers provided instruction for designing course modules that integrate well with different learning methods and communicate clear expectations to students. Basic Course Structure/Organization View the recording of the session hosted on April 27. In this session, eLearning Instructional Designers provided best-practices information for course structure and organization in an online classroom. Building Online Assessments View the recording of the session hosted on March 24. View the recording of the session hosted on March 25. View the recording of the session hosted on March 27. In this session, it showed faculty how to create and deliver online assessments. The session was led by eLearning Instructional Designers. Making the Connection: Building Rapport with Online Learners View the recording of the session hosted on March 27. Mitzi Ziegner, M.Ed., Associate Chair and faculty member in Human Development and Family Studies and an experienced online instructor, describes the techniques that she uses to create rapport in her online courses. She describes how she uses an instructor welcome video and letter and student self-introductions in the discussion to build relationships, and how she enhances the online experience for both students and instructors with engaging course organization along with tips to manage personal weekly assignment feedback. Engaging with Students Online View the recording of the session hosted on March 23. View the recording of the session hosted on March 27. In this session, eLearning Instructional Designers provided strategies and tools for keeping your students engaged during this transition period. Blackboard Basics View the recording of the session hosted on March 26. Blackboard Basics went over course navigation, the control panel, adding content to a course and the differences in communication tools. Using Blackboard Collaborate Ultra as a Teaching Tool (Faculty Only) View the recording of the session hosted on March 19. View the recording of the session hosted on March 25. In this session for faculty, Justin Louder, Ed.D., associate vice provost of eLearning and Academic Partnerships, demonstrated Collaborate Ultra as a lecture tool or way to meet with students and committees. Moving Large Lecture Sections to a Remote Teaching Environment View the recording of the session hosted on March 18. In this session for faculty, Ken Griffith, Ph.D. facilitated a discussion about technologies and teaching ideas that are particularly focused on large lecture settings (more than 75 students). The session focused on problem-solving strategies and technologies to help when the number of students is particularly challenging. Using Blackboard Collaborate Ultra for Synchronous Advising View the recording of the session hosted on March 13. In this session, representatives from eLearning and Academic Partnerships and Student Success and Retention went over ways in which advisors might use the Collaborate Ultra tool as well as Strive to schedule and conduct real-time advising sessions with students, particularly as we head into advanced registration. Please note: To use Collaborate Ultra, TTU-IT will need to create an Ultra account for you as the instructor. Please send your name and email address to blackboard@ttu.edu to initiate that request. Planning for Disrupted Teaching View the recording of the session hosted on March 13. During the 10 a.m. session on Friday March 13, we reviewed resources available to the TTU teaching community. We crowdsourced ideas to help us continue teaching in a disrupted environment and used the collective wisdom in the room to strategize. Experts from both areas were available following the session and continue to be on an as-needed basis Friday afternoon to work with faculty individually. eLearning & Academic Partnerships Like eLearning & Academic Partnerships on FacebookLike eLearning & Academic Partnerships on Facebook Follow eLearning & Academic Partnerships on InstagramFollow eLearning & Academic Partnerships on Instagram Address Texas Tech Plaza | 1901 University Avenue, Suite 513 | Lubbock, Texas 79410-5095 || Mailing: Box 45095 | Lubbock, TX 79409-5095 Phone Office (806) 742-7227 || Student Support (806) 853-5153 or toll-free (844) 897-0537 Email elearning@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityFeb 3, 2022 12:26 PM eLearning & Academic Partnerships Online and Distance eLearning & Academic Partnerships Online and Distance Back Prospective Students eLearning & Academic Partnerships Online and Distance Prospective Students Back Prospective Student Portal FAQs Finish Your Degree Military and Veterans Change Your Career Current Students eLearning & Academic Partnerships Online and Distance Current Students Back Student Support Portal Student Blackboard Support Online Tutoring Degree Programs eLearning & Academic Partnerships Online and Distance Degree Programs Back Bachelor's Degrees Master's Degrees Doctoral Degrees Graduate Certificates Graduate Certification Preparation Programs All Programs Add/Change Program Student Resources eLearning & Academic Partnerships Online and Distance Student Resources Back Search Courses Tuition Estimator Out-of-State Tuition Student Disability Services Student Complaint Process Non-Degree Seeking Students Transfer Scholarships Regional Sites eLearning & Academic Partnerships Online and Distance Regional Sites Back TTU at Collin TTU at El Paso TTU at Fredericksburg TTU at Highland Lakes TTU at Hill College TTU Center at Junction TTU at Rockwall TTU at Waco TTU K‑12 Academic Partnerships eLearning & Academic Partnerships Academic Partnerships Back Office of Academic Agreements Office of Continuing Education TTU OnRamps OLLI (50+) Faculty Services About eLearning & Academic Partnerships About Back About eLearning eLearning & Academic Partnerships About About eLearning Back Org Chart History of eLearning at TTU Staff Directory eLearning Council State Authorization Campus Security Report From Anywhere Newsletter eLearning Events Social Media Contact Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index