By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Admissions Undergraduate International FAQ More from this Section Syracuse Program in Partnership with Wells College: Information for International Students First-Year Checklist Transfer Checklist Support Services Stories Enrollment Options Requirements International Student Admissions FAQ Here are the most frequently asked questions about applying to Syracuse University as an international student: How do I apply if I am a dual citizen? If I am not a U.S. citizen, but I live in the United States and go to school here, am I considered an international student? If I am in the process of obtaining permanent residency/green card, how do I apply for admission? What is the minimum preferred TOEFL/IELTS/Cambridge English Language Assessment/PTE score? I attend an American high school (or college) and have been taking classes taught entirely in English. Do I still need to take the TOEFL/IELTS/Cambridge English Language Assessment/PTE? What types of financial documents are necessary to submit as proof of sufficient funding? How many international students are at Syracuse? What resources are available to international students? Is housing guaranteed for international students? What are the tuition rates for international students? What tests do I need to take? If my native language is English, am I still required to take the TOEFL/IELTS? Do you have conditional admission at Syracuse University and what does that mean? What should I do if I do not meet the minimum TOEFL or IELTS requirement? Is there financial aid or merit-based scholarships for international students? How do I transfer credit for academic classes I have taken outside the U.S.? When will I get my I-20? Is there a separate international application? Can I use tobacco on Syracuse University's campus? How do I apply if I am a dual citizen? Link If you have citizenship in the United States, as well as other countries, you should apply as a U.S. citizen. If I am not a U.S. citizen, but I live in the United States and go to school here, am I considered an international student? Link Yes. You would be designated international if you are a non-U.S. citizen or non-U.S. permanent resident, regardless of where you live or go to school. If I am in the process of obtaining permanent residency/green card, how do I apply for admission? Link If you have been issued a document showing approval of permanent residency status, you may apply as a domestic applicant. Please inform Syracuse University of your immigration status, including either a copy of your green card or of the document showing approval of your new status, by emailing orange@syr.edu. If you have not yet received approval of permanent residency, please apply as an international applicant. If your status changes at any time during the application or review process, please email orange@syr.edu so your application can be changed from international to domestic. What is the minimum preferred TOEFL/IELTS/Cambridge English Language Assessment/PTE score? Link View our admissions requirements. I attend an American high school (or college) and have been taking classes taught entirely in English. Do I still need to take the TOEFL/IELTS/Cambridge English Language Assessment/PTE? Link All students whose native language is not English should take the TOEFL, IELTS, Cambridge English Language Assessment, or Pearson Test of English as part of the application process. The English proficiency exam requirement may be waived in certain situations at the discretion of the Admissions Committee. Your application supporting documentation will be reviewed to determine whether or not you qualify for a waiver; if it is approved, it will be reflected accordingly on your application checklist in MySlice. Waiver approval is not guaranteed, so it is recommended that you take the TOEFL, IELTS, Cambridge, or PTE Academic as part of the application process if your native language is not English. What types of financial documents are necessary to submit as proof of sufficient funding? Link View our admissions requirements. How many international students are at Syracuse? Link Approximately 14 percent of our total population. 10 percent of undergraduates are international. What resources are available to international students? Link Check out our support services. Is housing guaranteed for international students? Link Housing is guaranteed for all first-year international students. Additionally, international students are offered an early move-in option which allows them to move into their new residence hall before the rest of the University community arrives on campus. What are the tuition rates for international students? Link See the cost of attendance. What tests do I need to take? Link The SAT/ACT is not required of any student studying outside the U.S. and currently enrolled in a school that does not follow the American system of education (including U.S. citizens living abroad). You must take the TOEFL or IELTS if English is not your first language. In addition, we will consider results of the PTE Academic for English proficiency. Note: Prospective Division I student athletes must take the SAT or ACT in order to meet NCAA eligibility requirements. If my native language is English, am I still required to take the TOEFL/IELTS? Link The TOEFL/IELTS requirement will be waived if your native language is English. You should indicate this on your application or email orange@syr.edu after submitting your application. Do you have conditional admission at Syracuse University and what does that mean? Link International applicants can be granted Conditional Admission to Syracuse University if the academic requirements for admission have been met, but there is insufficient English proficiency and/or insufficient financial support. Conditional admission will only be considered for students who have submitted a TOEFL or IELTS score, even if the score does not meet the minimum requirements. Conditionally admitted students will be considered fully admitted to the University and issued the SEVIS I-20 form (the form that is needed to obtain the F-1 Student Visa) once the University receives English proficiency credentials and/or the proof of sufficient funding. Space is not guaranteed during conditional admission. What should I do if I do not meet the minimum TOEFL or IELTS requirement? Link If you do not meet the minimum required TOEFL or IELTS scores, you are eligible to attend the English Language Institute (ELI). Students who attend the ELI will be conditionally admitted to the University until they pass level 4. The ELI is not required of conditionally admitted students, but is an alternative for students who do not wish to retake the TOEFL or IELTS. In addition, we will consider results of the PTE Academic for English proficiency. Is there financial aid or merit-based scholarships for international students? Link Syracuse University offers merit-based scholarships in recognition of exceptional academic and personal achievement. Selection is made by the Office of Admissions and eligibility is based on academic credentials. Eligible students will be notified at the time of admission. Any international applicant who requires an F-1 Student Visa to come to Syracuse is required to submit documentation that demonstrates the ability to fund his or her education for one full academic year. How do I transfer credit for academic classes I have taken outside the U.S.? Link If you have done academic work outside the U.S., you must also provide us with official academic credentials as well as English translations of the documents and course descriptions. If only one document is available, notarized or certified copies of the original document will be accepted. If translations are needed, it is your responsibility to have your credentials translated by a reputable translation and evaluation service. When will I get my I-20? Link After you are admitted to the University (for conditionally admitted students, this means after the condition has been met), your SEVIS I-20 will be mailed to you. If you are attending secondary school or college in the U.S., your current school must “release” you from the I-20 you are currently using. Then, Syracuse University will issue you a new document. For more detailed information, please view the international requirements. Is there a separate international application? Link There are supplemental forms of the Common Application that are required of international students. View the international first-year student application checklist or the international transfer student application checklist for a list of items needed to complete your application. Can I use tobacco on Syracuse University's campus? Link To help ensure a healthy, productive, respectful environment, Syracuse University has committed to provide a smoke- and tobacco-free campus. Learn more about our wellness initiative. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy