Skip navigation Information For: Future Students Current Students PLME Students Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Alumni Parents The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Search Brown Search AMS About Education Student Affairs Diversity Admission Financial Aid Med A to Z People Directory Department of Surgery Residency Program Department of Surgery Residency Program Completion of the general surgery residency program at Brown University leads to eligibility for certification by the American Board of Surgery. Broad exposure to the components of general surgery and to the surgical subspecialties is gained through rotations at Rhode Island Hospital (RIH), The Miriam Hospital (TMH) and Providence Veterans Administration Medical Center (VAMC). In addition to the seven categorical residents accepted into the program, up to eight interns are accepted into a preliminary program for one year of education in general surgery prerequisite to entering programs in various surgical subspecialties. The primary goal of the program is to produce superior clinical and academic surgeons who are trained in all facets of modern general surgery. Specifically, this training includes intensive exposure to surgery of the gastrointestinal tract, breast, head and neck, vascular system, endocrine system, trauma, cardiothoracic, pediatric surgery, transplant surgery, and surgical nutrition. Surgical residents are part of the operating team in all cases at the affiliated institutions. All residents are afforded a rich operative experience due to the volume and variety of surgical diseases throughout the hospital system. Interns will perform an average of 100 cases during the first year and chief residents will average 1200 cases over five years. The operative experience of the program is complemented by a rigorous academic conference schedule, which is designed to promote resident advancement in surgical knowledge and to develop and hone presentation skills. The interdisciplinary nature of several of the conferences enhances the educational experience of the residents and promotes an appreciation for various views and approaches to surgical problems and issues. In recognition of the need for both clinical and academic physicians in the current and future healthcare environments, the program offers two tracks to categorical residents. Those residents who wish to pursue an academic surgical career may enter into two years of basic science research in one of the many available research opportunities following their PGY-2 year. The Department of Surgery represents one of the most highly-funded and productive clinical and science research departments in the Alpert Medical School. The second clinical track allows for completion of the categorical program in five years. How do residents describe the program in one word? About the Program from a resident perspective About the Program from a faculty perspective Day in the Life of a Surgical Intern Overview of Graduate Medical Education at Lifespan and Brown University Who we Are: Perspectives on life as a Resident or Fellow at Lifespan and Brown University Home About Surgery Faculty Residency Program Program Leadership Application Curriculum Residents Salary and Benefits Resident Research Living in Rhode Island Fellowship Programs Medical Student Training Diversity Print this Page Share this Page Rhode Island Hospital Brown University 593 Eddy Street, APC 4 Providence, RI 02903 Phone (401) 444-5180 Fax (401) 444-6681 The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Box G-A1, Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-3330 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: Facebook / LinkedIn / YouTube / Flickr / Twitter Resources Academic Departments Affiliated Hospitals Faculty Directory Make a Gift DIVERSITY Surgery Dept Brown Minority House Staff Association