Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Center for Alcohol and Addiction Studies Home About People Postdoctoral Training Research Find a Study News Site Navigation Home About Our History Our Mission People Core Faculty Affiliated Faculty Adjunct Faculty Research Staff Administrative Staff Postdoctoral Training Didactics Diversity People Core Faculty Trainers Affiliated Trainers Current Fellows Alumni - 2016 to present Alumni - 1989 - 2015 Application Benefits/Stipend Research Alcohol HIV/AIDS Prevention Health Disparities/Health Equity Marijuana & Other Drug Use Nicotine Find a Study Alcohol research studies HIV research studies Marijuana research studies Tobacco research studies Studies for adults Studies for teens News Center for Addiction and Disease Risk Exacerbation a NIH Center of Biomedical Research Excellence (COBRE) led by Peter Monti, Jasjit Ahluwalia, & Jennifer Tidey. CADRE Website Equity and Diversity We are committed to increase and support equity and diversity. Read More History of Research Innovation Learn more about our extraordinary faculty, innovative research, and unparalleled opportunities for research and training. Read the story The Alcohol Research Center on HIV (ARCH) a multidisciplinary program project grant focused on reducing the impact of alcohol on the breadth and depth of the HIV epidemic ARCH Website The Brown University Center for Alcohol and Addiction Studies (CAAS) is an internationally renowned research center in addiction research. We conduct collaborative research that will lead to more effective treatment for alcohol and drug use, and are creating a nationwide program in addiction education and training for psychologists, physicians, medical students, and health care professionals. Equity and Diversity We are committed to increase and support equity and diversity. Read More CAAS Rounds Talks and lectures which bring together scientists from different disciplines and perspectives Read More Find a Study You can participate in a research study that is right for you. Read More Tweets by Brown CAAS CAAS Events There are no upcoming events. In the news ... Dr. Patricia Cioe Presents Abstract at SRNT Conference May 3, 2022 Read More Prescription Drug Abuse Policy System (PDAPS) Provides Data, Information on State Policies and Laws Aimed at Responding to Substance Use Disorders Mar 17, 2022 Read More Drs. Gunn, Aston and Metrik Publish Review Paper on Patterns of Cannabis and Alcohol Co-Use Mar 16, 2022 Read More Jake Tempchin to Pursue PhD at University of Memphis Mar 1, 2022 Read More More news and announcements ... Alcohol Research Center on HIV Center for Alcohol and Addiction Studies Center for Alcohol and Addiction Studies Brown University Box G-S121-5 121 South Main Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-6600 Fax: 401-863-6697 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top