Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Counseling, Educational Psychology & Research Counseling Counseling Psychology Educational Psychology & Research Faculty and Staff Research Clinical Services Grants & Contracts Alumni & Friends Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Take Action Apply Now! Student Organizations in CEPR Department News Contact Us Home Counseling, Educational Psychology & Research Clinical Services Clinical Services In addition to our various research labs, the CEPR has several affiliated Clinical Service units. The links below provide information on the current work of the department's clinical units. Interprofessional Community Health Clinic The clinical programs in CEPR participate in the university-wide Interprofessional Community Health Clinic (ICHC). The ICHC is a clinic serving the local community and includes students and faculty from CEPR, the Lowenberg College of Nursing, the Applied Behavior Analysis program, Public Health, Social Work, and the School of Communication Sciences & Disorders. Located in the Community Health Building, the ICHC is CEPR's in-house training clinic. Students in our Addiction Counseling, Clinical Mental Health Counseling, Clinical Rehabilitation Counseling, and Rehabilitation Counseling master's programs, as well as doctoral students in our Counselor Education and Supervision and Counseling Psychology programs use the ICHC as one of their clinical placement sites. Students in these programs complete practica and internship experiences in the ICHC. Services include: Individual counseling Couples counseling Family Therapy Group counseling Psychological and psychoeducational evaluations Vocational counseling TigerLIFE TigerLIFE (Tigers Learning Independence Fostering Education and Employment), is the largest and most ethnically diverse program for intellectually/developmentally disabled adults in the state of Tennessee. Founded in January 2013, TigerLIFE operates under the University of Memphis Institute on Disability (UMID). We offer a diverse curriculum designed to help young adults succeed in obtaining and maintaining employment, and live independently as citizens of the Memphis/Shelby community. With support from several stakeholders, our goal is to guide our students down the path to employment and help them become integrated in the working world alongside their non-disabled peers. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/3/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.