Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home Academics Office of Education Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. Office of Education The Office of Education is the center of the student experience, overseeing all learning and support services through seven offices. We develop and implement the School's doctoral, master's, non-degree, and executive education programs to the highest standard of academic rigor. Admissions & Financial Aid The Office of Admissions and Financial Aid is here to guide you, from the beginning of your interest in our programs, through the application process for admissions and financial aid. Careers & Practice The Office of Careers and Practice provides resources and supports to students from enrollment through the completion of their academic program. Digital Learning Studio The Digital Learning Studio partners with faculty to create equitable and effective online learning experiences. Diversity, Culture & Inclusion The Office of Diversity, Culture, and Inclusion partners with School faculty, staff, and students to create an inclusive and equitable campus community dedicated to the development of public health practice and scholarship. Student Affairs The Office of Student Affairs provides individual support to students ensuring they receive robust and well-rounded training on the path to public health careers. Additional services include volunteer opportunities, social and alumni networking, and personal advising. Teaching & Learning The Office of Teaching and Learning provides resources for all aspects of education at Mailman, from initial course inception through instructional design, teaching practice, and student assessment. Educational Programs The Office of Educational Programs is a point of contact for the MPH shared curriculum and Certificate programming as well as other degree programs. Close Sign up for Transmission Interested in changing the world? Apply Today Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers