Skip to content Macaulay Library logo Search Menu Close Navigation menu Search Resources Machine Learning Guides About News Help Donate Donate Account navigation Sign in Water Rail Rallus aquaticus © Christoph Moning Macaulay Library eBird Your wildlife media archive since 1929 Explore birds, amphibians, mammals, and more Archive your media Anyone can contribute media to the archive. Archive your media Explore Species Maps, stats, photos, and sounds for any bird in the world Surprise me Explore Regions Top rated media anywhere in the world Merlin Bird ID Free, instant bird ID help for the birds of North and South America, Europe, Asia, Africa, and Australia. Get Merlin Bird ID A scientific archive for research, education, and conservation, powered by you Photos, audio, and videos 10,056 Species of birds 2,674 Species of amphibians, fish, mammals, and more 80,129 Contributors 1,427 Scientific publications using the archive Photo + Sound Quiz Practice your skills. Help science. Take the eBird Photo + Sound Quiz Target species Help us complete the archive. Explore target species Cornell Guide to Bird Sounds Download the definitive sound guide to 900 species in the US and Canada. Purchase Machine Learning Powering an intelligent wildlife media archive. Learn more about Machine Learning at Macaulay Library News More Facebook Twitter Instagram Photos and Social Media Help Scientists Identify a Hybrid Fairywren By Macaulay Library Team 27 May 2022 In 2015, the Macaulay Library began accepting photos of birds alongside eBird checklists with the hopes of creating a curated collection of bird photos to help people learn more about birds. Now the Macaulay Library contains more than 36 million photos of more than 10,500 species. Scientists are now starting to tap the collection of… Read more Photos and Social Media Help Scientists Identify a Hybrid Fairywren Merlin logo Free, instant bird ID help for the birds of North and South America, Europe, Asia, Africa, and Australia. Get Merlin Bird ID for iOS Get Merlin Bird ID for Android Macaulay Library Search photos and sounds Radio Expeditions Internet Bird Collection Oriental Bird Club Image Database Machine Learning Machine Learning Blog Resources Preparing and uploading media Recording tips Using and rating media Request media Target species Photo + Sound Quiz Audio editing tutorials Setting up recording apps Why wave (.wav) files? Choosing recording gear Sound recording workshops Student opportunities About History Our team Privacy policy Terms of use Web Accessibility Assistance Contact News Contributor profiles eBird Education ML in the movies Publications Science Guides Cornell Guide to Bird Sounds: United States and Canada Macaulay Library logo Donate Facebook Twitter Instagram