Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions Advancing Racial Equity Action Plan News & Commentary Data Resources People …→ Harvard Business School→ Advancing Racial Equity & Diversity→ “We must act with speed and urgency to advance racial equity and diversity at HBS and in the world.” — Dean Srikant Datar We are resolved to take action to promote racial equity and diversity. We take seriously our responsibility to make business a force for good in our society. We know that structural racism has been ignored for too long. We hear the calls for the School to move swiftly to address the impacts of racism on our campus and in higher education. One-Year Action Plan Update School Stories HBS Announces Harris Family Fund for Sports Management and Alternative Investments 17 MAY 2022 | Harvard Business School Racial Equity Related Stories this Spring Re: Debora Spar & James Cash 11 MAY 2022 | Harvard Business School Painting the Portrait of Jim Cash Re: James Cash 09 MAY 2022 | Harvard Business School News & Commentary When Latino Immigration Rises, Whites View Black Americans More Warmly By: Marco Tabellini 20 APR 2022 | Washington Post Q&A with Harvard Business School’s First-Ever Chief of Diversity and Inclusion Re: Terrill Drake 24 MAR 2022 | Boston Business Journal Does Your Org Chart Reflect Your Community? Five Ways to Diversify Talent Now 14 MAR 2022 | Quartz Action Plan We’ve developed a plan that makes clear where we stand and where we aim to go, including specific and measurable actions we’re committed to taking. See The Plan The Tulsa Massacre Case New multimedia case by Mihir Desai explores reparations for historic racial injustices. Data Find data on MBA & Doctoral students, case protagonists, Executive Education participants, HBS Online participants, faculty, and staff. Resources A selection of resources and reading recommendations to expand your learning on the Black American experience and allyship. Reading List Videos ǁ Harvard Business School Boston, MA 02163 Email: odei@hbs.edu →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College