Skip to main content Google Tag Manager The University of Virginia SIS Collab Email Jobs Info For Alumni & Friends Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Search form Search Close Main Menu Main menu About Us Go to About Us Charlottesville & Beyond Facts & Figures Visit Academics Go to Academics Schools Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies International Studies Continuing & Executive Education Academic Calendar J-Term & Summer Session Undergraduate Majors Online Learning Admission Undergraduate Admission Apply Tuition & Affordability Undergraduate Majors & Programs Clubs & Activities Sports & Recreation Student-Self Governance Housing & Residence Life What’s Next for UVA’s Class of 2022? Arts Athletics Health System Libraries Research You are here Home Admission Clubs & Activities X Clubs & Activities Pursue Your Passions X-Tasee Dance Crew What moves you—athletics? Literature? Chess? Salsa dancing? At UVA, you’ll find a wealth of opportunities to create your own unique experiences, find your niche and follow your passions. From arts and athletic events to over 1,000 clubs and organizations, the only option you won’t have is boredom. By the Numbers 1+K Clubs 108+K Service Hours 17 Courts, Fields and Recreation Centers A Tradition of Service UVA was founded to promote the public good, and our students reflect this shared sense of purpose: (1) 80% of students engage in service during their years at UVA; (2) each year, through Madison House, students volunteer over 100,000 service hours; (3) UVA students make up disproportionate numbers in the Peace Corps and Teach For America; and (4) for over twenty years, students have independently managed and participated in the popular Alternative Spring Break program, which focuses on a service opportunity in the US or abroad. Learning in Action The Arts As a UVA student you’ll be able to participate in creative pursuits at every level—from collaborating in writing groups to performing in musical and dance ensembles to participating in exhibitions and performances. You’ll also receive free or discounted tickets to many arts events and student performances, including those of our many a cappella singing groups, which are part of the fabric of life on Grounds. UVA Arts Sports and Fitness The University maintains a combined 17 courts, fields and recreation centers, and every day you’ll find people engaged in athletic activity—from pick-up volleyball to weekend hiking expeditions on the Appalachian Trail, which passes only a few miles from the University. Club & Intramural Sports Fraternity and Sorority Life Greek organizations have a strong history of service and partnership within the UVA community and the larger community in which we live. Today's fraternities and sororities provide a diverse range of personal growth opportunities for an equally diverse group of University students. Fraternity & Sorority Life University of Virginia Instagram Twitter Facebook YouTube Footer Utilities Non-Discrimination Notice UVA Tuition Notice Wise Tuition Notice Consumer Information Accessibility Emergency SIS FOIA Privacy © 2022 By The Rector And Visitors Of The University Of Virginia