Skip to main content Skip to main content my.SMU News & Events Library Master Calendar Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Contact Us Contact Us Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Google+ Follow Us Twitter Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us Tumblr Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Social SMU Facebook SMU Google Plus SMU Twitter SMU LinkedIn SMU Tumblr SMU YouTube SMU Instagram Skip to main content Law About About Dean's Welcome Diversity and Inclusion Fast Facts Living & Studying in Dallas Why SMU Dedman Law? Academics Academics Academic Advising Academic Calendar Registrar's Office Academic Success Program (ASP) Bar Exam Resources Course Schedules and Registration Information Degree Programs Experiential Learning Externship Programs Forms Law Journals Planning Your Academic Program Study Abroad in Oxford Admissions Admissions Costs and Financial Aid FAQs J.D. Programs Graduate Programs How to Apply Meet Our Students Visiting SMU Virtual Tour of SMU Contact Admissions Alumni & Giving Alumni & Giving 2022 Alumni Happy Hours 2022 Reunion Weekend Alumni Chapters Career Services Class Notes Community Fellows Contact Alumni Relations Distinguished Alumni Awards Emerging Leader Board Executive Board Get Involved Law Firm Challenge Publications Update Alumni Information Career Services Career Services Students Employers Alumni Employment Statistics Career Services Team Contact Office of Career Services Reciprocity Centers & Initiatives Centers & Initiatives Jennifer M. Collins Women's Leadership Initiative Judge Elmo B. Hunter Legal Center For Victims of Crimes Against Women Robert B. Rowling Center for Business Law & Leadership Tsai Center for Law, Science and Innovation W. W. Caruth, Jr. Institute for Children's Rights Deason Criminal Justice Reform Center Clinics Clinics W.W. Caruth, Jr. Child Advocacy Clinic Civil/Consumer Clinic COVID-19 Legal Helpline Criminal Clinic Family Immigration Detention Clinic Federal Tax Clinic First Amendment Clinic Judge Elmo B. Hunter Legal Center for Victims of Crimes Against Women Innocence Clinic Patent Law Clinic Small Business and Trademark Clinic VanSickle Family Law Clinic Faculty Faculty Conferences, Symposia & Lecture Series Faculty Expertise Faculty in the News Faculty Profiles Research Public Service Public Service Completing Your Public Service Graduation Requirement Pre-Approved Placements Forms FAQs Planning a Public Service Career Internships & Fellowships Public Advocate Day Contact Public Service Program Staff Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) - Overview for law students only Students Students Office of Student Affairs Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Financial Frequently Used Resources Graduation Information Inns of Court Program Mustang Exchange Scholarships and Writing Competitions Student Code of Professional Responsibility Student Organizations ☰ Law About Fast Facts: Profiles and Statistics Fast Facts Degree Programs J.D. (Full-time day program): 3 years J.D./M.B.A. or J.D./M.A. (Economics): 4 years J.D/MBA Fast Track: 3 YEARS J.D./LL.M (Master of Laws in Taxation): 3 1/2 years GraduatePrograms LL.M. (General) LL.M. in Taxation LL.M. for Foreign Law School Graduates S.J.D. Program Scholarships Applications completed by the regular decision deadline will automatically be considered for academic scholarships. Scholarships for full-time students are typically awarded on the basis of an outstanding undergraduate record and a strong performance on the LSAT. In addition, there are several scholarships funded by private foundations. Two of the private scholarships for entering law students– the Hatton W. Sumners Scholarship and the Sarah T. Hughes Scholarship - require a separate application. Review our full offering of scholarships. Universities and Colleges Represented Dartmouth, Emory, Harvard, NYU, Rhodes, Stanford, Tulane, UCLA, Vanderbilt, Washington University, Wellesley, Yale, all of the major Texas universities, and many more. Alumni Graduates are located in every state in the United States and in more than 80 countries around the world. Recent CEOs, Chairmen, Presidents and Executive Directors 7-Eleven; Allegiance Title Company; Austin Industries; Building Materials Holding Corporation; Cathay Life Insurance; ClubCorp; Communities Foundation; Dallas Cowboys; DuPont Chile; Fogo de Chao; The Hart Group; Hexter-Fair Title Company; Kroger; Omni Hotels; Potter's House of Dallas; Six Holding; State Farm Insurance Companies; Stewart Title Company; Texas Oil and Gas; TXU; Tupperware; WellPoint; Worldwide Shipping; Matador Resources; TRT Holdings; Human Rights Initiative; HBK Capital Recent General Counsel 7-Eleven; Affiliated Computer Services; Archon Group; AT&T; Belo Corporation; BJ Services Group; Blockbuster; Blue Cross & Blue Shield of Texas; Brinker International; Commercial Metals; CompUSA; Cuban Enterprises; Dallas Mavericks; Dr Pepper Snapple; EDS; Fossil; FedEx Kinko’s; Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas; Frito-Lay; Fujitsu; Hicks Muse; Hunt Oil; La Madeleine; MADD; Neiman Marcus; Papa Johns; Rosewood Hotels & Resorts; Triad Hospitals; TXU; Interstate Batteries; Dallas Stars Judiciary Over the years, the Dedman School of Law has counted among its alumni six Justices of the Supreme Court of Texas, a Justice of the Supreme Court of Missouri, three Justices of the Supreme Court of Japan, as well as justices on the highest courts of the Philippines and Taiwan. In addition, alumni currently serve as Judges on Courts of Appeal and as trial judges in Texas, throughout the United States and around the world. Schedule a Campus Visit We would be happy to arrange for you to meet with an admissions counselor, tour the law quad, or observe one of our classes. To schedule a campus visit or ask questions, please call the Admissions Office at (214) 768-2550 or e-mail us at lawadmit@smu.edu. Important Dates J.D. Application Deadlines Applications are processed on a continuous basis beginning in early November. It is in your best interest to submit your application as early as possible. Regular Decision Late Decision Application and Supporting Materials Due March 1 After March 1 Decision Notification End of April After file completion, on a rolling basis Curriculum Bankruptcy law Business / corporate law Civil Litigation and Dispute Resolution Constitutional law Criminal law Dispute resolution Employment/labor law Environmental law Estate planning Family law Health care law Immigration law Intellectual property law Internet and e-commerce law International law Litigation and trial advocacy Oil and gas law Real estate law Tax law * For a full description of these courses, download the 2020-2021 Catalog. Clinics Child Advocacy Clinic Civil/Consumer Clinic Criminal Clinic Family Immigration Detention Clinic Federal Taxpayers Clinic First Amendment Clinic Innocence Clinic Judge Elmo B. Hunter Legal Center for Victims of Crimes Against Women Patent Law Clinic Small Business Clinic and Trademark Clinic Vansickle Family Law Clinic Publications SMU Law Review Journal of Air Law and Commerce International Lawyer SMU Science and Technology Law Review Class Profile The 2021 entering class admission statistics were certified by the American Bar Association and the Law School Admission Council. Number Enrolled 226 Median GPA 3.76 Median LSAT 163 Ethnic Diversity 32% Career Services and Rankings Rankings Dedman School of Law holds top local and national rankings in job placement. All rankings based on statistics provided to the American Bar Association (ABA) by the 194 ABA accredited law schools for the class of 2020. Visit the CAREER SERVICES website and view all of our employment statistics. #26 “Go-To Law Schools” highest percentage of 2021 graduates into associate jobs at the nation’s 100 largest law firms; The National Law Journal, March 2022 #29 Top 50 “Go-To Law Schools” ; The National Law Journal, March 2022 Examples of Work Experience Banking and finance, consulting, education, engineering, government, information technology, judicial clerkships, insurance, law, law enforcement, marketing & sales, medicine, real estate, and social work. 2022-2023 Tuition and Fees Full-Time Tuition and Fees (12-17 hours ea. semester for Fall/Spring) Tuition $54,090 Fees $6,968 Total $61,058 Bar Exam Pass Rate SMU Law graduates' pass rate on the 2021 bar exam was 85.94% for first time takers. Diversity The law school is committed to having a diverse student body, and 32 percent of the 2021 incoming class are students of color and approximately 50 percent are female. We also boast these student organizations which are active within the law school and the community: Black Law Students Association (BLSA), Hispanic Law Students Association (HLSA), Asian/Pacific American Law Students Association (APALSA), South Asian Law Students Association (SALSA) and OUTLaw Students Association. Visit the Office of Diversity and Inclusion for more information. About Dean's Welcome Diversity and Inclusion Fast Facts: Profiles and Statistics Living in Dallas Why SMU Dedman Law? Ten Reasons to Attend Download brochure Download fact sheet Library Business Office Get Help Now News Media Emergency / Safety Admissions Office / FAQs Department Directory Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © SMU Dedman School of Law 3315 Daniel Avenue, Dallas, TX 75205 facebook google twitter linkedin tumblr youtube instagram