Skip to main content Restrict my search to Police Department Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search University of Houston Police Department About UHPD General Information History of UHPD UHPD Strategic Vision Become a Police Officer Clery Campus Security Authority Am I a CSA? My Responsibility Get More Info Make a Report FAQs APPLY ONLINE Records & Reports Report a Crime Daily Crime Log Annual Security and Fire Safety Report File a Complaint Give a Compliment Hazard Report Safety & Security Staying Safe Crime Prevention Crime Prevention Services How You Can Prevent Crime Crime Prevention Tips Operation ID Vehicle Accidents Duty to Give Info and Render Aid Crash Involving Damage to a Vehicle Striking an Unattended Vehicle Striking a Fixture or Landscaping Immediate Reporting Police Investigation Resources Sensitive Crimes Violent Incidents Sexual Assault Sex Offender Registry Domestic Violence Hate Crimes Harassment Identity Theft Active Shooter Active Shooter Defined Avoid Lockdown & Deny Alert & Notify Defend & Counter Police Intervention Resources Bomb Threats Explosions Shelter In Place Office Security Community Services Security Escort Blue Light Emergency Phones Camera Network Lost and Found Bike Registration Special Events Money Transfers Policies & Training Campus Carry Policy FAQs Secure Storage Process Senate Bill 4 Racial Profiling Police In-Service Training Civil Protests Contact UHPD UH Home Police Department Policies & Training Campus Carry Secure Storage Process Campus Carry Frequently Asked Questions Secure Storage Process Campus Carry - Armed With Knowledge Contact UHPD 4051 Wheeler Ave. Houston, TX 77204-6191 (713) 743-3333 or 911 from a campus phone non-emergency email police@uh.edu UHPD Weapon Secure Storage Process University of Houston MAPP 07.01.05 calls for the establishment of secure storage areas to be maintained at the campus police station and at other locations that may be established by the University. Currently, the police station is the sole secure storage area. The address of the police station is 4051 Wheeler, Houston TX 77204-6191. The entrance to the visitor parking area is off of Cougar Place Drive. Storing a weapon at the Secure Storage Area Please enter the police station through the lobby on the south side of the building. There will be a phone on the wall where you can speak with our police telecommunicators. Let them know you need to check in a weapon. An officer will meet you in the lobby and will verify your License to Carry. The officer will bring a biometric storage safe to the designated Exchange Room. The officer will assist you in programming your fingerprint into the digital biometric safe. The officer will give instructions regarding how to safely place a holstered weapon in the safe. You will place the holstered weapon in the safe and activate the locking mechanism using a your fingerprint. You will be given a card identifying the safe number and instructions on retrieving the weapon. The officer will get your contact information in case there is a need to reach out to you. The entire transaction should take no longer than five minutes. Retrieving a weapon from the Secure Storage Area Upon returning to the police station, you will presents the card identifying the safe and your License to Carry. The safe will be retrieved by a police officer and placed in the designated transaction room. You will enter the transaction room with instructions not to handle the safe until instructed. The officer will give instructions on the retrieval of the weapon from the safe. This transaction should take no longer than five minutes. 4051 Wheeler Ave. Houston, TX 77204-6191 UH Emergency Information Call UHPD: 713-743-3333 Campus Map For Emergencies Dial 911 from a campus phone Non-Emergency email: police@uh.edu Security Escorts Lost and Found Bicycle Registration ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies