Menu Close Menu Skip to content Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters A to Z index Search for: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Email People Departments Calendar Careers my.harvard Giving About Faculty & Research Admissions & Aid Academics Executive/Continuing Ed News Harvard Center for Risk Analysis Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health > Harvard Center for Risk Analysis Harvard Center for Risk Analysis Menu Search for: Home Upcoming Events Risk in Perspective Risk Assessment, Economic Evaluation, and Decisions Workshop Workshop Agenda and Materials Past Events Research Synthesis Workshop Workshop Agenda and Papers Risk, Perception, and Response Conference Conference Papers and Video Join Our Mailing List Welcome to the Harvard Center for Risk Analysis The Harvard Center for Risk Analysis (HCRA) is a multidisciplinary group of faculty, research staff, students, and visiting scholars who work together to improve decisions about environmental health and other risks. We conduct state-of-the-art research, educate the next generation of leaders in risk analysis and related disciplines, and encourage public discourse about risk topics. To learn more about HCRA, please contact any member of our faculty or research staff below or click here to join our email list. Risk Analysis Special Issue on “Risk Assessment, Economic Evaluation, and Decisions” Integrating risk assessment, economic evaluation, and uncertainty to inform policy decisions is a core challenge for risk analysts. Professor John S. Evans, one of HCRA’s founders, has devoted his career to exploring these concerns. A recent special issue of Risk Analysis, “Risk Assessment, Economic Evaluation, and Decisions,” honors Dr. Evans. It builds on his important and innovative work and further explores the links between risk assessment and economics. The starting point was a September 2019 workshop organized by HCRA Director James K. Hammitt and Senior Research Scientist Lisa A. Robinson, with support from the Society for Risk Analysis Economics and Benefits Analysis Specialty Group and several other individuals and organizations (listed here). The special issue, guest edited by Lisa A. Robinson, features a profile of Dr. Evans and nine articles. Links to the articles published in the special issue as well as others presented at the workshop are provided here. A paper from the issue, “Mortality Benefits and Control Costs of Improving Air Quality in Mexico City – the Case of Heavy Duty Diesel Vehicles,” co-authored by Dr. Evans, Leonora Rojas-Bracho, Dr. Hammitt, and Douglas Dockery, received the Society for Risk Analysis 2021 Best Paper Award. Benefit-Cost Analysis, Valuing Statistical Lives, and COVID-19 The COVID-19 crisis has focused unprecedented attention on the use of benefit-cost analysis and approaches for valuing mortality risk reductions, commonly referred to as the value per statistical life (VSL). The pace at which new studies are being completed is extraordinary as is the significant attention they are receiving in the media. These studies emphasize the difficult trade-off between saving lives and economic damages as well as the importance of systematically investigating policy impacts. At the same time, this attention has highlighted the need to more clearly communicate the implications of uncertainties in the VSL estimates. HCRA Director James K. Hammitt and Senior Research Scientist Lisa A. Robinson have each written extensively on estimating the VSL applicable to different contexts. Their recent work on COVID-19 includes papers that explore the conceptual framework and empirical evidence and the impact of alternative approaches for adjusting for age. Directors James K. Hammitt, Professor of Economics and Decision Sciences Joel Schwartz, Professor of Environmental Epidemiology Core Faculty and Affiliates John Evans, Adjunct Professor of Environmental Health Elsie Sunderland, Gordon McKay Professor of Environmental Chemistry Lisa A. Robinson, Senior Research Scientist Katherine von Stackelberg, Research Scientist Jonathan B. Wiener, Duke University Visiting Scholars Eva Tène, Toulouse School of Economics (2020) Rebecca McDonald, University of Birmingham (2019) Danae Arroyos-Calvera, University of Birmingham (2019) Nathalie de Marcellis-Warin, Polytechnique Montreal (2015-2016) Daniel Herrera, Toulouse School of Economics (2014) Emmanuelle Lavaine, Toulouse School of Economics (2014) Damian Tago, Toulouse School of Economics (2014) Tuba Tuncel, Toulouse School of Economics (2014) Upcoming Events Register now for our May 2022 “Benefit-Cost Analysis in Low- and Middle-Income Countries” workshop. Join us for our September 2022 “Benefit-Cost Analysis: Valuing Life and Health” professional development course. Learn more about our next “Environmental Health Risk” professional development program. HCRA Announcements Listen to Jonathan Weiner discuss the past and future of environmental policy. Robinson named a Fellow of the Society for Benefit-Cost Analysis. Read “Premature Deaths, Statistical Lives, and the Economic Value of Mortality Risk.” Explore uncertainties in the value of COVID mortality risk reductions. Robinson receives Outstanding Practitioner Award from Society for Risk Analysis. Read about the future costs of methane emissions. News from the School Congratulations graduates! Probing disease disparities Saving a daughter, starting a career Tackling disparities and stigma around obesity, mental health Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters About Key Facts Renaming the School Office of the Dean Location and Facilities Administrative Offices Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty and Researcher Directory Academic Departments, Divisions and Centers International Research Postdoctoral Research Fellows Office of Faculty Affairs Faculty Searches Office of Diversity and Inclusion Admissions & Aid Why Harvard Chan Degree Programs Non-Degree Programs Financial Aid Student Experience Career Advancement Apply Academics Academic Departments Divisions Research Centers Flagship Initiatives International Research Research Administration and Support Degree Programs Fellowships and Residencies Summer Programs Continuing Professional Education Interdisciplinary Concentrations Academic Calendar Harvard Chan Viewbook Executive/Continuing Ed Program Offerings Custom Programs Request Information News and Resources About ECPE Contact News Featured News Press Releases Student Stories In the News Newsletters HPH Magazine Why Public Health? Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Loading Comments... Write a Comment... Email (Required) Name (Required) Website