COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Communication - Open Emphasis, Major MajorCommunication - Open Emphasis All Programs Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Elliott School of Communication Wichita State's Bachelor of Arts (BA) in communication—open emphasis—allows you to develop and propose a course of study tailored to your interests and needs—and which respects your background and experience. Learn how the communication - open emphasis - is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted to the Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU's admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Students provide experience of a lifetime for 16 Special Olympic athletes As a communication student, you have the opportunity to turn your class assignments and projects into real-world opportunities. Students from the Elliott School of Communication brought to life an integrated marketing campaign with the Air Capital Flyers, who held a Halftime Shootout during a men's basketball game. “These five students have done this thing, and it's been magical watching what I thought was an impossible idea become a reality for them,” said instructor Madeline McCullough. Curriculum In addition to taking the communication core courses required for all Elliott School students, possible combinations might include combining integrated marketing with print journalism or specializing in documentary journalism. A departmental honors track is also available for this major. View the curriculum Careers A communication degree from Wichita State combines the classroom knowledge and hands-on learning that opens doors to careers in many fields—from public relations and journalism to editing and education. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Communication (Minor) Communication - Integrated Marketing Communication Communication - Journalism Communication - Strategic Communication Filmmaking Marketing 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©