Prospective StudentsJSG CommunityAlumni & GivingRecruiters & Companies Facebook Twitter YouTube RSS News Feed About Mission & Vision Leadership Departments & Research Units Holland Family Student Center Offices Career Services Business Services Office Development and Alumni Relations Office of Communications Information Technology Services Office of Broader Impacts of Geoscience Research (BIGR) Contacts Directions & Maps Diversity and Inclusion Quick Facts History Faculty Through Time, In Memoriam Hall of Distinction JSG Workplace Issues Research Research Themes Climate & the Environment Energy Geosciences Marine Geosciences Planetary Sciences & Geobiology Solid Earth & Tectonic Processes Surface & Hydrologic Processes Research Disciplines Programs & Centers Laboratories & Facilities Industry Collaborations Find an Expert Education Undergraduate Advising Admissions Internal Transfers Degrees Offered Jackson Scholars Program Honors Program Financial Support Courses & Catalogs Field Experiences Why Geosciences? TNT 2021 Graduate Advising Admissions Degrees Offered EER Graduate Program Find a Supervisor Financial Support Courses & Catalogs External Grants & Scholarships Graduate Studies Committee Advising & Program Coordination Rankings Student Research Opportunities Student Organizations Writer-in-Residence Services Career Center Geology Library Holland Family Student Center People Distinguished Postdoctoral Fellows Program Find an Expert Scientist Profiles Employment Opportunities Visiting Assistant Professors of Practice in Chemical or Physical Hydrogeology Visiting Assistant Professors of Practice in Structural Geology/Tectonics JSG Community Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Faculty & Research Scientists Postdocs Staff Tuition Rebates for Undergraduates Faculty Through Time, In Memoriam Outreach For K-12 Students For K-12 Teachers For Everyone People News Media Releases Dean’s Desk Blogs Texas Geosciences Science Y’all In the News Scientist Profiles Newsletter 2015 Newsletter 2014 Newsletter PDF Archive Media Contacts Events DeFord Lecture Series Master’s Saturday Heads/Chairs on the Future of Undergraduate Geoscience Education Workshop Summit Materials, PowerPoints and Webcast Archive Background Reading Agenda Graduation Distinguished Lectures Association Meetings GSA 2014 SEG 2012 GSA 2012 2011 Meetings DGS Vehicle Reservation Calendar Submit an Event Skip to main content Close Search Bar Prospective StudentsJSG CommunityAlumni & GivingRecruiters & Companies SearchMake a Gift About Mission & Vision Leadership Departments & Units Offices Contacts Diversity and Inclusion JSG Workplace Issues Research Research Themes Programs & Centers Laboratories & Facilities Industry Collaborations Find an Expert Education Undergraduate Graduate Advising Rankings Student Research Opportunities Student Organizations Writer-in-Residence Services People JSG Directory Find an Expert Scientist Profiles Distinguished Postdoctoral Fellows Program Employment Opportunities Outreach For K-12 Students For K-12 Teachers For Everyone People News Media Releases Dean’s Office Blogs In the News Newsletter Media Contacts Events Events Calendar Lectures & Seminars Association Meetings Summits JSG Graduation Menu Home Research Research Themes Surface & Hydrologic Processes Surface & Hydrologic Processes From watersheds and aquifers to source-to-sink sediment transport and land surface dynamics, our research focuses on processes that shape the Earth's surface, the rock record results, and interaction with hydrologic systems. About People Student Opportunities Programs/Centers Photos Research in the Surface & Hydrologic Processes theme focuses on the following subthemes: Alluvial Fan, River Channel, Delta & Coastline Dynamics Ecohydrology & Vadose Zone Hydrology Fluid Transport & Poromechanics Geohazards: Hurricanes, Flooding, Volcanic Eruptions, Earthquakes & Landslides Groundwater Quality & Contaminant Transport Land Surface Dynamics Paleoenvironmental Analysis & Dynamic Stratigraphy Source-to-Sink Sediment Transport Watersheds, Aquifers & Surface-Groundwater Interactions Surface & Hydrologic Processes News September 29, 2021 Mars’ Surface Shaped by Fast and Furious Floods from Overflowing Craters On Earth, river erosion is usually a slow-going process. But on Mars, massive floods from overflowing crater lakes had an outsized role in shaping the… Read More September 8, 2021 Water in Bedrock is Sustaining Trees Across Country You can’t squeeze water from a rock. But tree roots can — and they’re doing it more frequently than scientists previously thought, with a new study finding that bedrock is a regular source of water… Read More August 18, 2021 Tracking Water Storage Shows Options for Improving Water Management During Floods and Droughts Researchers at The University of Texas at Austin have created a balance sheet for water across the United States – tracking total water storage in… Read More December 14, 2020 Fractured Bedrock in Forests is Overlooked Source of Natural CO2 The bedrock beneath our feet has a reputation as an inhospitable place. In contrast, soil is known to be teeming with life – from microbes… Read More March 20, 2020 Hidden Source of Carbon Found at the Arctic Coast A previously unknown significant source of carbon just discovered in the Arctic has scientists marveling at a once overlooked contributor to local coastal ecosystems –… Read More More News Faculty Jay L Banner Isotopic methods, sustainability, groundwater, oceans, ancient oceans, climate change, aquifers, caves, environmental science, geochemistry, paleoclimatology, urbanization Philip C Bennett Aqueous geochemistry, geomicrobiology, environmental and microbial geochemistry, hydrogeology M Bayani Cardenas Hydrology and Hydrogeology Ginny Catania Ice sheet mass balance, ice dynamics, subglacial hydrology, ice sheet stratigraphy, radar, GPS methods, uncertainty in ice sheet response to climate, satellite observations, remote-sensing observations, outlet glaciers, Greenland, glaciology, Antarctica, sea level, ice-ocean interactions. Peter B Flemings Stratigraphy, basin analysis, basin-scale fluid flow, pore pressures in seafloor sediments, submarine landslides, oil and gas migration, methane hydrates, Integrated Ocean Drilling Program (IODP) James E Gardner Volcanology, volcanic eruption processes, magmatic processes, experimental petrology, volatiles in magmas, degassing of volatiles from magmas, control of degassing behavior on volcanic eruptions and formation of ore bodies Timothy A Goudge Remote sensing; surface processes; geomorphology; sedimentology; reflectance spectroscopy; martian surface geology; planetary science. Marc A Hesse Multiphase flow in porous media, geomechanics, numerical simulation, mathematical, modeling, reactive transport, magma dynamics. Brian K Horton Tectonics of sedimentary basins, evolution of orogenic systems, sediment provenance and routing systems, nonmarine depositional processes. Joel P Johnson Process geomorphology, feedbacks between channel morphology and hydrology and sediment transport, landscape sensitivity to climate and lithology, bedrock river erosion, flash floods, arroyo erosion, canyon formation, environmental monitoring and sensor networks, laboratory flume experimentation, numerical modeling, tsunami sediment transport and deposition. J. Richard Kyle Ore deposits geology, mineral resources and society, geology and supply chains of critical materials, minerals exploration and evaluation, industrial mineral resources, origin of ore-forming fluids in sedimentary environments, fluid inclusions, stable isotopes, salt dome cap rock formation, surficial processes and earth resource formation, high resolution X-ray computed tomography applications to ... Luc L Lavier Tectonics; the structural and geodynamical evolution of continental and oceanic rifts, as well as collisional environments; numerical techniques to model tectonic processes on crustal and lithospheric scales; deformation; subduction Matthew A Malkowski Ashley M Matheny Ecohydrology, Bio- and Micro-meteorology, Vegetation Hydrodynamics, Watershed Hydrology, Land-Atmosphere Interactions, Biogeochemistry, Water and Carbon Cycles, and Modeling David Mohrig Sedimentary Geology, Sedimentology, Stratigraphy, Geomorphology, Rivers, Deltas, Coastlines, Submarine Channels, Geohazards, Sediment-Gravity Currents, Sediment Transport, Seismic Interpretation, Basin Analysis Dev Niyogi Research Group: The University of Texas Extreme weather and Urban Sustainability "TExUS" Lab. Research seeks to significantly contribute to our understanding of the Earth system, particularly the urban and agricultural landscapes, and the dynamic role of coupled land surface processes on regional hydroclimatic and environmental extremes. An important ongoing and ... Mary F Poteet karst ecosystems, biotic response and vulnerability to climate change, invasive species Daniella M Rempe Hydrology, Geomorphology, Ecohydrology, Catchment Hydrology, Near-surface Geophysics, Hydrogeology Timothy B Rowe Vertebrate paleontology, evolution and development of the vertebrate skeleton, phylogenetic systematics, the early history of mammals and their extinct relatives among Synapsida, the history of birds and their extinct relatives among Dinosauria, the history of other amniotes, high-resolution X-ray computed tomography, CT scanner, DigiMorph, informatics Demian M Saffer Active tectonics, fault/sediment mechanics, geohydrology. Timothy M Shanahan The Shanahan research group uses a combination of geochemical and stable isotopic proxy reconstructions of past climate, in combination with climate model simulations, to understand past and future climate change. Our primary focus is the use of organic geochemical and stable isotopic techniques applied to marine, lacustrine and terrestrial sediment ... Danny Stockli Thermo-/Geochronology, Tectonics and Structural Geology, Isotopic Provenance Analysis, Archeometry, Geothermal Exploration, and Thermal Maturation Daniel Trugman earthquakes, seismology, big data, machine learning, inverse theory, hazard, risk, ground motion Zong-Liang Yang Dr. Yang's primary research interest is to understand the exchanges of momentum, radiation, heat, water, carbon dioxide, and other materials between the atmosphere and the Earth surface spanning from small (short) to very large (long) scales. This includes analysis of in-situ and remotely-sensed data for the Earth's surface, and modeling ... Lecturers Marcus Gary Karst Hydrogeology Nathaniel R Miller Sedimentary geochemistry, isotope geochemistry, Earth system evolution, Q-ICP-MS, microanalytics, GIS, Neoproterozoic climate [link: http://www.jsg.utexas.edu/news/2018/05/new-research-suggests-that-dawn-of-plate-tectonics-could-have-turned-earth-into-snowball/] Cornel Olariu Clastic Sedimentology, Stratigraphy, Depositional Environments, Basin Analysis Jeffrey G Paine Near-surface geophysics in hydrogeology and environmental and Quaternary geology; coastal geology; Quaternary geology and geomorphology; computer applications in the geological sciences Affiliated Faculty Kathy Ellins Geoscience education; Discipline Based Education Research (DBER); teacher professional development; geoscience curriculum development; undergraduate geoscience teacher preparation; climate literacy; geoscience, art and design engagement Claudio Faccenna Topics: subduction tectonic and morphological evolution of convergent margin, evolution of orogenic belt and exhumation of deep metamorphic rocks, dynamic topography, trench migration and back-arc deformation, mantle convection, volcanism and fluid circulation in the crust. Tools: Structural geology and geomorphology, experimental / numerical geodynamic modelling, paleomagnetism, seismic lines interpretation. Field sites: ... Emeritus Robert E Dickinson Climate, Global Warming, Land Surface Processes, Remote Sensing, Hydrological Cycle, Carbon Cycle, and Modeling. William L Fisher Basin analysis, sequence stratigraphy, depositional systems, petroleum geology, resource assessment, energy policy Gary A Kocurek Sedimentology, geomorphology and stratigraphy of aeolian systems; fluid flow and grain transport; bedform dynamics and pattern evolution of dune fields; the stratigraphic record of aeolian and related systems on Earth and Mars. John M Sharp Hyrdogeology; flow in fractured rocks; thermohaline free convection; fracture skin effects; regional flow in carbonate rocks; hydrology of arid and semi-arid zones; subsidence and coastal land loss; effects of urbanization; alluvial aquifers; hydrogeology of sedimentary basins;hydrological processes in ore deposit formation; and hydrogeophysics. Clark R Wilson Geophysics, including gravity, space geodesy, and applied seismology Postdocs Tian Y Dong Fluvial Geomorphology, Surface Processes, Stratigraphy Zachary T Sickmann Basin Analysis, Convergent Margin Tectonics, Source-to-Sink Sediment Dispersal, Provenance Analysis, Sedimentology in the Anthropocene Jinyu Zhang Source-to-sink sediment transport, numerical modeling, sedimentary geology, basin analysis Research Scientists James A Austin Stratigraphic evolution of a wide range of marine and lacustrine environments around the world Jacob A Covault sedimentology, stratigraphy, marine geology Ian J Duncan Expertise in geomechanic and geochemistry applied to: risks associated with CO2 sequestration; hydraulic fracturing for shale gas production; environmental impact of hydraulic fracturing; and the water-energy nexus. Current research focuses on the scientific, environmental and public policy aspects of unconventional natural gas production, the water-energy nexus, and carbon capture and ... Cyril Grima Seyyed Abolfazl Hosseini Research interests are mainly topics related to fluid transport in porous media. Current research includes: Enhanced Oil Recovery - Enhanced Gas Recovery - Upscaling and Upgridding - Above Zone Monitoring Interval - Reservoir Simulation and History Matching - Unconventional Reservoirs Xavier Janson Carbonates sedimentology and sequence stratigraphy, petrophysics of carbonate, seismic signature of carbonate rock, seismic modeling, carbonate modern depositional environment Robert G Loucks Research in carbonate, sandstone, and mudrock stratigraphy, sedimentology, diagenesis, reservoir characterization, and pore network analysis. Kitty L Milliken Petrography and geochemistry of siliciclastic rocks; diagenesis; electron microbeam methods: X-ray mapping, cathodoluminescence imaging; micro-scale reservoir characterization Jean Nicot Subsurface hydrology, numerical modeling and optimization of groundwater resources, multiphase flow and contaminant transport in both the unsaturated and saturated zones, geochemistry modeling and subsurface reactive transport, Mathematical geology, geostatistics, inverse modeling, optimization, risk assessment and risk analysis Maria-Aikaterini Nikolinakou Maria-Katerina Nikolinakou is currently a Research Scientist at the Bureau of Economic Geology, Jackson School of Geosciences, at the University of Texas at Austin. Her research focuses on understanding stress and pore pressure in complex geologic systems, including salt systems and thrust belts. She studies the behavior of geologic materials ... Katherine D Romanak Geochemistry and isotope systematics of carbon cycling in the vadose zone and in freshwater aquifers; soil-gas monitoring and surface gas flux measurements at CO2 sequestration sites; microbial influences on carbon geochemistry in the shallow subsurface; fate and transport of organic contaminants. Bridget R Scanlon (Theme Lead) Evaluation of the impact of climate variability and land use change on groundwater recharge, application of numerical models for simulating variably saturated flow and transport, controls on nitrate contamination in aquifers Alex Sun Subjects: Carbon sequestration, hydrological modeling, computational geoscience, fracture/fault modeling Skill sets: Geostatistical modeling, inversion and optimization algorithms, numerical modeling, web-based decision support systems Programming: Matlab, Python, Fortran, C, ArcGIS Frederick W Taylor Tectonic geomorphology, stratigraphy, and paleogeodesy/paleoseismology at convergent plate margins Paleoclimate, fossil corals as a proxy for past sea-surface temperatures. Corals as recorders of relative sea level for vertical tectonics and sea-level history. Timothy L Whiteaker Geographic Information Systems (GIS) in water resources engineering; hydrologic, hydraulic, and water quality modeling; scientific information management; bringing water resources engineering solutions to end users by developing Web and desktop applications. Xiaohua Xu Kehua You Methane Hydrate, Hydrogeology, Flow and Transport in Porous Media, Analytical and Numerical Modeling Michael H Young Ecohydrology of arid and semiarid landscapes; groundwater recharge in both managed agriculture and natural (arid and semi-arid) systems; influence of soil structure and vegetation on water cycling; design and implementation of monitoring systems for above-ground and near-surface below ground environments. Research Staff Marcus Gary Karst Hydrogeology Nathaniel R Miller Sedimentary geochemistry, isotope geochemistry, Earth system evolution, Q-ICP-MS, microanalytics, GIS, Neoproterozoic climate [link: http://www.jsg.utexas.edu/news/2018/05/new-research-suggests-that-dawn-of-plate-tectonics-could-have-turned-earth-into-snowball/] Cornel Olariu Clastic Sedimentology, Stratigraphy, Depositional Environments, Basin Analysis Graduate Students Rawan Alasad I study the sedimentary record, surficial processes, tectonic relief and catchment evolution that occurs during rifting. Emily Bamber I am a PhD student in the Planetary Surface Processes lab My current research addresses the past evolution of impact crater lakes on Mars, Earth, and elsewhere with fieldwork, satellite observations and landscape modelling. Lillian Beaman Kristina Butler I am a field-based sedimentologist and geochronologist who uses sedimentary basin records to understand the drivers and consequences of mountain building. My current research focus is sediment routing and foreland basin evolution of Northern Patagonia. I combine a variety of provenance techniques (sandstone petrography, detrital zircon U-Pb, Lu-Hf and trace ... Amanda Z Calle My research is focused on the Cenozoic sedimentary, structural and exhumational history of the Eastern Cordillera to modern Chaco foreland basin in southern Bolivia. A multidisciplinary approach of source-to-sink, geochronology, low-temperature thermochronology and structural mapping will be used. Inherited pre-Andean structures and their response to contractional settings will also be ... Cansu Demir With increasing concerns on global climate change, there has been a growing interest in the potential impacts of it to groundwater reservoirs along with the surface waters. My principal research interest is based on the interaction between these major reservoirs in regional and local scales with the emphasis on water ... Yuqian(Philomena) Gan I have broad interests in sedimentology and stratigraphy with focus on: Slope channel architecture and evolution Sediment density flow processes and deposits Sequence stratigraphy of medium depth (200-500m) back-arc and foreland systems Nicole Gonzalez Hello! I study reservoir-scale shallow marine stratigraphy under the mentorship of Dr. David Mohrig. I'm interested in understanding how sediment gravity flows help construct delta front and prodelta-shelf environments. Particularly, my master's work involves developing a depositional model for marine storm beds within the Coaledo Formation in southwestern Oregon to ... Evelin G Gutierrez My current research is focused on sediment routing systems at various temporal and spatial scales. I am interested on elucidating how these systems respond to allogenic controls in sedimentary basins as well as understanding the impact on the structural setting, stratigraphy and hydrocarbon systems of the basin. Scarlette Hsia My PhD Research is focused on constraining the timing and amplitude of Marine Isotope Stage 5a deposits across the Western Atlantic Ocean. I am an English as a Second Language (ESL) and First Gen PhD student and from San Antonio, Texas. My primary interests include carbonate facies mapping, sedimentology, paleo-sea ... Katherine L Jones I use remote sensing and modeling tools to quantify the land use and ecosystem services impacts of renewable energy (wind and solar) expansion, with a focus on the west Texas region. My broader research interests include remote sensing, applications of modeling tools to geologic problems, and aqueous geochemistry. Evan King Evan is a MS student advised by Dr. Daniella Rempe. Evan's research focuses on understanding subsurface hydrological processes, primarily in the vadose zone. Her study area is the Eel River Critical Zone Observatory (ERCZO), where she uses field measurements and geochemical data to understand how water flows change seasonally in ... Cullen D Kortyna I am broadly interested in the controls on and dynamics of sediment routing systems. I investigate this at both the sedimentary basin scale, where I apply detrital geo-thermochronometry and other sedimentary provenance techniques, and at the outcrop scale, where I apply sedimentological and stratigraphic techniques, to evaluate sedimentary system response ... Bryan LaBissoniere Christopher S Linick I am a geophysicist with roots in geodesy. I study inverse problems at the intersection of hydrology and geodesy; for instance, currently I am working to quantify snowpack across the Sierra Nevada of California from dense GPS observations of crustal deformation and other data types. I also work with gravimeters, ... Tyson McKinney Neelarun Mukherjee My primary research interest lies in modeling transport and flows in the subsurface. My goal is to address the growing drinking water crisis due to groundwater contamination around the world by developing robust models to explain complex transport phenomena in the subsurface, primarily in the vadose and the critical zones ... Mariel D Nelson Hi! I'm a geomorphologist and second year PhD student in the Department of Geological Sciences. I'm co-advised by David Mohrig (sedimentology) and Tim Goudge (remote sensing). I study the shape of landscapes and seek process-based descriptions of how they change over time. For my graduate research, I conduct repeat lidar ... Matthew B Nix I began my Masters in August of 2019 with a project field site located near Fernie, British Columbia. My project is focused on conducting a basin analysis study by integrating a source to sink understanding that utilizes sub-disciplines consisting of sedimentology, geochronology, stratigraphy, structural geology, and tectonics. Outcomes of the project ... Ana Maria Restrepo Acevedo I am interested in studying the potential effects of ecological stresses, specifically drought, disturbance, and salinity, in forest ecosystems at tree-level scale and how can this understanding informs a global perspective. Moreover, I want to determine how forests' ecosystems react to more frequent and severe ecological stress events due to ... Logan Schmidt Logan is interested in the shallow subsurface and its interaction with terrestrial ecosystems. His graduate research seeks to identifying regions of the Earth in which rock moisture (groundwater existing beneath the soil but above the water table in weathered, fractured bedrock) is ecologically important and to quantify the hydrologic dynamics ... Kevin W Shionalyn ice-ocean interactions, glaciology, geophysics Cole M Speed I am a Ph.D. student with interests in remote sensing, geospatial data analytics, and planetary surface processes. My current research focuses on quantifying the evolution of modern fluvial landscapes and their preservation in the ancient rock record using high-resolution topography, time-lapse satellite imagery, numerical models, and field data. Ultimately, ... Michelle Tebolt As a planetary scientist, I study sedimentary processes on Mars to better understand the paleoenvironment, or the conditions that once existed on the surface. I am particularly interested in Martian fluvial processes that occurred ~3.8 billion years ago when there was liquid water on the surface and consider the question: How ... Alison Tune See a description of my research interests here : [https://alisontune.github.io/] Anna Turetcaia Kat Wilson coastal geomorphology Innovative Detrital Provenance Studies - Double Dating PLUS Graduate A major thrust of my current research the development and application of more comprehensive isotopic detrital provenance tools. U-Pb on zircon is clearly the big work horse, but only goes so far and sometimes yields "no" useful info, e.g., if the source of the sediment is mostly recycled sediment. We have extensively pursued double dating of zircons by U-Pb and He, as zircon He ages yield very interesting insights into the thermal and tectonic history of the source terrane; often yielding very different insights than crystallization ages. The combination is powerful, but I think we can take things so much farther by combining double dating with other constrains. People have tried fission track (not precise enough), Hf/Hf (to get mantle separation model ages), etc., but what we want to do and are working on is really Double Dating ++, combining zircon U-Pb-He dating with a variety of other geochemical aspects to more comprehensive understand detrital provenance and improve paleo-tectonic reconstructions. For example, trace-element thermometry (Ti in zirc), REE on zircon (met vs mag origin), Hf/Hf (see above), oxygen isotopes, etc. and also to develop rutile in an analogous manner (e.g., Zr in rut thermometry, Cr/Nb ratio (mafic vs granulitic), REE, etc.). The sky is the limit and what can learn so much. The issue in part it, how much can a single grain tell us before it's gone? The project sounds very laboratory oriented, but it's really a combination of field and lab work. We have identified a few possible case study areas, e.g., Morocco; great exposures, long-lived and preserved record of basin deposition since the Precambrian. My group is already working on some case studies in NW Himalayas, the N & S Pyrenees, the Sevier FTB, Permian Basin and other foreland basin. New projects include provenance studies along rifted and passive continental margins such the Gulf of Mexico, the central Atlantic Margins in Canada, USA, Portugal, and Morocco. Posted by: Daniel Stockli Hydrogeochemical investigations in urban riparian zones Graduate Hydrogeochemical investigations in urban riparian zones Posted by: Darrel Tremaine Speleothems and cave monitoring Graduate Speleothems and cave monitoring Posted by: Darrel Tremaine Dendrochronology and dendrochemistry Graduate Dendrochronology and dendrochemistry Posted by: Darrel Tremaine Sustainable Urban Systems Graduate Sustainable Urban Systems Posted by: Darrel Tremaine Electromechanical instrumentation design Graduate Electromechanical instrumentation design Posted by: Darrel Tremaine PhD/MS opportunities Graduate My group welcomes new students with strong motivations on understanding how solid Earth and planets operate and its impacts on shaping habitable surface environments. Prospective students are expected to have a STEM background. If these describe you, feel free to contact me through email for position openings in my group. Posted by: Chenguang Sun Urbanization and water resources Graduate Our group studies the impacts of urbanization on hydrologic systems using geochemical, field, laboratory, and modeling methods. New opportunities for graduate research in this area are available for students applying for Fall admission. Contact Jay Banner at banner@jsg.utexas.edu. Posted by: Jay Banner Paleoclimate reconstructions and modern hydrology of karst systems Graduate Our group reconstructs regional climate change in response to global change using speleothems and tree rings. These studies are advanced by analysis of modern karst hydrologic systems in which the speleothems are found. New opportunities for graduate research in this area are available for students applying for Fall admission. Contact Jay Banner at banner@jsg.utexas.edu. Posted by: Jay Banner NSF Research Experiences for Undergraduates Undergraduate This summer program trains and supports undergraduates to undertake environmental science research. Details may be found at https://www.esi.utexas.edu/education/summer-research-experience-for-undergraduates-reu/. Posted by: Jay Banner NSF Research Experiences for Undergraduates Undergraduate This summer program trains and supports undergraduates to undertake environmental science research. Details may be found at https://www.esi.utexas.edu/education/summer-research-experience-for-undergraduates-reu/. Posted by: Jay Banner Center for Integrated Earth System Science The Center for Integrated Earth System Science (CIESS) is a cooperative effort between the Jackson School of Geosciences and the Cockrell School of Engineering. The center fosters collaborative study of Earth as a coupled system with focus on land, atmosphere, water, environment, and society. Land, Environment & Atmospheric Dynamics The LEAD group consists of graduate research assistants, postdoctoral fellows, research scientists and visiting scholars. We view the earth system in a holistic way, linking the atmosphere, ocean, biosphere, cryosphere, and solid earth as an integrated system. We use powerful methodologies such as satellite remote sensing and supercomputing simulations which are now profoundly changing research in earth system sciences. We place a strong emphasis on the societal impact of the research in earth system sciences. Affiliated UT Programs & Centers Center for Space Research The University of Texas at Austin, Center for Space Research was established in 1981 under the direction of Dr. Byron D. Tapley. The mission of the Center is to conduct research in orbit determination, space geodesy, the Earth and its environment, exploration of the solar system, as well as expanding the scientific applications of space systems data. Research Groups Dynamic Stratigraphy Workgroup ENCOMPASS: Research for Earth-Society Systems Morphodynamics and Quantitative Stratigraphy Alaska Fieldwork Posted by Peter P Flaig Photo set includes images of fieldwork done on the North Slope of Alaska from 2005-2013 Antarctic Fieldwork Posted by Peter P Flaig Photos of fieldwork in the Central Transantarctic Mountains during the 2003-2004 and 2010-2011 field seasons. Cretaceous Western Interior Seaway Fieldwork Posted by Peter P Flaig Photos of fieldwork on clastic wedges of the Cretaceous Western Interior Seaway in Utah, Colorado, and Wyoming Research Research Themes Climate & the Environment Energy Geosciences Marine Geosciences Planetary Sciences & Geobiology Solid Earth & Tectonic Processes Surface & Hydrologic Processes Research Disciplines Programs & Centers Laboratories & Facilities Industry Collaborations Find an Expert Mailing Address Jackson School of Geosciences 2305 Speedway Stop C1160 Austin, TX 78712-1692 Phone (512) 471-6048 Support JSG Departments & Units Department of Geological Sciences Bureau of Economic Geology Institute for Geophysics Administration & Offices College Leadership Career Services Business Services Development and Alumni Relations Office of Communications Information Technology Office Helpful Links UT Austin UT Direct Emergency Information IT Help JSG Directory JSG Profiles Contact Us Facebook Twitter YouTube RSS News Feed © 2022 Jackson School of Geosciences, The University of Texas at Austin Web Privacy | Web Accessibility Policy | Adobe Reader