Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Brand Logos Because of their value to Clemson, any mark that is intended to represent the University is the property of the University and must fit all the University guidelines. Logos may not be used for commercial purposes without prior approval of the Trademarks and Licensing Office. Structure To maintain brand consistency, a five-level system clarifies current logos and helps bring consistency to any future logos or wordmarks. Any logo variations must be approved in advance by University Relations. Contact Creative Operations to initiate design of all logos. Level OneOne Level TwoTwo Level ThreeThree Level FourFour Level FiveFive Level One — Master Marks These logos and wordmarks are the strongest visible symbols of Clemson and represent the entire University. The Clemson wordmark and Tiger Paw may be used noncommercially* by anyone at the University as long as used appropriately within the guidelines set forth in this manual. *Having no commercial objective and/or not intended to make a profit Wordmarks The primary wordmark is a stylized version of CLEMSON with the Tiger Paw in the “O” position. Because of the increased brand equity of CLEMSON and the Tiger Paw, UNIVERSITY is not included in the primary version. There are times when UNIVERSITY is needed. The alternative versions of the wordmark are to be used in those cases. Clemson Wordmark Primary The CLEMSON wordmark should be used primarily for nonathletic University audiences. The primary wordmark is a stylized version of CLEMSON with the Tiger Paw in the “O” position and does not use the word UNIVERSITY. CLEMSON and TIGER PAW should be primarily reproduced in either Clemson Orange* or Goal Line White. Approved color variations are shown. If reproduced in black, the TIGER PAW should be outlined with a fine black line, providing the TIGER PAW with a white background. Any other variations must be approved in advance by University Relations and the Trademarks and Licensing Office. Registration “®” mark must always be used and should appear in superscript beside the “N” in CLEMSON. In the case of the CLEMSON with the TIGER PAW in the “O” position version, a registration “®” mark only needs to appear in superscript beside the “N” in CLEMSON because of the lockup of the two master marks. * Clemson Orange – see color palette guidelines Clemson Wordmark / Orange Download Clemson Wordmark / White and Orange Download Additional Color Versions Clemson Wordmark / Purple and Orange Download Clemson Wordmark / Purple and White Download Clemson Wordmark / White Download Clemson University Wordmark Alternative The CLEMSON UNIVERSITY wordmark should be used for general audiences and/or audiences that may not have a brand awareness of CLEMSON. There are optional alternative versions of this wordmark that include CLEMSON with the TIGER PAW in the “O” position and CLEMSON without the TIGER PAW. Either of these can be used but must follow the use guidelines: All use guidelines for CLEMSON wordmark (A) apply to this version. UNIVERSITY should be reproduced in Regalia, Clemson Orange* or Goal Line White. University Wordmark + Paw / Orange and Purple Download University Wordmark + Paw / Orange Download University Wordmark + Paw / White and Orange Download University Wordmark / Orange and Purple Download University Wordmark / Orange Download University Wordmark / White Download Tiger Paw Traditionally used exclusively for athletic uses, the Paw straddles academic and athletic usage. Tilt to one o’clock. Reproduce in either Goal Line White or Clemson Orange*. If printed in black and white, the Paw should be outlined with a fine black line, providing the Tiger Paw with a white background. Any other variations must be approved in advance by Trademarks and Licensing Office. Registration ® mark must always be used. Additional details on logo usage can be found on page 32 of the Brand Guide (PDF). Tiger Paw / Orange Download Tiger Paw / White Download Level Two — Restricted-use marks University Seal Primary The primary version of the seal is restricted by the following guidelines: The UNIVERSITY SEAL is restricted to the president, Board of Trustees and groups and uses created or designated by the President’s Office. Any other uses of the UNIVERSITY SEAL must be approved in advance by the President’s Office. The seal appears on certificates that (1) are signed by the president, (2) are signed by the chair of the Board of Trustees or (3) recognize a Universitywide award. Reproduced in two colors, Clemson Orange* and Regalia, or in a single color using either Clemson Orange*, Regalia, Goal Line White or Diploma. Any other color variations must be approved in advance by University Relations. Registration “®” mark must always be used and should appear in subscript on the lower right of the seal. Alternative A simplified version of the seal has been modernized and broadened as an option for use in the academic units, lending more substance and significance to these areas than were previously assigned. See Level 3 for guideline details. University Seal Clemson Ring Crest Any use of the Clemson Ring Crest must be approved by the Clemson Alumni Association (CAA) Primary The CLEMSON RING CREST is a registered mark and must include the “®” symbol as a component of the crest in the lower right corner, aligned with the bottom of the RING CREST and the right side of the C. Reproduction of the CLEMSON RING CREST must use original artwork provided by the Clemson Alumni Association. Hand-drawn and unauthorized reproductions, or re-creations of the crest in whole or in part are prohibited. Electronically scanned crest images of poor quality or low resolution are prohibited. Do not add any effects such as bevels, drop shadows or outlines. Do not stretch or bend the crest or alter its proportions. Please make sure that the contrast between the crest and the background is sufficient for legibility. Crest reversals on tints are not recommended. If approved for use, the CLEMSON RING CREST can include the University’s founding year, 1889, or the last two digits of a graduate’s class year. The numbers are a unique design, included in the file from the CAA. The CLEMSON RING CREST can only be used as a one-color design selected from the official Clemson University brand color palette. Approved colors are Clemson Orange, Regalia, Howard’s Rock, Class Ring, Bengal Stripe and Goal Line. Any other color must be approved by the CAA. A simplified crest more suitable for embroidery or other small use is also available. For additional guideline details contact Daniel Austin, director of marketing and brand development for the Clemson Alumni Association. For more information on licensing and a list of Clemson CLC-licensed vendors, visit clemson.edu/university-relations/licensed-vendors.html. * Clemson Orange – see color palette guidelines Clemson Ring Crest College Vault The vault marks are a part of the College Vault program. Clemson University’s vault marks are a collection of legacy logos and/or wordmarks from the past that have been digitized and trademarked. These may not be used for commercial or noncommercial purposes without prior approval of the University’s Trademarks and Licensing Office. Athletic Trademarks College Vault, athletic and all “hot market” marks/logos, which are those created for the purpose of generating royalties, must be approved by the director of licensing and run through the Collegiate Licensing Company prior to use. All vendors must be licensed and in good standing, both with Clemson University and the Collegiate Licensing Company. Athletics Sample Championship Logo For additional information regarding the permitted use of these logos, contact Tim Match, associate athletic director/external affairs and director of licensing, at mtimoth@clemson.edu. Level-Three — Academic and Nonacademic Marks These marks visually pair Clemson identity elements with a college, division, school, department, office or major in a way that provides a unique name with the Universitywide graphic unity. All logos at this level should be designed and approved by University Relations Creative Operations. College/Division Wordmark Primary The primary College/Division wordmark is a lockup of the Tiger Paw with the College/Division name. The Tiger Paw should tilt to one o’clock and be positioned to the left of the College/Division name. Reproduce in either Goal Line White or Clemson Orange*. The Registration ® mark must always be used. The name of the College/Division should be typeset in Trade Gothic Next LT Bold Compressed, all capital letters. Reproduce in Clemson Orange, Goal Line White or Diploma. The overall height of the College/Division name cannot be greater than the height of the Tiger Paw and should be proportional to the Paw. In the primary college wordmark, the name of the college should be no more than two lines. * Clemson Orange – see color palette guidelines External Affairs Sample College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences Sample Alternative The Alternative College/Division wordmark is a lockup of the Tiger Paw with the College/Division name and also includes “College of”/”Division of.” The words “College of/“Division of” should be typeset in Tiempos Text Medium Italic, upper and lowercase. The Tiger Paw should tilt to one o’clock and be positioned to the left of the College/Division name. Reproduce in either Goal Line White or Clemson Orange*. The Registration ® mark must always be used. The College/Division name should be typeset in Trade Gothic Next LT Bold Compressed, all capital letters. Reproduce in Clemson Orange, Goal Line White or Diploma. The overall height of all lines should be visually equivalent to and centered to the height of the Tiger Paw. The combined height of all lines cannot be greater than the height of the Tiger Paw and should be proportional to the Paw. Type size should be scaled down depending on the length of the college name and flowed to two lines in instances where the type would otherwise be visually superior to the Tiger Paw. If Divisions choose, there can be alternate logo versions that include subunits and offices set in Tiempos Text Medium Italic, upper and lowercase beneath the Division name. Division of External Affairs Sample College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences Sample School/Department Wordmarks Primary A school or academic department may choose to lock up with either the Tiger Paw or the Academic Seal, which uses a stylized version of the University Seal. Divisions and nonacademic departments and offices must lock up with the Tiger Paw. The Tiger Paw should tilt to one o’clock and be positioned to the left of the unit name. Reproduce in either Goal Line White or Clemson Orange*. The Registration ® mark must always be used. If the Academic Seal is used, it should be positioned to the left of the unit name and should be reproduced in Diploma, Clemson Orange* or Goal Line White. The name of the unit should be typeset in Trade Gothic Next LT Bold Compressed, all capital letters. Reproduce in Clemson Orange, Goal Line White or Diploma. Schools and departments, offices and other subunits must use a designation like “School of,” “Office of,” etc. before their name in the Tiempos Text Medium Italic, uppercase and lowercase. Named schools or departments should have the name set in Tiempos Text Bold Italic and the designation in Tiempos Text Medium Italic, uppercase and lowercase (e.g., John H. Smith School of...”). The overall height of the unit name is defined by the height of the Tiger Paw/Academic Seal. The unit wordmark name should be no more than two lines. Type should be reproduced in either Diploma, Clemson Orange or Goal Line White. * Clemson Orange – see color palette guidelines Sample Alternative If a school or department chooses, there can be an alternate logo version that includes a line with Clemson University, the college name that the unit falls within or a major or degree program that falls within that unit. This line should be set in Tiempos Text Bold Italic, upper and lowercase beneath the school or department name. Sample Level-Four — Academic and nonacademic subbrand This is a broad group of academic and nonacademic subbrands for University-approved institutes, centers, programs, scholarship programs, organizations, registered student organizations, groups, clubs, fundraising campaigns, projects or annual or ongoing events. All marks at this level must be approved by University Relations. Registered student organizations should get advance approval from Student Affairs Publications before creating a Level 4 logo. All level 4 mark designs must include: Clemson Orange and one of the following The CLEMSON wordmark (Level 1-A). TIGER PAW (Level 1-C). The word CLEMSON or CLEMSON UNIVERSITY in a brand font. A registration “®” must be used in superscript after the “N” in CLEMSON®. Use only brand fonts (Excluding Script Fonts). Use only brand colors and follow the guidelines for brand palette use. Use of approved marks by officially registered student organizations on apparel must have approval from Student Affairs Publications. The student organization’s formally registered name must be used (including the word “club” if it is a club sport) and adhere to the Student Organization Policy. Any acronym must have the descriptive name designed as a lockup of the acronym in the logo design. In the case of T-shirt design use, a separation of the lockup of the acronym and the descriptive text would be allowed, but both should appear on the shirt. * Clemson Orange – see color palette guidelines Level-Five — Marketplace Subbrand These product brands have significant recognition or equity in the marketplace beyond that of Clemson University, may compete with off-campus/external commercial entities in the marketplace and may be multi-institutional. All logos/marks at this level must get prior approval to develop a level 5 logo/mark, and final design must be approved by University Relations. Preferably, these marks incorporate brand fonts, Clemson Orange* and a wordmark or Tiger Paw. If not, the words “Clemson University” are required. If an agreement with other institutions prevents that, the words “Clemson University” need to be used as part of the mark’s design when appearing in University promotional, communications or event materials. Any acronym must have the descriptive name designed as a lockup of the acronym in the logo design. In the case of T-shirt design use, a separation of the lockup of the acronym and the descriptive text would be allowed, but both should appear on the shirt. * Clemson Orange – see color palette guidelines Home Positioning Guides Color Palette Logos Logo Usage and Limitations Typography Photography Voice and Style Making It Real Sub Brand Guidelines Alumni Brand Standards Athletics Brand Standards Clemson Forward Brand Standards Development Brand Standards CU-ICAR Brand Standards Student Affairs Brand Standards Additional Resources Social Media Guidelines Web Style Guide Collegiate Licensing Program Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram