Business Engagement Talent Interns Career Fairs On Campus Interviews On Site Networking Research CyBiz Lab Capstone Projects President’s Initiative Grad Students & Post Docs Collaborative Research Professors as Advisors Corporate Engagement/Branding Guest Lecture Speaking Gigs Program Curriculum Advisors Advisory Boards Industry Associations & Consortia Sponsorships CyBiz Lab Specialized Equipment & Spaces Fee for Service Mitigate Risk & Liability Labs & Staff Prototyping or 3D Printing Visualization Philanthropy Scholarship & Leadership Programs Mentor Network Seed Network Naming Specialized Resources America’s SBDC Iowa Center For Industrial Research And Service (Ciras) America’s Cultivation Corridor CyBiz Lab ISU I-Corps Site KEY PROGRAM DATES ISU Office of Intellectual Property and Tech Transfer ISU Pappajohn Center For Entrepreneurship ISU Research Foundation ISU Research Park ISU Startup Factory Regents Innovation Fund Proposals News & Events News Events Featured Stories About Contact Select Page On Campus Interviews When interviewing for full-time positions that require complex technical knowledge, organizations almost always choose an on-site interview with a prospective employee. On-campus interviewing offers an excellent way for employers looking to fill co-op, internship and full-time positions to connect with engineering students and graduates. Conducting interviews on campus makes it very convenient for busy college students and our data indicates it significantly improves recruiting success. Engineering Career Services has ten interview rooms on the third floor of the Marston Hall Building that are available to employers. Employers can reserve one or more of the interview rooms and manage their interview schedule(s) through CyHire. Engineering Career Services will provide assistance to guide you through this process and help make your on-campus recruiting as successful as possible. Pre-Select Interview Scheduling – Interested candidates submit their resumes and other required documents though CyHire. Employers select candidates and send an invitation to interview. Candidates select an interview time that will work for them through CyHire. Open Interview Scheduling – Interested candidates who meet the qualifications are allowed to select an interview time through CyHire without any pre-screening. After Career Fair Scheduling – A large number of interviews take place on the day following a career fair. There are a number of advantages to interviewing on a day other than the busy day following the career fair, so we encourage employers to consider returning to campus at a later date. Our EDIR staff is available to assist industry leaders with all that goes into on-site interviews, including scheduling appropriate meeting space, coordinating with specific programs or colleges and more. Copyright 2022 Economic Development & Industry Relations