Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home News Video: Meet Some of The Incredible Women Scientists of Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Earth Sciences Video: Meet Some of The Incredible Women Scientists of Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory These women are helping to unravel the mysteries and mechanics of Earth. By Marie DeNoia Aronsohn February 11, 2021 This post is part of a short series highlighting some of the Earth Institute’s women scientists as part of the International Day of Women and Girls in Science on February 11. Read more about the day and our related blog posts here. In 2015, the United Nations General Assembly designated February 11 as the International Day of Women and Girls in Science. The purpose: to move the needle toward achieving full and equal access to and participation in science for women and girls. Columbia University’s Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, which has a long tradition of pathbreaking women scientists, recognizes this day with pride and an enduring commitment to its cause. Among the Lamont women who have rocked geoscience is Marie Tharp—who, while working as an assistant to geologist Bruce Heezen, drew the first map of the ocean floor. Later, in 1977, she and Heezen would publish the first map of the world’s ocean floor, which ultimately touched off one of the greatest paradigm shifts in earth science history, leading to a period of discovery known as the Plate Tectonics Revolution, which proved that Earth’s outer shell is divided into several plates that glide over the mantle, the rocky inner layer above the core. Another titan of discovery, Joan Feynman, began her career at Lamont. Feynman, who died last summer, went on to become a world-famous astrophysicist and a pioneer in solar physics. Her obituary in the New York Times describes her work this way: “She predicted sunspot cycles and figured out how many high-energy particles were likely to hit a spacecraft over its lifetime, an advance that allowed the space industry to design satellites and capsules with greater longevity. Her crowning achievement was understanding solar activity and its influence on Earth, including auroras, those dazzling, psychedelic displays of colors — known as the aurora borealis in the Northern Hemisphere and the aurora australis in the Southern — that inflame the night skies.” To say these two pioneers represent the tip of the iceberg when it comes to the women of Lamont is an apt pun. The video above highlights and celebrates just a few more Lamont women and their extraordinary contributions to helping the world understand the mystery and mechanics of Earth. Want to learn about other inspiring women earth scientists? This slideshow showcases more than 50 women researchers who study oceans, volcanoes, ice sheets, and more. It is not a comprehensive list of all the female scientists affiliated with the Lamont Campus — only those who submitted their information to Lamont’s Office of Academic Affairs and Diversity for the slideshow — but it provides a broad snapshot of the diverse fields where women are making crucial contributions to earth science. Tags Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Women in Science News May 31, 2022 Aurora Barone Looks for Equitable Ways to Cut Carbon Emissions May 27, 2022 Sylhet City, Geology, and Packing Up May 25, 2022 Community-Led Science Uncovers High Air Pollution From Fracking in Ohio County May 20, 2022 Start of the Mini-Field School May 17, 2022 Lazy Bears and Confused Birds: What a Warming Planet Means for Wildlife Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close