Skip to the main content United States Air Force Academy Go to home page image/svg+xml Page 1 Go to home page Link to home page Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Menu Search the Site Academics A rigorous academic program that balances STEM with the arts and humanities. Academics Core Curriculum Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Registrar Faculty and Staff Directory Academic Success Center Request a Transcript Investigator or Verifications Admissions News Research Learn more about cutting-edge research that supports the Air Force and our global society. Research Office of Research Research Centers Cadet Summer Research STEM Outreach Future Conflict Cadet Life Take a peek into the life of a United States Air Force Academy cadet. Cadet Life Dormitories & Dining Cadet Clubs Cadet Support Services Day in the Life Frequently Asked Questions Military With a focus on innovation and adaptation to the changing world of warfare, we’re setting higher expectations for what it means to serve. Military Basic Cadet Training Squadrons Airmanship Military Careers Wings of Blue Athletics About There’s no limit to what you will achieve here. Academics. Athletics. Military training. We deliver the future leaders of modern warfare. About Leadership Character Development History Awards Traditions Educational Innovation More Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Athletics at a Different Altitude Our cadet-athletes live, train and compete at a different altitude. EVERY CADET IS AN ATHLETE KEEP FLYING HIGH Participation in athletics fosters initiative, teamwork and the will to win – attributes critical to the development of cadets into leaders of character. All cadets at the United States Air Force Academy are required to participate in the athletic program, which includes: Physical Education (PE) courses Physical fitness testing Competitive sports PE is an integral part of the Academy’s core curriculum, and is critical to the overall development of the U.S. Air Force Academy Institutional Outcomes. Cadets are required to take a total of 10 PE courses, meaning every cadet takes a minimum of 1.0 semester hours of PE in each of the four academic years. Cadets also take physical fitness tests each semester to measure overall strength and conditioning. Proficiency is required in both the Physical Fitness Test (PFT) and Aerobic Fitness Test (AFT). The fitness-testing program promotes maximum fitness within the Cadet Wing, develops a foundation for a lifetime of fitness and recognizes cadets who excel in maintaining their personal fitness. Members of the Cadet Wing who achieve the maximum point total on either the PFT or AFT belong to the prestigious 500 Club. Cadets who maximize their scores on both the PFT and AFT belong to the exclusive 1000 Club. In addition to PE courses and the required fitness tests, every cadet participates in competitive sports by playing on an intercollegiate or intramural team. Intercollegiate Sports The Academy is home to 27 different men’s and women’s Division I NCAA teams. From football to swimming and boxing, the Air Force Falcons have a rich tradition of excellence and success. Athletics at the U.S. Air Force Academy hit new heights this year, finishing 55th, a school-best, in the Learfield Director’s Cup standings—the highest in the Mountain West for the first time in school history and the best of the service academies for the fifth consecutive year. These standings represent the nation’s best collegiate athletics programs, based on finishes in NCAA championships and media-based polls. The grit and determination of our cadet-athletes are what helps them excel on and off the field. Visit our athletics site to stay up-to-date on results and schedules or see how you can join the action as an athlete or spectator. Go Falcons! www.goairforcefalcons.com ACADEMY-WIDE ATHLETICS Intramurals Over 3,000 cadets participate in the 10 different intramural programs, which include basketball, soccer and ultimate frisbee. Athletes practice or compete twice a week during the season of competition. At the Academy, competition is entrenched in our daily activities. Physical education classes are part of the Academy’s curriculum, and every member of the Cadet Wing participates in intramural, club or intercollegiate sports, and for good reason—athletics provide exercise and are among the best team-building and leadership opportunities the Academy has to offer. Explore Intramural Teams Explore Club Sports Explore PE Courses EXPLORE MORE ABOUT ACADEMICS ADMISSIONS CADET LIFE ACADEMICS Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Research Centers Faculty and Staff Directory CAMPUS Events Employment Emergency Weather Helping Agencies Apps COMMUNITY AF CyberWorx USAFA Band Force Support Wings of Blue VISIT Visitors Campus Map Facilities Cadet Chapel Planetarium Base Access Contact Us Social Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Flickr © 2022 United States Air Force Academy, All Rights Reserved The appearance of hyperlinks does not constitute endorsement by the Department of the Air Force or the information, products, or services contained therein. For other than authorized activities such as military exchanges and morale, welfare and recreation sites, the Department of the Air Force does not exercise any editorial control over the information you may find at these locations. Such links provided are consistent with the stated purpose of this DOD Web site.