Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Coronavirus COVID-19 right arrow down arrow COVID-19 Data Dashboard Academics right arrow down arrow Academic Calendar Off Campus Learning Campus Life right arrow down arrow Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Campus Recreation & Athletics Transportation Testing & Quarantine right arrow down arrow Quarantine & Isolation COVID Check App Self-Administered Wellness Check Self Reporting Campus Safety Measures right arrow down arrow Visitors Events Travel & Study Abroad Research Facial Masks Social Distancing Vaccines Home » Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) » Academics Set Navigation title in component COVID-19 Data Dashboard Academics Academic Calendar Off Campus Learning Campus Life Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Campus Recreation & Athletics Transportation Testing & Quarantine Quarantine & Isolation COVID Check App Self-Administered Wellness Check Self Reporting Campus Safety Measures Visitors Events Travel & Study Abroad Research Facial Masks Social Distancing Vaccines Academics Supporting principles Plans must be flexible and rooted in the following principles: The safety and well-being of our students, faculty, staff and community is paramount. Intentional efforts to exercise personal and collective responsibility are critical to overcoming this crisis. It is only through thoughtful actions that we will account for the health of ourselves and each other. Each decision we make should be in the best interest of public health. Preserve a positive student experience. Faculty and staff are critical partners in student success and ensuring an exceptional student experience—from The Bearcat Promise, to CPS Strong, to Co-op 2.0—our determination to preserve student belonging, satisfaction and success, regardless of our ability to see and physically touch each other, remains. Maintain UC’s standard of excellence. The University of Cincinnati has an accomplished history as a world-class research university. Our commitment to deliver exemplary instruction and student opportunity will remain no matter the modality, be it in a physical classroom or online. Continuity of teaching, learning, research, and administrative functions. Obstacles and challenges do not present themselves at predictable times. We must retain the ability to maximize efficiency and productivity in teaching, learning, co-curricular student development, research and administrative functions within a variety of external and internal conditions. University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-6000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-6000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top