Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links UW Leadership Regents President Vice presidents Invite the president Provost Vice provosts Deans and chancellors Invite the provost Foundation Initiatives Population health Race & equity Innovation imperative Husky experience Teaching & learning in the 21st century Transforming administration program Institutional assessment effort Community engagement Tri-campus Office of the Provost Menu UW Leadership Regents President Vice presidents Invite the president Provost Vice provosts Deans and chancellors Invite the provost Foundation Initiatives Population health Race & equity Innovation imperative Husky experience Teaching & learning in the 21st century Transforming administration program Institutional assessment effort Community engagement Tri-campus Home Office of the Provost How to invite the provost to your event How to invite the provost to your event We are here to help If you have any questions about the process, content or materials, please contact the liaison for executive events Mattie Town at 206-543-5020. Request Provost Mark Richard’s attendance at your event Complete and submit invite form Important notes: Please submit your request as early as possible, preferably 10-12 weeks prior to your event. For requests fewer than 30 days in advance, please contact Mattie Town at 206-543-5020. Please be aware that changes to your event (i.e., start/end time, venue, speakers, etc.) may impact the provost’s availability. If you have changes, please contact Mattie Town at 206-543-5020. If you plan to have a photographer at this event, please let us know and share the photos with us within a week after the event. Upon review of your completed form, you will be notified of the status of your request. Event materials Once you have received confirmation of the provost’s attendance, you will be asked to supply the following materials no later than 14 days prior to the event. Please send materials via email to Mattie Town. Event briefing (download Word doc) Annotated guest list (download Word doc) Suggested remarks (download Word doc) Seating chart and room layout Office of the Provost Vice provosts Deans and chancellors Office of Planning & Budgeting Provost’s Advisory Committee for Students Executive Office Finance & Administration Leadership searches Strategic Planning & Assessment Accreditation Invite the provost Want the provost to attend your event? Submit a request. University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA