Skip to main content Texas A&M University Kingsville Home Page Your browser does not support Javascript or it has been disabled. Some features will not function correctly. Previous Next Visit Us! Financial Aid Programs Course Catalog Course Schedule Upcoming Events Date Trending Loading... Javelina News Texas A&M-Kingsville professor named Career Enhancement Fellow The Institute for Citizens and Scholars has named Dr. Liliana Rodriguez, assistant professor of sociology at Texas A&M University-Kingsville,... Texas A&M-Kingsville ranks in top ten best public universities by starting salary When it comes to starting salaries for graduates, Texas A&M University-Kingsville is ranked seventh in the state among public universities. Dr. Robert H. Vela Jr. is the new president of Texas A&M University-Kingsville The Texas A&M University System Board of Regents today confirmed Dr. Robert H. Vela Jr. as the next president of Texas A&M... Dr. Rito Silva selected to participate in the 2022 Millennium Leadership Initiative Dr. Rito Silva, Vice President of Enrollment Services and Student Affairs, has been selected to participate in the American Association of State... Texas A&M-Kingsville graduates celebrate spring commencement at Javelina Stadium Graduates from Texas A&M University-Kingsville walked the stage Friday, May 13, in two commencement ceremonies held outdoors at Javelina... Texas A&M-Kingsville Veteran Coordinator receives award from Texas A&M System Dorine Gonzalez, Veteran Coordinator for the Military and Veteran Resource Center, was announced the winner of the Texas A&M System... Tweets by JavelinaNation By The Numbers #1 University in Texas for producing Hispanic graduates with master’s degrees in Agriculture #2 University in Texas for producing Hispanic graduates with master’s in Engineering Technologies #2 in South Texas for highest starting salaries for recent alumni Contact Info University Main Line 361-593-2111 Email us Follow Us Copyright © 1996-2022 Texas A&M University-Kingsville A member of the Texas A&M University System Last updated: 05/19/2022