Brown University Quick Exit General Health Physical Health Acne Asthma Breast Exams Bronchitis Colds Concussion Headaches Meningitis Mononucleosis Sleep Seasonal Flu Sun Safety and Skin Cancer Stomach Flu Testicular Self-Exams Travel and Health Yeast Infection Emotional Wellbeing Mindfulness Sleep Stress Self-Care Techniques for Stress Relief Wellness on Campus Social Wellbeing Community, Connection and Coping: Remote Resources Consent Economic Stress Roommate Relationships Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Bacterial Vaginosis Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy Gender Care GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Premature Ejaculation Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Accessing Care Gender Care GYN Visits LGBTQ Health Care at Health Services Men's Health Exams Pregnancy Tests STI Testing Options Resources and Links Nutrition & Eating Concerns Eating Well at Brown Being a Vegetarian Dietary Guidelines Eating Off Meal Plan Meal Plan And Dining Information Supplements Eating Concerns and Body Image Body Image Concerns Eating Concerns Help at Brown Sports Nutrition Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S) Sports Nutrition Accessing Care Help at Brown Worried about a Friend Sexual Health Sex 101 SHAG! Erectile Dysfunction Orgasm Premature Ejaculation Sex and Alcohol Sex Toys Sexually Explicit Media Contraception Birth Control Pills Cervical Cap Condoms Depo-Provera Emergency Contraception Fertility Awareness Method Implant Internal Condoms IUD Ortho Evra (The Patch) Ring Spermicides and Lubricants The Recent Election & Contraception Access Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Yeast Infection Safer Sex Ship n SHAG! Sexual Health and Safer Sex During Covid-19 Abstinence Condoms Dental Dams Internal Condoms Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) Pre Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Safer Sex Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) STIs AIDS/HIV Bacterial Vaginosis Chlamydia Colposcopy Gonorrhea Hepatitis B Herpes HPV and Genital Warts HPV Vaccine Molluscum Contagiosum Oral Sex and STIs Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pubic Lice and Scabies Sexually Transmitted Infections Syphilis Talking with a Partner STI Testing Options Trichomoniasis Urinary Tract Infections Yeast Infection Sexual Assault & Dating Violence Get Help Sexual Assault Response Line SHARE Advocates Dating Violence First Five Days After an Assault Male Survivors Sexual Violence and Assault Sexual Harassment Stalking Help a Friend SHARE Advocates How to Help a Friend Get Involved in Prevention Interrupting the Red Zone: How we keep each other safe Culture of Respect Collective Sexual Assault Peer Education (SAPE) Help Prevent Sexual Assault Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Relationships and Communication Consent Dating Violence Learn More Common Reactions to Sexual Violence and Assault Predatory Drugs Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Sexual Violence: Key Terms Resources and Links Alcohol & Other Drugs Alcohol Alcohol and Your Body Recognizing a Problem Risks and Realities Sex and Alcohol Ways to Cut Down Other Drugs Caffeine Cocaine Ecstasy Energy Drinks GHB Inhalants Ketamine LSD Marijuana Methamphetamine Predatory Drugs Psilocybin (Mushrooms) Rohypnol Tobacco Smokeless Tobacco Smoking Cessation Tobacco Learn More Law and Policy Summary Educational Links Accessing Care Resources at Brown Off Campus Resources Calling EMS How to Help a Friend Quit Smoking How to Talk to a Friend about Drinking or Drug Use Google Tag Manager Reproductive Health Yeast Infection What is a yeast infection? Candida albicans, and other forms of yeast, grow in the vagina, rectum, and mouth. In a healthy vagina, the presence of some yeast may not be a problem. When the vaginal environment is out of balance, yeast-like organisms can grow profusely and cause a thick, white discharge. A yeast infection is not necessarily an STI; however, treating a patient and any partners may help prevent recurrent yeast infections. Is it common? Yeast infections are the second most common type of vaginal infection people with vulvas experience (bacterial vaginosis is the most common). Over 70% of people with vulvas develop at least one yeast infection during their life and over 40% have had more than one infection. What causes yeast infections? Factors that may disturb the vagina's balance include: Antibiotic treatments Oral contraceptives Hot weather or non-ventilating clothing, which increase moisture and warmth, fostering fungal growth Repeated intercourse over a short period of time Stress Suppressed immune system (including HIV) High carbohydrate intake, especially refined sugars and alcohol Pregnancy Diabetes Irritants such as soaps, powders, new detergents and other products What are the symptoms? Symptoms of a typical yeast infection may include: Vaginal itching Vaginal irritation Thick, white, possibly curd-like vaginal discharge Redness, swelling, and/or cracking of the vulvar skin Burning sensation during urination Itching of the rectal opening Pain during sexual intercourse. Can people with penises get yeast infections? Yes, people with penises can contract a yeast infection if they have unprotected sexual activity with a partner who has a yeast infection. If both partners are not treated, they can keep re-infecting each other. People with penises may develop genital irritation and genital itching, especially if they are uncircumcised, but usually there is no discharge. Sometimes, people with penises can develop yeast infections without sexual activity with an infected partner. Prolonged antibiotic use can cause a yeast infection in the penis and people with diabetes or immune compromising conditions such as HIV are more susceptible to yeast infections. How is it diagnosed? Yeast infections should be diagnosed and treated by a medical professional. There are over-the-counter medications available for people who have had professional guidance about how to recognize the symptoms. Otherwise, it is necessary to meet with your medical provider because it's easy to think you have a yeast infection when you may really have a more serious infection or condition such as chlamydia or gonorrhea. In fact, recent studies found that many people with vulvas misdiagnose their own yeast infections and use one of the over-the-counter treatments when no yeast infection is actually present. Over time, the body may become drug-resistant to yeast infection medication, and the real problem is never treated. To diagnose a yeast infection in a someone with a vulva, the medical provider will perform a vaginal exam. Samples of vaginal discharge are obtained for examination under a microscope. If you have recurring infections, some of the discharge may be cultured to see if yeast or another type of organism is present. How is it treated? Once your medical provider has confirmed that you have a yeast infection, s/he will prescribe an antifungal pill such as Diflucan, or an over-the-counter antifungal cream or suppository such as GyneLotrimin or Monistat. These medications vary from a single-dose treatment to a week-long series of treatments. You can pick up your prescription, cream, or suppository treatment in the pharmacy at Health Services. If you have a strong suspicion that you have a yeast infection because of past experiences with yeast infections and there has been no change in your sexual history (no new partner, no unprotected genital contact), you may elect to try one of the over-the-counter yeast treatments first. If your symptoms do not go away, you should then see your medical provider for an exam. Sexual partners who have no symptoms of a yeast infection usually don't need treatment. A partner with symptoms should see a provider for evaluation and concurrent treatment. While the treatment is underway, a latex barrier during sex may prevent passing the infection to a partner. However, if you are using yeast creams or suppositories, the ingredients may damage the latex of condoms, diaphragms and dental dams. So, using a latex barrier is not recommended with these treatments because the latex may break. To minimize the risk of passing the infection to a partner and to speed healing, it is generally recommended that you abstain from sexual activity until all of your symptoms have resolved. Is there a way to prevent yeast infections? You can help prevent a vaginal yeast infection by doing the following: Eat a balanced diet. Get enough sleep. If you go swimming, get out of your swimsuit as soon as possible. Don't wear pads or panty-liners beyond the length of your period. Don't use deodorant tampons. Avoid deodorant sprays and douches. They irritate the vulva and vaginal area. Wipe from front to back after urination and bowel movement. Antibiotics can also cause a yeast infection, since they kill or decrease normal flora. If you need to take antibiotics, you can ask for an anti-yeast prescription, or you can buy over-the-counter creams or suppositories. Avoid tight-fitting clothing and wear cotton, rather than synthetic, underwear. Is a yeast infection dangerous? Yeast infections can cause severe discomfort but rarely cause serious health problems. Left untreated, vaginal yeast infections often clear up on their own, usually when menstruation begins. Menstrual blood raises the vaginal pH, causing the number of yeast cells to decrease because they can't grow in the pH present during menstruation. Recurring yeast infections may be difficult to prevent or cure. There are significant differences between occasional, easily treatable yeast infections and recurring infections that seriously affect a person's life. People who have recurring yeast infections should be tested for underlying causes so that the appropriate treatment can be chosen. Related Links For more information about yeast infections, you can visit: Planned Parenthood Medline PLUS About BWell: Quick Links About Us Staff Confidential Appointments Sexual Assault Response Line Workshops Peer Education Programs Health Empowerment Tools PHONE NUMBERS 401.863-2794 Health Promotion 401.863-3953 Health Services 401.863-6000 Sexual Assault Response Line 401.863-4111 EMS 401.863-3476 Counseling & Psychological Services 401.863-4111 DPS Make an Appointment View the SHAG video series! Ship n SHAG! Place an order with Ship n SHAG and get free safer sex supplies discreetly delivered to your campus mailbox! Get Involved Meet Our Staff About Us Make an Appointment Brown University BWell Health Promotion Health and Wellness Brown University Box 1928 450 Brook Street Providence, Rhode Island, 02912 Phone 401-863-2794 Fax 401-863-7953 [email protected] © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Related Offices Brown EMS Counseling and Psychological Services Health Services Social Media BWell on Facebook SHAG on Facebook BURP on Facebook Health Services on Facebook