Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Information For Search BC.edu Links Psychology and Neuroscience Menu Main Nav Department of Psychology and Neuroscience Psychology and Neuroscience Contact Back Back Close About Overview Contact Openings Psychology Colloquium Series Giving to Psychology and Neuroscience News and Notes News Archive 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 In the Media 2009-2016 Related Links Faculty Directory Labs People Undergraduate Overview The Psychology and Neuroscience Majors Courses Academic Opportunities Research Participation Credits Related Links Major Requirements Course Information and Schedule Undergraduate Admission Job Postings Graduate Overview Fifth Year M.A. Program Doctoral Program Graduate Alumni Graduate Student Publications Courses Research Overview Labs Postdoctoral Research Fellows Diversity and Inclusion Close Contact Directory A to Z Listing Search Morrissey College Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Department of Psychology and Neuroscience Home Graduate Graduate Fifth Year M.A. Program Doctoral Program Graduate Alumni Graduate Student Publications Courses Graduate Each year the Department is pleased to welcome a small, highly select group of outstanding students. We know that you are the next generation of psychological scientists and neuroscientists, and that we are privileged to have the opportunity to work with you. You begin as students, and we all remain students throughout our careers, but we look forward to your quickly becoming our collaborators and then our leaders as you become independent researchers. Our hope is that in fulfilling the formal rules to which we now introduce you, you will acquire the professional skills and knowledge needed to pursue your intellectual interests and make your contributions to psychology. Prospective Students: Complete description of graduate program Current Students: Graduate Program Handbook wiki Application Deadline December 15 Request Info Apply Now Welcome and Overview Requirements and Timeline Frequently Asked Questions Applying to Our Program Application Information Print For application materials or further information about admission into our program, please direct inquiries to the Graduate School of the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences. Deadlines Regular Decision December 15 Transcripts Transcripts from all post-secondary institutions attended. Unofficial transcripts are acceptable for review purposes during the application process. If you are accepted and decide to matriculate, official copies of all transcripts will then be required. Should you submit official transcripts during the application process, these will be added to your file and reviewed, and will fulfill the latter application requirement. letters of recommendation Three letters of recommendation are required. Standardized Tests Applicants in the fall of 2020 are not required to take the GRE. Personal Statement A personal statement is required. Indicate your motivation for pursuing graduate study in psychology. Describe your background, including any relevant research experience, and indicate the kinds of research topics you wish to explore in graduate school. We encourage students to visit our website, read about our faculty and their research areas, and indicate which faculty they would like to work with, if admitted to our program. Frequently Asked Questions Open All Close All Do you offer a Master's Degree program? No, our department does not offer a Master's Degree. Do you offer a program in Clinical or Counseling Psychology? Our department does not offer programs in Clinical or Counseling Psychology. A graduate program in Counseling is offered by Boston College's Lynch School of Education. To find out more, visit the Lynch School's Website. Which faculty members accept graduate students? Any professor, associate professor, or assistant professor may recruit graduate students in a given year. Lecturers and part-time faculty do not have graduate students. Whether a faculty member is accepting new graduate students varies year to year. It is recommended that, prior to applying, you contact the faculty member or members with whom you are interested in working to ask whether they are looking for students. How many students are accepted each year? We receive an average of 175 Ph.D. applications each year. In 2019, we accepted 12 Ph.D. applications, and five of those applicants matriculated. In 2020, we received 215 applications and accepted five. Three matriculated. Do you accept students for the spring semester? The Psychology department does not accept students for entry in the spring semester. Applications are due December 15 for the following fall semester. Students may, however, apply for non-degree seeking Special Student status any time. Do I need to take the GRE? Applicants in the fall of 2021 are not required to take the GRE. What is the required score on the GRE general test or subject test? There is no "required score" or "minimum score" on either GRE test for applicants to be eligible for admission. Simply do your best. What are the average GRE scores of accepted students? 2016: Verbal 161, Quantitative 153, Writing 4.61 2017: Verbal 161, Quantitative 159, Writing 4.91 2018: Verbal 161, Quantitative 160, Writing 4.75 2019: Verbal 158, Quantitative 161, Writing 4.42 2020: Verbal 163, Quantitative 160, Writing 4.95 Can I submit application materials separately? You may upload additional files even after you submit your application. How am I notified of my application status? Once admission decisions have been made, you will receive notification via email. What is Special Student status? Students who are not seeking a degree but who are interested in pursuing coursework at the graduate level may apply for admission as Special Students. Those admitted as a Special Student may take courses only in the department that has recommended their admission. Permission to continue to take courses as a Special Student beyond the semester for which admission was originally gained must be obtained from the admitting department's Graduate Program Director. Special Student applicants are not eligible for University sponsored sources of financial aid or any financial aid that requires matriculation in a degree program. Admission as a Special Student does not guarantee subsequent admission for degree candidacy. Individuals admitted as Special Students who subsequently wish to apply for degree study must file additional application documents and be accepted for degree study. The number of credits one has earned as a Special Student that may be applied toward the requirements of a degree is determined by the department to which one applies, in concert with the Graduate School regulations. How do I apply to be a special student? Special Student applicants should submit the following: application form application fee statement of purpose official transcript(s) Is there an application fee? For information about the application fee, please see the application information page of the Graduate School of the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences. Learning Outcomes When students complete the Ph.D., they should be able to: Conduct original, publishable research Demonstrate a broad knowledge of theory and research in their area Understand statistical theory and application in their area Follow ethical guidelines for work in their area Provide effective undergraduate level instruction Write and speak effectively to professional and lay audiences Back To Top Back To Top Department of Psychology and Neuroscience McGuinn 300 617-552-4100 psychoffice@bc.edu Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Gasson Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Contact Departments Art, Art History, and Film Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics Engineering English German Studies History Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Romance Languages and Literatures Slavic & Eastern Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology Giving to Psychology Apply Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College