Skip to main content Skip to main content DIVISION of ENROLLMENT SERVICES Skip to main content &nbsp;<b>Student Quicklinks</b> Student Quicklinks &nbsp;<b>Faculty/Staff Quicklinks</b> Faculty/Staff Quicklinks Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Registrar Academic Advising Academic Ceremonies Academic Ceremonies Fall Rotunda Passage May Commencement Opening Convocation December Rotunda Recessional December Commencement Spring Rotunda Passage Honors Convocation May Baccalaureate Service May Rotunda Recessional May Commencement Degree Honors Degree Honors Inserts Graduation & Diploma Services About Us Academic Records Academic Records Degree Honors Enrollment Rules Honor Roll Progress Grades Viewing Your Grades GPA Calculator Graduation Honors Inserts Transcript Requests Transfer Credit Legal Process Enrollment Information Enrollment Information Fall Enrollment Information Spring Enrollment Information Summer Enrollment Information Master of Science in Data Science Program Waitlist Guidelines Common Curriculum Online Course Evaluation Course Listings Help Enrollment Policy Exception Frequently Asked Questions Final Exam Schedule The General Education Curriculum Grade Posting Schedule University Curriculum View Textbooks Online Contact Us Contact Us Virtual Office Information SMU Links SMU Links Site Index About SMU Access and Equity Administration Bursar Calendars Campus Directory Clery Report Enrollment Services Financial Aid Giving Libraries Maps Meadows Museum Information Technology Registrar Search Student Affairs Webmail ☰ Calendars and Course Catalogs Academic Calendars Academic Year 2020-2021 Academic Year 2020-2021 Revised 3/9/2021 Fall 2020 Red-Blue Rotation Schedule Spring 2021 Red-Blue Rotation Schedule This calendar includes an addendum listing religious holidays for use in requesting excused absences according to University Policy, Excused Absences for University Extracurricular Activities and Religious Holidays. For religious holidays not listed, contact the Office of the Chaplain. Graduate programs in the Cox School of Business, Perkins School of Theology, Dedman School of Law, and Research and Graduate Studies have different calendars. A comprehensive schedule of holiday dates listing when the University is closed will be announced at a later date. Fall Term 2020 August 24 – December 19, 2020 April 6-August 28, Monday–Friday: Enrollment for fall 2020 continuing students for all undergraduates and for graduates in Dedman College, Lyle, Meadows and Simmons. May - August: Virtual Orientation experiences for new first-year and transfer undergraduate students. More information about Virtual Orientation is available from the Office of the Student Experience, Student Affairs, 214-768-4560, https://www.smu.edu/studentaffairs/newstudent. August 17-20, Monday-Thursday: NEW students schedule a move in time in the SMU Housing Portal. August 20-23, Thursday-Sunday: RETURNING students schedule a move in time in the SMU Housing Portal. August 23, Sunday: Opening Convocation, McFarlin Auditorium. August 24, Monday: First day of classes. August 28, Friday: Last day to enroll, add a course, or drop a course without tuition billing while remaining enrolled for the term. Last day to file for graduation in December. September 4, Friday: Last day to drop a course without academic record (tuition charges apply). Last day to withdraw from the university without academic record (withdrawal refund schedule applies). See Bursar’s website for more information. September 7, Monday: Labor Day. University is open and classes meet. September 8, Tuesday: Last day to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. Last day to request an excused absence for the observance of a religious holiday. September 25-26, Friday-Saturday: Family Weekend. September 28, Monday: Early intervention grades due for designated undergraduate students. September 30, Wednesday: Last day for continuing undergraduate students to change their majors before November enrollment. NOTE: Fall Break has been suspended for Fall 2020. October 23-24, Friday-Saturday: Homecoming Weekend. October 20, Tuesday: Midterm grades due for undergraduate students. November 2, Monday: 60 percent point of the term that federal financial aid has been earned if a student officially withdraws from SMU; prior to this date a partial calculated return to federal programs will be required. November 3, Tuesday: Last day to drop a course with a grade of W (Graduate students). November 12, Thursday: Last day for December graduation candidates to change grades of Incomplete, and to obtain a final grade for a grade of X or a missing grade from a previous term. November 16-20, Monday–Friday: Enrollment for spring 2021 continuing students for all undergraduates and graduates in Dedman College, Lyle, Meadows and Simmons. November 16, Monday: Students should file for May graduation. The last day to file is January 25, 2021. November 24, Tuesday: Last day to withdraw from the University (Graduate students). November 25, Wednesday: No classes. November 25, Wednesday: Residence Halls close (except for those that have been approved to stay*). November 26-27, Thursday–Friday: Thanksgiving holiday. University offices closed. November 30-December 1, Monday-Tuesday: No classes. December 2, Wednesday: Last day to drop a course (grade of W) and the last day to withdraw from the University (Undergraduate students). December 2-4, Wednesday-Friday: Classes will be held virtually (online). No final examinations or unscheduled tests and papers should be given during this time. NOTE: Some Meadows courses that require in-person labs/studios will NOT be held virtually on these days. Course instructors will inform their students via class syllabi. December 2, Wednesday: Last day for oral/written examinations for December graduate degree candidates. December 4, Friday: Last day of classes (held virtually/online). December 7-9, Monday-Wednesday: Reading days. December 10-16, Thursday–Wednesday: Examinations. (No examinations scheduled for Sunday). Examinations will be held virtually (online). December 18, Friday: December Rotunda Recessional. December 19, Saturday: December Commencement Convocation. Official close of term and conferral of degrees. December 21 – January 1, Monday - Friday: University closed. December 25, Friday: Christmas Day. *The process to petition to remain on campus after November 25 will be communicated once the fall term begins. January Term 2021 December 17, 2020 – January 22, 2021 The January Term consists of two primary sessions: Dallas January Session and SMU-in-Taos January Session. Each primary session has different deadline dates. Some areas of instruction may offer a limited number of selected courses during the January Term, December 17 – January 22, with unique start, end, deadline dates, and class meeting times to accommodate the particular needs of the course. January 1, Friday: New Year’s Day. University offices closed. Dallas January Session 2021 Note: Classes meet four hours per day, Monday through Friday. See Intersessions website for specific class information. January 5, Tuesday: 1:00 p.m. Residential Communities open for approved residents enrolled for January Term. January 7, Thursday: First day of classes. January 7, Thursday: Last day to enroll, add a course, or drop a course without academic record (tuition charges apply). Last day to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. Last day to request an excused absence for the observance of a religious holiday. January 14, Thursday: Last day for January Term graduation candidates to change grades of Incomplete, and to obtain a final grade for a grade of X or a missing grade from a previous term. January 18, Monday: Martin Luther King, Jr. Day. University offices closed. January 19, Tuesday: Last day to drop a course or withdraw from the University (grade of W). January 22, Friday: Last day of classes, including examinations. January 22, Friday: Official close of the term and conferral of degrees. SMU-in-Taos January Session 2021 NOTE: Following renewed travel restrictions by the Government of New Mexico, SMU has decided to suspend Jan Term operations at SMU-in-Taos for the January 2021 Term. NOTE: Permission of SMU-in-Taos required for all enrollments. January 6, Wednesday: Travel day and arrival of students, 2-6 p.m. January 6, Wednesday: Last day to enroll, add a course, or drop a course without academic record. January 7, Thursday: First day of classes. January 7, Thursday: Last day to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. Last day to request an excused absence for the observance of a religious holiday. Last day to file for graduation in January Term. January 14, Thursday: Last day for January Term graduation candidates to change grades of Incomplete, and to obtain a final grade for a grade of X or a missing grade from a previous term. January 18, Monday: Martin Luther King, Jr. Day. University offices closed. January 19, Tuesday: Last day to drop a course or withdraw from the University (grade of W). January 22, Friday: Last day of classes, including examinations. Official close of the term and conferral of degrees. January 23, Saturday: Travel day. Spring Term 2021 January 25 – May 15, 2021 Spring 2021 Red-Blue Rotation Schedule November 16–January 29, Monday–Friday: Enrollment for spring 2021 continuing students for all undergraduates and graduates in Dedman College, Lyle, Meadows and Simmons. January (TBA): Virtual Orientation experiences for new first-year and transfer undergraduate students. More information about Virtual Orientation is available from the Office of the Student Experience, Student Affairs, 214-768-4560, https://www.smu.edu/studentaffairs/newstudent. January 1, Friday: New Year’s Day. University offices closed. January 18, Monday: Martin Luther King, Jr. Day. University offices closed. January 23-24, Saturday-Sunday: Residential Communities open for Spring term for continuing and new residents. January 24, Sunday: Spring Rotunda Passage. January 25, Monday: First day of classes. January 29, Friday: Last day to enroll, add a course, or drop a course without tuition billing while remaining enrolled for the term. Last day to file for graduation in May. February 5, Friday: Last day to drop a course without academic record (tuition charges apply). Last day to withdraw from the university without academic record (withdrawal refund schedule applies). See Bursar’s website for more information. February 9, Tuesday: Last day to request an excused absence for the observance of a religious holiday. February 24, Wednesday: Last day for continuing undergraduate students to change their majors before April enrollment. March 2, Tuesday: Early intervention grades due for designated undergraduate students. March 5, Friday: Last day for undergraduate students to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. NOTE: Spring Break has been suspended for Spring 2021. March 30, Tuesday: Midterm grades due for undergraduate students. March 31, Wednesday: 60 percent point of the term that federal financial aid has been earned if a student officially withdraws from SMU; prior to this date a partial calculated return to federal programs will be required. April 2, Friday: Classes follow a Tuesday schedule and will meet virtually. (Good Friday.) April 2, Friday: Good Friday. University offices closed. April 4, Sunday: Easter Sunday. April 5-23, Monday–Friday: Enrollment for summer 2021 and fall 2021 continuing students for all undergraduates and graduates in Dedman College, Lyle, Meadows and Simmons. April 7, Wednesday: Last day to drop a course with a grade of W (Graduate students). April 12, Monday: Honors Convocation. April 13, Tuesday: Last Day for May graduation candidates to change grades of Incomplete, and to obtain a final grade for a grade of X or a missing grade from a previous term. April 21, Wednesday: Students should file for August or December graduation. Last day to file for August graduation is June 4. Last day to file for December graduation is the last day to enroll for fall 2021. April 23, Friday: Last day to withdraw from the University (Graduate students). April 23, Friday: Last day to drop a course (grade of W) and the last day to withdraw from the University (Undergraduate students). April 28-May 3, Wednesday–Monday: No final examinations or unscheduled tests and papers. April 29, Thursday: Last day for oral/written examinations for graduate students who are May degree candidates. May 3, Monday: Classes follow a Friday schedule. May 4, Tuesday: Classes follow a Wednesday schedule and will meet virtually. Last day of classes. May 5, Wednesday: Reading Day. May 6-12, Thursday–Wednesday: Examinations (No examinations scheduled for Sunday). May 13, Thursday: Residence halls officially close for non-graduating students. May 15, Saturday: May Commencement Convocation. Official close of term and conferral of degrees. May 16, Sunday: Residence halls officially close for graduating seniors. May Term 2021 May 13 – 28, 2021 The May Term consists of two primary sessions: Dallas May Session and SMU-in-Taos May Session. Each primary session has different deadline dates. Some areas of instruction may offer a limited number of selected courses during the May Term, May 13-28, with unique start, end, deadline dates, and class meeting times to accommodate the particular needs of the course. Dallas May Session 2021 Note: Classes meet four hours per day, Monday through Friday. May 13, Thursday: First day of classes. May 13, Thursday: Last day to enroll, add a course, or drop a course without academic record (tuition charges apply). See Bursar’s website for more information. May 14, Friday: Last day to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. Last day to file for graduation in May Term. Last day to request an excused absence for the observance of a religious holiday. May 21, Friday: Last day for May Term graduation candidates to change grades of Incomplete, and to obtain a final grade for a grade of X or a missing grade from a previous term. May 24, Monday: Last day to drop a course or withdraw from the University (grade of W). May 27, Thursday: Last day of classes, including examinations. May 28, Friday: Official close of term and conferral of degrees. SMU-in-Taos May Session 2021 NOTE: Permission of SMU-in-Taos required for all enrollments. May 12, Wednesday: Travel day and arrival of students, 2-6 p.m. May 13, Thursday: First day of classes. May 13, Thursday: Last day to enroll, add a course, or drop a course without academic record (tuition charges apply). See Bursar’s website for more information. May 14, Friday: Last day to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. Last day to file for graduation in May Term. Last day to request an excused absence for the observance of a religious holiday. May 21, Friday: Last day for May Term graduation candidates to change grades of Incomplete, and to obtain a final grade for a grade of X or a missing grade from a previous term. May 25, Tuesday: Last day to drop a course or withdraw from the University (grade of W). May 28, Friday: Last day of classes, including examinations. Official close of term and conferral of degrees. May 29, Saturday: Travel Day. Summer Term 2021 June 1 – August 4, 2021 The summer term consists of four primary sessions: Dallas Full Session, Dallas First Session (June), SMU-in-Taos First Session, and Dallas Second Session (July). Each primary session has different deadline dates. There are also four shorter sessions within the first and second sessions. Some areas of instruction may offer a limited number of selected courses during the Summer Term, June 1 – August 4, with unique start, end, deadline dates, and class meeting times to accommodate the particular needs of the course. Dallas Full Session Note: Classes meet 2 hours, 15 minutes twice a week or 1 hour, 30 minutes three times a week. May 31, Monday: Memorial Day. University offices closed. June 1, Tuesday: First day of classes. June 4, Friday: Last day to enroll, add courses, or drop courses without academic record (tuition charges apply). See Bursar’s website for more information. Last day to file for August graduation. June 10, Thursday: Last day to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. Last day to request an excused absence for the observance of a religious holiday. July 5, Monday: Independence Day observed. University offices closed. July 16, Friday: Last day for August graduation candidates to change grades of Incomplete, and to obtain a final grade for a grade of X or a missing grade from a previous term. July 23, Friday: Last day to drop a course (grade of W). July 29, Thursday: Last day to withdraw from the University. August 4, Wednesday: Last day of classes, including examinations. Official close of term and conferral of degrees. Dallas First Session (June) Note: Classes meet 2 hours a day, Monday–Friday. May 31, Monday: Memorial Day. University offices closed. June 1, Tuesday: First day of classes. June 2, Wednesday: Last day to enroll, add courses or drop courses without academic record (tuition charges apply). See Bursar’s website for more information. June 4, Friday: Last day to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. Last day to request an excused absence for the observance of a religious holiday. Last day to file for August graduation. June 16, Wednesday: Last day for August graduation candidates to change grades of Incomplete, and to obtain a final grade for a grade of X or a missing grade from a previous term. June 23, Wednesday: Last day to drop a course (grade of W). June 24, Thursday: Last day to withdraw from the University. June 30, Wednesday: Last day of classes, including examinations. August 4, Wednesday: Official close of term and conferral of degrees. June A (11-day June Session) Classes meet four hours per day, Monday through Friday. June 1, Tuesday: First day of classes. June 1, Tuesday: Last day to enroll, add courses or drop courses without academic record (tuition charges apply). See Bursar’s website for more information. June 2, Wednesday: Last day to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. June 10, Thursday: Last day to drop/withdraw from the University (grade of W). June 15, Tuesday: Last day of classes, including examinations. June B (11-day June Session) Classes meet four hours per day, Monday through Friday. June 16, Wednesday: First day of classes. June 16, Wednesday: Last day to enroll, add courses or drop courses without academic record (tuition charges apply). See Bursar’s website for more information. June 17, Thursday: Last day to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. June 25, Friday: Last day to drop/withdraw from the University (grade of W). June 30, Wednesday: Last day of classes, including examinations. SMU-in-Taos First Session NOTE: Permissions of SMU-in-Taos is required for all enrollments. (Regular Session) June 1, Tuesday: Travel day and arrival of students, 2-6 p.m. June 2, Wednesday: First day of classes. June 2, Wednesday: Last day to enroll, add courses or drop courses without academic record (tuition charges apply). See Bursar’s website for more information. June 4, Friday: Last day to file for August graduation. June 7, Monday: Last day to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. Last day to request an excused absence for the observance of a religious holiday. June 10, Thursday: Last day for August graduation candidates to change grades of Incomplete, and to obtain a final grade for a grade of X or a missing grade from a previous term. June 15, Tuesday: Last day to drop a course or withdraw from the University (grade of W). June 17, Thursday: Last day of classes, including examinations. June 18, Friday: Departure of students. August 4, Wednesday: Official close of term and conferral of degrees. (Field Session) June 1, Tuesday: Travel day and arrival of students, 2-6 p.m. June 2, Wednesday: First day of classes. June 2, Wednesday: Last day to enroll, add courses or drop courses without academic record (tuition charges apply). See Bursar’s website for more information. June 4, Friday: Last day to file for August graduation. June 7, Monday: Last day to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. Last day to request an excused absence for the observance of a religious holiday. June 15, Tuesday: Last day for August graduation candidates to change grades of Incomplete, and to obtain a final grade for a grade of X or a missing grade from a previous term. June 24, Thursday: Last day to drop a course or withdraw from the University (grade of W). June 29, Tuesday: Last day of classes, including examinations. June 30, Wednesday: Departure of students. August 4, Wednesday: Official close of term and conferral of degrees. Dallas Second Session (July) Note: Classes meet 2 hours a day, Monday–Friday. June 4, Friday: Last day to file for August graduation. July 5, Monday: Independence Day observed. University offices closed. July 6, Tuesday: First day of classes. July 7, Wednesday: Last day to enroll, add courses or drop courses without academic record (tuition charges apply). See Bursar’s website for more information. July 9, Friday: Last day to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. Last day to request an excused absence for the observance of a religious holiday. July 14, Wednesday: Last day for August graduation candidates to change grades of Incomplete, and to obtain a final grade for a grade of X or a missing grade from a previous term. July 27, Tuesday: Last day to drop a course (grade of W). July 29, Thursday: Last day to withdraw from the University. August 4, Wednesday: Last day of classes, including examinations. Official close of term and conferral of degrees. July A (11-day July Session) Classes meet four hours per day, Monday through Friday. July 6, Tuesday: First day of classes. July 6, Tuesday: Last day to enroll, add courses or drop courses without academic record (tuition charges apply). See Bursar’s website for more information. July 7, Wednesday: Last day to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. July 15, Thursday: Last day to drop/withdraw from the University (grade of W). July 20, Tuesday: Last day of classes, including examinations. July B (11-day July Session) Classes meet four hours per day, Monday through Friday. July 21, Wednesday: First day of classes. July 21, Wednesday: Last day to enroll, add courses or drop courses without academic record (tuition charges apply). See Bursar’s website for more information. July 22, Thursday: Last day to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. July 30, Friday: Last day to drop/withdraw from the University (grade of W). August 4, Wednesday: Last day of classes, including examinations. August Term 2021 August 5 – 20, 2021 The August Term consists of one primary session: SMU-in-Taos August Session. Some areas of instruction may offer a limited number of selected courses during the August Term, August 5 – 20, with unique start, end, and deadline dates to accommodate the particular needs of the course. SMU-in-Taos August Session Note: Permission of SMU-in-Taos required for all enrollments. August 4, Wednesday: Travel day and arrival of students, 2-6 p.m. August 5, Thursday: First day of classes. August 6, Friday: Last day to enroll, add a course, or drop a course without academic record (tuition charges apply). See Bursar’s website for more information. August 9, Monday: Last day to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. Last day to file for graduation in August Term. Last day to request an excused absence for the observance of a religious holiday. August 13, Friday: Last day for August Term graduation candidates to change grades of Incomplete, and to obtain a final grade for a grade of X or a missing grade from a previous term. August 19, Thursday: Last day to drop a course or withdraw from the University (grade of W). August 20, Friday: Last day of classes, including examinations. Official close of term and conferral of degrees. August 21, Saturday: Travel Day. Major Religious Holidays (August 2020 – August 2021) Listing of religious holidays for use in requesting excused absences according to University Policy, Excused Absences for University Extracurricular Activities and Religious Holidays. For religious holidays not listed, the instructor or supervisor may contact the Office of the Chaplain. Christian Christmas: December 25, 2020 Good Friday: April 2, 2021 Easter Sunday: April 4, 2021 Easter Sunday (Orthodox): May 2, 2021 Hindu Janmashtami: August 11, 2020 Dasera: October 25, 2020 Diwali: November 14, 2020 Jewish Rosh Hashanah: September 19-20, 2020 Yom Kippur: September 27-28, 2020 Sukkot/Simchat Torah: October 2-9, 2020 Hanukkah: December 10-18, 2020 Purim: February 26, 2021 Pesach (Passover): March 27-April 4, 2021 Shavuot: May 16-17, 2021 Muslim Eid al Adha: July 30-31, 2020 Islamic New Year: August 19-20, 2020 Ashura: August 28-29, 2020 Mawlid an Nabi: October 29, 2020 Ramadan: April 13-May 12, 2021 Eid al Fitr: May 12-13, 2021 * All holidays begin at sundown before the first day noted and conclude at sundown on the day(s) noted. Academic Calendars Academic Year 2022-2023 Academic Year 2021-2022 Academic Year 2020-2021 Academic Year 2019-2020 Academic Year 2018-2019 Academic Year 2017-2018 Academic Year 2016-2017 Academic Year 2015-2016 Academic Year 2014-2015 Student Quicklinks my.SMU Request Transcript Course Catalog Final Exam Schedule University Curriculum Student Records Forms Preferred Name Honor Roll Important Messages to Students Student Appeals and Petitions Student Rights and Responsibilities Syllabus Library Transfer Credit/Equivalency Webpay Master of Science in Data Science Program Faculty/Staff Quicklinks my.SMU Enrollment Reporting Final Exam Schedule Forms Library: SR Forms (Public) Forms Library: SR Forms (Restricted) Important Messages to Faculty Policies and Procedures [Login] SR Policies & Procedures View all DES P&P Procedures- New Course/Prog Room Scheduling Syllabus Library Enrollment and Scheduling - Advanced Users Student Services Quicklinks× Faculty/Staff Quicklinks× Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share