Skip to Main Content apply now ☰ Students Parents Alumni People WyoWeb Virtual Tour Give Events A-Z Directory Admissions UW Admissions First Year Transfer International Graduate Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Scholarships Academics Explore Colleges Academic Affairs Catalog/Schedules Degree Plans Graduate Education Honors College Majors/Degrees UW at a Distance Art Museum UW Libraries Athletics NCAA Athletics Athletics Traditions Cowboy Joe Club Athletics Tickets Campus Recreation Club Sports Rodeo Intramural Sports NOLS Research Research & Econ Dev Wyoming INBRE Neuroscience Ctr Tech Business Ctr Nat Parks Service Research Prod Ctr Supercomputing Water Research WY EPSCoR/IDeA Amer Heritage Ctr UW Life Campus Safety Campus Maps Transit & Parking Res Life & Dining Diversity Student Orgs Cultural Prgms Fine Arts Campus Activities University Store UW Pride About UW Points of Pride Alumni Association Geological Museum Foundation Cowboy Parents UWyo Mag Brand Center Visit Campus Download Viewbook Give to UW UW Home UW Institutional Directory UW News News Home Menu 2022 News 2021 News 2020 News 2019 News 2018 News 2017 News 2016 News 2015 News 2014 News Experts List News Archives UWyo Magazine UW in the News Subscribe to UW News Submit News Contact Us Institutional Communications Bureau of Mines Building, Room 137 Laramie Laramie, WY 82071 Phone: (307) 766-2929 Email: cbaldwin@uwyo.edu Featured Story Research Confirms Eastern Wyoming Paleoindian Site as Americas’ Oldest Mine May 19, 2022 Archaeological excavations led by Wyoming’s state archaeologist and involving University of Wyoming researchers have confirmed that an ancient mine in eastern Wyoming was used by humans to produce red ocher starting nearly 13,000 years ago. Top Stories UW Postdoctoral Research Fellow Explores Water Content in Deep Earth Volcanic Magma Magmatic volatile contents, such as water, are abundant in volcanic arc melts and influence magma evolution, dynamics of volcanic eruptions and the formation... Top Stories UW Wins $20M Grant to Study Climate-Driven Changes to State’s Water Supply A five-year, $20 million grant from the National Science... Top Stories Watt Foundation Gift to UW Supports Healthy Wyoming Landscapes A $500,000 gift from the Joe and Arlene Watt Foundation will... Top Stories A Message from the President: We Welcome Diversity On Saturday, the university celebrated spring 2022 commencement with a series of events that showcased the best of what makes us special: our students, our... Top Stories UW Leads Research That Finds Western Glacier Stoneflies in New Wyoming Locations A group of researchers, led by the University of Wyoming, recently discovered the western glacier stonefly -- Wyoming’s only insect protected under the... Top Stories UW Establishes Ripple Blockchain Collaboratory to Support Education and Research A gift from Ripple, a leading provider of enterprise blockchain and crypto solutions, will establish a Ripple Blockchain Collaboratory at the University of... Top Stories UW, Tribes Commit to Further Collaborations Revised memoranda of understanding (MOU) between the... Campus Announcements Sweetwater County Innovation Launchpad Extends Deadline to June 3 Due to entrepreneurial interest in southwestern Wyoming, IMPACT Sweetwater is extending the Sweetwater County Innovation Launchpad (SCIL) deadline to Friday,... Campus Announcements UW Wool Judging Team Finishes 2021-22 Season Strong The University of Wyoming wool judging team wrapped up a successful 2021-22 season with a fourth-place finish at the San Antonio Livestock Show and Rodeo... Campus Announcements Justin Piccorelli Receives UW’s Hollon Family Off-Campus Teaching Award Justin Piccorelli’s teaching philosophy emphasizes equity, community and discussion, all of which are complicated by having some of his University of Wyoming... Campus Announcements Orrin Koenig Receives UW Libraries Outstanding Staff Award Orrin Koenig, a senior library assistant, is the recipient of the University of Wyoming Libraries Outstanding Staff Award for his contributions in 2021. Campus Announcements UW Announces Memorial Day Closures Most University of Wyoming administrative offices will be closed, and classes will be dismissed Monday, May 30, for Memorial Day. Campus Announcements Manufacturing Works Approved for $3.5M in Federal Funding A Wyoming program that helps manufacturers achieve success has been approved for five more years of federal funding. Campus Announcements Wyoming Natural Diversity Database, UW Extension Release New Thistle Field Guide The Wyoming Natural Diversity Database (WYNDD) at the University of Wyoming has released a new field guide on Wyoming thistles, designed to assist those who... Events UW Planetarium’s Tuesday Programs Temporarily Moving to Saturdays The University of Wyoming Harry C. Vaughan Planetarium normally hosts its educational programming Tuesday nights. However, those programs are temporarily... This Week at UW UWPD to Begin Bicycle Roundup Sunday The University of Wyoming Police Department (UWPD) will conduct its annual bicycle roundup on campus starting Sunday, May 22. This Week at UW UW in the News State, national and international media frequently feature the University of Wyoming and members of its community in stories. Here is a summary of some of... Students in the News UW School of Energy Resources Student Presents at Air Sensors International Conference Austin Moon, a University of Wyoming School of Energy Resources (SER) student, presented a paper co-written with Robert Field, UW atmospheric science... Students in the News Salas, Salazar Earn Top UW College of Law Scholarships Jessie Salas and Cristina Salazar are the recipients of Brimmer Scholars awards -- the University of Wyoming College of Law’s most prestigious scholarship --... Initiatives for the Future of the University of Wyoming Contact Us Institutional Communications Bureau of Mines Building, Room 137 Laramie Laramie, WY 82071 Phone: (307) 766-2929 Email: cbaldwin@uwyo.edu 1000 E. University Ave. Laramie, WY 82071 UW Operators (307) 766-1121 | Contact Us | Download Adobe Reader Accreditation | Virtual Tour | Emergency Preparedness | Employment at UW | Privacy Policy | Harassment & Discrimination | Accessibility