Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Population Studies and Training Center Research Themes Project Categories Cite and Send Selected Faculty Publications News Training and Education Postdoctoral Research Associates Predoctoral Trainees Undergraduates Migration Studies Certificate PSTC Undergraduate Fellows Program Alumni Events PSTC Colloquia Speaker Series Workshops and Professionalization Spatial Structures in the Social Sciences (S4) Working Group in Anthropology and Population (WGAP) Migration Studies Initiative Special Events People Faculty Postdoctoral Research Associates Predoctoral Trainees Staff Undergraduate Fellows Programs and Initiatives About Leadership Sidney Goldstein, PSTC Founder Affiliation Services and Facilities Employment Opportunities External Funding Research Themes Children, Families, and Health Social Foundations of Health Disparities Migration and Urbanization Population, Development, and Environment Reproductive Health and HIV/AIDS Social Inequalities Funding Progressivity, COVID-19, and Inequality of School Resources by Race and SES How Changing Neighborhood and School Contexts Shape Mental Health and Educational Attainment from Childhood to Early Adulthood Project Categories Rhode Island Domestic International Research to Policy Spatial Cite and Send Selected Faculty Publications News Training and Education Postdoctoral Research Associates NICHD Postdoctoral Fellows Predoctoral Trainees NICHD Predoctoral Fellows Past NICHD Fellows Admission and Requirements Funding Opportunities Workshops Predoctoral Training Program Application 2021-22 Undergraduates Migration Studies Certificate PSTC Undergraduate Fellows Program Alumni Events PSTC Colloquia Speaker Series Workshops and Professionalization Spatial Structures in the Social Sciences (S4) Working Group in Anthropology and Population (WGAP) Migration Studies Initiative Special Events People Faculty Postdoctoral Research Associates Predoctoral Trainees Staff Undergraduate Fellows Programs and Initiatives Spatial Structures in the Social Sciences (S4) Migration Studies Initiative About Leadership Sidney Goldstein, PSTC Founder Remembering Sidney Goldstein Affiliation Services and Facilities Employment Opportunities 2022 Postdoctoral Fellowship Manager of Communications and Outreach Postdoctoral Research Associate in Population Studies Summer 2021 Proctorship Program for predocs External Funding Research Category PSTC Undergraduate Fellows Program The PSTC Undergraduate Fellows Program is an eight-week, paid summer fellowship that aims to prepare current Brown undergraduates to engage in rigorous empirical research in population studies, public policy and related fields, in support of the center’s mission to produce evidence in support of efforts to improve public health and inform public policy. The Population Studies and Training Center (PSTC) conducts and promotes innovative research on social, institutional, and environmental dimensions of population structures and processes that are fundamental to health and well-being. Signature research areas include the social foundations of health disparities; children, families, and health; reproductive health and HIV/AIDS; migration and urbanization; and population, development, and environment. The PSTC is known inside and outside of Brown for its collaborative, interdisciplinary community. Across all of these areas, projects engage anthropologists, economists, sociologists, health scientists, and others. The PSTC builds understanding of local, national, and global population challenges through fieldwork, data science, and research to policy approaches. During the course of the program, a cohort of 4-6 Fellows will participate in two modules. The first phase will operate jointly with the Annenberg Undergraduate Fellows Program and will consist of a “boot camp” that introduces skills in statistics, data management and data analysis. The second phase will consist of a mentored research experience that pairs small teams of Fellows with faculty members and other PSTC researchers to gain firsthand experience with the process of doing r search. The team-based approach emphasizes mentorship and peer learning, and allows Fellows to develop relationships with faculty members that may continue. Training Goals Include: 1. Understand key questions related to population studies, and how a social science approach informs understanding health and well-being. 2. Develop skills in data management and data analysis. 3. Gain fluency in using statistical software to conduct quantitative analysis. 4. Practice communication skills including data displays, visualization, and academic writing. 5. Become an effective member of a research team. Completion of this training will allow Fellows to develop relationships with Brown faculty members, and will also facilitate Fellows’ transition to related graduate study programs or professions in social science and policy. Program Requirements: Fellowship applicants should have a strong interest in social science and motivation to continue to pursue research during their time at Brown. Selected Fellows are expected to commit to the entire 8-week, residential, full-time (35 hours/week) training program. Selected fellows will have to complete an I-9 (federal verification of eligibility to work) in order to receive the fellowship stipend. Eligibility: The program is open to Brown undergraduate students in their freshman, sophomore, or junior years. Undergraduates from all concentrations and backgrounds are welcome to apply. Prerequisites: o Coursework in introductory statistics (e.g., EDUC 1110, SOC 1100, CLPS 0900, APMA 1650, ECON 1620 or equivalent) is required. o Selected Fellows will receive substantial training in statistical computing software during the program. Familiarity with statistical computing software (e.g. Stata, R, etc.) is preferred, but though not required. Program Dates: May 23, 2022 - July 15, 2022. Deadline: The deadline to apply is Friday, February 10, 2022. Funding Award: The Population Studies and Training Center will provide a $4,200.00 stipend to selected fellows, disbursed in four equal installments over the course of the fellowship program. Note: Housing is NOT provided by this fellowship but Fellows are normally eligible for affordable, summer housing via Brown Residence Life. For details/To apply, see here: https://www.brown.edu/academics/summer-session/campus-life.php or contact [email protected] How to Apply: Applicants should submit: An internal transcript/current Academic Record A completed application form. Applicants will be required to respond to the following short-answer questions on the application: o In a short paragraph, please tell us why you are interested in becoming a PSTC Undergrad Fellow? (max 250 words) o In a short paragraph, please share how your coursework, volunteer, and/or work experiences prepares you to engage in research relevant to population studies? (max 250 words) o At the PSTC, we believe that having a cohort of fellows with diverse backgrounds/perspectives is essential to fostering new and innovative ideas for addressing social issues. Please describe what you hope to contribute to this cohort. o Please design a research question, the study of which you believe would help equalize and improve individual or societal health and well-being. PSTC is committed to fostering a dynamic, diverse, and supportive intellectual community. Students from underrepresented groups and students from diverse backgrounds are strongly encouraged to apply. Click here to apply. Research Categories Rhode Island Projects Domestic Projects International Projects Research to Policy Projects Spatial Projects Selected Publications Implications of Social and Legal Status on Immigrants’ Health in Disaster Zones. Elizabeth Fussell et al. American Journal of Public Health. 2018. 108(12): 1617-1620. The Uptick in Income Segregation: Real Trend or Random Sampling Variation? John R. Logan, Arnold Foster, Jun Ke, And Fan Li. American Journal of Sociology. 2018. 124: 185-222. Masculinity, Money, and the Postponement of Parenthood in Nigeria. Smith, D. J. Population and Development Review. 2020. 46(1): 101-120. More Publications Back to top Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Population Studies and Training Center Population Studies and Training Center Brown University Box 1836 68 Waterman St. Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2668 Email [email protected] Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat