Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Robert H. Brooks Sports Science Institute Welcome to the Robert H. Brooks Sports Science Institute With national championships and top 25 academic rankings, Clemson University is known for its excellence on the field and in the classroom and research lab. The Robert H. Brooks Sports Science Institute seeks to marry these areas of excellence through the academic study of sport sciences. Thanks to the generosity of the late Robert H. Brooks ’60, the institute began in the 1990s with an emphasis on motorsports engineering, sports communication, sports management and sports marketing. Its support for motorsports engineering was a leading factor in the creation of the renowned Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR). Today, the institute supports research and scholarships as well as Legacy Professors named for Brooks’ son and three colleagues who died in a 1993 plane crash. It is an effort that is growing and evolving with the addition of research seed grants, a lecture series and other initiatives. Clemson University undertakes this mission out of deep respect for Robert H. Brooks and as testimony to his love for Clemson University and his love for sports. Read the full 2021 Annual Report here. News Brooks Sports Science Institute awards seeds grants Clemson Paralympic Soccer signs recruits Participants’ Takes: Clemson Paralympic Soccer These Athletes #CanPlay: Paralympic Soccer Joined Forces for World CP Day The Transformative Power of Adaptive Sports More Stories Home About Us Leadership Initiatives Our Research Contact Us Related Links Automotive Engineering CU-ICAR Communication Marketing PRTM Make a Gift Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram