By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home 150 Years In this Section 150 Years Timeline 150 Years Syracuse University has never been bound by convention or the status quo. What is at first audacious to the world is just right for us. And that's always been our point of pride. Our founders created a place that embraces leaders of all kinds and emboldens them to get to the future first. As we stand at the forefront of what's next and look back, we're reminded to make the most of every moment then, now and always. A Historic Milestone Since 1870, Syracuse University has upheld the idea that “brains and heart shall have a fair chance” at achieving a University degree. We were pioneers in recognizing women’s achievements, the academic validity of the fine arts, the emergence of information studies and the importance of educational opportunities that serve veterans. Our founding values are embedded in 150 years of educational innovation, expansion, discovery and change. See a timeline of events in Syracuse University's 150 years of history. Honor the Past Then and Now: Campus Buildings Evolve Syracuse University's facilities plan advances innovation and accessibility to meet emerging demands and help shape the future of student life. Embrace the Present Voices of Our National Pastime From Boston to San Francisco and just about everywhere in between, Orange alumni are calling the plays in a hometown near you. Impact the Future Faculty Connections Empower Biotechnology Major to Find Her Research Niche When Amanda Luke volunteered to mentor new students and assist professors teaching a first-year seminar, she forged an unexpected faculty connection that sparked a rewarding experience in a biology research lab and inspired her career path. Archives Link Dive into the University's history and rediscover the legacy of impact. Campus Store Link Show your support with apparel, gifts and more. Athletics Link See a game and take part in our proud athletic tradition. SU Press Link Purchase Forever Orange, a new book celebrating Syracuse University's 150-year history. Take advantage of special pricing through Oct. 31 with code ORANGE150. Events Calendar Link View a full list of 150th anniversary events. Make an Impact Link Make your gift and help change lives for generations to come. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy