Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Advancing Breast Cancer Research You are here Home About News & Media Temple's Impact Advancing Breast Cancer Research Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Preferred Name Use Pronoun Use and Gender Identity Temple Thought Leaders Housing & Dining Health & Wellness COVID-19: Keeping Our Community Safe & Healthy COVID-19 FAQ Testing & Tracing Vaccines Academics, Tuition & Aid Temple HEERF III Grant Student Housing & On-campus Life Work-life for Faculty & Staff Faculty Teaching Information Return Scenario Planning Temple Community Health Advisory Group University Communication Vaccination Rates and Active COVID-19 Cases at Temple University International Campuses and Programs City Life Philadelphia Visiting Temple Accommodations Dining Options Religious Services Information FAQs Safety Main Campus and Philadelphia Safety FAQ Contact Temple RAVE Temple Guardian App Community Programs and Research University News Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Campus Life Arts and Culture Clubs and Organizations Housing, Dining and OWLcards Parking and Transportation Safety Student Banking Student Centers Wireless, Computers and Phone Academics Advising and Academic Support Courses and Calendars International Students Libraries Registration, Grades and Books Schools and Colleges Health and Wellness Athletics and Fitness Health and Counseling Tuition and Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition and Billing Careers and Internships Career Center Internships Student Jobs Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees Presidential Search President University Leadership Board of Trustees Updates Past Presidents 2019 State of the University History & Traditions Russell Conwell Temple Traditions Acres of Diamonds Honorary Degrees Past Honorary Degree Recipients Temple Health News & Media Media Mentions Temple University Wallpapers Temple's Impact Career in Charitable Change Fueled by Temple Experiences Advancing Breast Cancer Research Leaders in HIV Research 21st-century Learning Temple Firsts Paving the Way Medical & Community Support Student Support Contact members of Strategic Marketing and Communications Offices Public Information Facts About Temple Faculty & Staff Resources Working at Temple Calendars and Time Off Holiday Schedule Careers at Temple Human Resources Performance and Training Business Services Catering Exception Policy Double Tree Catering/ Conferences Contact Frequently Asked Questions Trademark Licensing Policy Corporate Responsibility Logo and Graphics Guide Guidelines for Trademark Use The Student, Faculty and Staff Guide to Ordering Licensed Temple Products Becoming Licensed Trademark and Licensing FAQ Where to Buy Temple Gear University-approved Hotels Club Quarters DoubleTree Hotel Hilton Garden Inn Hilton Philadelphia at Penn's Landing Loews Hotel Sonesta Philadelphia The Conwell Inn Campus Services Computers, Email and Phones Conferences and Meetings Health Sciences Center Form Main Campus Meeting Space Howard Gittis Student Center Form Documents & Insurance Facilities and Space ID Cards Parking and Transportation Faculty Resources Calendars, Schedules and Grades Courses and Curricula Instructional Resources Faculty Senate and News Research and Grants Finance and Travel Accounting and Budget Employee Banking and Finance Tuition Remission Travel and Expenses Wellness and Safety Fitness and Health Safety and Alerts Campus Development Frequently Asked Questions Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Data Integrity and Data Verification Unit In-scope Materials Quick Reference Guide Rankings Data Overview and Updates Additional Resources Frequently Asked Questions FAQ: Fox School of Business MBA rankings Enterprise Risk Management Key Terms and Definitions Helpline Frequently Asked Questions Resources Compliance With the Four Pillars Who We Are Libraries Charles Library A bioengineering researcher develops diagnostic tools to predict and prevent breast cancer metastasis. Currently, breast cancer metastasis is the cause of 90% of breast cancer deaths. Metastasis is what happens when the cancer spreads to other parts of the body from where it originated, and right now there are no therapies that can specifically treat it. Also, there are no current diagnostics that can predict which patients will develop metastases. Associate Professor of Bioengineering Bojana Gligorijevic is working to address this challenge. “Our dream is to be able to predict and prevent metastasis,” said Gligorijevic. She’s working to create new breast cancer predictive diagnostic tools, which would have the potential to prevent overtreatment and lower the now high mortality rate of metastatic breast cancer deaths by predicting metastasis and stopping it before it actually happens. A Personal Connection While Gligorijevic was pursuing her PhD, she developed imaging techniques for malaria research and met dozens of other researchers in the field. Though, during her program, she never met anyone who was infected with malaria. “I wanted to work on something that would provide a more direct impact for people I know and care about. My aunt and a few other women I knew were suffering from breast cancer at the time,” said Gligorijevic. In 2019, Gligorijevic received a $2 million research award from the National Cancer Institute of the National Institutes of Health, and just last year she was awarded a $791,000 four-year Research Scholar Grant from the American Cancer Society. Bojana Gligorijevic Associate Professor of Bioengineering “My goal was to build a research program in microscopy of cancer, where students from engineering, biology, physics, chemistry, medicine can all have a role in fighting against cancer, using their different backgrounds. There aren’t many places in the world where you can do that, as it requires integration between a university, a medical school and a cancer center.” Getting Ahead of Disease She explained that most therapies now are still rather traditional, meaning they measure how much the tumor shrank after treatment, and metastasis is diagnosed by using imaging techniques. By the time that metastasis is diagnosed, though, it already contains billions of cells that make it extremely difficult to successfully treat. She and her team are developing markers for the early stages of metastasis, before any cells leave the primary tumor site. One of the markers is based on invadopodia, which are small structures that have long been hypothesized as necessary for metastasis to happen. “Invadopodia are protrusions formed on tumor cells and are able to degrade the fibers of connective tissue. By using our unique windows that we implant in mice as well as in vivo, real-time microscopy, we showed for the first time that invadopodia in vivo assembles around blood vessels, where the fibers of connective tissue are highly cross-linked. We demonstrated that invadopodia precede metastasis and that the elimination of invadopodia stops metastasis in vivo,” said Gligorijevic. Essentially, detection of invadopodia can be used to predict and prevent metastasis. Gligorijevic is also working to understand how invadopodia materialize in the first place and once they’re there, how to find them. “To prevent invadopodia from ever forming, we are working to understand how they emerge and what stimulates their assembly … Invadopodia only occurs during the early period of cell growth, called G1 phase. So if a patient has invadopodia, they should not be treated with drugs that arrest cells (stop growth) in G1, as this may accelerate metastasis,” said Gligorijevic. A Partnered Approach To be able to see invadopodia in patients, Gligorijevic is working with someone very close to her—her husband, Associate Professor of Bioengineering Erkan Tüzel. They’re developing a seven-color imaging assay, with machine and deep learning models, which is one of Tüzel lab’s focus areas. (Machine learning is a method of data analysis where the algorithms learn from the data they collect and optimize automatically. Deep learning is a subcategory of machine learning that imitates how human brains learn and can process immense amounts of data to make predictions.) Gligorijevic is able to access patient tissue through collaboration with the Biosample Repository Facility at Fox Chase Cancer Center, and Tüzel provides automated image analysis, machine learning and computational models. Targeted Imaging “What sets us apart is the high resolution of imaging, as we work on the cellular and subcellular level. Of course, it is almost impossible to acquire and analyze images of billions of cells in the tissue, so we work smart. We do a first sweep at low resolution, similar to standard diagnostics, and machine learning helps us identify the niche or the subregion where the high resolution is required,” said Gligorijevic. Narrowing down where they should focus the high-resolution imaging allows them to effectively identify and target invadopodia, which will appear in a different color than the other cell compartments. “We hope that one day, we will be able to predict which patients need invadopodia-targeted therapies to prevent or minimize metastasis, and mortality that comes with overtreatment and/or metastasis,” said Gligorijevic. The next step is to optimize the imaging workflow for patient samples and how machine learning is applied to the collected images, which will allow Gligorijevic and Tüzel to provide a number reflecting the probability for the patient to develop metastasis, from the tumor resection or biopsy. She also explains that this kind of work isn’t possible everywhere. Interdisciplinary Impact “I did my undergrad degree in chemistry, doctorate in biophysics and postdoc in cancer biology, and my goal was to build a research program in microscopy of cancer, where students from engineering, biology, physics, chemistry, medicine can all have a role in fighting against cancer, using their different backgrounds,” Gligorijevic said. “There aren’t many places in the world where you can do that, as it requires integration between a university, a medical school and a cancer center.” Many of her other collaborators come from the Fox Chase Cancer Center as well as the Lewis Katz School of Medicine, such as Edna Cukierman and Xavier Grana, to name a few. “Fox Chase Cancer Center has been extremely supportive in terms of building my community of cancer researchers, state-of-the-art facilities, and discussing current therapies with doctors who work both in-clinic and as researchers,” she said. And, her dream of bringing students of different backgrounds together to do this work has been possible at Temple. Graduate and undergraduate students have the opportunity to work directly with Gligorijevic in her Cancer Microscopy and Mechanobiology Lab. “Students are the research. We are here to train them, mentor them, support them and help them fulfill their dreams. Each student has both independent and team projects and depending on their background and talents, they all contribute to the goal that is larger than any of us—to predict and prevent metastasis,” said Gligorijevic. Learn More Undergraduate Research at Temple Our faculty conducts groundbreaking and innovative research every day. Their expertise and experience is shared in the classroom and in the lab where students can help advance the health and well-being of everyone. Learn More Learn more about undergraduate research at Temple by visiting our Undergraduate Admissions website Philadelphia’s Only Public Research Institution As a large, public research university, exploration and discovery of new information is embedded into all disciplines. Temple students can experience research in many ways through coursework, mentorships with professors and independent projects. Faculty Expertise As a major national research university, Temple counts among its faculty some of the most innovative changemakers and scholars in the country. They are experts in their fields, actively engaging in research and working one-on-one with students to help them get to where they need to be. Temple is a large university, but our class sizes are small—averaging just 29 students. Our faculty are also thought leaders who provide compelling insights into what’s happening in our world right now. These insights are integrated into the classroom, where students grow to become informed global citizens. Faculty Research Temple’s community of innovative faculty are driven to help make the world a better place through research. From researching policing in our communities to studying the safety of Philadelphia-area drinking water and identifying a new molecule responsible for the progression of heart disease, our faculty make an impact in the classroom and around the world. R1 Research Classification Temple is a research powerhouse. We’re an R1 Carnegie Classification institution, which means that we’re operating at the highest level of research activity among four-year universities. Temple is one of only 131 other institutions in the U.S. with this classification. This status helps attract top-tier faculty members, who use the latest research in the classroom and call on students to be research assistants. And, it enables Temple’s campus to have the most modern, state-of-the-art academic facilities. Learn About Our Impact Read more stories about Owls making a difference in the world. View Main Page Go back to AboutMore in Temple's Impact Career in Charitable Change Fueled by Temple Experiences Advancing Breast Cancer Research Leaders in HIV Research 21st-century Learning Temple Firsts Paving the Way Medical & Community Support Student Support Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community.