Skip to content Xavier University Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Giving to Xavier Open search dialog Open Navigation Menu Undergraduate Admission Admission Process Undergraduate Application Tuition and Aid Visit Campus Make Your Commitment Contact Us Close Undergraduate Admission sub menu Graduate Admission Apply to Xavier Graduate Financial Aid Events and Information Sessions Contact Us Close Graduate Admission sub menu Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Student Outcomes Academic Support Education Abroad Honors Programs Xavier University Colleges Close Academics sub menu Campus Life Residence Halls Campus Dining Options Clubs and Organizations Diversity Faith and Service Recreational Sports Cincinnati Health and Wellness First-Year Experience Close Campus Life sub menu Athletics goxavier.com Close Athletics sub menu About Xavier Xavier University Rankings Mission, Vision, and Values What is Jesuit Education? Close About Xavier sub menu Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Giving to Xavier Current Students Alumni Relations Employees Parents and Families Employment Opportunities Maps and Directions Search Xavier University: Search First-Year Experience Residence Halls Campus Dining Options Clubs and Organizations Diversity Faith and Service Health and Wellness Menu Residence Halls Campus Dining Options Clubs and Organizations Diversity Faith and Service Health and Wellness Components of the Core Curriculum at Xavier Xavier's core curriculum isn't just a series of classes to be checked off a list. It's a multi-faceted experience designed to help students grow academically, professionally and personally. Explore the programs, sequences and courses included in Xavier's core curriculum, detailed below. First-Year Seminar Courses First-Year Seminar (FYS) classes cover dozens of topics concerning everything from ancient Greek heroes and Harry Potter to the Grand Canyon as a sacred space. All undergraduates are required to take a FYS within two semesters of their arrival at Xavier. First-Year Seminar Courses GOA: First-Year Journey Program This class isn’t about grades, it’s about a successful transition from high school to college, and covers topics like financial literacy, time management, decision making, healthy relationships and more. All first-year undergraduates are required to attend the one-hour-per-week classes for the first six weeks of fall and spring semesters. GOA Schedule and Instructors Ethics, Religion and Society Sequence Life's decisions are often much more complex than choosing between "right" and "wrong." Knowing how to make a smart, informed decision is key. The goal of these required courses is to foster students' understanding of socially significant issues from the perspectives of the humanities, especially literature, philosophy and theology. Ethics, Religion and Society Courses Liberal Arts Perspective Electives A Xavier education, particularly at the undergraduate level, is marked by an emphasis on liberal arts learning. Students take elective courses in history, math, philosophy, science, theology and the creative arts that lead to practical, wise and sensitive action in the world. Manresa Student Orientation Manresa \man-ree-sa\ (n) 1: Town in Spain where St. Ignatius of Loyola, the founder of the Jesuits, reflected on his life. 2: Xavier's first-year orientation program, designed to introduce students to campus and each other before classes start. Manresa is a chance to connect with classmates, upper-class student leaders, and the campus community. Students experience the program in a small group, which gives them the opportunity to create connections that may last for years to come. Manresa Orientation Details You May Also Like Want to know more? Explore these recommended sites and see everything Xavier has to offer students during their first year and beyond. Honors Programs Honors Programs Student Success View Student Resources Clubs and Organizations Your Place at Xavier Student Outcomes Alumni Success Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Xavier University 3800 Victory Parkway Cincinnati, OH 45207 513-745-3000 Privacy Policy Accessibility Policy Non-Discrimination Policy Editor Access Xavier University on facebook Xavier University on twitter Xavier University on linkedin Xavier University on youtube Xavier University on instagram