Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Health Services Menu Main Nav University Health Services Health Services Portal Back Back Close About Overview Staff Student Learning Outcomes Health Education Primary Care Center Overview Privacy Statement and Patient Bill of Rights Emergency and Transportation Immunization Requirements Graduate Student Information Contact & Hours Forms Health Services Portal Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Division of Student Affairs Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Due to the COVID pandemic University Health Services is unable to see walk-ins for this academic year. ALL visits are required to have an appointment. Please call 617-552-3225 to schedule a visit or speak with a nurse. Thanks for your understanding and patience during these difficult times. COVID-19 Announcement All BC students should monitor their health and contact a medical provider if symptoms emerge. Students living on campus or in the local area should contact University Health Services (617-552-3225) to report symptoms and to seek guidance with regard to COVID-19 testing. Students who have returned home should contact their medical provider directly and reach out to University Health Services with COVID-19 test results, or with questions. As always, any student experiencing a medical emergency should call 911 (or BCPD, if on campus). Not feeling well? University Health Services is here to help you by diagnosing and treating physical, emotional, or transitional issues you may be having. Appointments are available Monday through Friday in the Outpatient Unit. After hours (during the academic year), students can be evaluated in our Inpatient Unit. Book your appointment online Call 617-552-3225 with questions or to schedule an appointment. A Reminder to Incoming Students All health and immunization verification forms must be submitted to Health Services by July 1. Health Forms News and Announcements All Events News UHS at a Glance: 2018–19 17,662 Undergraduate visits to the Primary Care Center 1,217 Overnight admissions and short-term observations in the Inpatient Unit 10 Beds in the Inpatient Unit 1,551 Graduate student visits to the Primary Care Center Our Location University Health Services is located at 2150 Commonwealth Avenue on the ground floor level of the Thomas More Apartments. The entrance to UHS is located on St. Thomas More Road. Find Us Back To Top Back To Top University Health Services 2150 Commonwealth Ave Brighton, MA 02135 617-552-3225 About Primary Care Center Contact & Hours Forms Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College