Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation About About Georgia Tech History & Traditions Rankings Mission & Vision Our Values Ethics Visitor Information Institute Leadership Office and Department Directory Student, Staff, and Faculty Directory Careers at Tech Academics Academic Environment Majors and Degrees Colleges and Schools Continuing and Professional Education Georgia Tech Online Academic Calendar Admissions Prospective Students Admissions Overview Campus Tours Tuition and Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Digital Swag Campus Life Explore the Main Campus Student Activities Athletics Georgia Tech Yellow Jackets Tickets Ramblin Wreck Store Research Research Areas Research News News & Events News Center Experts Guide Feature Stories Campus Calendar Media Contacts Apply Give Search Search form Enter your keywords Get the latest Covid-19 health information, operational status updates, and campus guidelines. You are here: GT Home Bachelor of Science in Physics Undergraduate Physics Degree Overview In addition to its technology-focused curriculum and state-of-the-art laboratories, Georgia Tech’s B.S. in Physics degree program offers several key advantages: Undergraduate research with a world-class faculty and projects with a technological focus. Flexible elective course requirements that allow for a degree to be tailored toward individual career goals. The Atlanta location: Atlanta, Georgia is one of the most tech-savvy cities in the U.S. and is also home to some of the world’s largest companies. As a Physics major, you will develop a basic competence in applying the scientific method, using qualitative and quantitative analysis to investigate physics problems — from the atomic to the astronomical scale. You will develop a strong understanding of how the laws of Physics shape our understanding of the world, and of how mathematical analysis and experimental methods may be used as investigative tools. Physics Degree Concentrations and Options Concentrations Add a specialization in one of these areas to your degree. Astrophysics Physics of Living Systems Options Increase your competitiveness in the job market after graduation. Pursue an in-depth, long-term research experience. Learn more about the Research Option. Build a business perspective into your degree without adding the hours required for a minor. Learn about the Business Option. B.S. Physics Degree Requirements The B.S. in Physics degree program contains the following: general core classes; technical courses that provide a strong background in mathematics; technical electives to explore areas in greater depth; courses involving undergraduate research; and free electives. View a typical eight-semester course schedule. Course Highlights Core sequences in quantum mechanics, thermal physics, and electromagnetism. Undergraduate research. A wide range of elective courses, ranging from quantum computing and optics to relativity and neurophysics. View all of the B.S. in Physics requirements and course descriptions. Rankings and Awards Georgia Tech’s School of Physics faculty members are frequently recognized for their outstanding contributions in their fields. These awards include: Reuters Most Cited Researcher Awards NSF Career Awards What Can You Do with a Physics Degree? Physicists find careers in Physics research, industry, medicine, education, and public policy. In fact, a majority of graduates ultimately enter careers not traditionally associated with Physics. Explore more Physics career opportunities What Are Georgia Tech Graduates Doing Now? Nearly 75% of Georgia Tech undergraduate Physics majors continue their majors at graduate schools such as Harvard, Caltech, Georgia Tech, University of California at Berkeley, University of Colorado at Boulder, and Northeastern University. Some 40% of those graduate students continue to study Physics, while the other 60% go into fields such as engineering, medicine, law, actuarial science, and education. Georgia Tech Physics graduates who enter the workforce after graduation work for companies such as Applied Physical Sciences, Georgia Power, Kairos Aerospace, Delta Air Lines, General Motors, United States Army, and Micromeritics Instrument Corporation. Common Job Titles and Average Salaries Physicist: $123,080 Computer Systems Analyst: $92,740 Research Assistant: $51,160 Source: U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics Physics Research Opportunities Explore opportunities to conduct research in Physics while getting your degree. There are many opportunities for undergraduate students to get involved in research projects. Faculty members welcome and expect student enquiries to identify and organize research activities. Summer is an ideal time to learn the actual practice of Physics. View a list of options: Summer Research Internships. Beyond the Classroom Join the Society of Physics Students social and academic club — open to anyone interested in physics, math, or science. Access leadership, career, and mentorship opportunities. Join the Georgia Institute of Technology’s Society of Women in Physics. Gain employment experience and benefit from nurturing real-world skills in your field. Learn more about the Co-op Program and internships. Find out more about the several study abroad opportunities led by College of Sciences faculty. Stories about Physics at Tech Physics Student is a Driving Force in STEM Fields Podcast: There's a Moth in My Video Game! Meet Alumnus and Chair of Physics at Morehouse College A Surprising Discovery in The Field of 2D Materials Related Degrees B.S. in Applied Physics M.S. in Physics Ph.D. in Physics B.S. in Aerospace Engineering B.S. in Mathematics Related Websites College of Sciences School of Physics Next Steps Subscribe to the Prospective Student e-newsletter Register for the "It's All About Science & Math" information session Learn How to Apply Apply Now Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Google Plus Instagram Flickr Pinterest RSS Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites & Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Savannah Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student & Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Resources Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Student Life Scholarships & Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, & Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising & Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources Office of the Provost TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Government & Community Partners Professional Education Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login