Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Health Informatics MS You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Health Informatics MS Apply Request More Info Health Informatics MS Admissions Departmental Research Online Program Information Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Science in Health Informatics In the Master of Science in Health Informatics program in Temple’s College of Public Health, students train to create health data systems and processes in order to improve healthcare delivery, patient care and population health outcomes. The master’s degree program is offered on campus or fully online. It is designed for health information management and technology professionals who want to advance in their careers, as well as healthcare professionals, data analysts, IT and health professionals who do not have previous health informatics experience. Health informatics is the application of information technology to healthcare professions, with the aim of creating tools and procedures that facilitate the diagnosis and treatment of patients. The field involves the collection, management and use of information in order to facilitate care delivery and overall health. As a student in this master’s degree program, you will learn to design, develop and implement health information technology in a variety of healthcare settings. You will also become proficient in the foundations of healthcare delivery, information science and computer science, and you will learn to lead the process of system creation and maintenance through immersive courses. Graduates of the Health Informatics MS work in a variety of healthcare institutions and vendor settings in a wide range of positions, such as electronic health record system managers and health data analysts. More than half of our graduates have increased their salaries by 10% and/or accepted new positions of greater responsibility as a result of their degrees. What sets apart our Health Informatics MS? Perfect for working professionals: The MSHI program is offered on campus or fully online, affording students maximum flexibility. Comprehensive education: Our master’s program curriculum addresses pressing issues in our healthcare delivery system using data-driven and patient-centered information. Fuels career growth: All full-time, matriculated Health Informatics master’s students are eligible for free Healthcare Information and Management Systems Society student membership. Program Format Offered in person or fully online, this 30-credit degree program can be completed in two years, either part-time or full-time. Course topics include health data standards, health data analytics, computer programming, machine learning/artificial intelligence in healthcare data, health IT strategy and management, and database administration. The program culminates with a capstone course that simulates go-live training for information technology in a healthcare setting. See a full list of program courses. MPH-MSHI Dual Degree The College of Public Health offers a dual degree program that allows students to earn both an MS in Health Informatics and an MPH degree. Full-time students can complete the dual degree in three years, and part-time students can complete it in four years. Like the standalone Health Informatics MS degree, the MSHI-MPH dual degree can be completed fully online or in person. A hybrid option is also available, allowing students to complete one program (either MPH or MSHI) on campus and the other program online. Several MPH programs are available in the dual degree. MPH in Epidemiology MPH in Health Policy and Management MPH in Social and Behavioral Sciences Our Advisors The College of Public Health offers personalized advising services to students in each department. For graduate students in Health Informatics, the program director provides program support. Bari Dzomba Program Director Phone: 215-204-1892 Email: bari.dzomba@temple.edu Student Organizations You can engage with peers and find leadership opportunities in student-led clubs and organizations in the College of Public Health. Learn more about student clubs and organizations. Accreditation and Program Outcomes The Health Information Management accreditor of Temple University is the Commission on Accreditation for Health Informatics and Information Management (CAHIIM). The college’s accreditation for the MS degree in Health Informatics has been reaffirmed through 2022–2023. This program is accredited under Masters of Health Information Management standards developed in coordination with the American Health Information Management Association and for Health Information Management programs. All inquiries about the program's accreditation status should be directed to CAHIIM. 233 N. Michigan Ave., 21st Floor Chicago, IL, 60601 Phone: 312-235-3255 Email: info@cahiim.org Attrition rate for 2019–2020 academic year: 4% Graduation rate for 2019–2020 academic year: 96% Completion rate for 2019–2020 academic year: 100% Employment rate for 2019–2020 academic year: 100% College of Public Health Accreditation Temple’s College of Public Health is fully accredited by CEPH. The college is one of only two CEPH-accredited schools of public health in the Philadelphia region and one of three in the state of Pennsylvania. Learn more about the College of Public Health’s accreditations. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Science offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2020–2021 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,020.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,398.00 per credit Online tuition: $975 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Concentrations You can focus on Health Informatics or you can take one of the following concentrations. Cybersecurity for Healthcare Professionals Learn best practices for protecting and securing healthcare organizations’ clinical networks and protected health information. View Concentration Details Healthcare Data Analytics Develop approaches for effectively managing healthcare systems by identifying and reporting information throughout a patient’s journey. View Concentration Details Population Health Management Delve into how technology can be used to measure and analyze quality, identify trends in healthcare delivery, and deliver better care to patients. View Concentration Details HP-HLTI-MS Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Health Informatics MS Admissions Departmental Research Online Program Information Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info