Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Department of Journalism, Public Relations and New Media Journalism Online MA Menu Admissions Curriculum Faculty How to Apply Request Info Baylor Journalism Online MA Program Prepare to Lead with an MA in Advertising and Public Relations A Baylor online degree in public relations and advertising will equip graduates with courses in leadership, research and creative skills that are mandatory to succeed in the fields of advertising and public relations. Courses in the areas of leadership, social media, data analytics and research meet the needs of communication professionals who aspire to rise to management roles in advertising and public relations. Request Information Submit Explore Program at a Glance In response to the increasing demand for online master's programs, we are excited to introduce a Baylor online master's degree in journalism with a concentration in public relations and advertising. The degree will equip graduates with courses in leadership, research and creative skills that are mandatory to succeed in the fields of advertising and public relations. Students interested in advertising will learn the latest in social media metrics, AI, market research and ad management. Students interested in public relations will focus on developing leadership skills, data analytics and social media management. Cost: $1200/credit hour Time to Complete Degree: 2.5 years (6 credit hours per semester/36 total hours) Curriculum Courses Cutting-edge studies in social media, leadership, data visualization and analytics. Flexibility A viable option for individuals who have full-time jobs, families and other obligations. Cost More affordable than pursuing an in-person degree. Class Size One-on-one mentoring, outstanding faculty and small class sizes. Value Outstanding networking and career development opportunities in one location. Admission Easy application process in one location. No GRE required. By the Numbers 25% Salary Increase For graduates of similar programs after completing a master’s degree $114,800 Average Salary For PR Managers compared with $60,000 for PR specialists 3,296,232 Job Postings In the last year requiring a Master’s degree in public relations Application Deadlines Apply Now Jul 15 2022 Fall Semester Deadline Dec 1 2022 Spring Semester Deadline News Read More News May 2, 2022 Graduate Student Profile: Meet Hannah Smith As a final requirement before graduation, Hannah Smith, a Baylor graduate student, completed a defense for her master’s project, which highlights the beauty of Waco’s past, present, and future. Smith drew inspiration from Fred Gildersleeve, a documentary-style photographer who captured thousands of photos of Waco sites in the early 1900s, to look back on Waco’s history to understand its past and be able to document its growth. Read More Apr. 13, 2022 Graduate Student Profile: Meet Jaden Jennings Baylor graduate student Jaden Jennings will be graduating on May 13. She provided her perspective regarding what it is like to be a part of Baylor's Graduate Journalism program. Read More Nov. 29, 2021 Study Led by Baylor Professor Reveals Necessity for Improved Listening in Organizations WACO, Texas (Nov. 29, 2021) – A Baylor University-led study on ethical listening discovered that women and nonmanagers believe that management is not receptive to their feedback and are dissatisfied with organization listening efforts. That, in turn, has led to fewer employees sharing legitimate concerns. Read More Jul. 29, 2021 Baylor Faculty to Present Research at AEJMC Baylor journalism graduate faculty will presenting their research at the Association for Education in Journalism and Mass Communication (AEJMC) annual conference on Aug. 4-7. Read More Journalism Online MA Department of Journalism, Public Relations and New Media One Bear Place #97353 Waco, TX 76798-7353 Marlene_Neill@baylor.edu Request Information Submit Department of Journalism, Public Relations and New Media General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Admissions Curriculum Faculty How to Apply Request Info