Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Office of Communications & Marketing Menu Search TTU Office of Communications & Marketing Emergency Communications Center Coronavirus Information Coronavirus Update: March 22, 2020 Dear Colleagues, My name is Dr. Joseph A. Heppert, Vice President for Research and Innovation at Texas Tech University. My office is working with TTU President Lawrence Schovanec, TTUHSC President Lori Rice-Spearman, and TTU System Chancellor Tedd Mitchell to coordinate efforts to expand COVID-19 testing in this region, and to get needed material resources to front-line medical professionals in our community. One of the challenges we are seeing is a growing shortage of gloves, masks, and other personal protective equipment (PPE) needed by health care providers across the City of Lubbock. We hope that clinics and hospitals will eventually be able to obtain PPE from their normal commercial providers, but at present their typical supply chains are completely overwhelmed. They need assistance to protect front line health providers. We are reaching out to dental and veterinary professionals across the community to try and meet this need. I understand that many of you probably need to reserve PPE to maintain critical functions in your businesses, but if you have spare PPE that could be donated to local hospitals and front-line health professionals, we want to help facilitate this process. The following is a list of critically needed PPE for the community: Exam gloves - all sizes Isolation gowns Bleach wipes Eye shields Face shields Isolation masks N95 masks I made a similar appeal to the university research community yesterday, and we have already had an overwhelming response of donations. Dr. Harry Slife, Director of Facilities Administration at TTUHSC will be coordinating distribution of these donated materials to city hospitals and clinics. In order to facilitate donations, we have identified a drive-up donation site on the Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center Campus. A map showing the donation site is linked below. The donation site can be found by following the signs for the UMC Emergency room on 8th Street then look for the donation sign. You will be able to drive up to the donation site, drop off your material, and receive documentation of the supplies donated. Once the situation returns to normal, we will provide you with a letter documenting your donation, so that you can apply for reimbursement from the government, or apply the donation as a tax deduction. If you can donate PPE to this effort, please fill out the sheet with the following information and bring the sheet to the drop off site along with your donation: Your name and how you would like to be contacted with the donation schedule, the name of your practice, and the approximate amount of the items being donated. information. Donations will be accepted Monday, Wednesday, and Friday 10 am through 1 pm. Thank you for considering this request. My best wishes to you and your family.Drop Off Point Sincerely, Joe Heppert TTU Vice President for Research and Innovation Office of Communications & Marketing Address 2625 Memorial Circle, Administration 212, Lubbock, TX 79409 Phone 806.742.2136 Email webmaster@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityMar 25, 2020 7:52 AM Office of Communications & Marketing Marketing Office of Communications & Marketing Marketing Back Identity Guidelines Official Logos Communications Office of Communications & Marketing Communications Back News Office of Communications & Marketing Communications Back Texas Tech Today Monthly e-Newsletter Event Announcements A List Emergency Office of Communications & Marketing Communications Back Emergency Communications Center General Emergency Procedures Social Media Office of Communications & Marketing Communications Back YouTube Facebook Twitter Foursquare Flickr LinkedIn Wikipedia Experts Guide Office of Communications & Marketing Communications Experts Guide Back Experts Guide About Office of Communications & Marketing Back Staff Work With Us Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index