Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Graduate Student Life Menu Main Nav Graduate Student Life Contact Back Back Close About Overview Murray House Meet Our Staff Programs and Services Overview Doctoral Writing Group Graduate Leadership Program Grads Give Back GPS Grad Student Retreat New Graduate and Professional Student Orientation Grad Student Association Overview Senate and Student Organizations Campus Life Contact Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Division of Student Affairs Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Grad Student Association Home Grad Student Association Grad Student Association Senate and Student Organizations Graduate Student Association The Graduate Student Association (GSA) of Boston College is a student-run group that organizes programming and advocates for issues of importance to graduate students across the University. Additionally, the GSA coordinates the funding of the Graduate Students of Color Association, the Graduate Pride Alliance, and the Graduate International Student Association. Graduate Student Organization Handbook Conference Research and Funding Treasurer Resources What do I have to do to be considered for a grant? You need to be full-time or part-time Boston College graduate student in one of the following schools: the Carroll Graduate School of Management, the Connell Graduate School of Nursing, the Lynch Graduate School of Education and Human Development, the Graduate School of the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences, the School of Social Work, or the School of Theology & Ministry. You must completely fill out the Individual request form prior to the deadlines. Please bear in mind that the GSA deadlines are always in advance of your conference date. The GSA recognizes the importance of research and professional development while you are a graduate student. With this understanding, we want to help out as many students as possible with the expenses you incur in the process. Grant application cycles occur in the fall and the spring semesters. Please contact the GSA Director of Finance (gsa-finance@bc.edu) for more information. What are the restrictions on the GSA Conference, Research and Professional Development Grant Application? GSA Conference and Research grants can be applied to conference and research-related travel expenses only, which include airfare, transportation, and lodging (Airbnbs are ineligble for reimbursement, per university policy). Food-related expenses are ineligible and will not be reimbursed. Grants cannot be used as part of remuneration. If expenses incurred are less than the grant awarded, you will be reimbursed up to the amount of expenses incurred, pending appropriate documentation. (For example, if you are awarded $125, but only spend $100, you will be reimbursed $100, These policies are subject to change. Treasurer Resources Being a treasurer for a graduate student organization can be a lot of work—specifically, paperwork! To ask any questions that aren't addressed below, or to schedule an appointment, contact GSA Director of Finance, at gsa-finance@bc.edu. Helpful Hints: All treasurers must undergo treasurer training with the Student Affairs Business Service Center before receiving a p-card. You need to reconcile your p-card every month for which there is a transaction. Failure to do so will result in a freezing of your account. To spend money with your p-card, make sure enough funds are loaded onto the card. If you need more, apply for a p-card increase Open All Close All How do I maintain a budget for my organization? The simplest way to is to maintain a spreadsheet, either in Google Drive or in Microsoft Excel. Download ours if you’d like. How do I reimburse a BC Student for a valid expense the student made for my organization? You’re looking for the student reimbursement form. Just keep in mind that you should not use this form if the student actually rendered any specific services (i.e., if the student was employed by your organization in some capacity). How do I pay a vendor? The Outside Vendor Payment Form will help with that. Bear in mind, though, that every vendor will require a BC-generated vendor ID number. You can find the number—if there is one already on file—by contacting SABSC, either through email at club.budget@bc.edu, or through the phone at 617-552-1586. If there isn’t a vendor number on file for your vendor, your vendor will need to fill out a W-9 form to get the process started. How do I pay a BC student for services rendered for my organization? All you’ll need to do is fill out the BC Student Hire and Payment form. I need to pay someone an honorarium. How do I do that? Fill out the Award or Honorarium form. Students cannot receive honoraria, but they can receive awards. I need either to transfer funds to or receive funds from another organization on campus. How do I get the process started? You’ll need to fill out a transfer form. To complete the form, you’ll need to know both your organization’s chartstring, as well as the other organization’s chartstring. How long does it take to process a payment? Normally 7-10 business days. How do I know if my request has been processed? You will see an electronic copy of your request in your organization's or government's Google folder. Please contact club.budget@bc.edu if you have trouble accessing this. You may also contact club.budget@bc.edu for status updates. We've gotten a new treasurer during the course of the school year. What now? Your new treasurer will need to undergo training. Contact the GSA Director of Finance at gsa-finance@bc.edu. Can we have alcohol at our event? All events involving the consumption of alcohol must comply with the BC alcohol policy and must be approved by the Office of Graduate Student Life after submitting an alcohol request form. All on-campus events involving alcohol must be handled through BC event services. Alcohol policies can be found in the Graduate Student Organization Handbook. I'd like to get in touch with SABSC. How do I do that? Contact them at club.budget@bc.edu. You can also stop by in person in 458 Maloney Hall during normal business hours. Back To Top Back To Top Graduate Student Life The John Courtney Murray, S.J. House 292 Hammond Street Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-1855 gsc@bc.edu About Programs Grad Student Association Campus Life Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College