Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Division of Administration and Finance Administration and Finance right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow Leadership Units Policies Business right arrow down arrow Business Core Systems right arrow down arrow Catalyst UC Flex Community Development Travel Resources right arrow down arrow Concur Travel and Expense Management Concur Training right arrow down arrow Concur FAQs Best Practice Guide Training Guides and Videos Concur SSO Login Travel Resources Contacts Policy and Travel Tools Travel Cancellation Guidance Concur Guest Account Login Environmental Health & Safety right arrow down arrow Waste Management Training right arrow down arrow Advanced Laboratory Safety Training Animal Care Safety Training Defensive Driving Training Facilities Mgmt/Construction Training Laboratory Compliance Training Principal Investigators Training Orientation & Informational Courses Emergency Procedures right arrow down arrow Work-related Injuries & Illnesses Lab Safety Resources & Documents right arrow down arrow Advisories Additional Information Frequently Asked Questions Our Mission right arrow down arrow Laboratory Safety with an Attitude Programs right arrow down arrow Occupational Safety right arrow down arrow IACUC Information Hazardous Materials Management Environmental Engineering right arrow down arrow Pollution Control Asbestos/Lead Abatement Industrial Hygiene Health & Safety Administration Contact Us Facilities Management right arrow down arrow Departments right arrow down arrow Central Receiving Grounds Housekeeping Mail Services Maintenance & Operations Moving Services Project Services Transportation Services right arrow down arrow Shuttle Services UC*Metro Program Charters and Rentals Utilities right arrow down arrow Utilities: Production Utilities: Distribution Dashboards Energy Conservation Recycling @ UC COVID-19 Information right arrow down arrow Cleaning right arrow down arrow Classroom Cleaning Office Cleaning Hand Sanitizer Stations Specialized Cleaning Tools Physical Space right arrow down arrow HVAC - Indoor Air Quality Sneeze Guard Request Process Safe Work Environment and Wellness Resources Contact Us right arrow down arrow Service Requests Join Our Team Announcements Finance right arrow down arrow Vice President for Finance Office of the Controller right arrow down arrow Accounting & Reporting Accounts Payable right arrow down arrow Vendor Form Information Purchasing & Non-Purchasing Information Asset Management Capital Finance Payroll Operations right arrow down arrow Employee Self Service (ESS) for Former Employees Payroll Calendars Stop Payment Request Form W-2 Information Office of the Treasurer right arrow down arrow Debt Management Investment Operations Tax Compliance Treasury Operations Budget Management Investment Office right arrow down arrow Endowment Impact Stories Contact Us right arrow down arrow Karl Scheer | Chief Investment Officer Sam Ekis | Investment Director Tony Caccomo | Senior Investment Analyst Doreen Clark | Investment Operations Administrator Investment Intern Program History Planning + Design + Construction right arrow down arrow Maps and Space Management right arrow down arrow Scheduling Events at the Reading Campus 2021 Intermediate Space Survey User Guide Sustainability right arrow down arrow Get Involved right arrow down arrow Committees & Organizations Events & Programming Environmental Literacy Campus Initiatives right arrow down arrow Built Environment Energy Food Landscape Transportation Water Management Waste Diversion Purchasing Carbon Inventory & Climate Action Plan Links & Resources right arrow down arrow On-Campus Resources Off-Campus Resources Tools & Guides Partners In The News Naming right arrow down arrow General Criteria Monetary Guidelines Design Standards Naming Committee Naming Request Form Vendor Information Purchasing right arrow down arrow Purchasing Contacts Information for Suppliers Contract Compliance Supplier Diversity Home » About UC » Admin & Finance » Environmental Health & Safety » Resources and Documents » Our Mission » Laboratory Safety with an Attitude Set Navigation title in component Waste Management Training Advanced Laboratory Safety Training Animal Care Safety Training Defensive Driving Training Facilities Mgmt/Construction Training Laboratory Compliance Training Principal Investigators Training Orientation & Informational Courses Emergency Procedures Work-related Injuries & Illnesses Lab Safety Resources & Documents Advisories Additional Information Frequently Asked Questions Our Mission Laboratory Safety with an Attitude Programs Occupational Safety IACUC Information Hazardous Materials Management Environmental Engineering Pollution Control Asbestos/Lead Abatement Industrial Hygiene Health & Safety Administration Contact Us Laboratory Safety with an Attitude From former EH&S director Barbara F. Keyes Safety is an attitude. Safety is a quality-control issue. How we do our work determines the quality of our work, and ultimately the quality of our life. Evaluating work habits and improving best practices can eliminate mistakes, increase efficiency, and reduce risk. The myriad of regulations often seems like an encumbering tangle of prescriptive do's and don'ts enforced through punitive actions. They do, in fact, boil down to some simple concepts: Risk avoidance and management through Safe and Best Work Practices. In this context, they become manageable and take on a certain logical perspective. All regulations have evolved as a result of catastrophic events. Environmental Health & Safety regulations are designed to prevent harm to human health and the environment. The two agencies charged with enforcing this mission are the Occupational Safety and Health Administration and the Environmental Protection Agency. The purpose of regulations is to reduce the pain and suffering associated with injuries, disease and loss of income, and reduce the burden of the costs associated with these incidents. Practicing safe science increases the quality of the science and utilizes the concept of "best practices" to promote quality and to reduce and avoid risk of exposures. The routes of exposure are ingestion, inhalation, and dermal contact. Therefore, prevention of exposures in laboratories is achieved by avoiding behaviors that introduce toxic materials into our systems. The OSHA Laboratory Standard requires that a site-specific chemical hygiene plan be written. This plan should basically consist of documenting good work practices and protocol procedures. Elements of a chemical hygiene plan should include: Identification of all hazards (physical, including radiological, chemical, and biological). Labeling of all materials. Having Material Safety Data Sheets available for ready reference. Determining the risk associated with all materials. Documenting all processes and protocols. Employing engineering controls to reduce risk (fume hoods, biological safety cabinets). Personal protective equipment such as safety glasses, goggles, clothing, and gloves. Educating all personnel to the hazards and best work practices and techniques. Pre-determining appropriate materials-handling techniques and containers to avoid spills, contamination, and exposure. Determining the proper disposition of waste. Eliminating the risk of exposure, illness and incidents through training in good work practices. If necessary, provide environmental monitoring to guarantee risk management; and if necessary, provide medical surveillance. Report all incidents and injuries to the appropriate safety professionals. Avoid ingestion of hazardous materials (no eating, drinking) in the laboratory. Compliance with safe work practices is the responsibility of everyone, but is internally monitored by both the Radiation Safety and Environmental Health and Safety Offices. Failure to follow safe practices after training and education may: Constitute willful negligence. Create personal liability. Be cause for disciplinary action, including the withholding of materials privileges. Result in constructive discipline and dismissal as well as civil action. Division of Administration and Finance University Pavilion, Suite 630 2618 McMicken Circle PO Box 210620 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0620 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Division of Administration and Finance University Pavilion, Suite 630 2618 McMicken Circle PO Box 210620 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0620 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top