Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Email Print Princeton Profiles: Akil Word-Daniels, researching lasers to change the world by Danielle Alio, Office of Communications Nov. 8, 2016, noon Play video: Play Video: Princeton Profiles: Akil Word-Daniels, researching lasers to change the world Akil Word-Daniels, a Princeton Ph.D. student in electrical engineering, balances his study of quantum cascade lasers with activities such as intramural softball and playtime with his dog, Zoe. (Video by Danielle Alio, Office of Communications) Video still from Danielle Alio, Office of Communications When Akil Word-Daniels is not working in the lab, he may be participating in a student organization, playing a game of intramural softball or running near the Lakeside Graduate Student Housing complex with his dog, Zoe. Word-Daniels, a Princeton University graduate student in electrical engineering, believes that involvement in activities outside of academics is essential to becoming a well-rounded individual. "You have to get away from the lab," he said. "You have to go out and get involved in different student groups. You have to get out and exercise your body. It's important that you exercise things other than just your scientific mindset." Word-Daniels, originally from Mississippi, received his bachelor's degree in physics at Morehouse College in Atlanta, where he discovered his love for science, specifically optics and lasers. "A laser is just the purest form of light," he said. "There's just something majestic about a laser that just drives me to it. It makes me want to create them and use them and just play around with them." Word-Daniels works with quantum cascade lasers in Claire Gmachl's lab. Gmachl, the Eugene Higgins Professor of Electrical Engineering, is also his adviser. Word-Daniels is responsible for optimizing how the lasers work as well as testing their function in new material systems. "If you could put a quantum cascade laser into a silicon system, something that we use in all microelectronics, then you could get cheap, affordable systems that you can, you know, use on your cellphone," Word-Daniels said. After he earns his Ph.D., Word-Daniels plans to become an advocate for science and science policies. He wants to bring science to communities where science education may not be strong. "Every day I wake up and I try to think about, how can I improve my communities? It's something that's ... a deep-seated passion for me, and my research training here is just setting me up for success in that sense," he said. "In my opinion, scientific research — the fundamentals of it — I think is a gateway on solving … all of the problems in the world." Related Stories Princeton Profiles: Akil Word-Daniels, researching lasers to change the world Read more Laser device may end pin pricks, improve quality of life for diabetics Read more Nine graduate students celebrated for excellence in teaching Read more Showcasing Princeton inventions Read more Video feature: Research makes a difference Read more Quantum computing: Opening new realms of possibilities Read more Olympic air-quality study tests lasers and scientists' political savvy Read more View All News Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice