Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open accessibility options and information panel Accessibility Options: Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Switch to High Contrast See Global University Search and Navigation Visit University Homepage University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search Miami.edu Search Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Miami.edu Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Return to Homepage Open the Main Menu Search Search Undergraduate Degrees, Majors and Minors Undergraduate Curriculum Academic Experience Student Experience Career and Professional Development How to Apply Visit Us Contact Us Graduate Find and Compare Programs MBA Specialized Masters STEM Programs Online Programs Doctoral Programs Financing Your Degree Graduate Experience Career & Networking How to Apply Contact Us Executive Education Online Spanish & Portuguese Programs Our Approach Fast Immersion Modules Partnerships Results Certificates & Boot Camps Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty Directory Academic Departments Academic Seminars Business Conferences Research Labs, Centers, and Institutes News Events Miami Herbert Lecture Series The Herbert Huddle Podcast Upcoming Events About About What We Stand For At A Glance Meet The Dean Life At Miami Herbert Leadership Request Information Visit Apply Contact Us Student Network Student Network Graduate Career & Networking Alumni Network and Mentorship Recruiters, Employers, and Industries Recruiters and Companies Partner with Us Undergraduate Graduate Capstone Projects Talent Development Corporate Associates Program Alumni Alumni Alumni Give Back Alumni News Get Involved Mentor a student Info For Current Students International Students Working Professionals Faculty & Staff Recruiters and Companies Apply Request Info Visit Research Labs, Centers, and Institutes Miami Herbert is home to centers and institutes that facilitate cutting-edge research, provide consulting services, deliver degree and non-degree academic programs, and foster the exchange of ideas on some of the most pressing business issues of the day. Home Faculty and Research Research Labs, Centers, and Institutes More in this section Faculty and Research Faculty Directory Academic Departments Accounting Faculty Business Law Faculty Business Technology Faculty Economics Faculty Finance Faculty Health Management and Policy Faculty Management Faculty Management Science Faculty Marketing Faculty Academic Seminars Business Conferences Miami Behavioral Finance Conference Program Paper Submissions Program Committee Past Conferences The Business of Health Care Contact Us Sponsorship Opportunities Winter Research Conference on Machine Learning and Business Free Registration Conference Program Contact us ICGS Conference 2022 Accommodations & Directions Paper Submissions Keynote Speakers Quantile Regression and Data Heterogeneity Workshop Accommodations & Directions NASMES 2022 Program Venue Information Regional & Local Policy Scientific Program Committee Future Conferences Past Conferences CSO Summit & Symposium Schedule of Events Past CSOSS Events Research Labs, Centers, and Institutes Interdisciplinary Research Clusters Governance & Principled Leadership Sustainable Business Behavioral Decision Making Business Analytics and Technology State-of-the-Art Facilities Our labs, centers, and institutes serve as an important thought leadership resource for students and faculty across campus and the region, as well as for the wider business community. High-caliber facilities and dedicated faculty and staff make our centers and institutes essential resources that support and advance Miami Herbert as a leading research and educational business school. Initiatives ensure frontline and cross-disciplinary research, leadership-focused programs, curricular and industry-oriented activities, and a knowledge source for businesses and policy-making bodies. Intellectual Capital Housing cutting-edge research, consulting services, and academic programs, our facilities enable us to foster the exchange of ideas on some of the most pressing business issues of the day. Learn about our labs, centers, and institutes below. 'Canes Behavioral Lab The ’Canes Behavioral Laboratory is a state-of-the-art research facility designed for advanced, technology-driven marketing research. The lab enables Miami Herbert faculty to conduct leading-edge marketing research in a controlled environment. The lab's advanced technology allows researchers to take advantage of tools ranging from interactive surveys to virtual environments that simulate product features to learn how people react in actual situations. The lab has recently undergone updates to equipment and expansion of research capabilities thanks to a $50,000 gift from the Tina and Richard Carolan Foundation. With the enhancements, the lab is now equipped for more types of research studies, including studies utilizing mobile technology. Dr. Michael Tsiros - Director Contact Us: Tesla Barrientos Office Manager at the Department of Marketing Phone: 305-284-5935 Email: tesla@miami.edu Center for Health Management and Policy Thought Leadership in Health Management and Policy: The Center for Health Management and Policy serves as a resource for businesses and policy-making bodies. Faculty conduct and disseminate leading-edge research, offer consulting services to the health care and business community, and provide training and education for those in the health sector. Center faculty and staff also host the school's Business of Health Care Impact Conference, which draws 700 professionals from across industries each year. Education and Training: The Center's education and training programs include open enrollment and customized executive education programs targeting the health sector. Among these programs is the Certificate in Latin American Health Care Compliance program. Consult Practice: The Center's consult practice helps organizations in the health sector tackle complex challenges in such areas as process improvement, supply chain management, health care economics, cost-effectiveness analysis, management and leadership, physician process management, ethics and compliance, international health care policy and health care technology. Contact Us: Steven G. Ullmann Chair and Professor Department of Health Management and Policy Phone: 305-284-9920 Email: sullmann@miami.edu Deloitte Institute for Research & Practice in Analytics (DIRPA) The Deloitte Institute for Research and Practice in Analytics (DIRPA) is an initiative funded by Deloitte and designed to bring together students and faculty from the University of Miami in a cross-disciplinary effort to better understand the business and analytic needs, challenges, and opportunities of industry and community organizations across the globe. Role: The Institute serves as a focal point and home for students and faculty from the University of Miami and select partner institutions throughout the globe, facilitating curricular, co-curricular, and industry-oriented activities related to business education, business analytics, and digital innovation. Impact: From developing business and analytics knowledge and skills, to inspiring analytics-driven digital innovation, to delivering pro-bono business and analytics consulting, the Institute focuses on developing university graduates and knowledge for a world in which analytics and digital innovation are at a premium across all sectors and geographies. Learn More The Johnson A. Edosomwan Leadership Institute Change is a welcome constant in the business world. In recent years it has come with unparalleled speed and intensity. Successful organizations require leaders who can anticipate, embrace, and ultimately shape this change – leaders who can inspire passion and innovation across their organizations. Forward-Thinking Programs: To help meet the demand for such leaders, The Johnson A. Edosomwan Leadership Institute at Miami Herbert delivers a series of leadership-focused programs, products, and services. We are very proud to offer best practices-based programs and products to assist aspiring and experienced leaders in shaping their leadership skills. These forward-thinking programs, lectures, and other initiatives enable leaders at every stage of their careers to manage more effectively, run results-driven organizations, and enhance human capital performance. Where Leaders Go to Grow: Our unique combination of diversity and intellectual richness, and our location at one of the world’s most vibrant cultural and economic crossroads, creates an ideal environment for developing leaders who can best meet the unique opportunities and challenges facing business leaders today. Here, you will find a world-class faculty, a unique and vibrant campus experience and a robust, accomplished and thriving alumni network. Mission: As an international, interdisciplinary center of excellence, The Johnson A. Edosomwan Leadership Institute turns established and aspiring executives, managers, and other professionals into high-performance leaders. Vision: Our vision is to excel as a premier global resource and knowledge center for the development of research, content, best practices, and talent in interdisciplinary leadership training, programs, competencies, certifications, and degrees. Contact Us: The Johnson A. Edosomwan Leadership Institute P.O. Box 248125, 1541 Brescia Avenue Coral Gables, FL 33124-3220 Phone: 305-284-4154 Email: leadershipinstitute@miami.edu Interdisciplinary Research Clusters Miami Herbert’s research clusters deliver world-class research that encourages interdisciplinary dialogues, research, and teaching across Miami Herbert departments as well as other schools and colleges at the University. Business Analytics and Technology Behavioral Decision-Making Governance and Principled Leadership Sustainable Business Return to Homepage Miami Herbert Business School 5250 University Drive, Coral Gables, Florida 33146 USA Undergraduate MBA & Specialized Masters Doctoral Executive Education Corporate Associates Program News Upcoming Events Lecture Series Business Conferences Media Contact Give Back Current Students Accessibility Contact Us Connect Visit Instagram Visit Facebook Visit LinkedIn Visit Twitter Visit YouTube © 2021 University of Miami Patti and Allan Herbert Business School. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices Title IX & Gender Equity Website Feedback