Your browser does not support JavaScript! Your browser does not support JavaScript! Skip to main content Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Canvas | Webmail | Contact Us Request Info Apply Now eCourseware | Webmail | Contact Us Request Info Apply Now About UofM Global Learn More Rankings Accreditations Contact Us Degrees & Programs Undergraduate Graduate Certificates All Programs Complimentary Courses Admissions Apply Now Request Info Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Current Students Student Services & Support Register for Courses Graduation Home UofM Global Degree Programs Graduate Online Degree Programs Degree Programs Online Degrees Undergraduate Degrees All Undergraduate DegreesBusinessComputingHealth ProfessionsHumanitiesSocial Science Graduate Degrees All Graduate Degrees Arts Business Computing Education Engineering Health Professions Humanities Liberal Studies Social Science Graduate Certificates Complimentary Courses Contact Us Need Help? Call 844-302-3886 Email Us All Graduate Online Degree Programs Arts Master of Music in Music Education Pursue your graduate studies in music education WHILE you continue to teach through our online master of music education graduate program. Learn More Graduate Certificate in Arts Entrepreneurship The Arts Entrepreneurship Graduate Certificate is an available program for prospective businessmen and women with existing backgrounds in creative fields. The certificate will aim for an overarching understanding of and work within entrepreneurship, including the history, social impact, and ethics of this type of work; learning how to articulate a vision for a particular product or idea; developing a business model alongside knowledge of leadership and management development; learning how to best frame, market, and promote a product or idea; and culminating in developing a pitch deck and provide a formal pitch of the idea at the Arts Entrepreneurship Annual Conference to potential investors and other entrepreneurs. Learn More Interdisciplinary Graduate Certificate in Museum Studies Museums anchor communities, celebrate cultures, preserve heritage, stimulate discovery, embrace diversity, innovate learning, and engage people with each other and important issues of our time. The online Graduate Certificate program prepares students who are currently enrolled in or have completed master's or doctoral degree programs to enter the museum professions. Since its start in 2003, the Graduate Certificate in Museum Studies has prepared students for positions in museum administration, education, collection management, registration, exhibition development, curation, and public programs. Learn More Business Professions Master of Science in Accounting The Master of Science in accounting is a ten-course, thirty-hour, fully online program designed to prepare students for careers in accounting and to pass the CPA exam. Our degree may be completed in 12 months. Learn More Master of Business Administration The Online Master of Business Administration degree at the University of Memphis is offered within the Fogelman College of Business & Economics. Designated as a "Top 25 Online MBA" by the Princeton Review in 2016 and 2017, the Fogelman Online MBA is designed for ambitious professionals whose demanding schedule and/or geographic location makes it difficult to attend classes in-person. Learn More Master of Professional Studies The Master of Professional Studies (MPS) is designed for working adults who seek to advance their careers through a targeted professional graduate program. The MPS degree provides flexibility with courses offered online and in a hybrid format. It consists of 33 hours of coursework and is available in three concentrations: Strategic Leadership; Human Resource Leadership; and Training and Development. Learn More Master of Science in Sport and Hospitality Management (Concentration in Sport Commerce Available) The MS in Sport and Hospitality Management program is a business focus on the industry of sport. For those looking for the best value in a sport management master's degree, the University of Memphis MS in Sport Commerce offers an on-campus and online program that provides students the business skills and industry knowledge needed to launch a successful career in sport. Learn More Graduate Certificate in General Business The Graduate Certificate in General Business is targeted at students with a bachelor’s degree in a non-business field who wish to transition into management fields or into an MBA program. Performance in these courses, which are part of the MBA core, will be used for screening potential MBA applicants without a business background. Learn More Graduate Certificate in Business Project Management Graduate certificate program in Business Project Management prepares individuals for project management teamwork and to be project managers with specific emphasis on the integration of information systems and business processes. Learn More Computing Graduate Certificate in Data Science Earn training in the important aspects of the rapidly emerging area of Data Science. With large volumes of data being generated every day from multiple sources (including business data, biomedical data, educational data, science data, engineering data, and personal data), the importance of systematic and rigorous approaches to understanding and putting these large volumes of data to good use is now well recognized. Graduates of this program are required to take two core courses in data science, and can choose two other elective courses. Learn More Graduate Certificate in Cybersecurity & Information Assurance Earn a Cybersecurity & Information Assurance Graduate Certificate with only four courses. Courses may also be used toward a graduate degree. Now available fully online! Learn More Education Master of Arts in Teaching Secondary Education Prepare to educate adolescents (grades 7-12) in a group setting with coursework in adolescent development, learning theory, social foundations of education, and teaching methods. Requires field hours and prepares students to meet the competencies for Tennessee licensure. Learn More Master of Arts in Teaching Special Education Designed for students interested in teaching children with mild disabilities such as learning disabilities or mild developmental delays. Learn More Master of Science in Educational Psychology and Research The Online Master of Science Program in Educational Psychology and Research is designed for students who want to learn how to conduct applied research in psychology- and education-related fields while studying toward a master’s degree. The program requirements include an in-depth understanding of human development, learning, cognition, research design and methods through a 30 credit-hour program. Learn More Master of Science in Instruction and Curriculum Leadership - Instructional Design and Technology This 100% online, 30 credit-hour degree program prepares professionals to assess training, design and develop learning solutions for online and face-to-face delivery, manage projects and collaborate with diverse stakeholders in business, higher education and PK-12 settings. Streamlined for working professionals, this program can be completed in as little as four semesters. Eclectic in nature, the program welcomes professionals from art, business, communication, computer science, education, English, graphic design, health care, learning sciences, military, psychology and related fields. Learn More Master of Science in Instruction and Curriculum Leadership – Literacy Concentration An in-depth understanding of literacy practices, assessment, and policies. You'll learn how to implement an integrated language arts program, assess literacy levels and apply current research and instructional approaches to improve students' reading and writing skills. Learn More Master of Science in Instruction and Curriculum Leadership - School Library Information Specialist As a certified librarian and media specialist, you can advance in your career and guide young minds in their search for information and adventure through books and media. The School Library Information Specialist is an emphasis area within the Instruction and Curriculum Leadership (ICL) concentration. Must be part of enrollment towards a master's degree if a student has not already completed an M.S. or M.A. degree; also offered as a graduate certificate for those who have already earned a master's degree (or higher). Learn More Master of Science in School Administration and Supervision This online 30-hour (ten classes) master’s program is designed for individuals who want to become school principals/assistant principals. Graduates develop their skills in leadership, policy formulation, have opportunities to analyze data and its relationship to organizational effectiveness, and will garner state licensure to serve as school leaders. Learn More Master of Science in Student Affairs Administration The Master’s degree in Student Affairs Administration prepares students for professional roles in a variety of student service higher education settings. The program offers coursework on college student development, campus diversity, student engagement, academic advising, program assessment, and campus leadership. Learn More Master of Science in Health Studies with a Concentration Physical Education Teacher Education Research on teaching and teacher education in physical education. Learn More Doctor of Education in Higher and Adult Education - Higher Education Primarily for mid- and senior-level administrative positions in higher education institutions and higher education-related agencies, boards, and commissions. Learn More Doctor of Education in Higher and Adult Education - Adult Education Study the practice of teaching adults, including those in college and graduate school. This program differs from other education degrees due to cognitive differences in developmental stages. Learn More Doctor of Education in Instruction and Curriculum Leadership - Instructional Design and Technology Prepare for positions like teacher educators and university researchers; become an expert in research and development and lead initiatives to analyze, implement, and evaluate instructional materials and learning environments. Learn More Graduate Certificate in Autism Studies The University of Memphis is excited to offer an online Autism Certificate Program. The Autism Certificate Program is designed to equip parents, teachers, and professionals with the tools necessary to successfully work with children with autism and deal with the unique challenges and rewards associated with the disorder. Learn More Graduate Certificate in College and Career Counseling The University of Memphis' certification in college and career counseling as an online and field based post-degree program designed to address contemporary issues related to career and college counseling in schools. Learn More Graduate Certificate - Educational Leadership This online 18-hour (six classes) graduate certificate is designed for individuals who already possess a master's degree, work in a K-12 setting and are seeking alternate route certification to become a school principal/school leader. This certificate mirrors the MS in Leadership and Policy Studies School Administration and Supervision concentration. Learn More Graduate Certificate in Higher Education Instruction This online 18-hour (six classes) graduate certificate is designed for individuals already teaching in higher education settings or working on an advanced degree who would like to hone their college classroom teaching skills. Graduates can work at community colleges, private and public colleges/universities, for-profit agencies and adult learning centers. Learn More Graduate Certificate in Instructional Design and Technology Our graduate-level certificate program is completely online and offers two tracks: (1) Educational Technology and (2) Design and Development. Each track is comprised of four classes. The courses may be completed as part of a degree program in IDT or other program with your advisor's approval. Transform your career! Learn More Graduate Certificate in Literacy, Leadership, and Coaching Literacy Education is concerned with the promotion of literacy, with specific emphasis on reading, writing, listening and speaking. No matter what your career goals, local or global, we have a program to meet your professional needs. Learn More Graduate Certificate - School Library Information Specialist The program of study for School Library Information Specialist (SLIS) is a graduate program offered 100% online, and the courses must be part of enrollment towards a Master's degree if a student has not already completed an M.S. or M.A. degree. It is also offered as Graduate Certificate for those who have already earned a Master's degree (or higher). Learn More Special Education Comprehensive Certificate The Special Education Comprehensive Certificate is designed for individuals seeking certification in Comprehensive Special Education or wanting to enhance their knowledge of Low Incidence Disabilities. The program provides advanced coursework directed at foundational knowledge and evidence-based instructional practices for children with low incidence disabilities (e.g., intellectual disorders, ASD, multiple disabilities). This non-degree-seeking program can lead to an advanced degree, or enhance skills for those who work in fields requiring an ability to work with children with low incidence disabilities. Learn More Engineering Master of Science in Engineering Management The Online Master of Engineering Management is offered by the Herff College of Engineering in collaboration with the Fogelman College of Business. By providing both technical and business content, the program prepares professionals for both advanced study in select engineering fields and careers as managers. Learn More Master of Science in Engineering Technology Improve your employment potential with an advanced degree in Engineering Technology! The MS in Engineering Technology degree will allow students to apply their real-world work knowledge to a degree that will allow them to advance within the workforce... while still being able to work full-time. Learn More Graduate Certificate in Applied Lean Leadership For students with a bachelor's degree who are currently working full-time in a production or service industry, and are specifically interested in learning about lean principles and practices. Learn More Graduate Certificate in Electrical and Computer Engineering - Imaging and Signal Processing Help develop more sustainable sources of energy and more efficient devices that maintain our world and extend our natural resources. Learn More Health Executive Master of Health Administration The Online Executive Master of Health Administration degree offered at the University of Memphis School of Public Health is one of the UofM nationally-ranked programs, currently 33rd in US News and World Report health administration rankings. More than a diploma, the UofM online EMHA delivers an educational experience designed for the busy healthcare professional aspiring for advanced leadership roles in the health care industry. Learn More Master of Science in Health Studies– Health Promotion The master's degree in Health Promotion is a fully online, 30-credit hour program which emphasizes the practical application of health promotion methods supported by theoretical foundations, relevant research and best practices. Learn More Master of Science in Nursing – Nursing Education Secure your nursing future with an award-winning education through the Loewenberg College of Nursing. Their online graduate programs have been ranked #17 by the U.S. News and World Report. The MSN – Nursing Education concentration prepares nurse educators for careers in various healthcare settings. Learn More Master of Science in Nursing – Executive Leadership Ranked #17 by the U.S. News and World Report for their online graduate nursing programs, the Loewenberg College of Nursing is the place learn how to advance your nursing administration career. The Executive Leadership concentration prepares nurses for management and executive nursing roles in various healthcare settings. Learn More Master of Science in Nursing – Family Nurse Practitioner Part of an online degree program ranked #17 by the U.S. News and World Report, the Family Nurse Practitioner concentration prepares nurses to become nationally-certified, state-licensed advanced practice nurses who care for patients across the lifespan. It is a fully-online program with on-campus intensives. Learn More Doctorate in Nursing (PhD) The Loewenberg College of Nursing PhD Program is a seven-semester (3.5 years), full-time program offered online that prepares nurse researchers, scholars and educators in academic nursing and/or healthcare settings. Learn More Master of Science in Nutrition – Environmental Nutrition The master's program in Environmental Nutrition is a fully online, 33-credit hour program that emphasizes nutritional issues through an environmental lens. The program examines the relationships between food, nutrition, and the environment. Learn More Master of Science in Exercise Nutrition The master's degree in Exercise Nutrition is a fully online, 30-credit-hour program. Balance school and life with the flexibility of our UofM Global program designed for those who desire increased knowledge and understanding of exercise and nutrition science. The program provides coursework in research methods and statistics, exercise physiology, cellular nutrition and supportive areas of your choosing. Learn More Master of Public Health - Generalist The CEPH-accredited Master of Public Health degree is a 42-credit degree that may be completed fully online. The Generalist concentration allows students to tailor their degree based on their own area of interest in public health. Graduates are prepared for positions in government agencies, health systems, and non-profits. Learn More Master of Public Health - Epidemiology The 42-credit, fully online, CEPH-accredited, Master of Public Health degree with a concentration in Epidemiology focuses on epidemiologic methods and research skills such as study design, data collection methods, analysis, and interpretation and reporting of data. Learn More Master of Public Health - Social and Behavioral Sciences The CEPH-accredited Master of Public Health with a concentration in Social and Behavioral Sciences is a 42-credit program that may be completed fully online. Students learn about the social, behavioral, and environmental determinants of health and to develop and evaluate culturally appropriate interventions that improve community health. Learn More Master of Public Health - Urban Health The CEPH-accredited Master of Public Health with a concentration in Urban Health is a 42-credit degree that can be completed fully online. The Urban Health concentration focuses on complex health issues specific to urban areas, racial disparities, and the skills needed to improve the health of diverse urban populations. Learn More Family Nurse Practitioner Post-Masters Certificate The Family Nurse Practitioner (FNP) Certificate program provides a formal program of study for master’s-prepared nurses interested in taking the national certification exam to practice as a Family Nurse Practitioner. Learn More Nursing Education Post-Masters Certificate The Nursing Education Certificate program provides a formal program of study for masters prepared nurses interested in obtaining a credential allowing them to teach in in various educational settings. Learn More Certificate in Health Systems Leadership The Health Systems Leadership graduate certificate provides students with training in areas critical to 21st century healthcare, public health, and community health leadership. Learn More Certificate in Population Health SPH is pleased to offer a fully online graduate certificate in Population Health. For public health practitioners and other healthcare leaders who are interested in improving health outcomes in the community. Can be completed in two semesters. Learn More Certificate in Sport Nutrition and Dietary Supplementation The graduate certificate in Sport Nutrition and Dietary Supplementation is particularly useful for registered dietitians/nutritionists, strength and conditioning coaches, personal trainers, and healthcare providers (e.g., nurses, pharmacists) who may receive questions from athletes and/or patients specific to the topics of sport nutrition and dietary supplementation. The certificate consists of three required courses and one elective. All courses are delivered online and can be completed in any sequence. Learn More Humanities Master of Arts in English with a Concentration in ESL You can now earn an M.A. in English or a Certificate in Teaching English as a Second/Foreign Language completely online with UofM Global. Students in the Teaching ESL/EFL concentration take 11 classes [33 credits] for the M.A. and 5 classes for the Certificate that help them develop expertise in second language acquisition, cross-cultural issues, language policy and planning, and second/foreign language instruction. Learn More Master of Arts in History Online B.A. and M.A. program in History, courses taught by dedicated online instructors and tenure/tenure-track faculty, ranging from ancient to modern content, global in scope. Learn More Master of Arts in Technical Communication The Master of Arts in Technical Communication provides students with industry-focused training in technical writing, document design, usability, and project management. In addition to completing a core curriculum of four courses, students work with their advisor to select interdisciplinary electives that best meet their career goals from such areas as rhetoric and writing studies, applied linguistics, instructional design and technology, and nonprofit administration. Learn More Graduate Certificate in Teaching English as a Second/Foreign Language You can now earn a Certificate in Teaching English as a Second/Foreign Language completely online with the University of Memphis' eCampus. Students in the Teaching ESL/EFL concentration take 5 classes for the Certificate that help them develop expertise in second language acquisition, cross-cultural issues, language policy and planning, and second/foreign language instruction. Learn More Liberal Studies Doctor of Liberal Studies The College of Professional & Liberal Studies at the University of Memphis is pleased to announce a new Doctor of Liberal Studies (DLS) degree. The UofM becomes only the third school in the nation to offer this degree for students wishing to work across disciplines to engage a topic or issue. The DLS allows participants to design their own interdisciplinary doctoral program focused on areas of interest to the student with online options available. Learn More Master of Arts in Liberal Studies The Master of Arts in Liberal Studies program at the University of Memphis allows students to customize an interdisciplinary course of study. Within this program, students are able to achieve specific personal and/or professional development goals and to turn valuable skills, generated through unique developmental opportunities outside the classroom, into graduate credit. Learn More Social Science Master of Arts in Criminal Justice The graduate program of the Department of Criminology and Criminal Justice, which is part of the School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy, seeks to serve students who are interested in the criminal justice system, with a focus on those who seek careers in this area. Learn More Master of Arts in Journalism and Strategic Media The University of Memphis Department of Journalism and Strategic Media offers a Master of Arts degree online and on campus. Students can chose one of four emphases - News and Storytelling, Integrated Strategic Media, Visual Media or Research. Learn More Master of Nonprofit Management This 39 credit hour degree program is geared towards students interested in nonprofit careers. The MNM will provide students with the theoretical and practical knowledge necessary to lead and transform organizations and address complex social issues. Graduates will leave the program with the distinct set of skills needed for successful practice and leadership in the nonprofit sector. Learn More Master of Social Work Program Including Advanced Standing Track The Master of Social Work (MSW) Program is a 60 credit hour program. Advanced Standing Track is a 37 credit hour program that requires a Bachelor’s Degree in social work from a Council on Social Work Education (CSWE) accredited social work program. Applications are accepted in Fall and Spring for the 60 credit hour program and Summer for the Advanced Standing Track. Online students must have daytime availability to complete field placement. Learn More Doctor of Social Work The Doctor of Social Work is a part-time program for practicing social workers in leadership, management, research, and evaluation. Admission to the program requires the Master of Social Work degree and two years post-MSW practice experience. Synchronous class meetings are required. Learn More Graduate Certificate in Local Government Management The Department of Public and Nonprofit Administration offers the Graduate Certificate in Local Government Management to mayors, managers, department heads, supervisors and other local government professionals. Learn More Graduate Certificate in Philanthropy and Nonprofit Leadership Every employee and volunteer in a nonprofit organization plays a role in meeting the philanthropic goals and charitable purposes of the organization. The Certificate in Philanthropy and Nonprofit Leadership is designed to meet the needs of these employees and volunteers looking for advanced study in the theory and practice of nonprofit administration. Learn More Graduate Certificate in School Social Work The Graduate Certificate in School Social Work Prepares Students for School Social Work Licensure. Students must be either concurrently enrolled from a Master of Social Work program or have completed a Master of Social Work degree. Learn More Graduate Certificate in Entrepreneurial Journalism From starting a business to engaging audiences through social media, learn the media skills to succeed while surrounded by Memphis’ abundant entrepreneurship community. Learn More Graduate Certificate in Multimedia Storytelling Update skills in multimedia with a focus on telling stories through various platforms including photography, audio, video and data visualization. Learn More Graduate Certificate in Social Media Analysis and Strategy Learn tools in audience analysis and segmentation, analytics and evaluation and community engagement to build and maintain a social media presence for brands and organizations. Earn certifications in various analytic software and programs. Learn More APPLY NOW Ready to apply to a UofM Global Program? Visit the Admissions Page to submit your application. Learn More >> About UofM Global Learn More Ranked Online Degrees Accreditations Contact Us Degrees and Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Certificates Corporate Partners Complimentary Courses Admissions Apply Now Request Info Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Contact Us Tuition Financial Aid Students Canvas Student Services & Support SmartStart Learning Support Technology Support Advising Register for Courses Experiential Learning Credit Graduation Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/4/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.