Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Honors College Menu About Contact Information Events FAQs Give Leadership Honors College Advisory Council News Profiles Social Media Directory Faculty Meet with Us & Learn More! Distinguished Scholars Day Invitation to Excellence Opportunities Experiential Opportunities Baylor 2 Programs Baylor in Washington D.C. The Pulse William Carey Crane Scholars Getterman Scholars Program Application Tips Program Selection Requirements for Consideration Meet Our Getterman Scholars Pre-Health & Science Baylor 2 Medical Track Program Christian Pre-Health Fellowship (CPF) Research & Internship Opportunities Student Research Materials Grant Programs & Majors University Scholars Great Texts Baylor Interdisciplinary Core (BIC) Honors Program Research Faculty Publications Student Research Materials Grant Student Publications Pre-Health & Science Research/Internships Undergraduate Research Assistant Program Scholarships Scholarships for Prospective Students Scholarships for Current Students Scholarships for International Students Study Abroad Study Abroad Scholarships The Honors Residential College Benefits Why Honors (Videos) Choose the Honors College Prestigious Post-Baccalaureate Scholarships & Awards Resources & Events Academic Honors Week Laura Jackson Lecture Drumwright Lecture Career Opportunities & Awards Prestigious Post-Baccalaureate Awards Lecture Videos Publications Recent Faculty Books Student Publications The Pulse Marketing Resources Pre-Advising 2022 Meet Your Major Programs Application Process Application Timeline Honors College Line Camp Questions & Tips Apply Now Give Baylor>Honors College>Opportunities >Getterman Scholars Program>Meet Our Getterman Scholars Meet Our Getterman Scholars 2021 Getterman Scholars Elizabeth Siatkowski Hometown: Oklahoma, OK Major: University Scholars What are your professional goals after you graduate Baylor? "While I do not have a concrete goal for my postgraduate years, my ultimate goal is to help others and educate those around me. Whether it be spiritually, academically, or otherwise, I hope to glorify God through the impact I leave on others. I feel confident that a Baylor education will prepare me to do just that. " How will being a Getterman Scholar shape your experience at Baylor? "The Getterman program will provide me with a wealth of opportunities to maximize my personal growth during my college years. In addition, the community that it fosters will allow me to strengthen my leadership skills so that I may become a better leader to my peers. For this opportunity, I cannot express how grateful I am. Kristen Nakamura Hometown: Richland, WA Major: Mechanical Engineering, Pre-Med What are your goals after you graduate from Baylor? "I am excited to bring my passions of music, philosophy, and storytelling to medicine. My highest goal is to become a physician and bring the gospel to Brazil through medical care. As a Brazilian dual citizen, I have seen firsthand the failing healthcare, poor infrastructure, and doctor shortage in the Amazon delta. I hope to reach underserved regions, combining the science of healing with the love of Christ." How will being a Getterman Scholar shape your Baylor experience? "The greatest objective of my next four years is connection: to define the ties that bind faith and reason, body and spirit, and human to fellow human. This opportunity for connection, as a Getterman Scholar, demands my full participation and makes apathy unconscionable. It inspires me to savor every experience at Baylor and not take a moment for granted. I look forward to forging rich and meaningful relationships with faculty and classmates, as well as striving toward the highest forms of excellence within a caring community." Lilly Parker Hometown: Plano, TX Major: Statistics What are your goals after you graduate from Baylor? After graduating Baylor, I plan to work in the corporate arena in a job that closely involves Mathematics and Finance. In God's timing, I also want to get married and have children. I would like to use my education, talents, and resources to improve the world around me, particularly that of young African-American students. Overall, I want to love the people God places in my life and uplift His name so more people can know of His love. How will being a Getterman Scholar shape your Baylor experience? Firstly, it is such a blessing to have been chosen as a Getterman Scholar. Every Baylor student has noteworthy abilities and passions, so I feel privileged to receive this recognition from the Honors College. I plan on majoring in Statistics, but I also have a love of the Humanities. The Getterman Scholarship will allow me to pursue my Statistics major but also delve into Classics, History, and the wider world through my participation in the BIC program. Being able to experience these subjects through Study Abroad, mission trips, research activities, and mentoring relationships would be invaluable. 2020 Getterman Scholars Abigail Reed Hometown: Spring, TX Major: University Scholars What are your goals after you graduate Baylor? "My main goal in life is to follow God and serve in His kingdom. I don't know exactly what this looks like for the future, to be honest. But I know that if I keep trying to walk with Him daily, He will guide me where I'm meant to go." How has being a Getterman Scholar shaped your experience at Baylor? "The Getterman Scholarship hugely impacts my attitude about school, and life at Baylor in general. It is such an immense thing, to realize that the people here have so much faith in who I am and who I can become. Feeling the weight of that confidence motivates me to truly make the most of this experience, to learn all I can, work as hard as I can, and seek God as passionately as I can. Every time I mess up and fall short, it inspires me to try again. I am BEYOND thankful for this scholarship and I TRULY hope to do the Honors College proud!" Caleb Skinner Hometown: Phoenix, AZ Major: Baylor Business Fellows What are your goals after you graduate Baylor? "I would love to do something with Statistics in the future. I've got a long way to go, so I don't know exactly what that will look like, but I love numbers and data analysis. My dream would be able to complete statistical analysis for sports teams, but I also enjoy doing similar things in other areas. For example, I could pair political science with statistics to work on polling and elections. I could also work for a business and run analysis for them. I could even shift my topic of study to economics and work in that department. At this point, it's good to keep my options open." How has being a Getterman Scholar shaped your experience at Baylor? "With Getterman, I have an immediate link to a group of intelligent, interesting, and friendly people on campus. As my Baylor career progresses, I'm sure I'll have many more opportunities to get to know these great people." Jenna Fitzgerald Hometown: Carrollton, TX Major: University Scholars, Pre-Law What are your goals after you graduate Baylor? "My main professional goal for the future is to attend law school, although I'm not completely certain what type of law I want to pursue yet. Outside of that, I simply hope to discern the Lord's calling in my life and to follow it wherever it leads me." How has being a Getterman Scholar shaped your experience at Baylor? "The Getterman Scholarship has afforded me so many opportunities for personal growth that I never imagined having in college, let alone as a freshman. In only the first week of classes, I've already had the chance to sit down with Dean Henry and to meet a couple of the other Getterman Scholars, who are such kind and passionate people. In the future, I'm especially looking forward to studying abroad, serving on more mission trips, and interning- all of which are supported by the generosity of the Gettermans." 2019 Getterman Scholars Anna Coulter Hometown:Boerne, TX Major: University Scholars, Pre-Law What are your professional goals after you graduate Baylor? "My goals for the future include law school, and to one day become a defense attorney for those who otherwise don't have access to proper representation. God has blessed my life immensely, and I hope to one day help fulfill His blessings for others." How do you envision yourself changing the world after you graduate from Baylor? "I think a little bit of kindness can go a long way, and maybe in the future I can start a chain reaction of kindness that affects others. This is the way I believe I'm called to serve, and that is how I will 'change the world.'" How has being a Getterman Scholar shaped your experience at Baylor? "The Getterman program has provided me with ample opportunity to reach my full academic, social, and spiritual potential, and I've loved every minute of it." Sean Holford Hometown: Scottsdale, AZ Major: Baylor Business Fellows What are your professional goals after you graduate Baylor? "After I graduate, I plan to go on to graduate school and get a master's degree in economics and/or finance. I hope to either research economic issues or have a career in investment banking or financial advisement." How do you envision yourself changing the world after you graduate from Baylor? "I primarily see myself changing the world through my actions as a Christian: loving my neighbor and spreading the good news of the Gospel, things that my Baylor education and experience is preparing me for. Additionally, I envision my work in the financial and economic spheres as helping people make intelligent financial decisions and build better lives for themselves."How has being a Getterman Scholar shaped your experience at Baylor? "Having received the tremendous blessing of being a Getterman Scholar, I feel an especially strong desire to give back to the Baylor community by getting involved and engaging with those around me." Katherine Scheffrahn Hometown: Fort Worth, TX Major: Neuroscience, Pre-Med What are your professional goals after you graduate Baylor? "After leaving Baylor, I desire to become a healthcare professional. However, instead of following the traditional medical path, I wish to pursue integrative medicine, which focuses on holistic care for patients." How do you envision yourself changing the world after you graduate from Baylor? "I personally know how non-traditional treatments can transform lives by helping someone to operate at their best. However, many people are not able to access these treatments because of lack of resources. I dream of working to provide these people with access to integrative medical treatments in order to help them become the healthiest they can be."How has being a Getterman Scholar shaped your experience at Baylor? "Because of the Getterman Scholars Program, I have received opportunities to pursue my academic passions beyond what I could have imagined while also becoming a part of an incredible and supportive community." Micah Stull Hometown: Phoenix, AZ Major: University Scholars, Pre-Med What are your professional goals after you graduate Baylor? "I hope to attend medical school after I graduate Baylor, and I'm intrigued by surgery, so I might become a surgeon. I hope to work in some type of ministry, whether that is in the form of a hospital, an office, or alongside an organization or church. Also, a dream of mine would be to live in Latin America as a doctor doing medical missions." How do you envision yourself changing the world after you graduate from Baylor? "I hope I do nothing out of personal ambition for success or glory, so rather it is, 'How will God change the world through me as His servant?' I'm not sure of the future, but I know God's got big plans for what is ahead, and whatever ministry I am involved in, I'm sure God will work through it to accomplish his purpose!"How has being a Getterman Scholar shaped your experience at Baylor? "Being a Getterman scholar has been a true blessing in bringing me to this amazing university, allowing me to truly focus on my studies, and giving me opportunities to travel around the world to explore my passions!" 2018 Getterman Scholars Kendall Sewell Hometown: Collierville, TN Major: Political Science, Pre-Law "The Getterman Scholars Program has transformed my time at Baylor, providing me opportunities to grow outside of the classroom among peers and mentors who have invested in me more than I previously thought possible." Taylor Siebenman Hometown: Ballwin, MO Major: University Scholars, Pre-Med What are your professional goals after you graduate Baylor? "My professional goals are to go on to medical school and earn an M.D." How do you envision yourself changing the world after you graduate from Baylor? "I plan on utilizing my gifts and knowledge to become a physician in an urban area where I can provide medical services to those who may not have access to them otherwise.''How has being a Getterman Scholar shaped your experience at Baylor? "Being a Getterman Scholar at Baylor University has gifted me with countless opportunities for academic, social, and moral growth through access to mentors, distinguished programs, and the brightest minds in my discipline, which all contribute to fostering my journey in becoming a compassionate physician and well-developed scholar." Opportunities Experiential Opportunities Baylor 2 Programs Baylor in Washington D.C. The Pulse William Carey Crane Scholars Getterman Scholars Program Application Tips Program Selection Requirements for Consideration Meet Our Getterman Scholars Pre-Health & Science Baylor 2 Medical Track Program Christian Pre-Health Fellowship (CPF) Research & Internship Opportunities Student Research Materials Grant Programs & Majors University Scholars Great Texts Baylor Interdisciplinary Core (BIC) Honors Program Research Faculty Publications Student Research Materials Grant Student Publications Pre-Health & Science Research/Internships Undergraduate Research Assistant Program Scholarships Scholarships for Prospective Students Getterman Scholars Program Invitation to Excellence Distinguished Scholars Day DSD: Honors College Essay Submission Baylor 2 Programs Scholarships for Current Students Study Abroad Scholarships Student Research Materials Grant Travel Stipend HRC Leadership Scholarship Scholarships for International Students Study Abroad Study Abroad Scholarships The Honors Residential College Honors College Contact Us ApplyVisitMake a GiftBaylor Interdisciplinary CoreGreat TextsHonors Residential CollegeHonors ProgramUniversity Scholars General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Contact Information Events FAQs Give Leadership Honors College Advisory Council News Profiles Social Media Directory Faculty Meet with Us & Learn More! Distinguished Scholars Day Invitation to Excellence Opportunities Experiential Opportunities Baylor 2 Programs Baylor in Washington D.C. The Pulse William Carey Crane Scholars Getterman Scholars Program Application Tips Program Selection Requirements for Consideration Meet Our Getterman Scholars Pre-Health & Science Baylor 2 Medical Track Program Christian Pre-Health Fellowship (CPF) Research & Internship Opportunities Student Research Materials Grant Programs & Majors University Scholars Great Texts Baylor Interdisciplinary Core (BIC) Honors Program Research Faculty Publications Student Research Materials Grant Student Publications Pre-Health & Science Research/Internships Undergraduate Research Assistant Program Scholarships Scholarships for Prospective Students Scholarships for Current Students Scholarships for International Students Study Abroad Study Abroad Scholarships The Honors Residential College Benefits Why Honors (Videos) Choose the Honors College Prestigious Post-Baccalaureate Scholarships & Awards Resources & Events Academic Honors Week Laura Jackson Lecture Drumwright Lecture Career Opportunities & Awards Prestigious Post-Baccalaureate Awards Lecture Videos Publications Recent Faculty Books Student Publications The Pulse Marketing Resources Pre-Advising 2022 Meet Your Major Programs Application Process Application Timeline Honors College Line Camp Questions & Tips Apply Now Give