Skip to site alert. Skip to content College of Dental Medicine Students Alumni Faculty Giving Contact Us Search About Us About Us Our Mission History Leadership and Administration Board of Advisors Global Dean's Council News Diversity Community Outreach Global Initiatives Support the College of Dental Medicine Events Calendar Contact Us Columbia Visiting Professorship Program CDM Publications Education Education DDS Program Advanced Standing Program for Foreign Trained Dentists Postdoctoral and Residency Programs Tuition, Fees and Financial Aid Global Programs Visits & Externships Continuing Education Academic Sections/Divisions Academic Calendars Research Research Research Areas Research Labs Research Centers Research Faculty Clinical Trials Research Resources Student Research First International Symposium of Fusobacteria Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Teaching Clinics Patient Resources COVID-19 Safety ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Our Doctors Our Services Our Locations Make an Appointment Make an Appointment Choose between ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry and our affordable Dental Clinics. Para Español, haga clic aquí. Explore Your Options Events News You are here Home > Education > Tuition, Fees and Financial Aid DDS Program Advanced Standing Program for Foreign Trained Dentists Postdoctoral and Residency Programs Tuition, Fees and Financial Aid Global Programs Visits & Externships Continuing Education Academic Sections/Divisions Academic Calendars Tuition, Fees and Financial Aid The Office of Student Financial Aid & Planning administers financial aid and provides debt management and financial literacy counseling for programs under the Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons and the College of Dental Medicine. The office serves as a resource and link to your funding sources. It is important to become an "educated consumer" and learn all that you can about the options that are available, given your personal financial situation. The staff will provide the necessary information when at all possible, but keep in mind, that financial aid is an environment subject to constant change due to new legislation and regulations. All of the staff is prepared to answer routine questions. You will be assigned to a Financial Aid Officer who will determine “need” and will prepare your financial aid offer. Please visit the Student Financial Aid and Planning office for more information. Student Financial Aid and Planning 650 West 168 Street Black Building Room 139 212-305-4100 212-305-0221 fax Hours: Monday - Friday 9 AM to 5 PM Closed to student traffic Wednesday 9 AM to 12 PM. You can still call us during that period. Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Education Research Student Life Alumni Faculty Contact Us Intranet Columbia University College of Dental Medicine 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Back to top