Brown University Quick Exit General Health Physical Health Acne Asthma Breast Exams Bronchitis Colds Concussion Headaches Meningitis Mononucleosis Sleep Seasonal Flu Sun Safety and Skin Cancer Stomach Flu Testicular Self-Exams Travel and Health Yeast Infection Emotional Wellbeing Mindfulness Sleep Stress Self-Care Techniques for Stress Relief Wellness on Campus Social Wellbeing Community, Connection and Coping: Remote Resources Consent Economic Stress Roommate Relationships Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Bacterial Vaginosis Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy Gender Care GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Premature Ejaculation Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Accessing Care Gender Care GYN Visits LGBTQ Health Care at Health Services Men's Health Exams Pregnancy Tests STI Testing Options Resources and Links Nutrition & Eating Concerns Eating Well at Brown Being a Vegetarian Dietary Guidelines Eating Off Meal Plan Meal Plan And Dining Information Supplements Eating Concerns and Body Image Body Image Concerns Eating Concerns Help at Brown Sports Nutrition Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S) Sports Nutrition Accessing Care Help at Brown Worried about a Friend Sexual Health Sex 101 SHAG! Erectile Dysfunction Orgasm Premature Ejaculation Sex and Alcohol Sex Toys Sexually Explicit Media Contraception Birth Control Pills Cervical Cap Condoms Depo-Provera Emergency Contraception Fertility Awareness Method Implant Internal Condoms IUD Ortho Evra (The Patch) Ring Spermicides and Lubricants The Recent Election & Contraception Access Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Yeast Infection Safer Sex Ship n SHAG! Sexual Health and Safer Sex During Covid-19 Abstinence Condoms Dental Dams Internal Condoms Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) Pre Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Safer Sex Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) STIs AIDS/HIV Bacterial Vaginosis Chlamydia Colposcopy Gonorrhea Hepatitis B Herpes HPV and Genital Warts HPV Vaccine Molluscum Contagiosum Oral Sex and STIs Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pubic Lice and Scabies Sexually Transmitted Infections Syphilis Talking with a Partner STI Testing Options Trichomoniasis Urinary Tract Infections Yeast Infection Sexual Assault & Dating Violence Get Help Sexual Assault Response Line SHARE Advocates Dating Violence First Five Days After an Assault Male Survivors Sexual Violence and Assault Sexual Harassment Stalking Help a Friend SHARE Advocates How to Help a Friend Get Involved in Prevention Interrupting the Red Zone: How we keep each other safe Culture of Respect Collective Sexual Assault Peer Education (SAPE) Help Prevent Sexual Assault Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Relationships and Communication Consent Dating Violence Learn More Common Reactions to Sexual Violence and Assault Predatory Drugs Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Sexual Violence: Key Terms Resources and Links Alcohol & Other Drugs Alcohol Alcohol and Your Body Recognizing a Problem Risks and Realities Sex and Alcohol Ways to Cut Down Other Drugs Caffeine Cocaine Ecstasy Energy Drinks GHB Inhalants Ketamine LSD Marijuana Methamphetamine Predatory Drugs Psilocybin (Mushrooms) Rohypnol Tobacco Smokeless Tobacco Smoking Cessation Tobacco Learn More Law and Policy Summary Educational Links Accessing Care Resources at Brown Off Campus Resources Calling EMS How to Help a Friend Quit Smoking How to Talk to a Friend about Drinking or Drug Use Google Tag Manager Contraception IUD What is an IUD? The letters "IUD" stand for "intrauterine device." The IUD is a safe and highly effective form of long-acting reversible contraception (LARC). IUDs are small, "T-shaped" contraceptive devices made of flexible plastic. IUDs are inserted into the uterus by a medical provider with special training. There are currently 5 types of IUDs available on the United States; ParaGard, Mirena, Kyleena, Liletta, and Skyla. The Paragard is a nonhormonal IUD and a plastic T wrapped with copper wire which can be left in place for up to 12 years. The Mirena, Kyleena, Liletta, and Skyla IUDs use the hormone progestin to prevent pregnancy. Progestin is very similar to the hormone progesterone that bodies make naturally. Mirena and Liletta IUDs work for up to 7 years. The Kyleena IUD works for up to 5 years and the Skyla works for up to 3 years. The IUD is the reversible contraceptive method used by more people across the globe than any other method. How does it work to prevent pregnancy? It isn't precisely known how IUDs prevent pregnancy but the general assumption is that they prevent the sperm from fertilizing ova (eggs). The IUD is a foreign body which creates an environment not hospitable to sperm. The Paragard releases copper ions which impair sperm function. The hormonal IUDs release progestin which causes thickening of cervical mucus which blocks movement of the sperm, thins the lining of the uterus, and ovulation may be suppressed due to the systemic effect of the hormone. How effective is the IUD in preventing pregnancy and STIs? The IUD is one of the most effective methods of contraception available. Less than 1 in 100 people will get pregnant each year using the IUD. However, IUDs do not offer any protection against sexually transmitted infections (STIs). What are the benefits of using an IUD? IUDs have a good safety record. IUDs offer an alternative to birth control pills for those who can't use a method containing estrogen. IUDs are cost effective over time. Convenient and private. Long term protection which can be revered easily and quickly. Decreased bleeding and cramps are often experienced with hormonal IUDs. An IUD can be put in place immediately after a pregnancy has ended (whether by termination, miscarriage or delivery). The Paragard IUD can be placed in the first 5 days after unprotected intercourse as a highly effective form of emergency contraception. Decreased risk of endometrial cancer. Decreased risk of ectopic (tubal) pregnancy. What are the disadvantages of using an IUD? The procedure for insertion can be uncomfortable, with cramping and pain immediately following insertion. Increased menstrual cramps and bleeding for some users with the Paragard. Irregular bleeding with the hormonal methods, particularly in the first few months after insertion. Some people will stop having periods with these IUDs, which is safe but which may or may not be desirable for some people. Very small risk of perforation of the uterus. There is a 2-10% risk of explusion of the IUD in the first year. This risk is increased in those who haven't had children, who are under age 20, who are immediately post-partum, or who have severe cramps or heavy bleeding. There is a 30% risk of expulsion if someone has had a previous IUD expulsion. Small risk of infection. Some people using the hormonal IUDs will experience progestin side effects. Most of these side effects are local rather than systemic and are reduced over time, but some users experience breast change, moodiness and acne. Paragard has no hormonal benefits or disadvantages. Some people who have had decreased cramps, bleeding or acne on oral contraceptives may find that these symptoms worsen if they switch to the Paragard. Who should not use an IUD? The choice to use an IUD is one you will make after a discussion with your provider. The following are some conditions which may be contraindications to the insertion of an IUD: Current pregnancy Active pelvic infection Allergy to copper or Wilson's disease (Paragard) Allergy to levonorgesterel (Mirena or Skyla) Unexplained vaginal bleeding Anemia due to heavy periods (Paragard) Past concerns about IUDs There are some lingering misconceptions about this form of birth control. One is that IUDs are dangerous, causing infection and infertility. A type of IUD called the Dalkon Shield was removed from the market in the 1980s. It caused serious infections due to a design flaw. Reviews of the medical literature point to a very low risk of infection or infertility among current IUD users. Another misconception is that the IUD is only for those who have given birth. We now know that the IUD can be inserted and used safely by people of all ages and by those who have not given birth. Where can I go to get an IUD and how much does it cost? Depending on your insurance plan, Health Services may be able to offer you an IUD on site and without cost, or can refer you to an outside provider if that will allow you to get the method without cost or for lower cost. Brown students can make an appointment by calling 401.863-3953.The IUD is covered by most insurance companies. You can call your health insurance company to find out what your out of pocket cost would be, if any. Related Links For more information about IUDs you can visit: Planned Parenthood About BWell: Quick Links About Us Staff Confidential Appointments Sexual Assault Response Line Workshops Peer Education Programs Health Empowerment Tools PHONE NUMBERS 401.863-2794 Health Promotion 401.863-3953 Health Services 401.863-6000 Sexual Assault Response Line 401.863-4111 EMS 401.863-3476 Counseling & Psychological Services 401.863-4111 DPS Make an Appointment View the SHAG video series! Ship n SHAG! Place an order with Ship n SHAG and get free safer sex supplies discreetly delivered to your campus mailbox! Get Involved Meet Our Staff About Us Make an Appointment Brown University BWell Health Promotion Health and Wellness Brown University Box 1928 450 Brook Street Providence, Rhode Island, 02912 Phone 401-863-2794 Fax 401-863-7953 [email protected] © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Related Offices Brown EMS Counseling and Psychological Services Health Services Social Media BWell on Facebook SHAG on Facebook BURP on Facebook Health Services on Facebook