Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Anthropology Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Anthropology Major Apply Visit Request More Info Anthropology Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Arts in Anthropology Explore the ways in which people understand and adapt to living in a variety of settings across time with the Bachelor of Arts in Anthropology in the College of Liberal Arts at Temple University. The Anthropology Major focuses on the study of human diversity and cultural relativism, helping you cultivate an appreciation for the world and its people. The ways in which culture is created and recorded—through art, communication, literature and music—have greatly evolved over time. By uncovering and analyzing historical artifacts, you’ll develop a deep understanding of global cultures and societies, and in turn better understand specific aspects of your own society. As a result, you’ll be well prepared for careers that require cultural sensitivity and an understanding of cultural differences. The 123-credit multidisciplinary Anthropology BA curriculum emphasizes two themes designed to integrate courses in archaeology, biological anthropology, sociocultural anthropology and linguistic anthropology. By taking courses related to one of the two themes—Mobility and Global Inequity or Evolution and Human Environments—students develop their research, analytical and writing skills. They also form key skill sets necessary for success in their postgraduate life and an understanding of the following concepts. How humans relate to the natural world. How humans construct and manipulate their cultural environment. How class, gender, geographical location, race and sexuality influence access to power. How theory relates to the collection and interpretation of data. Human cultural and biological differences and how they relate to human interactions. Minor in Anthropology The Anthropology Minor is designed for any undergraduate student at Temple who wants to learn about general anthropology, but cannot commit to a full academic major. Students in the Anthropology Minor gain a well-rounded education and form writing and research skills, as well as a capacity to speak about human communities and social change in complex and informed ways, that help them stand out in the job market. Minor in Biomedical Anthropology The Biomedical Anthropology Minor integrates knowledge of modern human biological variation and sensitivity to the complex social factors that contribute to health and well-being, and to understanding and treating disease conditions. This knowledge is particularly valuable for students who intend to seek careers in healthcare fields serving modern multicultural populations. The human biology approach in anthropology helps students develop core competencies essential for admission into postgraduate health professional programs, including analytical thought and problem-solving skills related to biological systems, cultural competence, understanding human behavior, and written and verbal communication. Contact Charles Weitz is the program contact for for this minor. Email: weitz@temple.edu Minor in Visual Anthropology The Visual Anthropology Minor is well suited for students with interests in all forms of alternative media, artistic performance, documentary and ethnographic film, feature film, home media and televisual communication (including both broadcast and narrowcast forms). In addition, the role of new media in social change plays an increasing role in the discipline of visual anthropology, including digital ethnographic methods. Research topics include Turkish film, African textiles, Indigenous media, photographs, tattoos and Facebook. Contact Jayasinhji Jhala is the program contact for this minor. Email: jjhala@temple.edu Classes & Curriculum Students begin their coursework in the Anthropology Major by taking an introductory course in each of our two themes: Evolution and Human Environments and Mobility and Global Inequality. Students also must take a methods course. There are four methods courses to choose from, one in each of the following subfields. Fieldwork and Ethnographic Methods Methods in the Study of Environmental Archaeology Methods in the Study of Evolution Research Methods in Culture and Communication Graduating seniors take a capstone course (either Evolution and Human Environments Capstone or Mobility and Global Inequality Capstone) that seeks to integrate all information, theories and methods that they have learned in their previous classes. In addition to these four required courses, students can use the remaining seven elective courses to explore all fields of anthropology—or to specialize in a particular area of interest. Our faculty are available to help students navigate course choices, and our majors are encouraged to seek faculty advice to make sure they take the best mix of courses to suit their interests and goals for the future. Learn more about the Anthropology Major required courses. Related Graduate Degrees Anthropology PhD Applied Sociology PSM Bioinformatics PhD* Documentary Arts and Visual Research PhD** Geographic Information Systems PSM Geography and Urban Studies MA Geography and Urban Studies PhD Geoscience PhD* Globalization and Development Communication MS*** Related Graduate Certificates Geographic Information Systems *College of Science and Technology **School of Theater, Film and Media Arts *** Klein College of Media and Communication Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Arts offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $16,488.00 per year Out-of-state: $29,712.00 per year Our Academic Advisors College of Liberal Arts academic advisors help you navigate your curriculum and potential career paths throughout your time at Temple. Damien Stankiewicz is an associate professor in the Anthropology Department. Email: damien.stankiewicz@temple.edu Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development Dedicated advisors at the Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development in the College of Liberal Arts are available to guide students through their academic careers and with their career paths beyond Temple. They can help you choose a major, navigate your curriculum, identify internship opportunities, explore career opportunities and determine your post-graduation plans. Learn more about the center. Program Contact For more information about the Anthropology Major program, contact the following staff member. Jessica Brennan is an administrator in the Anthropology Department. Phone: 215-204-7577 Email: jessica.brennan@temple.edu The following staff members lead the Anthropology Department. Charles Weitz is the department chair. Phone: 215-204-1424 Email: weitz@temple.edu Damien Stankiewicz is the director of undergraduate studies. Email: damien@temple.edu Yvonne Davis is a coordinator in the Anthropology Department. Phone: 215-204-7775 Email: yvonne.davis@temple.edu University Honors Program The College of Liberal Arts participates in Temple’s Honors Program. Learn more about the program and how to be admitted. Students who meet certain academic and extracurricular criteria may become members of the following honor societies. Alpha Lambda Delta is a national society that honors academic excellence during a student's first year at college. Golden Key is an international society that enables members to realize their potential through the advancement of academics, leadership and service. Phi Beta Kappa is open to juniors and seniors in the College of Liberal Arts. To qualify for Phi Beta Kappa, a student must maintain a high grade point average in a broad, rigorous program of study in the liberal arts, including mathematics and foreign languages. Learn more about Temple’s Honor Societies. Student Clubs & Organizations Supplement your Anthropology Major coursework and enhance your undergraduate experience at Temple with more than 300 student clubs and organizations. You’ll have opportunities to meet and network with other students, get involved with the community, grow your interests, and develop résumé-boosting skills and experiences. Undergraduate students are encouraged to join the Undergraduate Anthropology Association. The UAA is a forum in which Anthropology majors and minors can meet one another and interact with professors and graduate students through bimonthly meetings, museum and event trips, student panels, and more. Learn more about student clubs and organizations. Study Away College of Liberal Arts undergraduate students are encouraged to study away for an academic year, semester or summer. Enrich your experience at Temple by participating in the India summer program. Based in the medieval desert town of Dhrangadhra, Gujarat, the program is intended to investigate Indian civilization through an anthropological study of its religious and artistic traditions, ancient and contemporary. Learn more about studying away in India. Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-ANTH-BA Additional Program Information Available as a minor. Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Anthropology Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info