Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Student Affairs Main Navigation Our Story Show Extended Division of Student Affairs Welcome Leadership Team Organizational Chart Our Purpose Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Assessment Programs Professional Development Staff of the Month Program Publications Faculty Resource Page Student Employment University Employment Contact Us California State University, Fullerton 2018-2023 Strategic Plan Branding Campus News Donate Facts & Figures College Access and Career Pathways Engagement and Well-Being Identity and Belonging Virtual Student Services Associated Students Inc., CSUF Titan Athletics Academic Appeals Title IX and Gender Equity Show Extended Notice of Non-Discrimination on the Basis of Gender or Sex Hispanic-Serving Institution Initiatives Student Affairs: Faculty-Staff Partnerships Dear Titans, Thank you for taking interest and investing in the partnership between faculty and Student Affairs staff at Cal State Fullerton. Our common goal as educators is to offer transformative, educational, and experiential learning experiences to our students, and based on the nearly 280,000 alumni, we are doing just that and more. Despite CSUF's historic success, we all understand that there is much to be done for the current cohorts of students, and I believe that it begins and ends with our campus Divisions, working together for the higher purpose. While day-to-day assignments and routines may look different for faculty and staff, the Division of Student Affairs has been fortunate to forge a number of key partnerships between faculty and staff departments. Some of that work is highlighted on this webpage. I can tell you from first-hand experience that the times I have teamed with faculty – at Academic Senate, as Dean of Students, during cultural heritage months, and much else – have been some of the most rewarding times of my CSUF career. Times when we partner together are times when we actualize the fullness of what it means to be a Titan. In closing, I want to thank you again for taking interest in Student Affairs as well as the partnership that exists between faculty and staff. I invite you to continue reading to learn more about where we are and to envision how much more we can do together. If you have questions, comments, ideas, or concerns, please do not hesitate to email me at vpsa@fullerton.edu. Be well, be joyous. Tonantzin Oseguera Vice President Division of Student Affairs 2020-21 Priorities for the Division of Student Affairs Increase student persistence through the development, implementation and expansion of proven student success interventions. Just, Equitable, and Inclusive Student Affairs Practices Collaborate with partners to implement Strategic Enrollment Management model to meet University goals and best serve student needs. Partner to create a campus climate that promotes identity exploration, belonging and cultural competencies. Number of Faculty-Student Affairs Staff Partnerships: Donate to the division of student affairs Faculty-Staff Key Partnership: Faculty Advisory Council Mission: The purpose of the Board is to advise the Vice President on issues concerning the Division of Student Affairs. Specifically, provide the Vice President with constituents' views on the programs, services, and activities of the Division. The focus on special student-related issues as determined by current events and/or by suggestions of committee members in consultation with the Vice President. Members Dr. Maria Malagon, Assistant Professor of Sociology Dr. Kristi Kanel, Professor Human Services Dr. Jamie Tucker, Production Manager, Theatre and Dance Dr. Latosha Traylor, Assistant Professor of Sociology and Faculty in Residence Dr. Wylie Ahmend, Assistant Professor of Physics Dr. Martha Enciso, Assistant Vice President, Student Affairs Dr. Dawn Macy, Director Center for Internships and Community Engagement Faculty-Staff Partnership Roundup The partnerships between faculty and Student Affairs staff are numerous. Below you will find a quick roundup of present partnerships. For a more robust list, please visit our Academic Collaboration Inventory guide. Summer Program Support: Faculty instruction for Gear Up University, Upward Bound Summer program, EOP Summer Bridge, Scholar Summer program Faculty Lecturers: Gear Up trainings for students and staff Grant Principal Investigator: provide leadership, training and professional development to grant sites College of Education, MSHE program: Graduate Assistant placement and experiential learning for students Faculty Mentors: McNair Scholars program, Athletic Division 1 Teams, Themed Housing Communities Faculty Success Coaches: MSI Consultation with students on Graduate Research Fellowships programs Collaborations on faculty displaying virtual ally stickers while teaching online Interview Panel and Selection for student scholar programs: McNair, Presidents Scholars Conference Planning with College of Education, Careers in Teaching Workshop and Program facilitation: Catalyze Science, STEAM for our Kids, Major and Career Exploration, Think Like Einstein, Project Raise Jumpstart AmeriCorps with Child and Adolescent Studies, Kinesiology and Psychology and CICE Panelist for Welcome events History Month Planning Committee, Recognition Ceremony Planning Scholarship Selection Committee Members: MSI, MCBE, HSS Host Research Writing Workshops Search Committee members Semester Drop-In hours with students Internship Coordination UndocuAllies volunteer at events, programs and planning committees Facilitation of programs and Guest Speakers within DIRC Supplemental Instruction, which supports 40 different courses in 15 departments University Learning Center focuses on providing tutoring for lower division, bottleneck courses with 20 departments University Testing Center administers tests for placement and graduation requirements for Chemistry, Biochemistry, mathematics and engineering Athletics Advisory Council members Faculty Club Advisors Orientation and Welcome to Cal State Fullerton Day (WTCSUFD) Maintaining Academic and Campus Integrity Student Conduct is responsible for investigating and adjudicating alleged campus policy violations for both academic-related misconduct and other types of misconduct. This includes reviewing reports of misconduct, ensuring that students receive due process and fair treatment, and assigning outcomes that support student learning and reinforce campus community standards of behavior. Student Conduct is also responsible for maintaining all students’ disciplinary records for the campus. Student Conduct supports faculty and staff by providing guidance on addressing student behavior through consultations, educational workshops, training, and campus policy interpretation. For more faculty and staff resources, please visit the Student Conduct website. If you would like to report a policy violation, please complete the appropriate online referral form. Academic Dishonesty Referral Student Conduct Referral Care Services Care Service may be needed when students experience distress that negatively impacts them academically, emotionally, behaviorally, or physically. If you have already intervened but the student is still distressed or the worrisome behaviors have persisted, or if you seek consultation on how to respond, please complete a referral. If this is an emergency that requires immediate attention, dial 9-1-1 or contact University Police at (657) 278-2515. Student in Distress Referral* *This form is NOT designed as an emergency response notification. Disability Support Services and Student Accommodations Disability Support Services is available to answer any questions faculty may have regarding a student’s accommodations, referring a student, best practices, equal access and more! You may reach DSS at 657-278-3112 or by email at dsservices@fullerton.edu. Health and Wellness The clinical needs of students range from normative developmental changes to more serious emerging or on-going mental health concerns; from a disrupting life event to a life-threatening crisis; or from supportive counseling and psychoeducation to ongoing psychotherapy. The department's licensed clinical staff is specifically trained in college student mental health therapeutic approaches and committed to providing professional services that meet the specific needs of undergraduate and graduate students. In order to best support the health and wellness of students, faculty, and staff, the Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) department is in place and we encourage you to use it. Our CAPS team provides a variety of clinical services designed to meet the many different concerns experienced by CSUF students. CAPS takes pride in being an agency that operates from multicultural, multidisciplinary, and multi-theoretical perspectives. Moreover, CAPS clinical staff and trainees represent a wide range of individual and social identities and experiences; are a combination of Licensed Psychologists, Licensed Marriage and Family Therapists, Licensed Professional Clinical Counselors, Certified Life Coach, Board Certified Psychiatrist, Psychiatric Nurse Practitioner, and Licensed Clinical Social Workers; and have training in numerous treatment modalities and theoretical perspectives. This rich diversity in people and practice provides opportunities for CSUF students to connect with a clinician and receive treatment in a manner that is a fit for both the person and their clinical need. Virtual Counseling Information CAPS Faculty Walk-In Guide This site is maintained by Division of Student Affairs. Last Published 4/28/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact danielramirez@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.