Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Theater Instruction MA You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Theater Instruction MA Apply Request More Info Theater Instruction MA Admissions Careers & Opportunities Productions & Facilities Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Arts in Theater Instruction Learn to incorporate elements of drama and theater into kindergarten through grade 12 classrooms with the Master of Arts in Theater Instruction in the School of Theater, Film and Media Arts at Temple University. Designed for professional educators with certification in any subject and drama teachers, this graduate degree program provides students with the expertise necessary to increase engagement in the classroom through the performance arts. The Theater Instruction MA is ideal for current drama teachers who hold the Pennsylvania Department of Education Theatre Endorsement; drama teachers who wish to pursue endorsement; educators in any subject; and teachers seeking to advance in their school or district. Through the curriculum, you’ll form a deep understanding of the theater production process and pedagogical methods for teaching drama to kindergarten through grade 12 students, including instructional strategies and student-centered practices. You’ll also focus on all facets of drama and theater, such as acting, design and technology, directing, history, musical theater, and production and management. The curriculum is offered in a hybrid format to accommodate students’ professional schedules. Some in-person meetings are held on Temple’s Main Campus, while most courses are held online. Intensive, on-campus semesters are also offered across two summer sessions. The Theater Instruction MA program is part of a nationally accredited theater department. It is led by distinguished faculty members, many of whom have decades of professional experience in all areas of theater, including acting, direction and production design, in cities such as Chicago, New York City and Philadelphia. Faculty members also have experience teaching drama and theater techniques to students of all ages and experience levels. Classes & Curriculum The 30-credit Theater instruction MA comprises 10 classes. Students have the option of taking specific courses that count toward re-certification. The curriculum is tailored so that students understand all areas of theater performance and can effectively integrate theater components in the classroom. Learn more about the Theater Instruction MA curriculum. Learn more about the Theater Instruction MA curriculum. Related Graduate Degrees Musical Theater Studies MA Theater–Acting MFA Theater–Design MFA Theater–Directing MFA Theater–Playwriting MFA Accomplished Teaching MSEd* *College of Education and Human Development Pursue a State Theater Endorsement A theater endorsement from the Pennsylvania Department of Education demonstrates a teacher’s knowledge of new and emerging areas—particularly areas for which formal certification does not currently exist. It is geared toward educators who provide instruction in creative dramatics, drama and theater, or in guided drama experiences. The endorsement is also designed to enhance a teacher’s ability to manage the challenges of complex classroom environments. Learn more about the state theater endorsement. Theater Instruction MA vs. Theater Education +1 Program Undergraduate students can choose to pursue the Theater Education +1 program. This hybrid degree program provides the opportunity for students to earn a bachelor of arts in theater, a master’s of education and certification to teach in secondary schools in Pennsylvania—in just five years. The +1 program, which integrates graduate-level material into undergraduate semesters, balances theater courses, English courses and education courses. Unlike the Theater Instruction MA, which is designed for teachers already working in their field, the Theater Education +1 program is intended to launch students into new careers in high school-level teaching or theater outreach. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Arts offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,078.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,441.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors Students in the Theater Department’s graduate program are advised by their area head. All students are reviewed each semester by their mentors to discuss progress and registrations. The department administrators register all graduate students for their courses. Program Contact Matthew Miller is an associate professor and head of Theater Education. Phone: 215-204-4263 Email: mbmiller@temple.edu Accreditation The Theater Department is accredited by the National Association of Schools of Theatre as well as a member of the University Resident Theatre Association. CA-THIN-MA Additional Program Information Visit School Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Theater Instruction MA Admissions Careers & Opportunities Productions & Facilities Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info