Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts Home » UC News » Search Keyword Events Include Events (default) Exclude Events Only Show Events Only Show Past Events Only Show Upcoming Events Start Date End Date topics Select topics Answers Arts & Culture Athletics Bicentennial College bound COVID-19 Diversity Entrepreneurship Experience-based Learning Faculty Staff Health Impact In The News Insights International Must Read Next Lives Here Science & Tech Student Experience Thought Leadership colleges Select colleges College of Arts and Sciences Blue Ash College College of Allied Health Sciences College-Conservatory of Music College of Engineering and Applied Science College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services Clermont College Lindner College of Business College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing Online College of Pharmacy units Select units Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Continuing Education Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources UCIT Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Author Clear All Filters {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove Katie Pence | Archives Katie is the associate director of the Media Relations + Content division within the Marketing + Communications department. She oversees media outreach for the division and assists with other media relations efforts across campuses and units. katie.pence@uc.edu | 513-558-4561 1017 Results Sort By: Newest First right arrow down arrow Newest First Oldest First Cincinnati Enquirer: City partners with UC for reduced tuition March 15, 2022 All 6,000-plus city of Cincinnati workers and their families can now sign up for online University of Cincinnati courses without paying full tuition, city and university leaders announced Monday. Local media covered the announcement. WCPO: UC featured on Amazon Prime February 9, 2022 The Amazon Prime series “The College Tour,” which highlights colleges and universities around the country, features UC in its upcoming season. Ohio media cover its premiere. 'The perfect situation': Look inside UC's nationally-ranked... November 29, 2021 The University of Cincinnati’s co-op program rose to No. 4 in U.S. News & World Report’s latest rankings, released in mid-September this year. The local program has historically placed in the top 5 co-op programs in the country. Its reputation is enough to attract students from all over the world, reports the Cincinnati Enquirer. Cincinnati Enquirer: 40 CPS students will get full rides from UC November 23, 2021 For the next four years, 10 Cincinnati Public Schools students will be inducted annually into the Marian Spencer Scholars Program, according to The Cincinnati Enquirer. UC, CPS partner for first Marian Spencer Scholarship awards November 23, 2021 The University of Cincinnati continues its dedicated partnership with Cincinnati Public Schools (CPS) and commitment to underrepresented students with the launch of the Marian Spencer Scholars Program for high-achieving CPS students. Advice for first-generation college students As a first-generation college student, you face struggles that your peers and professors may not understand. Prepare yourself to succeed at college by following these tips and advice for first-generation college students. UC students named Stanford University Innovation Fellows October 27, 2021 Four students from the University of Cincinnati have been named University Innovation Fellows. The program is run by Stanford University’s Hasso Plattner Institute of Design. CNBC: 'Off brand' vaccines for kids August 27, 2021 The school year rapidly approaches amid a surge in pediatric COVID-19 hospitalizations, and parents desperately want to know: When can young children get the vaccine? UC's Carl Fichtenbaum weighs in. Forbes: Could music be a game-changer for digital health? August 27, 2021 UC research examining a music app to help breast cancer survivors is mentioned by Forbes. UC researchers administer investigational COVID-19 treatment August 26, 2021 Researchers at the University of Cincinnati and UC Health have administered a first-of-its-kind potential COVID-19 therapy. The first dosing was administered to a patient at UC Medical Center in Cincinnati on Aug. 17. WLWT: Mandatory COVID-19 vaccines for workers August 4, 2021 UC economics expert talks about when and how businesses might decide to make COVID-19 vaccines mandatory. Local 12: Music creation's impact on the brain after cancer August 4, 2021 UC researchers launched a new study looking treating a common brain problem that results after therapy for cancer. WCPO: Cincinnati ranked No. 1 in fastest-selling homes July 26, 2021 New RE/MAX industry data puts Cincinnati at the top of the list when it comes to the fastest-selling homes in the country. UC's Michael Jones explains why that's the case. WVXU: Alzheimer's and dementia related deaths during the... June 16, 2021 Rhonna Shatz, DO, discusses the spike in deaths from Alzheimer's during the pandemic on WVXU's Cincinnati Edition. Cincinnati Enquirer: COVID-19 vaccine becomes Cupid's helper June 11, 2021 After months of isolation, getting back out there may be hard for some people, said Dr. Caleb Adler, professor of psychiatry and behavioral neuroscience at the University of Cincinnati. There's a sense of natural anxiety that comes with being out of the dating game for a while – especially when the apps are put to the side. Load More Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top