Skip to main content Skip to main content my.SMU News & Events Library Master Calendar Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Contact Us Contact Us Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Google+ Follow Us Twitter Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us Tumblr Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Social SMU Facebook SMU Google Plus SMU Twitter SMU LinkedIn SMU Tumblr SMU YouTube SMU Instagram Skip to main content Law About About Dean's Welcome Diversity and Inclusion Fast Facts Living & Studying in Dallas Why SMU Dedman Law? Academics Academics Academic Advising Academic Calendar Registrar's Office Academic Success Program (ASP) Bar Exam Resources Course Schedules and Registration Information Degree Programs Experiential Learning Externship Programs Forms Law Journals Planning Your Academic Program Study Abroad in Oxford Admissions Admissions Costs and Financial Aid FAQs J.D. Programs Graduate Programs How to Apply Meet Our Students Visiting SMU Virtual Tour of SMU Contact Admissions Alumni & Giving Alumni & Giving 2022 Alumni Happy Hours 2022 Reunion Weekend Alumni Chapters Career Services Class Notes Community Fellows Contact Alumni Relations Distinguished Alumni Awards Emerging Leader Board Executive Board Get Involved Law Firm Challenge Publications Update Alumni Information Career Services Career Services Students Employers Alumni Employment Statistics Career Services Team Contact Office of Career Services Reciprocity Centers & Initiatives Centers & Initiatives Jennifer M. Collins Women's Leadership Initiative Judge Elmo B. Hunter Legal Center For Victims of Crimes Against Women Robert B. Rowling Center for Business Law & Leadership Tsai Center for Law, Science and Innovation W. W. Caruth, Jr. Institute for Children's Rights Deason Criminal Justice Reform Center Clinics Clinics W.W. Caruth, Jr. Child Advocacy Clinic Civil/Consumer Clinic COVID-19 Legal Helpline Criminal Clinic Family Immigration Detention Clinic Federal Tax Clinic First Amendment Clinic Judge Elmo B. Hunter Legal Center for Victims of Crimes Against Women Innocence Clinic Patent Law Clinic Small Business and Trademark Clinic VanSickle Family Law Clinic Faculty Faculty Conferences, Symposia & Lecture Series Faculty Expertise Faculty in the News Faculty Profiles Research Public Service Public Service Completing Your Public Service Graduation Requirement Pre-Approved Placements Forms FAQs Planning a Public Service Career Internships & Fellowships Public Advocate Day Contact Public Service Program Staff Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) - Overview for law students only Students Students Office of Student Affairs Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Financial Frequently Used Resources Graduation Information Inns of Court Program Mustang Exchange Scholarships and Writing Competitions Student Code of Professional Responsibility Student Organizations ☰ SMU Law Public Service Public Service If you are seeking legal assistance, please contact the SMU Legal Clinics. Website: https://www.smu.edu/Law/Clinics Phone number: 214-768-2562; E-mail: legalclinics@smu.edu About the Program SMU Dedman School of Law has long been a leader amongst law schools in its genuine and unwavering commitment to public service. In 1947, it was one of the country’s first law schools to sponsor a community legal clinic to serve the poor, nearly twenty years before legal clinics became a national movement. Then, in 1996, SMU Dedman School of Law was the first law school in the state of Texas, to implement a mandatory Public Service Graduation Requirement. This legacy of public service is premised on the understanding that participating in public service plays a valuable role in the development of competent and responsible lawyers and also benefits the community by helping to meet the critical need for pro bono legal assistance. The Office of Public Service at SMU Dedman School of Law coordinates the school’s pro bono efforts. Specifically, the office works to build relationships with the various nonprofit legal programs in the area, to develop new public service placement opportunities for the students, and to maintain a clear understanding of the particular and changing unmet needs in the community. Additionally, the office actively promotes the value of public service to the students, through such efforts as soliciting public service scholarship, stipend, and fellowship opportunities, hosting Public Advocate Day, an annual public interest career fair, and advising students interested in seeking a legal career in public service. The Office of Public Service is dedicated to developing and maintaining a diverse list of public service placements in the community so the students can find an opportunity to complete their public service hours requirement in an area of law that interests them. Public Service Program Staff Laura G. Burstein, Esq. Director of Public Service and Faculty Supervisor, Government & Public Interest Externship Program Public Service Program Email: Lburstein@smu.edu Telephone: 214-768-2567 Fax: 214-768-4390 Lynn L. Moubry Assistant for Public Service and Academic Success Public Service Program Email: Lmoubry@smu.edu Telephone: 214-768-2761 Fax: 214-768-4688 Public Service Completing Your Public Service Graduation Requirement Pre-Approved Placements Forms FAQs Planning a Public Service Career Internships & Fellowships Public Advocate Day Contact Public Service Program Staff Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) - Overview Library Business Office Get Help Now News Media Emergency / Safety Admissions Office / FAQs Department Directory Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © SMU Dedman School of Law 3315 Daniel Avenue, Dallas, TX 75205 facebook google twitter linkedin tumblr youtube instagram