Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Learning Commons Learning Commons right arrow down arrow Schedule a Service Programs and Policies right arrow down arrow Academic Coaching right arrow down arrow Meet the Academic Coaches Academic Writing Center right arrow down arrow Meet the Tutors Graduate Tutoring Learning Assistants Learning Communities right arrow down arrow Peer Leader Program Current Peer Leaders Current Peer Leader Coordinators Math & Science Support Center Peer Facilitation right arrow down arrow Current Peer Facilitators Current Peer Facilitator Coordinators Peer Tutoring Success Skills Workshops right arrow down arrow Step by Step Guide to Register Success Skills Workshop Policies Success Skills Workshop Topics Supplemental Instruction right arrow down arrow SI Schedule Supplemental Review Sessions (MATH 1096) Learning Resources right arrow down arrow Note-Taking and Test Strategies right arrow down arrow The Cornell Method for Note-Taking Reading for Main Ideas vs. Details SQ4R: Getting the Most from Your Textbooks PLAN: An Active Reading Strategy How to Ace Your Finals Learning Styles and Study Habits right arrow down arrow Strategies for Aural Learners Strategies for Kinesthetic Learners Strategies for Visual Learners Writing Resources Business Writing Materials right arrow down arrow Resume Writing Tips Cover Letter Tips Memo Writing Tips First-Year Students right arrow down arrow First Semester Checklist Achieve Your Goal GPA Technology Skills Anxiety, Attitude, and Stress right arrow down arrow Managing Stress New Concentration Ideas Look at Your Classes to Find Your Passion Defining Your Career Goals Math Minute right arrow down arrow Math Minute - Algebra Math Minute - Calculus Online Learning Strategies Student Employment right arrow down arrow Academic Coaching Positions Academic Writing Center Positions Front Desk Assistant Positions Learning Assistant Positions Learning Community Peer Leader Positions Peer Facilitator Positions Peer Tutoring Positions Success Skills Workshop Positions Supplemental Instruction Leader Positions SRS Leader & MASS Tutor Positions Professional Staff Home » Campus Life » Learning Commons » Learning Resources » Business Writing Materials » Resume Writing Tips Set Navigation title in component Note-Taking and Test Strategies The Cornell Method for Note-Taking Reading for Main Ideas vs. Details SQ4R: Getting the Most from Your Textbooks PLAN: An Active Reading Strategy How to Ace Your Finals Learning Styles and Study Habits Strategies for Aural Learners Strategies for Kinesthetic Learners Strategies for Visual Learners Writing Resources Business Writing Materials Resume Writing Tips Cover Letter Tips Memo Writing Tips First-Year Students First Semester Checklist Achieve Your Goal GPA Technology Skills Anxiety, Attitude, and Stress Managing Stress New Concentration Ideas Look at Your Classes to Find Your Passion Defining Your Career Goals Math Minute Math Minute - Algebra Math Minute - Calculus Online Learning Strategies Resume Writing Tips Expand each section below to see our tips for crafting the best resume you can. Remember, the Academic Writing Center can review your resume and provide helpful feedback, so be sure to submit your resume before sending it out! Resume Pre-Writing Tips right arrow down arrow Your resume can only be 1 page long, so be selective about what you include. To start writing your resume, brainstorm about all of your experience, making sure to include work experience you have with clubs, community organizations, volunteer work, etc. Just because work wasn't paid, doesn't mean it isn't valuable experience. After brainstorming, edit down the lists of experience you'll include to what best shows your qualifications for this job by focusing on the most relevant information. At this point, it sometimes helps to have someone who knows you well look over your resume draft to make sure you're not leaving anything important out and that you're representing yourself honestly. Make your resume very easy to read. Hiring personnel or committees typically look at a lot of applications for each position, so it’s important that your resume be easy to read. Making your resume easy to read means using a professional font (Times New Roman, Arial, Cambria, etc), font size (11 or 12), font color (black, unless you have a very good reason for using something else), and consistent formatting and arrangement of your text throughout the resume. A resume that’s hard to read will get tossed out immediately. Consider templates to format your resume. Microsoft Word provides free templates for you to use. Using tables and sedate color-coding will help visually organize your information (making it easier to read) and will visually distinguish your resume from other applicants’ in a professional way, making it more memorable. Note: if you use colors in the header rows like in the template resumes, make sure the background colors are very light, so that if the resume is printed you'll still be able to read the text in the colored boxes. Test this by printing out a test draft. Correct spelling and grammar are very important. Use the automatic spelling and grammar checkers carefully (their suggestions are often—though not always—correct). Read over the final draft several times before sending it. If possible, ask another person to review your resume for correctness; a fresh pair of eyes can often see typos you'll miss. General Resume Writing Tips right arrow down arrow Include a “Skills” section and mention your relevant skills. If a job description mentions specific skills that you have (foreign language skills, computer skills, CPR certification, etc.), be sure to list these. Even if the job description doesn't specify these kinds of qualifications, if you have them and feel they'd be relevant, list them. Keep in mind that your resume is accompanied by a cover letter. Your resume is a list and your cover letter explains that list. Although you need to describe your work experience in some detail in the bulleted points of your resume, don't get carried away too far: let your cover letter do most of the explaining work. Employers often begin by looking at resumes first to choose a short list of applicants whose cover letters to read and to consider interviewing. Your resume needs to include enough information to stand alone if necessary. It's a good idea to test your resume's stand-alone ability by having someone else read it to see if it makes sense. If you're submitting your application materials in hard copy, don't staple your resume and cover letter together. Paperclip them together with the cover letter on top, so the resume and cover letter can be detached if necessary. If you're submitting your application materials digitally, submit your resume and cover letter as PDF files. Submitting your resume as a PDF file ensures that the formatting doesn't get messed up when the file is opened on a different computer. Saving as a PDF is an option in Word 2007 and newer, or you can download free basic PDF making software. Sometimes (rarely), text gets messed up in the PDF conversion process: double-check that your resume PDF is correct before submitting it. Resume Format Tips right arrow down arrow Make sure the name and contact information you include are current and professional. Ensure that your email address and voicemail message project a professional image appropriate for the job you’re applying for. Be sure to respond quickly if the employer contacts you. Use consistent formatting to designate workplaces, job titles, job responsibilities/experience. List education and experience in reverse chronological order (most recent to least recent). Begin your job experience bulleted points with active verbs. Make sure to use a variety of different verbs to demonstrate the breadth of your experience. If you are listing your current job, use present tense verbs. For former work experiences, use past tense verbs to avoid confusion. Whichever organizational method you choose, be consistent. You can list school and work experience according to employer and location, then job (ex: University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH, Student Employee). Or you can list according to job, then employer and location (ex: Student Employee, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH). Resume Rhetoric Tips right arrow down arrow Use words from the job description to describe your qualifications. These terms show how the employer is thinking of the job and its responsibilities, so using their terminology will show that you understand the job and make it easier for them to see you in it. The point here is to describe your experience in the terms the employer is looking for, not to misrepresent your experience. For example, if the description for a job focused on interdisciplinary writing, teaching writing, and tutoring, you should use those words in your qualifications, if they apply to you. Tailor your resume to the field you're applying for. If this is a job at a university, you should emphasize your academic qualifications. If it isn't an academic job, you might just put the names of the degrees you've earned. Your previous work experience is the place to really show that you understand the position and fit it perfectly. Spend time thinking about how your experience matches what the employer is looking for. Try to incorporate words from the job description and/or the organization's website to show that you're a good fit for the job. If the position doesn't ask for references separately, include them in your resume. Include a bullet point under your previous work experience such as: Reference: Your Boss, Their Title (513-556-3244 or learningcommons@uc.edu) If you submit references separately, don’t repeat them on your resume, but do make sure your references match up with the experience you list on your resume. Learning Commons 2510B French Hall West 513-556-3244 Fax: 513-556-0823 learningcommons@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Learning Commons 2510B French Hall West 513-556-3244 Fax: 513-556-0823 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top