Georgetown University Open Search Form Who We Are The Whole Person Our Catholic & Jesuit Heritage Our History Student Stories Faculty Stories Alumni Stories Campus & City Living in DC Opportunities Getting Around Service & Action Campus Life Housing On-Campus Dining Clubs & Organizations Arts & Culture Community & Diversity Student Life Blog Wellness & Safety Sports & Fitness Health Center Safety & Emergency Preparedness Athletics External Link Academic Life Restless Inquiry Our Schools Areas of Study Study Abroad Research Centers and Programs Global Initiatives External Link Library System Admissions & Aid Undergraduate Admissions External Link Graduate Admissions Financial Aid External Link Commitment to Access News Events Giving Alumni Info For Students Faculty Staff/AAP Alumni Parents Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Content Skip to Footer News Events Giving Alumni Info For Students Faculty Staff/AAP Alumni Parents Georgetown University Who We Are The Whole Person Our Catholic & Jesuit Heritage Our History Student Stories Faculty Stories Alumni Stories Campus & City Living in DC Opportunities Getting Around Service & Action Campus Life Housing On-Campus Dining Clubs & Organizations Arts & Culture Community & Diversity Student Life Blog Wellness & Safety Sports & Fitness Health Center Safety & Emergency Preparedness Athletics External Link Academic Life Restless Inquiry Our Schools Areas of Study Study Abroad Research Centers and Programs Global Initiatives External Link Library System Admissions & Aid Undergraduate Admissions External Link Graduate Admissions Financial Aid External Link Commitment to Access Open Search Form Georgetown University Home Admissions & Aid Graduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Chapter Menu Top Anchor Jump to… Expand Navigation Overview Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service (SFS) Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Georgetown University Law Center McCourt School of Public Policy McDonough School of Business School of Continuing Studies School of Nursing and Health Studies School of Medicine Play Youtube Video Overview Anchor Overview Seek something greater. We welcome scholars in the pursuit of deeper knowledge and broader experiences through master’s, Ph.D. degrees, dual programs and certificates. Leave Georgetown poised to be a leader in your field and change-maker in your community. Each of our graduate and professional programs has its own admissions process and requirements. To see specific requirements, check with the appropriate department or program. Areas of Study Graduate Financial Aid Back to Top Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service (SFS) Anchor Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service (SFS) In a continually changing and unpredictable world, we prepare women and men to be creative leaders with a commitment to service and an understanding of the ethical component of global affairs. Our location in DC gives students access to rich resources, influential practitioners and renowned scholars, to help develop you as a leader in government, international and nongovernmental organizations or the private sector. Named the #1 Master’s Program for International Affairs according to Foreign Policy magazine, the SFS houses two thematic master’s degrees, five regional master’s degrees and two joint degree programs in partnership with the university’s McDonough School of Business. Watch: MSFS Explore SFS Programs Apply to SFS Back to Top Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Anchor Graduate School of Arts and Sciences The Graduate School of Arts & Sciences, at nearly 200 years old, offers a wide variety of doctoral, master’s and certificate programs encompassing both traditional and interdisciplinary studies. Whether you’re interested in pursuing doctoral research in government or neuroscience, or exploring top-ranking master’s programs such as foreign service or public policy, you are sure to find unique opportunities in our graduate community. Watch: The Graduate School Explore Graduate School Programs Apply to the Graduate School Back to Top Georgetown University Law Center Anchor Georgetown University Law Center Georgetown Law students don’t just study the law. In D.C., they experience it. Washington, DC is the nation’s capital, a global hub and a lively metropolis. At Georgetown Law, students learn the law in the place where laws are made. Watch: GULC Explore Law Center Programs Apply to the Law Center Back to Top McCourt School of Public Policy Anchor McCourt School of Public Policy The McCourt School of Public Policy at Georgetown is a top-ranked public policy school located in the center of the policy world in Washington, DC. Our mission is to teach students to design, analyze and implement smart policies and put them into practice in the public, private and nonprofit sectors, in the U.S. and around the world. The McCourt School flagship degree is the Master in Public Policy. McCourt also offers a Master in International Development Policy, a Master of Science in Data Science for Public Policy, a Master in Policy Management, an Executive Master in Policy Leadership, as well as dual degree and executive programs. Watch: MSPP Explore McCourt School Programs Apply to the McCourt School Back to Top McDonough School of Business Anchor McDonough School of Business Georgetown McDonough’s graduate programs are designed to prepare you for the global stage with unrivaled access that only DC can offer. We develop and educate principled leaders with a global mindset to be in service to business and society. Our rigorous curricula, diverse community, vibrant location and commitment to ethics come together to create an educational experience like no other. We offer Full-time and Flex MBAs, an Executive MBA, a Master’s in Management, a Master of Science in Business Analytics, a Master of Science in Finance, an Executive Master’s in Leadership, and a Master of Arts in International Business and Policy, in partnership with the School of Foreign Service. Explore McDonough School of Business Programs About the McDonough School of Business Back to Top School of Continuing Studies Anchor School of Continuing Studies The School of Continuing Studies inspires you to reimagine what’s possible. Through contemporary, hands-on programs, you’ll be challenged to ask questions, rethink traditional solutions and leave your comfort zone behind. You’ll learn to navigate the professional world with integrity and confidence. Choose from a variety of full-time and part-time programs, available in on-campus, online and executive formats. Our programs include professional degrees, executive leadership programs, liberal studies, certificates and summer programs. Watch: SCS Degrees Career Finder Tool Apply to SCS Back to Top School of Nursing and Health Studies Anchor School of Nursing and Health Studies The School of Nursing & Health Studies houses dynamic degree programs in the health sciences and aims to promote health equity and improve population health locally, nationally and globally. We offer academic programs at the master’s and doctoral levels that range from Clinical Nurse Leader (CNL) to global health to nurse-midwifery. Our graduates are leaders around the globe in academia, the government and the military, health systems and community-based organizations. Watch: Doctor of Nursing Practice Watch: The CNL Program Explore NHS Programs Back to Top School of Medicine Anchor School of Medicine At the School of Medicine, we train the healers and leaders of tomorrow. We are advancing healthcare by conducting innovative research, training future leaders to be scientifically competent and compassionate providers and serving our local DC community and the nation. Our school will educate you to become knowledgeable, ethical, skillful and compassionate physicians and scientists dedicated to the care of others and health needs of our society. Watch: Match Day Apply to the School of Medicine Back to Top Contact Us Directory Visit Maps About Academic Calendar Careers Media Resources FacebookFacebook TwitterTwitter InstagramInstagram LinkedInLinkedIn YouTubeYouTube Georgetown University 37th and O Streets, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20057 P. 202-687-0100 Georgetown University Privacy Policy Copyright Web Accessibility Notice of Non-Discrimination © 2022 Georgetown University Search Georgetown Search Close the Search Dialog