Skip to main content Skip to main navigation About Baylor Menu Campus The Vibrant Baylor Campus Then & Now Traditions School Song Fight Song Baylor Bucket List The Immortal Message The McLane Carillon Virtual Tour Campus Map Directions to Baylor Connect Social Media Baylor Magazine Baylor Proud Baylor Alumni Connect Wear the Gear Facts & Figures Overview Awards & Rankings Ask Baylor Financial Highlights Heritage History Baylor Presidents Founders & Founders Day The Naming of Baylor Baylor Campus: Then & Now Historical Timeline List of Timeline Events Prominent Bears Commission on Historic Campus Representations Leadership Office of the President Senior Administration Administrative Departments Values & Vision Give Light Core Convictions Mission Top-Tier Academics Research Apply Christian Commitment Celebrating Advent Caring Community Athletic Excellence Strategic Plan Join Us Apply Now Work Here Make a Gift Visit Baylor Our Stories Baylor>About Baylor>Legal Disclosures>GDPR Privacy Notice European Union General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice The European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”) is a data privacy law that applies to personal information collected in or from the European Union and European Economic Area. Baylor University (“Baylor”) is committed to safeguarding the privacy of personal information, including compliance with the GDPR. This Privacy Notice outlines the collection, use, and disclosure of personal information provided to Baylor by individuals, (hereinafter “Information Providers”) including but not limited to: prospective students and their parents, spouse or other family members applicants for admission and their parents, spouse or other family members matriculated students and their parents, spouse or other family members applicants for employment employees and members of their immediate family retirees alumni donors event patrons customers contractors and vendors research subjects When information is submitted to Baylor or you use Baylor's websites and other electronic data services, you consent to the collection, use, and disclosure of that information as described in this Privacy Notice. Definition of Important Terms Baylor may use, collect and/or disclose “Information” and “Sensitive Information” for its legitimate business purposes. As used herein, “Information” refers to all personal data, excluding Sensitive Information, concerning a natural person, created by or provided to Baylor by or about an Information Provider. “Sensitive Information,” as used herein, is Information about an Information Provider’s race, gender, ethnic origin, religious affiliation, health data and criminal convictions. Baylor Use of Information Baylor collects, processes and discloses Information and Sensitive Information from and about Information Providers only as necessary in the exercise of Baylor's legitimate interests, functions and responsibilities as a private, not-for-profit higher education institution. Baylor collects, processes and may disclose Information and Sensitive Information from and about Information Providers who are research subjects in the exercise of scientific, historical research, or statistical purposes. Baylor collects and processes Information from and about Information Providers who are applicants for employment, employees and immediate family members in order to enter into or administer an employment relationship with Baylor. Baylor collects Information from and about Information Providers and may share it with internal and external parties to register or enroll persons, provide and administer housing to students, provide and administer financial aid, manage a student account, provide academic advising, develop and deliver education programs, track academic progress, analyze and improve education programs, recruitment, regulatory reporting, auditing, maintenance of accreditation, and other related Baylor processes and functions. Baylor uses Information and Sensitive Information to conduct general demographic and statistical research to improve Baylor programs. Baylor collects, processes and shares Sensitive Information internally and externally, as necessary, applicable and appropriate, to identify appropriate support services or activities, provide reasonable accommodations, enforce Baylor policies or comply with applicable laws. Information and Sensitive Information may be shared by Baylor with third parties who have entered into contracts with Baylor to perform functions on behalf of Baylor, subject to the obligation of confidentiality and safeguarding from unauthorized disclosure. Baylor collects, processes and shares Information and Sensitive Information from and about alumni, donors and event patrons internally and with third parties for the purpose of management of your relationship and engagement with Baylor. Third Party Use of Sensitive Information We may disclose your Sensitive Information and other Information as follows: Consent: We may disclose Sensitive Information and other Information if we have your consent to do so. Emergency Circumstances: We may share your Information, and Sensitive Information when necessary to protect your interests and you are physically or legally incapable of providing consent. Employment Necessity: We may share your Sensitive Information when necessary for administering employment or social security benefits in accordance with applicable law, subject to the imposition of appropriate safeguards to prevent further unauthorized disclosure. Charitable Organizations: We may share your Information with not-for-profit organizations in connection with charitable giving to Baylor subject to the imposition of appropriate safeguards to prevent further unauthorized disclosure. Public Information: We may share your Information and Sensitive Information if you have manifestly made it public. Archiving. We may share your Information and Sensitive Information for archiving purposes in the public interest, and for historical research, and statistical purposes. Performance of a Contract: We may share your Information when necessary to administer a contract you have with Baylor. Legal Obligation: We may share your Information when the disclosure is required or permitted by international, federal, and state laws and regulations. Service Providers: We use third parties who have entered into a contract with Baylor to support the administration of Baylor operations and policies. In such cases, we share your Information with such third parties subject to the imposition of appropriate safeguards to prevent further unauthorized disclosure. Baylor Affiliated Programs: We may share your Information with parties that are affiliated with Baylor for the purpose of contacting you about goods, services, charitable giving or experiences that may be of interest to you. De-Identified and Aggregate Information: We may use and disclose Information in de-identified or aggregate form without limitation. Security We implement appropriate technical and organizational security measures to protect your information when you transmit it to us and when we store it on our information technology systems. Cookies and Other Technology Baylor's use of cookies and certain other data from websites and email can be found in the Website and Email Privacy Statement https://www.baylor.edu/about/web_priv. Retention and Destruction of Your Information Your information will be retained by Baylor in accordance with applicable federal and state laws and regulations, and the applicable retention periods in the Baylor University Records Retention Policy. Your information will be destroyed upon your request unless applicable law requires destruction after the expiration of an applicable retention period. The manner of destruction shall be appropriate to preserve and ensure the confidentiality of your information given the level of sensitivity, value and criticality to Baylor. Your Rights You have the right to request access to, a copy of, rectification, restriction in the use of, or erasure of your information in accordance with all applicable laws. The erasure of your information shall be subject to the retention periods of applicable federal and state laws and regulations. If you have provided consent to the use of your information, you have the right to withdraw consent without affecting the lawfulness of Baylor's use of the information prior to receipt of your request. Certain information, such as official transcript information, student financial aid records, student discipline records and employment records will be permanently retained by Baylor without regard to this right. You may exercise these rights by contacting Baylor’s Chief Privacy Officer at Doug_Welch@baylor.edu. Information created in the European Union will be transferred out of the European Union to Baylor. If you feel Baylor has not complied with applicable foreign laws regulating such information, you have the right to file a complaint with the appropriate supervisory authority in the European Union. Updates to This Notice We may update or change this notice at any time. Your continued use of Baylor's website and third-party applications after any such change indicates your acceptance of these changes. Last updated 5-24-18 About Baylor Joining the Baylor family is an opportunity to experience a top academic environment within a dynamic Christian community. Ask Baylor Apply Now Work Here Make a Gift Visit Baylor General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Campus The Vibrant Baylor Campus Then & Now Traditions School Song Fight Song Baylor Bucket List The Immortal Message The McLane Carillon Virtual Tour Campus Map Directions to Baylor Connect Social Media Baylor Magazine Baylor Proud Baylor Alumni Connect Wear the Gear Facts & Figures Overview Awards & Rankings Ask Baylor Financial Highlights Heritage History Baylor Presidents Founders & Founders Day The Naming of Baylor Baylor Campus: Then & Now Historical Timeline List of Timeline Events Prominent Bears Commission on Historic Campus Representations Leadership Office of the President Senior Administration Administrative Departments Values & Vision Give Light Core Convictions Mission Top-Tier Academics Research Apply Christian Commitment Celebrating Advent Caring Community Athletic Excellence Strategic Plan Join Us Apply Now Work Here Make a Gift Visit Baylor Our Stories