Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search within this section Search all sites School of Medicine Wichita Research Services Funding Opportunities Research Forum About Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors Office of Research-Wichita Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Office of Research-Wichita Services Services Biostatistical Consultation & Fees Grant Preparation Survey Development Grant and Manuscript Authorship Pre-Award Grant Support Services Quality Improvement Resources Funding Opportunities Funding Opportunities Dean's Level I Grant Award Honor Student Travel Grant Award Resources for Research Funding Opportunities Research Forum About About Staff Mission Become a Friend of Research ILMA Research Fellowship Publications Kansas Journal of Medicine Make a Gift The Office of Research facilitates the research efforts, scholarly endeavors and statistical education of the faculty, residents and students affiliated with KU School of Medicine-Wichita. Services Funding Opportunities Staff Our team of research consultants provides a variety of services. We welcome the opportunity to talk with you about how we might help with your research project. Please visit our services page or contact us at 316-293-2617 or kuwichitaresearch@kumc.edu. Kansas Journal of Medicine The Kansas Journal of Medicine (KJM) publishes original research, reviews, commentaries, and case studies on all aspects of clinical medicine, health care delivery, health policy, and medical education. Issues from February 2017 - present are indexed in PubMed Central. To read a past or current issue, or for information on how to submit a manuscript, visit the KJM website. KJM website Interested in participating in a clinical trial? Call 316-293-1833 for information on how to participate. View Studies Currently Enrolling KU School of Medicine-Wichita 1010 North Kansas Wichita, KS 67214-3199 316-293-2635 Facebook Wichita Twitter Wichita Youtube Wichita LinkedIn Wichita Instagram Wichita Make a Gift 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.