Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Current Students Faculty Search BC.edu Links Classical Studies Menu Main Nav Classical Studies Classical Studies Contact Back Back Close About Overview Facilities & Opportunities Contact Giving Open Positions People Undergraduate Overview Major Minors Study Abroad Graduate Overview M.A. in Classics M.A. in Latin Courses What is Classics? Close Contact Directory A to Z Listing Search Morrissey College Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Current Students Faculty BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Welcome to the Classics Department We offer language and advanced reading courses in Latin and ancient Greek, in addition to a range of courses on ancient culture taught entirely in English. The Classical Studies undergraduate program offers a Classics major, minors in Latin and Ancient Greek, and an interdisciplinary minor in Ancient Civilization. At the graduate level, the department supports a small Master of Arts program. Classics includes the study of language and creative literature, of political and social history, of economics and law, of philosophy, religion, and art, and of the material remains of the ancient world. What is Classics? Undergraduate The undergraduate curriculum is designed to provide students with access to ancient civilizations regardless of their prior experience. Courses are offered at all levels, both in the classical languages and English, allowing students to choose what form suits them best. Undergraduate Program Graduate The Classical Studies department offers Master of Arts degrees in: Classics (Latin and Greek together) - M.A. Latin - M.A. Graduate Program Our Faculty View More View Less Where do our graduates work? University of Texas at Austin Professor of Classics Huntsville Hospital Chair, OB/GYN Dept. Boston College High School Chair, Dept. of Classical Languages Taipei American School, Taiwan Latin and Greek Teacher Weston High School Latin Teacher Bishop Fenwick High School Religion Teacher British Museum Product Manager, Digital & Publishing Dept. Harvard Pilgrim Health Care Government Affairs Specialist Warby Parker Supervisor Cumulus Media Regional Sales Manager Bilingual English Development & Assessment Program, Spain English Instructor Upstate Interactive User Experience Specialist Back To Top Back To Top Classical Studies Stokes Hall S260 617-552-3661 Facebook Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Gasson Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Contact Departments Art, Art History, and Film Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics Engineering English German Studies History Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Romance Languages and Literatures Slavic & Eastern Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology Give to Classics Apply Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College