Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Okta Outlook Workday More Sign Ons... Iowa State University Student Innovation Center Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Innovate Here Who Can Use The Center? Room Reservations Community Resources Student Organizations General University Classrooms Makerspaces Electronics, Textiles, and 3D Printing Innovation Programs Flagship Forums Professional Practices Workshops Challenges Sprints Student Innovation Fund Innovation Fellows Fellows Pathway Fellows Resources I-FiT: Innovation Fellows in Training Innovators in Residence Consulting Faculty Innovators Upcoming Events IGNITE Innovation Showcase Host an Event News Contact Us Home 1 2 3 Welcome to the Student Innovation Center You want to make the world a better place, to make a difference by thinking innovatively, and you want to start now. Iowa State University’s Student Innovation Center is designed with innovators like you in mind. It’s the nexus on campus that inspires students, faculty, and staff to innovate through experimentation, interdisciplinary collaboration, and the free exchange of ideas in an inclusive environment. It’s where you’ll go from shaping ideas to taking action and seeing your dreams make an impact. You can innovate Students Faculty Community Innovation Programs Imagine having a conversation with the World Economic Innovation Prize Winner for Energy Storage or a four-time Emmy Award winner for comedy. With our Innovation Programs, students have unique access to these conversations with hundreds of industry innovators. Learn more Innovation in Action The Pillars of Innovation Entrepreneurial Mindset Learn to think like an entrepreneur Experiential Learning Learn by doing – try, fail, learn, try again Global Perspective The world needs your innovative solutions Interdisciplinary Scope Learn together – the best ideas come from diverse groups Innovation Fellows Contact Us Innovate at Iowa State Student Innovation Center 606 Bissell Road Iowa State University Ames, Iowa 50011 Summer Hours: Mon.-Fri.: 7:30 AM – 8 PM Sat.-Sun.: 9 AM – 8 PM Contact Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn TikTok Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Loading...