Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Tangeman University Center TUC right arrow down arrow Visiting TUC right arrow down arrow Floor Plans Dining right arrow down arrow Catering Convenience Store Vending Services Retail right arrow down arrow UC Bookstores right arrow down arrow Course Materials & Tech Fan Gear For Grads & Alumni, Plus Special Orders Bearcat Card right arrow down arrow Where to Use Your Bearcat Card Terms & Conditions Frequently Asked Questions Information for Merchants PNC Bank & ATMs Convenience Store Services right arrow down arrow Study Spaces MainStreet Connection Center Wepa Print Station Lost & Found Steger Student Life Center (SSLC) Bearcat Promise Career Studio Promotions Request Meetings & Events right arrow down arrow Great Hall Meeting Rooms Other Event Spaces Rates Planning Services Request a Space About TUC right arrow down arrow Larry Elsasser Scholarship & Recipients Video Backgrounds Home » Campus Life » TUC » Retail » Bearcat Card » FAQ Set Navigation title in component UC Bookstores Course Materials & Tech Fan Gear For Grads & Alumni, Plus Special Orders Bearcat Card Where to Use Your Bearcat Card Terms & Conditions Frequently Asked Questions Information for Merchants PNC Bank & ATMs Convenience Store Frequently Asked Questions How does the Bearcat Card work? right arrow down arrow The Bearcat Card is a function of your UCID. The Bearcat Card is activated by depositing money into your account. Choose the amount of money that you wish to deposit. You can use cash, check, debit, or credit card. Once activated, you can withdraw the funds by presenting the card when making a purchase at participating locations. Where can I deposit money into my account?  right arrow down arrow Money can be deposited at any time during the year by:  Logging into Canopy and selecting the Bearcat Card tile, or the Card Management application Visiting the MainStreet Connection Center Stopping by one of the three convenient Value Transfer Stations (VTS) locations on campus: Langsam Library - Level 4 Medical Science Building - Level 1 Tangeman University Center - Level 2 - Food Court entrance Is there a fee attached to using the Bearcat Card, or a required minimum balance? right arrow down arrow No. There are no transaction fees or minimum balance required for the Bearcat Card account. Where can I use my Bearcat Card? right arrow down arrow You can use your Bearcat Card at over 400 locations on and off-campus. Also, look for the Bearcat Card Welcome Here acceptance signs at participating locations. where to use What are the benefits of having a Bearcat Card? right arrow down arrow There are several benefits. It is convenient, fast, safe, and you don’t have to carry cash or credit cards. There are no transaction fees and a lost card doesn’t mean lost money, if reported right away. Moreover, you can save money when you make copies or use at on-campus (except UC Clermont College) vending machines. What do I do if I lose my Bearcat Card or have problems with it? right arrow down arrow You should report lost cards immediately by logging into Bearcat Card account management and deactivating your card.  Sign in using your central login. Click Card Services then deactivate or reactivate your card.  Replacement cards can be purchased at the Keys & Badges Office, 4 Edwards Center, at a cost of $35. Bearcat Cards are updated every 30 minutes. All information and monies will be transferred to your new card at that time. Don't forget if you have activated your account, you need to reactivate for the new card to work. May I get a refund of money that I do not spend on my Bearcat Card account during the semester? And will I receive a statement? right arrow down arrow Refunds are given upon request if you are leaving or withdrawing from the university.* Otherwise, the balance rolls over to the next semester. Statements up to thirty days can be viewed online using your Blackboard account. *Minus a $5 processing fee. See Terms and Conditions. If I am an employee, how do I sign up for a Bearcat Card, or to use Payroll deduction? right arrow down arrow Employees can complete the required information for Bearcat Card Debit account, or campus services Charge account, to use payroll deduction. Accept the terms and conditions, sign the form, and submit it. What happens to balances on inactive accounts? right arrow down arrow Bearcat Card accounts with no activity (defined as a deposit or debit) over a twelve-month period are considered inactive and will be suspended without notice if the balance is less than $25. Inactive accounts with balances over $25 will be assessed an annual $10 service charge. Unless a refund is requested within five years of the last activity, inactive accounts will be closed without notice with any remaining balances forfeited to the University of Cincinnati. Refunds are processed when: The account balance is $5 or more; AND A refund request is submitted. A $5 processing fee will be deducted from the refund.  Tangeman University Center 2766 UC MainStreet Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-2831 mainstreet@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Tangeman University Center 2766 UC MainStreet Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-2831 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top