Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Office of the Provost and Dean of Faculties Menu Main Nav Office of the Provost and Dean of Faculties Office of the Provost and Dean of Faculties Contact Back Back Close About Overview Diversity & Inclusion Contact Dean of Law School Search Academics & Research Overview Accreditation Information Assessment BCPEP Grants and Awards University Council on Teaching Tam/Tame Details University Fellowships Committee Undergraduate Research Support Fellowships and Scholarships Fulbright U.S. Student Program Events Faculty Openings Faculty Resources Overview Faculty Annual Report Guide Faculty Recruiting Expense Reimbursement Guidelines Sabbaticals New Faculty Information New Faculty Moving Expenses Faculty Openings Documents & Reports Close Contact Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Who is the Provost? Under the President’s direction, the Provost is responsible for the administration of all University academic activities as well as the leadership of the faculty. Dean Search: Boston College Law School Boston College has named Odette Lienau, professor of law and former associate dean for faculty research and intellectual life at Cornell University Law School, as the inaugural Marianne D. Short, Esq., Dean at Boston College Law School, effective January 2023. Professor of Law and Dr. Thomas F. Carney Distinguished Scholar Diane Ring will continue to serve as interim dean of the law school through the fall semester. Dean Announcement Dean Search Information Dean Search: School of Theology and Ministry Michael C. McCarthy, S.J., former vice president for mission integration and planning and associate professor of theology at Fordham University, has been named dean of the Boston College School of Theology and Ministry, effective July 1, succeeding Fr. Tom Stegman of the Society of Jesus, who will step down at the end of the semester. Dean Announcement University Strategic Plan Ever to Excel: Advancing Boston College's Mission In January 2016 Boston College embarked on the University Strategic Planning Initiative—a new strategic planning effort to identify institutional priorities for the next decade. Led by co-chairs Executive Vice President Michael J. Lochhead and Provost and Dean of Faculties David Quigley, and following an intense, collaborative process, our new Strategic Directions have been approved by the Boston College Board of Trustees. Called Ever to Excel: Advancing Boston College’s Mission, these directions will shape the University’s priorities over the coming decade. Academic Calendar Arts & Culture Back To Top Back To Top Office of the Provost and Dean of Faculties Waul House 270 Hammond Street Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-3260 provostoffice@bc.edu 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College