Skip to main content Close search Search for people, topics, events, etc. Search Go to homepage Toggle menu Toggle search Close menu Events & Exhibitions Visit Upcoming Events Past Events Fellowship Fellows Become a Fellow Schlesinger Library About the Library Research Services Collections Visit the Library News & Ideas Opportunities For Students For Researchers For Educators Toggle search About Give Media Harvard and Slavery Opportunities For Students For Researchers For Educators About Give Media Harvard and Slavery Events & exhibitions Events & exhibitions event • Rama S. Mehta Lecture (Why) Reporting the Voices of African Women and Girls Matters Thursday, October 11, 2018 4:15 PM ET Knafel Center 10 Garden Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Toggle information Close detail panel Ofeibea Quist-Arcton From: (Why) Reporting the Voices of African Women and Girls Matters Photo Credit: Kevin Grady/Radcliffe Institute Share Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Share this page on LinkedIn Copy Link Related Play video Architects of Peace: Redefining the Role of Women in Today’s Growing Security Agenda A Woman's Place at the Harvard Observatory Radcliffe Day 2015 An all-purpose Africa reporter, National Public Radio’s Ofeibea Quist-Arcton is often to be found—in open-air markets, on the front line, in the boardroom, in educational institutions, in urban and village settings, in creative spaces and sacred places—listening to women and girls talk about the continent, the world, and what matters to them. And to us all. The Rama S. Mehta Lecture at the Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study was established by Catherine Atwater Galbraith, John Kenneth Galbraith, and the Mehta family, in memory of Rama S. Mehta. Each event includes a distinguished woman in public affairs, the sciences, or the arts who has a deep understanding of the challenges of women in developing countries. The Radcliffe Institute is grateful to the Benazir Bhutto Leadership Program of ClassACT HR ’73 and members of the Harvard-Radcliffe Class of 1973 for their leadership support of the 2018–2019 Rama S. Mehta Lecture. This program is scheduled to complement the reunions of the Harvard and Radcliffe Classes of 1973, 1978, and 1988. We hope to welcome many alumnae/i from these classes to the Radcliffe Institute as part of their reunion activities when they return to Cambridge in the fall. Event Video Play video SPEAKER Ofeibea Quist-Arcton, Africa correspondent, NPR DISCUSSANT Marco Werman, host, The World, Public Radio International Share: Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Share this page on LinkedIn More Events & Exhibitions See All Events Back to top B a c k t o t o p Get the latest Radcliffe news delivered to your inbox Enter your e-mail address Continue Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study Harvard University 10 Garden Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Directions Give Now Contact Visit Careers Housing Meeting Spaces Site Map Digital Accessibility Accessibility Harvard University Policies Follow us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Follow us onInstagram Subscribe to our RSS feed Visit our LinkedIn page Visit our YouTube channel © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College