Skip to main content Utility Links University of Pennsylvania Office of the Provost Secondary Nav Penn OLI Contact Us Group Created with Sketch. Group Created with Sketch. search Group Created with Sketch. full menu Primary Nav Penn OLI Courses & Programs For Faculty & Online Teams For Penn Students About Drawer Menu Penn OLI Courses & Programs Explore Back to main menu Search Offerings Learner Questions For Faculty & Online Teams Explore Back to main menu How to Create Vital Online Communities Faculty & Online Teams Questions Contact Us For Penn Students About Explore Back to main menu OLI Team Faculty Advisory Committee Explore Back to main menu Working Groups OLI News FAQs Contact Us Search Group Created with Sketch. Faculty & Online Teams Basic Page Sidebar Menu Penn OLI Courses & Programs Explore Back to main menu Search Offerings Learner Questions For Faculty & Online Teams Explore Back to main menu How to Create Vital Online Communities Faculty & Online Teams Questions Contact Us For Penn Students About Explore Back to main menu OLI Team Faculty Advisory Committee Explore Back to main menu Working Groups OLI News FAQs Contact Us Meet with OLI to explore the resources Leverage the Online Learning Initiative team’s expertise. The Online Learning Initiative helps faculty and course teams explore a broad range of online teaching opportunities. Meet with the team to learn more about our resources and start showcasing your teaching to learners all over the world. Online Learning Initiative’s resources help you establish timelines, plan realistic budgets, and navigate or establish policies. The OLI team is ready to discuss strategies for creating partnerships and working with vendors, supporting students across their learning trajectory, and targeting and connecting with your specific audience. In addition to providing faculty and course team support, OLI helps you incorporate best practices in learning design, think through program and course assessment, and examine student support strategies. PennKey Accessible Resources Distant, Not Disconnected: How to Create Vital Online Communities Finding ways to connect new students and other new members of our community to Penn can help ensure that returning community members maintain their sense of connection with the University. How to Create Vital Online Communities Resources and Strategies for Teaching Online The Center for Teaching and Learning and the Online Learning Initiative have created information to help faculty, instructors, and TAs prepare to teach online. Learn more FAQs OLI News Give Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Van Pelt-Dietrich Library 3420 Walnut St Philadelphia, PA 19104 215-898-1598 Penn WebLogin ©2022 University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104 Footer Menu Contact Us Accessibility Office of the Provost