Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Center For Writing and Communication Schedule a Session Presentations FAQ Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact PreviousNext Take Action How To Schedule with CWC Meet our staff Information for students Information for faculty Follow the CWC Online Facebooktwitter Home Center For Writing and Communication Welcome to the Center For Writing and Communication! The Center for Writing and Communication, located on the first floor of Ned R. Mcwherter Library, is a combined writing and speaking center that offers free, one-on-one consultations with a trained staff comprised of graduate students from the departments of English and Communication. We are available to offer students feedback on their writing and speaking assignments at any stage in the process. Students are strongly encouraged to schedule an appointment online, but walk-in sessions may at times be available when the CWC is open. For assistance locating resources and conducting research, contact the library at the Ask-A-Librarian page or you can set up a Research Appointment. Fall and Spring Hours- Monday-Thursday, 9am-5pm; Friday, 9am-noon. Summer Hours- Monday-Thursday, 10am-3pm. Whether you are working on a paper, presentation, or speech, we can help you brainstorm topics, develop a thesis, build your argument, help with research, organize your writing, develop editing strategies, and implement standard citation conventions. If you are delivering a speech, you can practice in our presentation studio. All questions or concerns can be directed to the CWC Director, Jonathan Smith, at jmsmth35@memphis.edu. In-Person Consultation Click here to schedule an In-Person Consultation. Online Consultation Click here to schedule an Online Consultation. (For writing consultations, select "Meet with a tutor" and type "Writing" in the subject search bar.) To make an online consultation appointment, click on the online consultation link below. You will need your UofM credentials in order to do so. Once on the Upswing page, enter "writing" into the search bar. This should populate CWC consultants first, followed by non-UofM Upswing consultants. We suggest working with CWC consultants whenever possible, though Upswing consultants are available if you cannot find a CWC consultant available at your desired appointment time. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/14/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.