Transfer - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Admissions Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Undergraduate Admissions Discover & Connect Majors Connect with Current Students Meet Your Admissions Representative Visit Apply Freshman Students Freshman Admissions Appeals Self-Reporting Your Grades Transfer Students International Students International Freshman International Transfer Former Students Post-Baccalaureate Students Visiting Students Military and Veteran Students Transferring Credit Adult Admissions Program Residency Requirements Academic Fresh Start Transcript Submission Guidelines Pay for College Make It Official New Student Orientation Transfer Orientation Family & Guest Orientation Resources COVID-19 Information Test Optional Admissions For Counselors For Parents and Families College Readiness Contact Us Who We Are UH Home Admissions Apply Transfer Students Transfer Page contents: Why Transfer? Transfer Credit Estimator Deadlines Application Process FAQs Student Life Contact Easy Transfer. Endless Possibilites. Transfer to University of Houston, a leading Tier One university with more than 120 degree options and world-renowned professors. When you join UH, you become part of one of the most diverse student bodies in the country. If you want to innovate as an engineer or improve lives through health care — however you choose to put your stamp on the world — our forward-thinking faculty will help you reach your goals. Not sure if you should apply as a transfer student? Review our transfer student requirements. Apply with the ApplyTexas Apply with the Common App Request Info Speak with an admissions expert Transfer Students Why Transfer? Keep Your Credit Hours. University of Houston accepts coursework from thousands of universities and community colleges. Finish Fast. On average, students who transfer to University of Houston earn their degree in as little as one-to-two years. Lower Costs As a public university, University of Houston’s tuition is more affordable than private universities. Transfers Made Easy. Our admissions counselors will help guide you through the transfer process and are available virtually. Transfer Credit Estimator You deserve to get as much credit as you can for your work at your previous institution. Meet our new Transfer Credit Estimator, your guide to estimating how many course credits may transfer to your chosen degree program at the University of Houston. Learn more Important Dates and Deadlines Spring 2022 Application Due: December 1, 2021 Supporting Information* Due: December 16, 2021 Summer 2022 Application Due: May 2, 2022 Supporting Information* Due: May 9, 2022 Fall 2022 Application Due: June 30, 2022 Supporting Information* Due: July 8, 2022 *Supporting information includes application fee and official transcript(s) from all attended institution(s). Transfer Application Process Expand All Collapse All 1 Apply Online Use ApplyTexas or the Common App to apply. Submit just one application. Apply Now 2 Pay Application Fees Pay the $75 application fee. (It’s $90 for international students.) Payment can be made in your myUH self-service portal or before submitting the admissions application. Pay fees 3 Submit Transcripts Submit official college transcripts from all colleges or universities attended. Ask your college or university registrar to send your transcript data electronically through an EDI (Electronic Data Interchange) system, e.g. Speede. View all transcript submission options 4 Check Your Application Status Check your application status in your my.uh.edu self-service portal. Track Status 5 Become an #OfficialCoog Register for Transfer Orientation in your my.uh.edu self-service portal. Sign up for orientation Transfer Admissions FAQs Expand AllCollapse All What are the admissions requirements for transfer students? Transferable courses are college-level courses from regionally accredited colleges and universities. In order to determine admissibility, the Office of Admissions will calculate your cumulative GPA for all transferable college-level courses from all schools attended. For repeated courses, grades from all course attempts will be used for calculation of cumulative GPA. The cumulative GPA is for admission purposes only and will not transfer to your UH GPA. Admission Type Hours of College-Level Credit Earned Minimum Required Cumulative GPA Freshman Admission 0 - 14 Must meet freshman admission criteria Assured Admission 15 or more 2.5 Individual Review* 15 or more 2.25 - 2.49 *If you don't meet the assured admissions requirements, we may consider additional factors in the admissions process. If we require additional documentation, we'll request those materials from you. Some majors have additional requirements on top of the ones listed above. For more information, visit uh.edu/transfer-majors-ar. How does the University of Houston calculate my GPA? We will calculate your cumulative GPA for all transferable college-level courses from all schools attended. For repeated courses, grades from all course attempts will be used for calculation of cumulative GPA. We do not count developmental coursework. The cumulative GPA is for admission purposes only and will not transfer to your UH GPA. Will my credits apply to my major? Use our Transfer Credit Estimator, a new tool designed to help you estimate how your course credits may transfer to your chosen major and degree program. For more information on transferable credit or advising assistance, please contact the Transfer Advising Program (TAP) at (832)-842-4632. How long will it take to complete my degree program? On average, transfer students complete their bachelor's degree in 1-2 years. The timeline to complete your degree varies by how many credits you transfer to UH. Use our Transfer Credit Estimator to start mapping your degree plan. How can I move my application to the next available term? Use our application term change request form. Please note the request is only available to applicants (not for students with decisions). Applicants are not required to submit a new application and must submit a request before the new application term deadline. Submit the Application Term Change Request form See all transfer admission requirements Learn more about transferring college credits Student Life Housing Want to learn and grow in your own space? Living on campus is a great option. With multiple housing options to accommodate your campus experience, we can't wait to welcome you home! Get Involved 550+ student organizations. 35+ fraternities and sororities. 100+ multi-cultural organizations. 15 intercollegiate sports teams. No matter who you are, we have a lot to offer. So, between classes and making memories that’ll last a lifetime, you’re going to have plenty to do. Guided Virtual Tours The Office of Admissions is now offering virtual campus visits. Register for an opportunity to receive a live campus tour from a UH student ambassador and a brief information session from an admissions representative. This visit is approximately 30 minutes. Questions? Admissions representatives are experts when it comes to applying to the University of Houston. If you'd like to talk to an admissions representative for admissions support, you can schedule a virtual admissions advising appointment, or contact us by phone at (713)-743-1010, option 4 or by email at admissions@uh.edu. Please note that admissions representatives do not provide support with course selection or registration. Schedule a virtual admissions advising appointment Phone (713)-743-1010, option 4 Email admissions@uh.edu Follow Us on Social Media Twitter Instagram Reddit TikTok Coogcast View this post on Instagram A post shared by UH Office of Admissions (@uhadmissions) View this post on Instagram A post shared by UH Office of Admissions (@uhadmissions) View this post on Instagram A post shared by UH Office of Admissions (@uhadmissions) View this post on Instagram A post shared by UH Office of Admissions (@uhadmissions) University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies