Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Undocumented, First-Generation College, and Low-Income Student Center Home About People Our Team Community History News & Updates Digital Archive Programs and Services Get Involved Site Navigation Home About People Our Team Community History News & Updates Digital Archive Programs and Services FLi Scholars Program Undocumented Student Program Prospective Students Financial Matters Internships and Other Opportunities DACA Q/A Class Dissonance Series Undocu-Series U-FLi Graduate Student Initiative Get Involved Alumni and Giving Opportunities Sign-up for our Newsletter Professional Staff Julio Reyes Program Director [email protected] Julio Reyes '12 is the Program Director for the Undocumented, First-Generation College and Low-Income (U-FLi) Student Center and works closely with the campus departments to provide holistic, co-curricular, and community support for U-FLi students that enables them to thrive inside and outside of the classroom. He has professional experience in student advocacy, program development, and social justice training. Julio previously worked at Oberlin College and Conservatory, where he was a campus leader in three key roles: Program Director for Undocumented Student Initiatives, Assistant Director of Student Outreach and Success, and Latinx Student Life Coordinator for the Multicultural Resource Center. As an undergraduate student at Brown, Julio was a student leader and activist at the Brown Center for Students of Color (then Third World Center). Julio was born in Los Angeles, CA and raised in El Paso, TX and Hialeah, FL. Renata Mauriz Student Success Coordinator [email protected] Renata Mauriz `17 is the Student Success Program Coordinator for the Undocumented, First-Generation College and Low-Income Student Center (U-FLi Center). In her new role, she has worked closely with campus partners to create an equity and asset based FLi Scholars Program (FLiSP) for U-FLi first year students. Through comprehensive programming and strengths-based advising, she provides navigational, social, and academic support to undocumented, first-generation college, and low-income students at Brown University. She received her A.B. in Ethnic Studies and Public Policy and collaborated with faculty and peers to propose policy changes to undocumented admission and new initiatives at Brown University. She cultivated her collaborative approach to institutional change during the time she served as a community organizer at the Wind of the Spirit Immigrant Resource Center and as a policy intern for the National Immigration Law Center. During this time, she utilized popular education practices to build collective power with immigrant communities and change local policies. Renata is a first generation immigrant from Brazil and was raised in New Jersey. About People Our Team Community History News & Updates Digital Archive Undocumented, First-Generation College, and Low-Income Student Center Undocumented, First-Generation College, and Low-Income Student Center Brown University Box 1998 5th Floor, Sciences Library 201 Thayer Street Providence, RI 02912 Email [email protected] Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top