Skip to main content UCF News | Stories of Impact + Innovation | Orlando, FL Sections × UCF News | Stories of Impact + Innovation | Orlando, FL Arts Business Colleges Community Health Opinions Science & Tech Sports Student Life Tuesday, May 31, 2022 88ºF Mostly cloudy Business & Economy Limbitless Solutions Recognized as One of Florida’s Best Manufacturing Companies The UCF-based company is being honored with a Florida Sterling Manufacturing Business Excellence Award for its model operations. By Zenaida Gonzalez Kotala | May 16, 2022 Students assemble bionic arm at UCF-based Limbitless Solutions. In addition to creating bionic arms, the organization runs a comprehensive program that helps students learn everything about production and manufacturing of its products as well as soft skills such as team work across disciplines. Photo Credit: Limbitless Solutions UCF-based Limbitless Solutions has been named a finalist for a Florida Sterling Manufacturing Business Excellence Award. The award recognizes the state’s best manufacturers based on a rigorous assessment process led by industry experts. A panel rated more than 160 nominees in the areas of leadership, strategy, customer service, measurements, analysis and knowledge management, workforce, and operations. The 23 finalists are considered models for the state. Limbitless Solutions was one of only two Orlando-based companies named finalists. “Manufacturing is a critical sector here in Florida, and our manufacturers set the bar for the rest of the nation,” says John Pieno, founder and Chairman Emeritus of the Sterling Council. “We are pleased to honor these twenty-three outstanding Florida organizations who are role models in their industries and are deserving of this prestigious award.” Limbitless Solutions creates bionic arms and training systems for children and soon adults. It was established in 2014 by a group of then-students at UCF who wanted to help one local boy who needed a prosthetic arm. Since then, the company founders have graduated and work full-time at the company. It has grown to fill a 6,000-square-foot-facility in the Central Florida Research Park, launched multiple clinical trials and in 2021 generated more than $1 million. The company has also been flexible and responsive to community needs. When the COVID pandemic hit in 2020, Limbitless Solutions temporarily re-tooled its manufacturing center to support the production of personal protective equipment for frontline healthcare providers. Limbitless Solutions has been developing a unique approach to the manufacturing of prosthetics, leveraging advanced manufacturing techniques, including vacuum thermoforming, 3D printing, and traditional metal cutting. “These companies are fantastic examples of manufacturing excellence in Florida, contributing to Florida’s continued advancement through the rankings of the top states in the U.S. for manufacturing productivity,” says Kevin Carr, CEO of FloridaMakes, which co-sponsors the awards. The Limbitless Solutions team is looking forward to the working with the award sponsors. “The Sterling Manufacturing Business Excellence award represents an incredible opportunity for external review of our program’s growth and an honor to be included in the group of industry leaders,” says Albert Manero ’12 ’14MS ’16PhD, co-founder and executive director of Limbitless Solutions. “The feedback on how we can continue to improve our process and accelerate our impact will push the program to new heights.” The Sterling Council and FloridaMakes will work with each of the finalists to provide an in-depth manufacturing process audit and arrange for networking and knowledge-sharing opportunities, such as tours, webinars, and leadership events aimed to benefit Florida’s entire manufacturing sector. The grand prize winners will be announced at the 30th Annual Governor’s Sterling Awards Banquet on June 3 at the Gaylord Palms resort in Orlando. “We are proud to be considered for the prestigious award and owe much of our development to our manufacturing mentors, including Tim Lindner [of the UCF Manufacturing Lab]”, says Dominique Courbin ’18, co-founder and director of Manufacturing. “Our team is striving for continuous improvement and growth so we can better support our bionic families.” This is the second recognition for Limbitless Solutions in the past 30 days. On April 28 the Orlando Business Journal recognized the organization as one of the most innovative and successful companies in Central Florida by awarding it an Inno Fire Award and a 2022 Blazer award. More Topics College of Engineering and Computer Science Research College of Graduate Studies Limbitless Solutions College of Undergraduate Studies Share this content on Facebook Tweet this content Share this content on LinkedIn Related Stories Limbitless Solutions Sets Orlando Innovation Ecosystem on Fire Team Presents EMG Video Games Controllers and Prosthesis Users Study During Student Research Week Student Research Week Kicks off March 28 with a Whole New Look and Feel New Clinical Research Will Test Brain’s Ability to Adapt to Advanced Bionic Limbs UCF Researchers Share Their Insights into Innovation and Inspiration Teen Siblings, Hollywood Actors Team Up to Cover Costs of Bionic Arm for Central Florida Child Knights Do That: Engineering Hope Through 3D-printed Robotics The Power of Philanthropy University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida