Skip to main content Submit Close Give to UH Search About Academics Admissions Campus Life Research Athletics Locations Sugar Land Katy UH Technology Bridge News & Events Giving UH Home Research ASMI Advanced superconductor manufacturing institute A better wire. A sustainable future. About 10% of the energy that runs through traditional copper wiring is lost during transmission. The unique properties of superconductor wire allow it to conduct almost 300 times more current than traditional wiring while producing no resistance. Already proven in the power grid and used in high speed rail lines and MRI machines, superconductor wire has the potential for broad industrial application and presents both economic and environmental advantages. Continue to ASMI ASMI bridges the gap between research and real world applications for superconductor wire.Watch Now In the heart of America's energy corridor, ASMI leverages its unique location to spur its groundbreaking research. With custom-made equipment and critical facilities, ASMI tackles industry problems at scale. ASMI is a nexus combining expertise from top researchers, a track record of innovation, and input from important industry partners. A Legacy of Innovation The University of Houston has served as the backdrop for important breakthroughs in the field of superconductivity since 1987, when UH professor Paul Chu showcased the first high temperature superconductors to the physics world. ASMI continues in this commitment by centering on industry-ready solutions that bring the world closer to truly sustainable energy transmission. Read More Featured Stories DOE Funds Superconductor Research at UH The U.S. Department of Energy awarded a $4.5 million grant to Venkat Selvamanickam to boost the advanced manufacturing of high-performance superconductor wires for next generation electric machines. Doctoral Student Wins Fellowship Meysam Heydari Gharahcheshmeh received a 2016 Graduate Study Fellowship in Applied Superconductivity from the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE). Superconductor Coil Improves MRI Performance The new technology can reveal brain structures that aren't easily visualized with conventional MRI coils. Physicists Discover Flaws in Superconductor Theory A chink in the "theoretical armor" of how superconductors trap and hold a magnetic field led to a discovery that may open the door to using "trapped field magnets" in new ways. Houston Chronicle profiles legacy of Paul Chu's work Paul Chu's ground-breaking work turned the world of physics upside down with superconductivity breakthrough and placed the University of Houston at the leading edge of field. University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies