Skip to main content Google Tag Manager The University of Virginia SIS Collab Email Jobs Info For Alumni & Friends Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Search form Search Close Main Menu Main menu About Us Go to About Us Charlottesville & Beyond Facts & Figures Visit Academics Go to Academics Schools Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies International Studies Continuing & Executive Education Academic Calendar J-Term & Summer Session Undergraduate Majors Online Learning Admission Undergraduate Admission Apply Tuition & Affordability Undergraduate Majors & Programs Clubs & Activities Sports & Recreation Student-Self Governance Housing & Residence Life What’s Next for UVA’s Class of 2022? Arts Athletics Health System Libraries Research You are here Home About Us Charlottesville & Beyond X Charlottesville & Beyond A Place Like No Other This is Charlottesville Partners in a Vibrant Community Located in Central Virginia just east of the Blue Ridge Mountains, Charlottesville offers stunning beauty, rich culture and an endless list of things to do. In the span of a single day, you can hike through the mountains, catch a concert, grab a bite at one of Charlottesville’s many celebrated restaurants (we rank among the nations' top 15 places with the most restaurants per capita!), stroll the historic Downtown Mall, and explore Thomas Jefferson’s Monticello or James Monroe’s Ashlawn Highland. Whatever you do, Charlottesville brings together the best of many worlds, offering the livability and community of a small city with the amenities and cultural attractions of a metropolis. By the Numbers #3 Happiest City in U.S., 2017 National Geographic and Gallup #10 Top Ten College Towns, 2018 Livability #5 U.S. community for well-being, Gallup-Healthways Well-Being Index Location Is Everything Beyond being an exceptional city in its own right, Charlottesville is also conveniently located two hours south of the nation’s capital by car and just over one hour from Richmond, VA, to the east. The Appalachian Trail and the Blue Ridge Parkway can be reached with a 30-minute drive from Grounds. Just outside the city limits, Albemarle County offers a 726 square-mile area of land that is home to an unusually rich variety of cultural, natural and historic attractions. Most notable among these is Monticello, the famous home designed by Thomas Jefferson, where he spent many years of his life living, working and writing. A mere 6 miles from UVA, this UNESCO World Heritage site offers daily tours. The county also hosts President James Monroe’s Ashlawn Highland. And in nearby Orange, VA, Montpelier offers a glimpse into the life and work of President James Madison. Getting Here Located just eight miles from the University, Charlottesville-Albemarle Airport (CHO) offers 50 daily non-stop flights to and from Charlotte, Philadelphia, New York/LaGuardia, Washington/Dulles, Chicago/O'Hare and Atlanta. It is served by United, Delta and American Airlines. If you’re traveling by train, the Charlottesville Amtrak Station is two miles from the University at 810 West Main Street. And if you’re traveling by bus, the Greyhound Bus Terminal at 310 West Main Street is just two miles from Grounds. University of Virginia Instagram Twitter Facebook YouTube Footer Utilities Non-Discrimination Notice UVA Tuition Notice Wise Tuition Notice Consumer Information Accessibility Emergency SIS FOIA Privacy © 2022 By The Rector And Visitors Of The University Of Virginia