Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Center for Earthquake Research and Information About Study Research People Public News Donate Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Was that an EARTHQUAKE? Check out the New Madrid Zone Current Earthquake Map Research, Field Work and Training Students learn first-hand through research projects, field work and training opportunities. Our Location We are located on Central Avenue across from the University of Memphis Community Resources CERI provides resources to local, statewide and global communities Faculty and Staff CERI faculty and staff are here to answer your questions PreviousNext Take Action Graduate Study at CERI Seismic information Earthquake Resources Contact Us Visit CERI on Facebook and YouTube FacebookYoutube Home CERI Welcome to CERI Thomas Goebel Wins NSF Early Career Award: Thomas Goebel, Assistant Professor at CERI, was given the National Science Foundation's CAREER award. For more information visit this link :NSF CAREER Award Welcome to the Center for Earthquake Research and Information (CERI) at the University of Memphis. CERI, one of five Centers of Excellence at the University of Memphis, a vibrant place where faculty, researchers, students and staff dedicate their time and energy to understanding the causes and physical consequences of earthquakes, and their impact on society. CERI faculty and researchers focus on a wide variety of problems in geophysics, seismology, geodesy, exploration, geodynamics, source physics, and engineering seismology. CERI is dedicated to the education of new researchers, and offers M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in Earth Sciences with a concentration in Geophysics. Visit this link Graduate Studies at CERI for what CERI offers to graduate students. For additional information on CERI graduate programs visit our Research and Study web pages for additional information. Beyond its research and academic commitments, CERI is a huge point of pride for our University, city, and the central and eastern United States regions because of its long-time efforts in earthquake monitoring and service to the community. CERI maintains a large seismic network and dedicates significant efforts to educate the public about the hazards of earthquakes. To learn about CERI's seismic network, and education and outreach programs, please visit our "Seismic Information" and "Earthquake Resources" sites on our main page. For current earthquakes please visit the "New Madrid Zone Current Earthquake Map" site to the right of the page. This contains our up to date information on earthquakes occurring in the New Madrid seismic zone. . New Madrid Zone Current Earthquake Map Request a Speaker CERI Calendar of Events Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/4/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.