Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Counseling, Educational Psychology & Research Counseling Counseling Psychology Educational Psychology & Research Faculty and Staff Research Clinical Services Grants & Contracts Alumni & Friends Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact EDPR Menu About EDPR Degrees & Certificates Undergraduate EDPR minorM.S.Online M.S.Ph.D.Graduate Certificate in Qualitative ResearchGraduate Certificate in Quantitative Research Courses Faculty News Student Resources Admissions Apply International Students Graduate Assistantships Graduate Catalog View our brochure! Like us on Facebook! Frequently Asked Questions Take Action Apply Now! Student Organizations in CEPR Department News Contact Us Home Counseling, Educational Psychology & Research EDPR Apply Admissions The Master of Science (M.S.) program in Educational Psychology and Research invites applicants with an undergraduate degree from a range of diverse fields. Applicants to the on-campus or online M.S. program should demonstrate a strong research interest, proficient college writing skills, and a well-rounded academic performance. The admission requirements for the online program are identical to those for the on-campus program. M.S. students can attend the program as either full-time or part-time students. M.S. students can take an online or a hybrid path toward their degree. The online degree programs at the University of Memphis include students from across the United States and around the globe. The admission requirements for the online M.S. students are identical to those for the on-campus program. A student’s transcript for an online program will be issued in the same way as the transcript for an on-campus program. The Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) program in Educational Psychology and Research welcomes applicants with a master's degree or a bachelor’s degree from diverse fields of inquiry. Applicants to the Ph.D. program should demonstrate a strong commitment to conducting research and meet all the admission requirements for the Ph.D. program. Doctoral students who have earned a master’s degree may attend the program as either full-time or part-time students. Applicants with a bachelor’s degree will complete the first two years of their study toward a master’s degree before continuing their study toward a doctorate in Educational Psychology and Research. All students who enter the Ph.D. program with a bachelor’s degree are required to maintain the full-time status. Application Components: M.S. Admission Requirement Three recommendation letters, two of which must be written by university professors who can directly and specifically comment on applicant’s academic performance, writing skills, research experiences, interests and potential. A goal statement (700-1000 words) that describes applicant’s (1) research interests and activities, (2) research experiences, and (3) reasons for seeking entrance to the Educational Psychology and Research program, including long- and short-term goals and how the program can help you achieve those goals. An academic writing sample, which can be one of the following: Undergraduate thesis Paper written for completing an academic course on which the applicant is the sole author. Published article or research paper presented at a conference with the applicant being the 1st author. GRE scores, encouraged but not required. Ph.D. Admission Requirements GRE scores. Three recommendation letters, all of which are written by university professors who can directly and specifically comment on your academic performance, writing skills, research experiences, interests and potential. A goal statement (800-1200 words) that describes (1) research experiences, (2) current research interests and activities, and (3) reasons for seeking entrance to the Educational Psychology and Research program, including long- and short-term goals, and how the program can help you achieve those goals. An academic writing sample, which can be one of the following: Master’s or bachelor’s thesis Research paper written for completing an academic course on which the applicant is the sole author. Published article or research paper presented at a conference in which the applicant is the 1st author. Interview with the admission committee. To apply to our programs, please complete and submit the Graduate School online application Master of Science (on-campus or online) Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) Important Deadlines for Completed Application Packets: Fall Semester: March 1 Spring Semester: November 1 (International applicants are encouraged to submit applications by November 1 if financial aid is desired.) Limited graduate assistantships are available for full-time doctoral students. An assistantship requires working for the department for 20 hours a week during the fall and/or spring semester. The assistantship can require being available on campus during the day or evening. Please read the official Graduate Bulletin for current requirements for the degree. FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS From Applicants Q: Do I need to submit my GRE scores when I apply to the M.S. program? A: No. You are encouraged to provide your GRE scores if you have them or feel strongly that they will support your admission. However, applicants to the M.S. program are not required to submit GRE scores. Q: How many credit hours do I need to graduate from this M.S. program in EDPR? A: It takes a minimum of 30 credit hours to complete a master’s degree either on campus or online. For more information, go to our Master’s Degree webpage. Q: Can I apply to the Ph.D. program without my Master's? If so, will I get my master's on the way? A: Applicants holding a bachelor’s degree are eligible for entry into the EDPR doctoral program. They can obtain a master’s degree after they fulfill the master’s level requirements on the path to their doctorate. Q: Do I need to select an EDPR professor to be my advisor when I apply to the Ph.D. program? A: Yes. You should name 2-3 current faculty members whom you would like to work with. Your top choice usually will be your advisor if you are accepted into the program. Students may inquire to work with other professors or switch to a new advisor whose research interest is congruent with their own. Q: Do doctoral students get involved in research? A: Yes. Applicants who are not interested in conducting research are not acceptable to the EDPR program. Once students are enrolled in the program, research is their priority in the program. They will be asked to assist faculty in research, join collaborative research, and conduct independent research. Q: What are the research opportunities that the EDPR program offers? How do I get involved in research labs or ongoing research projects? A: Before you apply to the program or while you are studying in the program, contact the professor you are interested in working with to get more information or send your inquiry to the faculty program coordinator. Q: What kind of research are faculty currently working on? Do they have a lab, and are they accepting graduate students? A: EDPR faculty members do not have lab spaces but classrooms are commonly used for lab meetings in Ball Hall. It is important for students to examine the faculty members’ publications to learn whether they want to get involved in a particular type of research. Feel free to make an appointment with every faculty member to learn what kind of research opportunities are available. Q: What are the requirements for each degree? A: The requirements and details for each degree program can be found under the “Degrees & Certificates” dropdown at the website of Educational Psychology and Research. Q: How much is the graduate school tuition? A: The approximate tuition can be found on the University of Memphis cost of attendance estimator. For the online MS program in Educational Psychology and Research (EDPR), tuition is $647 per credit hour. A student needs to meet the minimum of 30 credit hours to complete the degree. Q: Are classes offered virtually, or in person? A: Both are offered under the normal condition. However, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, classes have all been moved to online, remote, or hybrid formats. We hope to resume in person courses in Fall 2021. Students in the online M.S. degree program can fully complete the program through online courses. Q: How long will it take to complete the program? A: A full-time M.S. student may need 4 semesters and a part-time M.S. student may need 3 - 4 years. For a full-time Ph.D. student, it takes about 6-7 years, similar to the national average completion time. Click here to find more Frequently Asked Questions and Answers Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/3/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.