Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home UT iSchool Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin UT iSchool Make a Gift Search Search Search Search About Expand Vision & Core Values History & Tradition Diversity & Inclusion News & Events Jobs at the iSchool Contact Us Programs Expand Admissions Class Schedules Course Offerings Undergraduate Informatics Program Master of Science in Information Studies School Librarian Certificate Program Master of Science in Information Security & Privacy Dual Degree Programs PhD in Information Studies Certificate of Advanced Study Postdoctoral Fellowships People Expand Faculty, Staff, & Students Alumni Student Organizations Advisory Council Information Commons International Students iSchool Committees CARE Counselor Research Expand Research Areas Grants & Awards Labs Information & Culture Visiting Scholars Careers Expand Students Alumni Employers HireUTexas Giving Expand Endowments Donate Online Student Giving Home Giving : Endowments Endowments alt="Students and faculty in the main hallway of the UT School of Information" Endowments Endowed excellence funds allow us to innovate our work, support student activities, and react to emergencies and unforeseen opportunities. Support Excellence Today and Tomorrow with a Permanent Endowment Endowed funds enable us to provide more than 20 named scholarships and fellowships each year to our master's and Ph.D. students. Other endowments support the work of our talented faculty. Endowed excellence funds allow us to innovate our work, support student activities, and react to emergencies and unforeseen opportunities. As permanent gifts that create available funds every year, endowments ensure that the iSchool will continue to attract the most qualified students and the highest caliber of faculty, and ultimately educate the professionals who will make a significant difference in our professional fields and for the benefit of our society. Contact Us Shannon Hickson Director of Development and Alumni Relations Send an Email (512) 232-0738 Jessica Isaacs Development Associate Send an Email Recent Donor - Ambassador Siv In honor of his beloved late wife (an iSchool alumna), Ambassador Siv established the Martha Pattillo Siv and Ambassador Sichan Siv Endowed Scholarship, which provides financial support to high potential undergraduate students in the iSchool’s new Informatics program and UT. Read more about Ambassador Siv's Endowed Scholarship Recent Gifts Martha Pattillo Siv and Ambassador Sichan Siv Endowed Scholarship Established by Ambassador Sichan Siv in honor of his late wife and iSchool alumna Martha Pattillo Siv, this endowment provides scholarships to high potential Texas undergraduate students at the iSchool and UT. Ambassador Siv took advantage of the Texas Challenge to maximize his gift. The Virginia and Charles Bowden Professorship in Librarianship Established to create a permanent endowed distinguished professorship to support the School of Information in the areas of Librarianship, Information Resources, Archives, or related disciplines by Dr. Virginia and Dr. Charles Bowden. The Virginia and Charles Bowden Excellence Fund in Librarianship Established to promote excellence at the University of Texas at Austin School of Information in the areas of Librarianship, Information Resources, Archives, and related disciplines by Dr. Virginia and Dr. Charles Bowden. The Virginia and Charles Bowden Fellowship Fund Established to promote, in perpetuity, excellence and research in the School of Information in the areas of Librarianship, Information Resources, Archives, or related disciplines by Dr. Virginia and Dr. Charles Bowden. The Claudia H. Chidester & Philip D. Chidester Excellence Fund for Career & Professional Development Established to financially support students in their pursuit of professional development opportunities in the University of Texas at Austin School of Information by Claudia H. and Philip D. Chidester. The Moore Gillum Informatics Endowed Excellence Fund Established to support undergraduate and graduate research and programming expenses in honor of Dr. Randolph G. Bias and Dr. E. Glynn Harmon by Dr. Mary Moore and Mr. Randy Gillum. The Dr. Karen Balcom Endowed Fellowship Fund Established to provide fellowships to faculty of any rank in the School of Information with a preference for faculty in Librarianship, Information Resources, Archives, or related disciplines by Jim Garrison (husband of the late Dr. Karen Balcom - iSchool alumna). The Dr. Karen Balcom, Dr. Julie Hallmark, and Dr. E. Glynn Harmon Endowed Scholarship Established to provide scholarships to undergraduate and graduate students in the School of Information, with preference given to students interested in Librarianship, Information Resources, Archives, Informatics or related disciplines by Jim Garrison (husband of the late Dr. Karen Balcom, an iSchool alumna). Endowments Faculty Support Dean's Chair $5,000,000 Departmental Leadership Chair $3,000,000 Distinguished University Chair $3,000,000 Chair $2,000,000 Distinguished Professorship $1,000,000 Professorship $500,000 Faculty Fellowship $250,000 Graduate Student Support Distinguished Graduate Fellowship $1,000,000 Presidential Graduate Fellowship $250,000 Graduate Fellowship $100,000 Other Endowments Excellence Funds $25,000 Create an Endowment UT iSchool 1616 Guadalupe St, Suite #5.202 Austin, Texas 78701-1213 Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Contact Us News & Events Email Lists Faculty and Staff Information Indigenous Land Acknowledgment Login UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022