Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu College of Health Sciences About Undergraduate Graduate Certificates & Continuing Ed Students Research Centers & Institutes News & Events Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Graduate Graduate Admissions MS Exercise, Sport & Movement Science MS Health Promotion MS Exercise Nutrition MS Physical Education Teacher Education MS Environmental Nutrition MS Nutrition Science MS Clinical Nutrition AboutAdmissionsMS & DI Combined ProgramResourcesStudentsPreceptors PhD Applied Physiology & Neuromechanics AboutAdmissionsApplied Biomechanics (APBI)APBI FacultyApplied Physiology & Nutrition (APHN)APHN Faculty Take Action Find a Program that Drives You Meet our Faculty Schedule an Advising Appointment Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedIn Home College of Health Sciences Graduate Graduate Degrees within the College of Health Sciences Questions? Email chsgrad@memphis.edu. Master's Degrees Clinical Nutrition Nutrition MS | MS & DI MS Combined Program The MS Nutrition/Dietetic Internship and Residency program is an intensive curriculum lasting only 16 months. The didactic curriculum focuses on preparing you for clinical rotations. Environmental Nutrition Nutrition MS | Offered Online Only The master's degree in Environmental Nutrition is a fully online 33-credit hour program that explores sustainable food and nutrition issues. The program examines the relationships between food, nutrition and the environment. Nutrition Science Nutrition MS The Nutritional Science concentration provides you with an excellent opportunity to pursue your interests in understanding the roles of nutrition in health and disease, development and aging and in athletic performance. Exercise Nutrition Health Studies MS | Offered Online Only | Beginning Summer 2022 The master's degree in Exercise Nutrition is a fully online, 30-credit-hour program. Balance school and life with the flexibility of our UofM Global program designed for those who desire increased knowledge and understanding of exercise and nutrition science. The program provides coursework in research methods and statistics, exercise physiology, cellular nutrition and supportive areas of your choosing. Exercise, Sport & Movement Sciences Health Studies MS A concentration in Exercise, Sport & Movement Sciences provides a comprehensive exposure to the field of exercise science, with coursework in areas such as kinesiology, physiology, biomechanics, motor behavior and exercise programming. Health Promotion Health Studies MS | Offered Online Only This program examines the various factors responsible for the adoption and maintenance of health-related behaviors and identifies best practices that can be implemented for lifestyle change across a variety of settings. Graduates will be able to design, implement, manage and evaluate health promotion programs in a variety of settings. Physical Education Teacher Education Health Studies MS | Offered Online Only The master’s degree program in Physical Education Teacher Education (PETE) provides a course of study at the graduate level regarding research on teaching in physical education and research on teacher education in physical education. Doctoral Degrees Applied Biomechanics Applied Physiology & Neuromechanics PhD | Laboratory Intensive A concentration in Applied Biomechanics is a focused research-intensive program in which the role of body mechanics and structure on human movement applications is examined. Applied Physiology & Nutrition Applied Physiology & Neuromechanics PhD | Laboratory Intensive A concentration in Applied Physiology & Nutrition is a focused research-intensive program in which the effects of aging, environment, exercise, nutraceuticals, etc. on physiological systems are examined. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/24/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.