Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Information for Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni Search BC.edu Links Career Center Menu Main Nav Career Center Meet With a Career Coach Back Back Close About Overview Meet Our Team Student Employment Contact and Visit Us Meet with a Career Coach Learning Outcomes Career Clusters Overview Career Exploration Business, Consulting, and Finance Communication, Arts, and Media Education, Nonprofit, and Social Service Government, Law, and Public Policy Healthcare and Nursing Science, Technology, and Engineering Jobs and Internships Overview Be Career Ready Internships Jobs Resumes Cover Letters Online Presence Networking Interviewing Evaluating an Offer and Salary Negotiation Graduate School Overview Applying to Graduate School Law School For Current Graduate Students Events and Programs Overview Event Calendar Careerfest Endeavor Schedule of Events Endeavor Fellows Endeavor Keynote Endeavor FAQs Information for Alumni Envision Designing Your Career Course Alumni Job Shadow Program Career Fairs and Networking Events Campus Recruitment Eagle Intern Fellowship Career Closet Praxis Summer Program Winter Break Challenge Illumination Awards Outcomes Resources Overview Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Handshake Guide Eagle Exchange Guide Meet With a Career Coach Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC Career Center Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Business, Consulting, and Finance Home Career Clusters Business, Consulting, and Finance Career Clusters Career Exploration Business, Consulting, and Finance Communication, Arts, and Media Education, Nonprofit, and Social Service Government, Law, and Public Policy Healthcare and Nursing Science, Technology, and Engineering Explore BCF Careers in business, consulting, and finance offer a wide range of opportunities to use analysis, critical thinking, and leadership to increase efficiencies, maximize profitability, and solve challenges facing organizations in a global economy. We invite you to explore this cluster to determine if it is a good fit for you and leverage our resources to launch your job, internship, or graduate school search. Meet Your Career Coaches Our specialized Business, Consulting, and Finance career coaches will help you launch a job, internship, or graduate school search in your field of interest. MAKE AN APPOINTMENT Philip Guarino Morenike Eastman Cara Greaney For CSOM Students We encourage you to also connect with the specialized coaches within CSOM for assistance with your job/internship search. Key Resources Handshake Use your Handshake account to search for jobs/internships, connect with employers, find events, and more. Eagle Exchange Use your Eagle Exchange account to connect with BC alumni. Join the Business, Consulting, and Finance group to network with members and participate in group discussions. Jobs + Internships Browse our jobs and internships pages to prepare to apply to BCF positions. Use our BCF resume and cover letter examples to help you get started. BCF Updates Update your career interests in Handshake to receive regular updates from our coaches with exclusive resources, reminders, event invites, job/internship postings, and more. Upcoming Events Business, Consulting, and Finance Career Center Explore Opportunities in Business, Consulting, and Finance Accounting Consulting Consumer Products/Retail Entrepreneurship Finance/Banking Human Resources Insurance Real Estate Sports Business Accounting Accounting is the systematic and comprehensive recording of financial transactions pertaining to a business. Accounting also refers to the process of summarizing, analyzing, and reporting these transactions to oversight agencies, regulators and tax collection entities. Accountants prepare and examine financial records. They ensure that financial records are accurate and that taxes are paid properly and on time. Accountants assess financial operations and work to help ensure that organizations run efficiently. Types of Positions Public Accountant Management Accountant Government Accountant Internal Auditor External Auditor Where BC Graduates Have Gone Ernst and Young PricewaterhouseCoopers KPMG Deloitte RSM Hiring Timelines 79% received job offers before senior year 16% received job offers during fall semester of senior year 5% received job offers during spring semester of senior year Outcomes Online Resources Accounting Jobs Today Accounting Today Accounting Tools CSOM Career Advising: Accounting This Way to CPA: Career Options Vault Accounting Top 50, 2022 Vault Best Accounting Firms to Work For, 2022 Campus Resources Accounting Department Professional Associations Accounting & Financial Women’s Alliance (AFWA) American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) National Association of Black Accountants (NABA) DEI Resources Deloitte Pioneer Internship Program KPMG Future Diversity Leaders Program and Embark Internship PricewaterhouseCoopers Start Program Do I need to go to graduate school? The number of students earning a master’s degree in accounting has increased over the past few years. This growth is largely attributed to the implementation of the “150-Hour Rule” by many states, which requires accountants to earn 150 semester hours of education in order to be eligible for CPA certification. Many accountants earn graduate degrees as a means to fulfill this requirement. Graduate School BCF Graduate School Toolkit Consulting Consulting is the practice of helping companies increase their efficiency and profits by addressing the major operational or strategic challenges they’re facing. There are four main types of consulting: management strategy consulting, financial consulting, information technology consulting, and human resources staffing/consulting. Consulting Toolkit Types of Positions Managment Consultant Energy Consultant Environmental Consultant/Analyst Financial Consultant Healthcare Consultant IT/Digital Consultant Marketing Consultant/Research Analyst Where BC Graduates Have Gone Deloitte Consulting FTI Consulting KPMG L.E.K. Consulting Charles River Associates Hiring Timelines 26% received job offers before senior year 44% received job offers during fall semester of senior year 21% received job offers during spring semester of senior year 8% received job offers the summer after senior year Outcomes Online Resources Consulting Crossing Consulting Toolkit CSOM Career Advising: Consulting Management Consulting Prep Management Consulted Vault Consulting Best Firms in Each Practice Area, 2021 Vault Consulting Top 50, 2021 Vault Guide to the Top 50 Management and Strategy Consulting Firms, 2020 Edition Vault Guide to Consulting Jobs, Second Edition Campus Resources Accounting for Finance and Consulting Concentration Professional Associations Institute of Management Consultants (IMC) Women In Consulting (WIC) DEI Resources Boston Consulting Group Future Leaders Internship Program Deloitte Pioneer Internship Program; NextGen Leaders Program Goldman Sachs Scholarship for Excellence McKinsey & Company Sophomore Diversity Leaders Internship Case Interviews Case interviews are used by consulting companies to assess your problem-solving abilities. Interviewers in these situations will observe your thought process, test your ability to think logically and organize your answer, and assess your confidence and communication skills under pressure. Resources on our interviewing page will help you prepare. Interviewing Do I need to go to graduate school? A bachelor’s degree is the minimum requirement for most consulting careers, but many consultants have a master’s degree in business administration. Others have advanced degrees in their specialty, such as engineering, human resources, or accounting. Attending a college with a top-rated MBA program increases your chances of landing a consulting job. Graduate School BCF Graduate School Toolkit Consumer Products/Retail The general consumer products industry produces goods that the public wants or needs. It produces two types of goods: durable and nondurable. Durable goods have a long life span and hold up over time; examples of durable goods are cars, electronics, tools, and washing machines. Nondurable goods, which do not last as long, include such products as food, cosmetics, and clothing. General consumer products are sold in retail stores, door-to-door, by mail order, and online. Today, retail is a complex and diverse field. It involves the selling of all types of physical goods, such as automobile parts, pharmaceuticals, clothing, health care products, books, and food, as well as services, such as automobile repair or rug cleaning. The retail field consists of supermarkets, department stores, chain stores, specialty stores, variety stores, franchise stores, mail-order houses, online merchants, and door-to-door sellers. Types of Positions Client Services/Relations Manager Export/Import Specialist Fashion Designer Product Manager Where BC Graduates Have Gone Wayfair The TJX Companies Bloomingdale's Walmart eCommerce BMW Converse Hiring Timelines 9% received job offers before senior year 38% received job offers during fall semester of senior year 35% received job offers during spring semester of senior year 18% received job offers the summer after senior year Outcomes Online Resources All Retail Jobs Manufacturing Jobs Work in Retail Vault Guide to General Consumer Products Jobs, Second Edition Vault Guide to the Top 50 Consumer Products Employers Vault Guide to Retail Jobs, Second Edition Campus Resources Arts Council Professional Associations American Association of Exporters and Importers Fashion Group International National Association of Manufacturers (NAM) National Customer Service Association (NCSA) National Retail Federation (NRF) Retail Industry Leaders Association Society of Consumer Affairs Professionals (SCAP) DEI Resources BRAG Retail and Related Fields Program Deloitte Pioneer Internship Program Target Diversity Leadership Symposium Do I need to go to graduate school? Many people who want management positions in the export-import field are now deciding to get a master's in business administration (MBA), with an emphasis in international trade. Graduate School BCF Graduate School Toolkit Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship is the process of starting and developing a company, with the aim of delivering something new or improved to the market, or by organizing the means of production in a superior way. This process is principally organized through the formation of a startup company, is managed by entrepreneurs, often under considerable personal and financial risk, and is temporary in duration, as a phase in a business’s lifecycle. A key distinction between start-ups and other small or young businesses is an aspiration (realized or not) to substantially grow. As companies mature out of the start-up phase, they evolve into sustainable businesses, are acquired or sold to public investors, or decay and may eventually shut down, as new companies start-up and take their place. Types of Positions Engineer Product Manager Salesperson Business Developer Marketer Account Manager Office Manager Where BC Graduates Have Gone Vettery Atlantic Visuals Canvas Worldwide Drizly DraftKings Jebbit Hiring Timelines 5% received job offers before senior year 10% received job offers during fall semester of senior year 54% received job offers during spring semester of senior year 31% received job offers the summer after senior year Outcomes Online Resources AngelList Bostinno Boston Startups Guide Built in Boston National Federation of Independent Business SSC Venture Partners 3 Things You Need to Know Before Joining a Startup (Vault) Vault Guide to Entrepreneurial Jobs, Second Edition Startup Nation: Top Small Business Grants for Women and Minorities Campus Resources Edmund H. Shea Center for Entrepreneurship Accelerate @Shea Internship Program Lunch with an Entrepreneur TechTrek@Shea Startup & Entrepreneurship Fair Start@Shea Professional Associations Collegiate Entrepreneurs’ Organization Entrepreneurs’ Organization International Council for Small Business World Congress National Association of Business Owners & Entrepreneurs National Association of Women Business Owners Social Enterprise Alliance Small Giants Startup Grind Venture for America Vistage U.S. Chamber of Commerce MassChallenge Startup and Entrepreneurship Fair Every Spring, Start@Shea and the Career Center host a Startup and Entrepreneurship Fair for students interested in working in these industries. Shea Center Do I need to go to graduate school? Every entrepreneur, from owners of roadside cafes to global startups, needs to be versed in management, finances, taxes, and other business-related topics. You don’t necessarily need a master’s degree in economics, but an educational foundation in business will certainly help. An entrepreneurship education could mean an actual entrepreneurship degree or a more general business education that will prepare you to meet the day-to-day challenges of an entrepreneur career. Graduate School BCF Graduate School Toolkit Finance/Banking Finance is a broad term that describes two related activities: the study of how money is managed and the actual process of acquiring needed funds. It encompasses the oversight, creation and study of money, banking, credit, investments, assets and liabilities that make up financial systems. Types of Positions Financial Analyst Financial Advisor Financial Services Broker Loan Underwriter Investment Banker Mortgage Banker/Loan Officer Research Analyst Where BC Graduates Have Gone Fidelity Investments Citi John Hancock JPMorgan Chase and Co. Morgan Stanley Goldman Sachs Hiring Timelines 53% received job offers before senior year 26% received job offers during fall semester of senior year 15% received job offers during spring semester of senior year 7% received job offers the summer after senior year Outcomes Online Resources Corporate Finance Institute CSOM Career Advising: Finance E-Financial Careers Finance Careers Mergers & Inquisitions Peak Frameworks Street of Walls Vault 2021 Best Banking Firms to Work For Vault Guide to Commercial Banking Vault Guide to Investment Banking Vault Guide to Private Equity Vault Guide to Sales and Trading Vault Guide to Venture Capital Vault Guide to Wealth Management Wall Street Oasis Wall Street Prep Campus Resources Finance Academy Investment Banking / Sales & Trading Club Investment Club Smart Women Securities Women in Business Professional Associations CFA Institute Financial Industry Regulatory Authority Financial Management Association Institute of Financial Consultants Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association Women in Banking and Finance DEI Resources (Goldman Sachs): Undergraduate Camp; Pride Summit; Hispanic Latino Leadership Summit; Women’s Leadership Camp; Diverse Abilities; MBA Women’s Symposium; Scholarship for Excellence; MBA Diversity Symposium; Veterans Summit (Morgan Stanley): Veterans Early Insights Program; Black, Hispanic and Native American Early Insights Program; Career Discovery Day; Women Early Insights Program; LGBT + Early Insights Program; Richard B. Fisher Scholarship Program; 2019 Freshman Enhancement Program (JPMorgan): Launching Leaders-Undergraduate; Proud to Be-Undergraduate; We See Ability-Undergraduate; Winning Women-Undergraduate; Early Advantage-MBA; Launching Leaders-MBA; Proud to Be-MBA; Winning Women-MBA; Military & Veterans (Bank of America Merrill Lynch): Spring Diversity & Inclusion Forum; Diversity Scholarship of Distinction; Ignite With STEM Diversity & Inclusion Forum; MBA Diversity Fellowship (Credit Suisse): Sophomore Diversity Program; Women’s Mentor Program (Investment Banking); Steps to Success Diversity Event; MBA Fellowship Program BC Bank Week Every February, we host Bank Week for sophomores interested in learning more about the finance/banking industries. The week features informational sessions, skills workshops, and networking sessions. Find details in Handshake in the Spring. Do I need to go to graduate school? A master’s degree in finance or business administration can improve an analyst’s chances of advancing to a higher/managerial position. Graduate School BCF Graduate School Toolkit Human Resources Human resources is the department or division of a business, corporation, or organization that manages all aspects related to its personnel, including recruiting employees, training and career development, overseeing compensation packages, managing benefits plans, and other duties that serve to maximize a company's business and its employees' satisfaction with their jobs. Simply, the function of the human resources industry is to produce competent personnel and to keep employees productive. More than 800,000 people work in human resources and related fields today. (Source: Vault) Types of Positions Human resources generalists Employment and placement managers Employment, placement, and recruitment specialists Employer relations representatives Job analysts Compensation managers Benefits managers Online Resources Vault Guide to Human Resources Jobs, Second Edition HR Jobs iHireHR Professional Associations International Public Management Association for Human Resources (IPMA-HR) Labor and Employment Relations Association (LERA) National Employment Counseling Association (NECA) Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) National Association of African Americans in Human Resources (NAAAHR) Insurance The insurance industry comprises companies and people who develop insurance policies, sell, administer, and regulate them. Some insurance companies offer investment products and employ people who develop, sell, administer, or service these products. Insurance is about managing risk, for both the insurance company and its customers. The insurance industry is divided into three main branches: life insurance, health insurance, and property and casualty insurance. Types of Positions Actuary Sales Agent Broker/Consultant Risk Manager Underwriter Where BC Graduates Have Gone Liberty Mutual AIG Optum Aetna Harvard Pilgrim Hiring Timelines 32% received job offers before senior year 30% received job offers during fall semester of senior year 25% received job offers during spring semester of senior year 14% received job offers the summer after senior year Outcomes Online Resources Great Insurance Jobs Insurance Jobs Insurance Journal Vault Guide to Insurance Vault Guide to Insurance Jobs, Third Edition Campus Resources Mathematics Society Professional Associations Association of Professional Insurance Women International Association of Insurance Professional Latin American Association of Insurance National African American Insurance Association National Association of Professional Insurance Agents DEI Resources Actuarial Diversity Scholarship Diversity Exam Reimbursement Program Do I need to go to graduate school? Generally speaking, the entry-level roles in this industry do not require a postgraduate degree. There are few that may seek those with a masters in finance, real estate or an MBA. Certification or licensure, however, is required for many of the roles and must be maintained through completing periodic continuing education classes/exams. Graduate School BCF Graduate School Toolkit Real Estate The real estate industry encompasses the many facets of property, including development, appraisal, marketing, selling, leasing, and management of commercial, industrial, residential, and agricultural properties. This industry can fluctuate depending on the national and local economies, although it remains somewhat consistent due to the fact that people always need homes and businesses always need office space. Real Estate Toolkit Types of Positions Assessor and Appraiser Property and Real Estate Manager Real Estate Agent and Broker Real Estate Developer Real Estate Lawyer Where BC Graduates Have Gone Cushman and Wakefield JLL CBRE Group Corcoran Management Company Kingsley Associates Hiring Timelines 13% received job offers before senior year 18% received job offers during fall semester of senior year 45% received job offers during spring semester of senior year 23% received job offers the summer after senior year Outcomes Online Resources Real Estate Toolkit Greater Boston Real Estate Board iHire Real Estate Real Estate Express Vault Guide to Real Estate Jobs, Second Edition Vault Guide to Real Estate, Third Edition Campus Resources Real Estate Club Joseph E. Corcoran Center for Real Estate and Urban Action Professional Associations American Institute of Architects Building Owners and Managers Association International Commercial Real Estate Development Association CREW Boston Institute of Real Estate Management Mortgage Bankers Association National Association of Real Estate Investment Funds National Association of Realtors Urban Land Institute Wellness for Women in Real Estate DEI Resources Builders of Color Coalition (BCC) CREST (Commercial Real Estate Success Training) Goldman Sachs Scholarship for Excellence Do I need to go to graduate school? For most positions in real estate, individuals will need a Bachelor’s degree, along with appropriate training/certification, as an advanced degree (e.g. master’s) is unnecessary for entry-level access. Graduate School BCF Graduate School Toolkit Sports Business Sports business (management) is the study and practice of all people, activities, businesses, or organizations involved in producing, facilitating, promoting, or organizing andy sports-related business or product. The sports business industry consists of numerous other segments, some of which are sports tourism, semi-professional sports, recreation, high school and college sports, outdoor sports, and sports-service businesses such as sports marketing firms, sports sponsorship management companies, and sport governing bodies. Essentially, in the sports business industry, there are numerous jobs that combine two interests into one job (e.g. photography, computer programming). Types of Positions Sports Agent Sports Executive Sports Facility Manager Sports Publicist Sports Scout Sports Trainer Where BC Graduates Have Gone Boston Red Sox Athletes First New England Patriots MLB NFL Hiring Timelines 9% received job offers before senior year 4% received job offers during fall semester of senior year 65% received job offers during spring semester of senior year 22% received job offers the summer after senior year Outcomes Online Resources Emerging Careers in Sports Jobs Four Ways to Make Breaking Into the Sports Business Industry Easier Sports Management Degrees Vault Guide to Sports Jobs, Second Edition Campus Resources Sports Business Society Professional Associations American College of Sports Medicine (ACSM) National Athletic Trainers’ Association (NATA) National College Athletic Association (NCAA) North American Society for Sport Management Society of Health and Physical Educators (SHAPE) Sports Lawyers Association Women’s Sports Foundation DEI Resources MLB Diversity Fellowship Program Nascar Diversity Internship Program NBA Internship Program BSAA - Black Sports Agents Association Sports Business Society Networking Night Every Spring, the Sports Business Society and the Career Center host a networking night for students interested in working in sports business. Find details in Handshake in the Spring. Handshake Do I need to go to graduate school? Plan to earn a master’s degree in sport management, preferably from an accredited sports-focused school in sport management, business, or college student personnel for more opportunities and advancement. Work as a graduate assistant (GA) in the athletic department. Earn a law degree and develop skills in investment management and negotiation to represent players as an agent. Graduate School BCF Graduate School Toolkit From the Career Center Blog How to Explore Cybersecurity Careers Cybersecurity is a rapidly growing industry that spans the government, business, law, engineering, and tech sectors. If you’re interested in April 11, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Internship Spotlight: Finding an Internship as an International Student Sue Lee, MCAS ’23, recently accepted an offer as a Summer Analyst with global asset management firm BlackRock in their March 07, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam 6 Employers Give You Their Career Fair Advice Registration for the Boston College Career Fair opens to all students on February 7th. As you think about how to January 24, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Interested in Consulting? Have a Backup Plan One of the most common phrases that the Career Team here in CSOM is “I’m interested in consulting”. No doubt September 20, 2021 BCCareerCenterTeam Alumni Q&A: Creating a Mission-Driven Brand Katie Diasti ’19 is the Founder and CEO of Viv, a mission-driven brand that is focused on placing earth-friendly and April 23, 2021 BCCareerCenterTeam Managing Family Career Expectations Read this if…. Your family expects you to have a high-earning or high-profile career. You feel pressured to be successful April 23, 2021 BCCareerCenterTeam How to Explore Cybersecurity Careers Cybersecurity is a rapidly growing industry that spans the government, business, law, engineering, and tech sectors. If you’re interested in April 11, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Internship Spotlight: Finding an Internship as an International Student Sue Lee, MCAS ’23, recently accepted an offer as a Summer Analyst with global asset management firm BlackRock in their March 07, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam 6 Employers Give You Their Career Fair Advice Registration for the Boston College Career Fair opens to all students on February 7th. As you think about how to January 24, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam VIEW MORE POSTS VIEW LESS POSTS Visit Blog Back To Top Back To Top Career Center Southwell Hall 38 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-3430 About Departments & Programs How can we help you? Events Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College