Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Undergraduate Admission Student Affairs About News Athletics Events Calendar Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Meadows School of the Arts Areas of Study Admissions About Menu Search Dance The Division of Dance offers professional dance training within the context of a comprehensive liberal arts education. The B.F.A. in dance performance is designed to develop the disciplined, versatile dance artist through a balanced study of ballet, modern and jazz techniques, complemented and reinforced by a broad range of theoretical studies and performance opportunities. Dance Undergraduate Studies Classes (See Catalog) Facilities Faculty Opportunities for Non-Dance Majors Partnerships Visiting Artists Undergraduate Majors/Minors B.F.A. in Dance Performance Minor in Dance Performance Senior Dance Concert, April 29–May 1 The annual Senior Dance Concert features works choreographed and produced by seniors in the Division of Dance. Tickets and Info Meet the Faculty Richard Abrahamson Carter Alexander Visiting Artist-in-Residence Christie Bondade Adjunct Professor Julia Buckelew Adjunct Professor Mark Burrell Visiting Artist-in-Residence Brandi Coleman Assistant Professor Christopher Dolder Associate Professor and Chair of Dance Heather Guthrie Coordinator Christopher M. Ham Director of Dance Production Leslie Peck Associate Professor Anne Westwick Professor of Practice Myra Woodruff Professor of Dance Dance Facilities The 392-seat Bob Hope Theatre, donated by the iconic comedian, features a proscenium stage, continental seating and a hydraulic orchestra pit. It’s an ideal venue for spectacle, movement and grand-scale productions. The large space plays host to our many dance performances and classes. More Facilities Exclusion Is Oppression: From Pedagogy to Performance Gregory King is a culturally responsive educator, performance artist, activist and movement maker who received his M.F.A. in choreographic practice and theory from SMU Meadows. Read More Featured Courses The Evolution of American Musical Theatre Mark Burrell An examination of American musical theatre from its roots in the popular entertainment forms of the 19th century to its maturity as a codified art form in the 20th century. Jazz Dance History : Dance History III Brandi Coleman Examines the origins of jazz dance from its roots in African music and dance through the present. Dance Pedagogy Anne Westwick Focuses on the theory and practice of teaching methodologies in multiple dance genres. Student Work VIDx6VUI5tg Dance “This video was intended to be a personal commercial that reflects me and my passions, visual art and dance, made as a part of the Introduction to Creativity class.“ – Anika Crouser, Dance B.F.A '23 instagram.com/anika_crouser FpRmXzt-TVk Dance Ke’ala O’Connell, Dance B.F.A. '20, Embers to Ash. kealaoconnell.com Upcoming Dance Events Follow Meadows Dance on Social Media! Meadows School of the Arts Meadows School of the Arts 6101 Bishop Dallas, Texas 75205 214-768-2000 Mailing Address: P.O. Box 750356 Dallas, Texas 75275-0356 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Apply Now Visit Us Back to top © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Areas of Study Advertising Art Art History Arts Management & Arts Entrepreneurship CCPA Creative Computation Dance Film & Media Arts Journalism Music Theatre Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Scholarships And Financial Aid Internships & Collaborations Visit Meadows Contact Meadows Admission Dual Admission About A Statement of Our Values Mission History Message From The Dean Dean's Executive Council Student Academic Services Academic Affairs Contact SMU Meadows Faculty Directory Faculty/Staff Bio Submission Form Facilities Resources Employment Meadows Graduate Student Council Site Map Report a Web Problem News and Events Art History After Hours Virtual Season Subscribers News Featured Media Our Calendar Performing Arts Season Music Recitals Events Newsletter Meadows Events Parking Directions & Public Transportation Meadows Recognition Ceremony The Movement Mission Ignite Arts Dallas SMU DataArts Meadows Prize Arts Entrepreneurship International Opportunities Interdisciplinary Studies Research and Creativity Alumni Submit Your Information Alumni News Alumni in the Media Alumni on LinkedIn Support Meadows Contact Development The Meadows Scholars Program Meadows Gala Apply NowVisit UsGive Menu Search Search Submit Menu Search