Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Topics Health and Medicine Date September 8, 2021 2021-09-08 Media Contact Corrie Pikul [email protected] 401-863-1862 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email With $4.9M from the CDC, Brown researchers to study COVID vaccine effectiveness in seniors The urgently needed research will be used to inform recommendations about vaccine booster shots for nursing home residents. PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — To address the pressing issue of diminishing immunity among older adults to COVID-19 as well to vaccines designed to protect against the virus, a $4.9 million award from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention will fund a two-year project led by Brown University researchers and conducted by a team spanning multiple institutions. The researchers will examine the duration of protective immunity in the context of emerging strains of COVID-19, releasing interim data to the CDC as it becomes available to inform policy decisions in real time. “Given rising case counts of the Delta variant, we need to know as soon as possible who needs a vaccine booster shot and when they need it,” said Stefan Gravenstein, co-lead investigator on the project and a professor of geriatric medicine at Brown. “This information on how specific immunity to SARS-CoV-2 infection declines with aging, disease and in long-term care residents is critically important for developing a booster strategy based on real-time data in this population.” The CDC awarded the contract to Gravenstein; Elizabeth White, a Brown assistant professor of health services, policy and practice; and David Canaday at Case Western Reserve University. The project is based at Brown’s Center for Long-Term Care Quality and Innovation, which focuses on research to improve care and quality of life for older adults living in nursing homes. The new award builds on previous research about protective immunity over time conducted by Gravenstein and Canady. Their most recent study, published online in late August, found that COVID-19 antibodies produced by the Pfizer vaccine decreased sharply in nursing home residents and health care workers six months after receiving their second shots. For that study, the research team studied blood samples of 120 nursing home residents and 92 health care workers. In particular, they looked at humoral immunity — also called antibody-mediated immunity — to measure the body’s defenses against the coronavirus. The researchers, including a lab team at Harvard University, found that individuals’ antibody levels decreased more than 80% after six months; the decline was similar in residents (median age 76) and health care workers (median age 48), according to the study. However, absolute antibody levels were much lower in the nursing home residents who had not also had a prior infection than the comparison groups. After presenting their unpublished results directly to senior staff at the CDC, the researchers were urged to get the data out in the public domain as soon as possible to inform the decision-making process for booster vaccine recommendations. As a result, the researchers published the findings as a preliminary report ahead of peer review on medRxiv, an online preprint server for health sciences studies co-founded by Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Yale University and the BMJ, a global healthcare knowledge provider. The study is currently under review at a traditional peer-reviewed journal. Another study by Gravenstein, Canaday and colleagues published last May found that within two weeks of receiving the second dose of vaccine and being considered “fully vaccinated,” seniors who had not previously contracted the virus that causes COVID-19 mounted a substantially lower response to vaccine than experienced by younger health care workers. By six months after vaccination, 70% of these nursing home residents had blood test results showing a poor ability to neutralize the virus. The preprint research is useful as the team continues to examine immunity in elderly patients. “Aside from the obvious value of better understanding who and when to boost against SARS-CoV-2 infection, we’ve also substantially innovated in how to efficiently recruit and immunologically follow a long-term care population,” Gravenstein said. “This methodological advancement leverages Brown’s strengths in the intersection between biology, aging and public health research.” Results up to this point support the CDC’s recommendation for booster shots — especially for the elderly — due to fading immunity, Gravenstein said. The team will now study 800 to 1,200 nursing home residents who have received one of the SARS-CoV-2 vaccines or who will newly receive a vaccine or booster, if and when boosters are federally recommended, and will assess their overall health and immune responses to see whether and how immunity to COVID changes over time. The team will continue to produce and share data in six-month segments. As older residents in the study become re-vaccinated, Gravenstein said, this work will show whether that vaccination bolsters not just antibody levels and immediate protection, but also fortifies more durable defenses against new, incoming strains. COVID-19 isn’t going away, Gravenstein said — if anything, it’s becoming more like the flu in its persistency, and as the virus becomes more endemic to modern society, “this information on immunity will be critical to know.” Tags COVID-19 Research Warren Alpert Medical School Related news: Health and Medicine Brown physician, medical student urge stronger federal support for overdose prevention centers May 23, 2022 Elizabeth Samuels, an assistant professor at the Warren Alpert Medical School, and medical student Aneeqah Naeem argued for federal action supporting harm reduction centers such as those authorized in Rhode Island. Read Article Open details for Brown physician, medical student urge stronger federal support for overdose prevention centers Health and Medicine In student address, medical school graduate to reflect on finding strength in uncertainty May 16, 2022 Adriel Barrios-Anderson, who served as a student orator upon earning his bachelor’s degree from Brown in 2017, hopes to inspire newly minted M.D.s to feel confident about embracing the uncertainty of the future. Read Article Open details for In student address, medical school graduate to reflect on finding strength in uncertainty Health and Medicine ‘This was our moment’ — medical students embrace non-traditional timing for long-standing white coat tradition May 3, 2022 The Warren Alpert Medical School’s Class of 2024 celebrated together at an in-person white coat ceremony that was held two years later than usual, but still felt timely. Read Article Open details for ‘This was our moment’ — medical students embrace non-traditional timing for long-standing white coat tradition Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search With $4.9M from the CDC, Brown researchers to study COVID vaccine effectiveness in seniors Open details for With $4.9M from the CDC, Brown researchers to study COVID vaccine effectiveness in seniors Bookmark this Page