Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home Become a Student Life & Community Housing Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. Day by Day Diversity Groups and Activities Housing New York City Day by Day Diversity Groups and Activities Housing New York City Housing Columbia Mailman School of Public Health is located at West 168th Street and Fort Washington Avenue, immediately southeast of the George Washington Bridge, in the Washington Heights neighborhood of northern Manhattan. Download the Columbia University Irving Medical Center Campus map and see the Google map below. How to Use the Interactive Map: Click the icon at the top left to open additional layers, including CUIMC buildings, campus residences, neighborhood attractions and restaurants. Whether you're a native New Yorker, you currently live here or you're coming to New York City for the first time as a student, finding an affordable and convenient place to live doesn't have to be intimidating. As a Columbia Public Health student, there are a few on-campus housing opportunities available for full-time students. Accommodations on the Columbia University Irving Medical Center campus are a practical and cost-effective way to live in Manhattan. All of the residential buildings are an easy walking distance to academic buildings, the Knowledge Center, athletic center, and public transportation. On-Campus Housing The Medical Center on-campus student housing spans four apartment buildings located steps away from the Allan Rosenfield Building, the heart of the Mailman School: 1. 154 Haven Avenue Housing options at 154 Haven Avenue include furnished studio apartments with a full bath and kitchenette for single students and one-bedroom apartments for couples. Built in the 1960s, this residential building became part of the medical center in the early 1980s. Located along the northern edge of campus, it is walking distance from the heart of the medical center. 2. 50 Haven Avenue This 11-story building features dormitory-style rooms with communal bathrooms, a green courtyard with benches, and a terrace with extraordinary views of the Hudson River and George Washington Bridge. Residents can take advantage of the athletic center downstairs and various student lounges. 50 Haven Avenue is minutes from classrooms, the library, and the campus bookstore. 3. Towers 1, 2, and 3 Tower 1: 60 Haven Avenue Tower 2: 100 Haven Avenue Built in 1971, Towers 1, 2, and 3 are a landmark feature of the Columbia University Irving Medical Center skyline. Tower 1 conveniently connects to 50 Haven Avenue. Towers 2 and 3 share a courtyard with the Vagelos Education Center, a modern multi-story building overlooking the George Washington Bridge, and the Palisades. The Towers provide spacious two- and three-person suites for single students and junior one-bedrooms and one-bedroom apartments for couples. You can join the Towers community through the 50 Haven Ave. to Towers Lottery or through a Couples Application. 4. Georgian Residence 617 West 168th Street Since 1983, the Georgian Residence has housed academic offices on its first three floors and residential units on the top four floors. Accomodation options include studios and two- and three-person suites. The Georgian is located moments from classrooms, the library, and the campus bookstore. Visit the CUIMC Facilities Management and Campus Services website for prospective tenants for more details about on-campus housing eligibility, application deadlines, frequently asked questions and more. We also encourage students to read the Leases and Contracts section of their website. Off-Campus Housing Columbia Public Health is located on the Columbia University Irving Medical Center campus on 168th Street in the Washington Heights neighborhood of New York City. The campus is served by the A, C, and 1 subway lines. For full-time students or a full-time postdoctoral research fellows, CUIMC has off-campus housing listings that include rooms and apartments available for rent in non-Columbia University-owned properties. Use Columbia’s Off-Campus Housing Assistance (OCHA) office to search for apartments, rooms and roommates. Living in the outer boroughs of Manhattan, including Brooklyn, Queens, and the Bronx, is also an option that many Columbia Mailman students explore. Consider the time it will take you to travel to 168th Street when making housing decisions. Transit The Columbia University Irving Medical Center can be reached by five bus lines and two subway lines, operated by the MTA. Buses that make regular stops within a five block radius of 168th Street include: M2, M3, M4, M5, M98, and M100. The A Expess, C Local, and 1 Local trains all stop at 168th Street. A free electric shuttle bus connects CUIMC with Columbia University's Morningside and Manhattanville campuses and Harlem Hospital. The inter-campus shuttle runs Monday through Friday, excluding University holidays. All riders must present a valid University ID upon boarding. Review the shuttle schedule and stay up-to-date on all transit-related news on the Columbia Transportation site. More to Explore Friday 03June COVID-19: From Causes to ConsequencesMay 27 2022 Survey Finds High Rates of Depression Among Latin American Health Care ProvidersMay 18 2022 Commencement Ceremony Celebrates Class of 2022May 17 2022 Family Size May Influence Cognitive Functioning in Later LifeMay 12 2022 Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers