Faculty Experts - University of Houston Skip to main content Submit Close Give to UH Search About Academics Admissions Campus Life Research Athletics Locations Sugar Land Katy UH Technology Bridge News & Events Giving UH Home News & Events Newsroom: Faculty Experts Faculty Experts Featured Faculty ENERGY & CARBON MANAGEMENT Charles McConnell is a subject-matter expert in carbon capture, utilization and storage, and carbon management technologies, policies and business. He has 35 years of energy industry experience including national laboratories management and running the Mid-West Regional Carbon Sequestration Partnership. GRIEF & LOSS Rheeda Walker, professor of clinical psychology at the University of Houston and director of the Culture, Risk, and Resilience Lab can talk about how Americans handle grief. "We have to be careful to be supportive and not rush to pathologize the grief process.” PUBLIC POLICY Jim Granato is dean of the Hobby School of Public Affairs and a professor of public policy and political economy. He can speak to a wide range of topics surrounding American politics, political economy (monetary policy issues) and public policy. ENERGY, OIL & GAS Ed Hirs is an energy economist and can discuss energy markets, energy policy including taxes and tariffs, and a range of issues related to oil and gas production, as well as the ways in which energy prices affect the broader economy. PRESIDENTIAL POLITICS Brandon Rottinghaus can address the presidency, political scandal, media and political communication, public opinion, Latino voters and Texas politics. He is also the co-founding designer of the Presidential Proclamations Project at the University of Houston, an online resource documenting presidential use of unilateral powers through executive proclamation. MYOPIA MANAGEMENT Kathryn Richdale is associate professor and optometrist in the University Eye Institute. Richdale is an expert in using special treatments for myopia management in children, which slows down the progresson of nearsightedness to improve their overall eye health. INTERNATIONAL OIL & GAS LAW Julian Cardenas Garcia is a research assistant professor in the Environment, Energy & Natural Resources Center at the UH Law Center. He specializes in International Oil and Gas Law and Latin American issues with a particular focus on Venezuela. Cardenas-Garcia is fluent in English, Spanish and French. MIDDLE EAST & ISLAM Associate professor and program director of Middle Eastern Studies: Emran El-Badawi is available to discuss Islam, ISIS, Middle East politics and history, and U.S. foreign policy in the Middle East. His research areas include Arab intellectual history, early Islamic history and Qur’anic studies. IMMIGRATION Geoffrey Hoffman is available to discuss range of issues related to immigration policy. He heads the UH Immigration Clinic at the UH Law Center and specializes in immigration-related federal court litigation, deportation defense and asylum cases. CYBERSECURITY Art Conklin has expertise in security for critical infrastructure, with previous work involving water, utilities and oil and gas delivery. He is director of the Center for Information Security Research and Education and the author of six books associated with information security. AFFORDABLE CARE ACT Seth Chandler, Foundation Professor of Law, specializes in insurance law and related fields such as health law, economic analysis of law and contract drafting. Chandler is the author a blog chronicling the implementation of the Affordable Care Act. He can give perspective on Congressional efforts to repeal and replace the ACA. Search the Faculty Resource Guide Search by name or keyword Search Term Submit Find All RecordsFind All Experts Experienced faculty experts from the University of Houston are available to provide context and clarity to local and national journalists seeking to advance their stories. For assistance coordinating a faculty interview, please contact Media Relations. Trending Topics Back to School Energy Education Cybersecurity Politics & Trump Administration UH Experts in the News Marketplace - Ed Hirs Trump calls for 'energy dominance' as US oil and gas exports keep rising Rigzone - Randy Webb BLOG: Don't Sell Yourself Short in a Job Search Houston Press - Seth Chandler How Will Houston Residents Fare if Senate Health Care Bill Passes? For Many, Not Well Reuters, USA Today, NYT - Darren Bush Critics say Whole Foods deal would give Amazon an unfair advantage Office of Media Relations The Media Relations team seeks to maximize significant positive media coverage of the University and communicate effectively about the achievements of the institution, its faculty and students, externally and internally. Contact Information News Media Policy Filming at UH University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies