Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Latin American Studies Certificate (Undergraduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Latin American Studies Certificate (Undergraduate) Apply Request More Info Latin American Studies Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Undergraduate Certificate in Latin American Studies Take a dynamic approach to learning Spanish and experiencing the culture of Latin America with the Undergraduate Certificate in Latin American Studies in Temple University’s College of Liberal Arts. Since 1973, the 17-credit, interdisciplinary Latin American Studies Semester (LASS) certificate program provides a unique and enriching experience each spring semester for students interested in Latin American culture, economy, language, politics and society. This program is housed in the Department of Spanish and Portuguese. You'll develop a deep understanding of Latin America and build language proficiency through an intentional array of interdisciplinary courses that meet five days a week and are conducted entirely in Spanish. Build a strong sense of community with classmates and instructors as you prepare for the semester’s culminating event—a 21-day trip to Quito, Ecuador in February and March. While abroad, students attend classes at the Andean Center for Latin American Studies, explore the country and live with a local family. The LASS program emphasizes language fluency in and out of the classroom, and it helps students form cultural empathy from a global perspective. Before and after their time abroad, students engage in community service opportunities in Philadelphia, allowing them to further explore the language and culture. Upon completion of the program, students receive a certificate and a waiver for the General Education World Society requirement. Classes & Curriculum The LASS program is an immersive and interdisciplinary sequence of study combining Spanish language and Latin American culture courses taught in Spanish. The semester includes nine credit hours of intensive Spanish; six credit hours focused on the geography, history and culture of Latin America; a seminar course; and a 21-day trip to Ecuador. Classes meet five days a week to promote Spanish language fluency and group cohesion. The program’s curriculum comprises the following courses. Area Studies: Latin American Development Intensive Practice/Four Skills LASS Seminar Latin America Through Film No additional courses may be taken during the semester. Learn more about the Latin American Studies Certificate courses. Related Graduate Degrees Spanish MA Spanish PhD Business Administration MBA* Communication for Development and Social Change MS** *Fox School of Business **Lew Klein College of Media and Communication Careers Speaking more than one language can set you apart in today’s global job market. It can increase your marketability and opportunities for career advancement and promotion. Bilingual professionals can communicate with a larger population and help increase an employer’s competitive edge. According to the American Council on the Teaching of Foreign Languages, acquisition of a second language may help improve standardized test scores, and it may improve memory and problem-solving skills. Additionally, studying a language and its culture can help you develop empathy and global thinking. It can broaden your perspective and help you cultivate a greater understanding of people and, in turn, the world. The critical skills gained from learning a foreign language are directly applicable to today’s rapidly diversifying world and can be used across all fields and disciplines. Undergraduate students in the LASS program are prepared to pursue graduate studies or enter the global workforce in the following professional areas. Business Government service Nonprofits Public relations Sciences Social work Travel and tourism Tuition & Fees The tuition for this Certificate Program is based on school or college of your major, program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Academic Advisors College of Liberal Arts academic advisors help you navigate your curriculum and potential career paths throughout your time at Temple. Joshua Pongan is the advisor for the certificate programs in the Spanish Department. Phone: 215-204-8285 Email: joshua.pongan@temple.edu Program Contact For questions regarding the LASS program, contact the following staff members. Adam Joseph Shellhorse is the director of the Latin American Studies Program. Phone: 215-204-8285 Email: aj.shellhorse@temple.edu Michelle Xu is an administrator in the Spanish and Portuguese Department. Phone: 215-204-5628 Email: xu.michelle@temple.edu The following staff members lead the Spanish and Portuguese Department. Montserrat Piera is chair of the Spanish and Portuguese Department. Phone: 215-204-8285 Email: mpiera01@temple.edu Patricia Moore-Martinez is undergraduate chair of the Spanish and Portuguese Department. Phone: 215-204-5129 Email: pmoore04@temple.edu Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-LAS-CERT Additional Program Information Available as a minor. Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Latin American Studies Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info