Directory Maps Contact Us AccessUH UH Home Home About Prospective Students Current Students Corporate Resources Parents Alumni Visitors Staff Resources Faculty & Research Academics Undergraduate MBA & Graduate Full-Time MBA Professional MBA Executive MBA MS Programs MS Accountancy MS Business Analytics (STEM) MS Entrepreneurship MS Finance (STEM) MS Global Energy Leadership MS MIS (STEM) MS Marketing Online MS Management & Leadership MS Sales Leadership MS Supply Chain Management (STEM) Online Doctoral Office of Executive Development The Bauer Mini-MBA Earn a Certificate Custom Programs Centers Wolff Center for Entrepreneurship (WCE) Real Estate Program Stephen Stagner Sales Excellence Institute (SEI) Gutierrez Energy Management Institute (GEMI) AIM Center for Investment Management (ACIM) Decision Sciences Institute Center for Economic Inclusion Institute for Health Care Marketing (IHCM) Institute for Regional Forecasting (IRF) UH Small Business Development Center Student Success Advising Emerging Leaders Academic Success Program Leadership & Engagement Bauer Honors RED Labs Learning Abroad Departments Accountancy & Taxation Decision & Information Sciences Finance Management & Leadership Marketing & Entrepreneurship Offices Office of Digital Learning Office of Experiential Learning Office of Global Initiatives Apply for Scholarships Apply to UH Career Center Students Alumni Employers News & Events News Center Events Calendar Latest News Where Awesome Happens Inside Bauer Administration Office of the Dean Bauer College Board Strategic Initiatives 2020-2025 Strategic Plan AI & Digital Society Digital Learning Experiential Learning Global Initiatives Inclusive Leadership Bauer Division of Technology Leadership & Engagement Bauer Excellence Scholars Office of Communications Invest in Bauer Invest in Bauer Home Your Investment How to Invest The Bauer Excellence Initiative BauerMerch.com Contact Us Invest Now Home Menu Latest News Bauer Celebrates Sixth Cohort of Ted Bauer Undergraduate Business Scholars This spring, graduating seniors of the sixth cohort of the Ted Bauer Undergraduate Business Scholarship Program were celebrated during a special event at the C. T. Bauer College of Business at the University of Houston. The Future is Bright for Bauer Graduates The C. T. Bauer College of Business celebrated Spring and Summer 2022 graduates during two commencement ceremonies on May 14. Bauer College Remembers Professor Robert Eisenberger Robert Eisenberger, a long-serving professor of management at the C. T. Bauer College of Business at the University of Houston, passed away on May 2 at the age of 79. Wynne Chin Earns 2022 Farfel Award Wynne Chin, the University of Houston’s C. T. Bauer Professor of Decision and Information Sciences, was nominated for the University's highest faculty honor by peers, colleagues, and students who recognize his commitment to excellence within the academy and to advancing the discipline of information sciences. Bauer College Recognizes Spring 2022 Outstanding Graduates Each semester, the Office of Graduate and Professional Programs at the C. T. Bauer College of Business selects graduates from each program to recognize as outstanding students. Bauer Launches Pioneering Center for Economic Inclusion The C. T. Bauer College of Business is launching the Center for Economic Inclusion (CEI), a new center that champions and expands an experiential education model that has transformed the lives of both university students and entrepreneurs from the Houston community. Bauer College Recognizes Faculty During Awards Celebration The C. T. Bauer College of Business recently recognized faculty members for their contributions in teaching, research and service. College leadership honored awards recipients during a celebration on April 29. Bauer College Spring 2022 Commencement Set for May 14 More than 1,000 graduating students from the C. T. Bauer College of Business will be recognized on May 14 during two ceremonies at the college's Spring 2022 Commencement. Bauer Doctoral Alumna Named Business School Dean at University of South Carolina, Aiken C. T. Bauer College of Business doctoral alumna, Nancy Albers (Ph.D. ‘93), has been named Dean of the School of Business Administration at University of South Carolina, Aiken (USC Aiken) beginning in July. The Economic Impact of Virtual Items A C. T. Bauer College of Business faculty member’s recently published research contributes a key insight to an ongoing discussion between some of the country’s great legal scholars: Should established copyright laws be applied to digital artifacts? $1 Million Gessner Gift Supports UH Sales Program A $1 million gift from Andy (BBA ’68) and Barbara Gessner to the University of Houston will support the education of aspiring sales professionals at the Stephen Stagner Sales Excellence Institute within the C. T. Bauer College of Business. Embracing Conflicting Cultural Values A C. T. Bauer College of Business lecturer has published research on the Consumer Cultural Paradox, the phenomenon in which consumers mutually embrace conflicting cultural values rather than making exclusive, either/or choices while navigating an increasingly globalized world. Bauer Undergraduates Recognized on Poets&Quants List Two undergraduate students from the C. T. Bauer College of Business at the University of Houston were included in the Poets&Quants 100 Best & Brightest Business Majors of 2022. Bauer Department of Decision & Information Sciences Hosts Big 12+ MIS Research Symposium The Department of Decision & Information Sciences (DISC) at the C. T. Bauer College of Business reached another milestone in its growing stature recently, hosting and participating in the Big 12+ MIS Research Symposium for the first time. R.E.A.L. Conversations Now that many organizations acknowledge the value of having a diverse workforce, Bauer research explores some of the underlying factors that prevent black professionals from reaching upper echelon positions in their field. Generating Beneficial Impacts Bauer researcher offers practical insights on the influence of Financial Advisors. Bauer Undergraduate and Graduate Team Take Home Top Spot in Competition A group of students from the C. T. Bauer College of Business at the University of Houston took home a top spot in a competition, focused on working with Hispanic-Serving Institutions (HSI) in March. Bauer College Advances to Top 35 in Research Ranking The C. T. Bauer College of Business has advanced dramatically in the University of Texas-Dallas (UT-Dallas) most recent ranking of the top business schools in the U.S. Bauer MBA Programs Make Top 50 US News & World Report Ranking U.S. News & World Report has included the C. T. Bauer College of Business on a recent ranking of top MBA programs in the nation. The Different Aspects of Homebuyers' Searches Assistant Professor of Finance Antonio Gargano and two co-authors used data from an Australian property website to discern how the search behavior of prospective homebuyers responds to price changes in their zip code. Bauer Sales Students Place in Top 3 in National Sales Competition Undergraduate sales students from the C. T. Bauer College of Business recently placed second overall in the 2022 National Collegiate Sales Competition, continuing a longstanding tradition of recognition among the best in the United States for the college’s Program for Excellence in Selling. An Investment in the Future Bauer Cougar Investment Fund marks 20 years for one of the largest student-managed investment funds in the U.S. Tracking Disruptions New research from the C. T. Bauer College of Business uses big data to track operational disruptions at U.S. oil refineries that cause significant reductions in production capacity. Bauer College Board Members Recognized for Outstanding Leadership Two powerhouse members of the Bauer College Board who are known for actively advocating for women in business were recognized recently for their outstanding leadership in the Houston area business community. Inaugural Bauer Gala Sets College Records The inaugural Bauer Gala set new records for the C. T. Bauer College of Business, bringing together more than 1,000 alumni, business leaders, political figures, faculty, staff and honored guests at an upscale event in the Grand Ballroom of the Hilton Americas. Houston Mayor Sylvester Turner Proclaims March 3 “C. T. Bauer College of Business Day” in Houston City of Houston Mayor Presents Proclamation During Record-Setting Inaugural Bauer Gala Inaugural Bauer Gala Slated for March 3 to Recognize Notable Leaders On March 3, 2022, the C. T. Bauer College of Business at the University of Houston will host its inaugural Bauer Gala at the Grand Ballroom of the Hilton Americas. Bauer MBA Alumnus Named President of Our Lady of the Lake University Abel A. Chávez (EMBA '05), a higher education leader and graduate of the C. T. Bauer College of Business Executive MBA program, has been named president of Our Lady of the Lake University (OLLU). Removing Bias New research from C. T. Bauer College of Business professor Xiao Ma explores methods researchers can use to account for Social Desirability Bias in online surveys. Bauer Information Systems Top 3 in the World in Research The Information Systems (IS) faculty at the C. T. Bauer College of Business is now ranked as the third most productive group in the world in top publications, according to the Association of Information Systems (AIS). Diversity in Action The Bauer College enrolled the highest percentage of women in its 2021 undergraduate freshman class than any other public university in the country according to the Poets&Quants (P&Q) Best Undergraduate Business Schools 2022 ranking. Research Recognition Two C. T. Bauer College of Business faculty members were among 116 University of Houston (UH) faculty members honored at the 50-in-5 celebration at the Wortham House last semester. Extraordinary Contributions The Department of Marketing & Entrepreneurship at the C. T. Bauer College of Business is beginning 2022 with a number of honors related to extraordinary contributions to marketing research from faculty and doctoral students. Bauer in D.C. Fellows Selected for Spring 2022 Semester Five undergraduate students from the C. T. Bauer College of Business at the University of Houston will spend the spring semester interning in Washington, D.C., through the college's Bauer in D.C. Fellowship Program. Expanding Subject Knowledge New qualitative synthesis research from Bauer College Department of Decision & Information Sciences professors Richard Skinner and Wynne Chin has the potential to greatly expand and create new subject knowledge for researchers. Risks and Rewards Research from Bauer College Visiting Assistant Professor of Finance James Yae and Bauer College doctoral student George Tian helps investors better understand Bitcoin. Bauer Post-Doctoral Fellow Accepts Tenure-Track Position at Tulane University Yumei (Joy) He will serve as an Assistant Professor at Tulane beginning in Fall 2022. Keeping Online Consumers Engaged Research from Nina Huang, Associate Professor and Bauer Fellow in the Department of Decision & Information Sciences, shows surprising benefits for altering usual ecommerce practices. Motivating and Managing Employees New research from C. T. Bauer College of Business doctoral candidate Eun Young Nae analyzes the relationship between employees' career success, life satisfaction, and goal orientation. Renowned Marketing Professor Retires After Storied Five-Decade Career A renowned C. T. Bauer College of Business faculty member, Betsy Gelb, the Marvin Hurley Professor of Marketing & Entrepreneurship, is retiring after 50 years. Nine New Members Join Prestigious Bauer College Board The diverse group of leading business executives, entrepreneurs and strategists advise Dean Paul A. Pavlou and strengthen the College's relationship to industry. More News Archives Media Contact Jessica Navarro Executive Director, Communications 713-743-4348 (office) jnavarro@bauer.uh.edu (Email preferred) Amanda Sebesta Communications Manager (713) 743-2264 (office) agsebesta@bauer.uh.edu (Email preferred) Main Navigation Home Bauer Home Page About Prospective Students Current Students Corporate Resources Parents Alumni Visitors Staff Resources Faculty & Research Academics Undergraduate MBA & Graduate Online Doctoral Executive Development Centers Advising Departments Office of Digital Learning Office of Experiential Learning Office of Global Initiatives Apply for Scholarships Apply to UH Career Center Students Alumni Employers News & Events News Center Events Calendar Latest News Where Awesome Happens Inside Bauer Administration Office of the Dean Bauer College Board 2020-2025 Strategic Plan Digital Learning Experiential Learning Global Initiatives Inclusive Leadership Bauer Division of Technology Leadership & Engagement Bauer Excellence Scholars Office of Communications Invest in Bauer Invest in Bauer Home Your Investment How to Invest The Bauer Excellence Initiative Contact Us Invest Now Home Bauer Home Page About Prospective Students Current Students Corporate Resources Parents Alumni Visitors Staff Resources Faculty & Research Academics Undergraduate MBA & Graduate Online Doctoral Executive Development Centers Advising Departments Office of Digital Learning Office of Experiential Learning Office of Global Initiatives Apply for Scholarships Apply to UH Career Center Students Alumni Employers News & Events News Center Events Calendar Latest News Where Awesome Happens Inside Bauer Administration Office of the Dean Bauer College Board 2020-2025 Strategic Plan Digital Learning Experiential Learning Global Initiatives Inclusive Leadership Bauer Division of Technology Leadership & Engagement Bauer Excellence Scholars Office of Communications Invest in Bauer Invest in Bauer Home Your Investment How to Invest The Bauer Excellence Initiative Contact Us Invest Now × Undergraduate Prospective Students Bachelor of Business Administration Academic Advising Graduate & Doctoral Full-Time MBA Professional MBA Executive MBA MS Accountancy MS Business Analytics (STEM) MS Entrepreneurship MS Finance MS Global Energy Leadership MS Management Information Systems Online MS Management & Leadership MS Marketing MS Sales Leadership MS Supply Chain Management Doctoral Executive Comprehensive Leadership Programs Open Enrollment Programs Custom Programs Student Success Scholarships Leadership Initiatives Bauer Honors Learning Abroad Success Stories Career Services Rockwell Career Center Career Gateway Our Campus UH System Emergency Information Privacy and Policies Jobs at UH About Bauer Our Message Our Name Our Story Our Faculty Our Students Our Learning Goals Our Rankings Our Mission Bauer College Board Faculty & Staff Directory BauerConnect (SharePoint Intranet) Staff Resources Room Reservations Social Media Contact Us suggestions@bauer.uh.edu Contact Us Directions & Parking C. T. Bauer College of Business 4250 Martin Luther King Boulevard, Room 334, Houston, Texas 77204-6021. (713) 743-2255 suggestions@bauer.uh.edu Last modified on 18 May 2022 at 1:18pm ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies