Skip to main content Skip to main content Follow Us Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Twitter Skip to main content Log In Log In Student Login Log In Instructor Login Log In Canvas Login Canvas Login My Profile My Applications My Enrollment History My Certificate Plan My Account My Saved Items Log Off Contact Us Contact Us Help Help <span class="sr-only">Number of items in the shopping cart: </span><span id="cartCount"></span> Number of items in the shopping cart: Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Program Search Programs and Courses Areas of Study Career Building College Prep Communications & Marketing Creative Development Design & UX Engineering & Technology Humanities & Fine Arts Languages Legal & Finance Management & Leadership Program Types Certificate Programs Short Courses Corporate Programs & Customized Learning Instructors Resources for Current Instructors Instructor Portal Canvas for CAPE Instructors Become a CAPE Instructor Propose a Course Help Center New Students Payment Options & Financing Veterans Benefits FAQ Current Students Student Portal Canvas Zoom Instructors Instructor Portal Canvas for Instructors Policies & Procedures Parking & Maps About About Us Contact Us Blog Navigate Search Skip to main content CAPE Program Search All Programs & Courses All Programs & Courses Areas of Study Certificate Programs SMU College Prep Customized Learning Short Courses Areas of Study Areas of Study Career Building Communications and Marketing Creative Development Design and UX Engineering and Technology Humanities and Fine Arts Languages Legal and Finance Management and Leadership Courses Instructors Instructors Propose a Course Help Center Help Center Canvas for CAPE Courses Information about SMU NetIDs Frequently Asked Questions Instructor Portal Parking & Maps Payment Options and Financing Policies and Procedures Student Portal Digital Badges Adding Your SMU Certificate Credential to LinkedIn Veterans Zoom About SMU CAPE About SMU CAPE Contact Us ☰ CAPE Help Center Veterans Veterans SMU is committed to improving and serving the community. Our military members, spouses and veterans have sacrificed so much for our country. Now it’s time to turn your attention to bettering yourself, and it all starts here with SMU. We understand that it may be difficult to go back to school full time in pursuit of a degree, but with SMU Continuing and Professional Education (CAPE), you can earn the certificates you need to place you ahead of your peers in the work force. We will provide you with the necessary resources and will work with you to achieve your goals. For more information, or if you need assistance with any of the programs listed below, please contact Robert Hurst, SMU Assistant Director of Veterans Affairs, at 214-768-1104. GI Bill® Approved Programs Catalyst Military Transition Certified CMMC Professional Cybersecurity Data Science Data Visualization and Storytelling Digital Marketing Esports Business Management Financial Planning FinTech Full Stack Web Development Graphic Design MS Data Science Paralegal Studies Product Management Project Management Sales Development Sales Operations Spanish for Legal Professionals User Experience Design GI Bill® The GI Bill® is an all-inclusive program for eligible service members, veterans or family members that allows the VA to pay for the full cost of tuition (up to the highest state college tuition) plus a monthly housing allowance. SMU currently accepts all forms of the GI Bill®. For more information, or to check if you are eligible to use the GI Bill®, visit the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs website. Learn more about the GI Bill® Post-9/11 GI Bill® students attending Non-College Degree (NCD) facilities, such as SMU Continuing and Professional Education, with terms starting on or after August 1, 2021 and who receive Monthly Housing Allowance (MHA) and/or kicker payments are required to verify enrollment on a monthly basis. Download the Enrollment Verification Process Guide The Catalyst at SMU The Catalyst at SMU is an 8-week transition program, focused on guiding military service members through the transition from service to the classroom or the workforce. Throughout The Catalyst at SMU program, you’ll participate in career transition focused curriculum, receive brand management training, earn a professional certificate in project management and continue to complete six graduate level credit hours. Learn more about The Catalyst at SMU MyCAA A DOD-designed program that provides eligible military spouses a one-time $4,000 grant to pursue a professional certificate or license in a portable career field. See SMU programs eligible for MyCAA Military Tuition Assistance (TA) Military Tuition Assistance (TA) is a benefit for eligible service members across all branches. TA pays up to 100% of tuition and fees and can be utilized at the discretion of unit commanding officers. We encourage you to engage your unit commanders about the use of TA for the professional certificate or training of your choice. Learn more about military tuition assistance Yellow Ribbon Program SMU and SMU CAPE are both proud partners of the Yellow Ribbon Program. With a limited number of slots available in our Research and Graduate Studies department, we will do our best to continue to make SMU an affordable option for your educational needs. If you would like more information, please visit the SMU Yellow Ribbon Program page or the VA’s Yellow Ribbon Program website. If you are interested in applying for the Yellow Ribbon program, please contact our VA Certifying Official at VABenefits@smu.edu to inform them of your intent. Bobby B. Lyle School of Engineering Military Tuition Policy The Lyle School of Engineering offers a discounted tuition rate for a variety of graduate programs. To determine if you are eligible, please review the Lyle School of Engineering Tuition Discount Policy. If you have any questions regarding the tuition discount policy please contact Robert Hurst, vetresource@mail.smu.edu. More Information MyCAA eBenefits VA Education Benefits SMU CAPE Course Catalog SMU CAPE Policies Additional Resources College Navigator Tool College Scorecard Paying for College Financial Aid Tool Financial Aid Shopping Sheet Lyle School of Engineering Tuition Discount Policy Army Women’s Foundation Scholarship Future Veteran Students FAQ What is a Certificate of Eligibility (COE)? How do I obtain one? The Certificate of Eligibility is issued by the VA to a GI Bill benefit user, and states the time allowance that remains on their benefit. A copy of the Certificate of Eligibility can be obtained via the eBenefits website, via the “Manage” tab under the “Education” option. Is a paper copy of my Certificate of Eligibility (COE) required to process my benefits? If you do not have a paper copy of your current COE, you can submit a screen shot from your eBenefits entitlement menu. Can I be enrolled in a degree seeking program and a professional certificate at the same time while using my GI Bill benefits? You can be concurrently enrolled in a degree seeking program and certificate program. However, the GI Bill will not cover the cost of both programs. We encourage you to utilize your benefits for your degreed programs, but will work with you if you choose to use your benefits for a certificate program. What chapters of the GI Bill are accepted at SMU? All current chapters of the GI Bill are accepted at SMU for VA certified programs. If you are applying for your educational benefits, we encourage you to contact our office to discuss which chapter best fits your needs. Does SMU participate in the Yellow Ribbon Program? Can I use my Hazelwood Act at SMU? No. The Hazelwood Act is designed for use at Public Universities and Colleges, and cannot be utilized at SMU. Do certificate programs qualify for a Monthly Housing Allowance (MHA) or Book Stipend? A. If your selected program is a professional certificate program then your program is certified by the VA in clock hours. In order to receive MHA, your program must meet the VA mandated half-time training status of 9 clock hours per week in order to receive a pro-rated MHA payment and book stipend. In order to receive a full MHA payment, your selected program must meet the full-time training standard of 18 clock hours per week. If you have any questions related to your MHA payments, contact the VA’s regional processing center at 1-888-442-4551. Our office does not work for the VA, as such, we cannot give you definitive information about your specific entitlement rate. All information given from our office is done so as an “educated assessment”, and we highly encourage all student veterans to contact the VA with any specific monetary questions. Where is the SMU Veterans Assistance Office located? Our office is located in the SMU Office of Global, Online and Continuing Education department office. The physical address is 5539 SMU Blvd, Dallas, Texas. Our office is open by appointment only. Current Veteran Students FAQ If I drop out of a program past the drop date, do I incur a debt with SMU or the VA? If you must drop out of a program past the drop date, your debt will be incurred with the VA. This debt will likely include all book stipend and MHA payments received for that program. If you must drop due to health reasons or an unforeseen emergency, you must have significant proof of that event. All determinations will be made by the VA and the School Certifying Official (SCO). Can I reserve study space for my group outside of normal class hours? Absolutely. If you would like to reserve a time for you and your group to meet outside of normal instructional hours, we ask you email our office vetresource@mail.smu.edu and tell us when you would like to meet. We will do our best to accommodate on a first-come-first-serve basis. If I am in a certificate program, can I attend SMU sporting events without a student ID? If you would like to attend a specific sporting event, please contact our office ahead of time and we will do our best to obtain tickets for you. Is there a mailing list specifically for Veterans at SMU? Yes. If you would like to be added to our monthly “Veterans Brief” email let us know via email, vetresource@mail.smu.edu, and we will be sure to add you to our current email list. If at any point you would like to be removed, please email us to let us know. Is there a student veteran group on campus? The MilVets are the student veteran group here at SMU, and are comprised mostly of undergraduate students. However, that should not deter any students from becoming a part of the MilVets. Help Center Canvas for CAPE Courses Information about SMU NetIDs Frequently Asked Questions Instructor Portal Parking & Maps Payment Options and Financing Policies and Procedures Student Portal Digital Badges Adding Your SMU Certificate Credential to LinkedIn Veterans Zoom Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University 5539 SMU Blvd, Dallas, TX 75206 instagram twitter linkedin facebook