Skip to main content FSU >> FSU LIBRARIES Top Right Search Box Search Our Website... * OneSearch | My Account Florida State University Libraries Search & Find Advanced Search Find a Database Journal Search Special Collections Search DigiNole Search Services & Research All Services Subject Librarians Distance Learning Digital Research & Scholarship Special Collections & Archives Government Information About the Libraries Libraries Overview Member Libraries Departments Accessibility @ FSU Libraries Diversity & Inclusion Giving to the Libraries Facts & Figures Strategic Plan Advancement Board Materials & Borrowing Borrowing Materials Library Express Delivery Interlibrary Loan Materials Purchase Request Help & Support Get Help Library Hours Maps & Directions Visitor Information COVID Guidelines Home >> Materials & Borrowing Materials & Borrowing Borrowing Materials Find loan information about all of our materials available for checkout, including loan periods and fines. Library Express Delivery Request materials be delivered to your departmental offices. LEDS delivery is available for current FSU faculty members, staff, post-docs, and graduate assistants with appointments (i.e., graduate assistants, research assistants and teaching assistants). Available items are delivered to department offices within 48 hours. Scanned articles and book chapters are delivered by email. Interlibrary Loan Request materials, including books and articles, that FSU may not have access to. Electronic materials are usually available within several business days. Materials Purchase Request Suggest materials you would like to see purchased for FSU Libraries collections. This service is available for current FSU faculty members. Requests go to your departmental library liaisons for review. About The Florida State University Libraries The mission of the University Libraries is to support and enhance the learning, teaching, research, and service activities of the Florida State University... READ MORE > Library Hours Maps and Directions Our Libraries Staff Directory Subject Librarians All Forms Library News Library Departments Library Events Library Services Employment Visiting the Libraries Giving to the Libraries Policies About the Libraries FAQ Government Information Staff Intranet Content Editor Login Internal Knowledge Base © Florida State University Libraries 116 Honors Way Tallahassee, FL 32306 Website Suggestions Privacy Principles Copyright Policy Contact Us (850) 644-2706 Search Articles, Books and More... * Connect with us!