Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu New graduate students proceed through the Van Wickle Gates as part of a ceremony held March 1 that marked their official entry into the Brown community. Photos by Nick Dentamaro Topics News and Events Date March 1, 2021 2021-03-01 Media Contact Jessica Tabak [email protected] 401-863-1632 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Brown welcomes graduate, medical, transfer students with second Van Wickle Gates procession With pandemic safety protocols in place, the students joined others from the Resumed Undergraduate Education and Brown-RISD Dual Degree programs for the tradition marking their official entry into the Brown community. PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — For generations, new undergraduate, graduate and medical students at Brown have together proceeded through the Van Wickle Gates at the start of the fall semester in a tradition marking their official entry into the University community. Health and safety concerns arising from the pandemic spurred changes to this year’s tradition, with the customary single walkthrough in the fall replaced with two early spring events to ensure the health and safety of Brown and its neighboring communities. On Monday, March 1 — two weeks after the first Van Wickle Gates Walkthrough welcomed first-year undergraduates to Brown — roughly 400 graduate, medical, transfer, Resumed Undergraduate Education and Brown-RISD Dual Degree students proceeded through the gates in the second walkthrough of the 2020-21 academic year. The ceremonial procession was an opportunity to bring together groups of students who bring varied experiences with them to Brown, said Caroline O’Daly, a sophomore transfer student concentrating in art history and English. “There's something to be said for sharing this experience with other people who have either gone through college already or had another life experience — whether that was in the military or working — before coming and starting their journey at Brown,” she said. “I think that gives a new perspective to the event — there's a sense of camaraderie, and that you all are in this similar experience together.” 1 of 9 Students prepare to proceed through the Van Wickle Gates at the walkthrough held on March 1 for graduate, medical, transfer, RUE and Brown-RISD Dual Degree students. Photos by Nick Dentamaro. 2 of 9 Students create a socially-distanced line along Prospect Street as they prepare to walk through the Van Wickle Gates. 3 of 9 Dean of the Graduate School Andrew G. Campbell was among the administrators who cheered students on as they proceeded through the gates. Representatives from the College, Graduate School and Warren Alpert School of Medicine took shifts cheering students on during the procession. 4 of 9 Graduate students proceed through the Van Wickle Gates. 5 of 9 Students attending the Van Wickle Gates Walkthrough received gift bags with Brown-themed cold-weather gear before departing campus. 6 of 9 A graduate school student poses for the camera at the Van Wickle Gates Walkthrough. 7 of 9 Brown President Christina H. Paxson was among the administrators who cheered students on at the Van Wickle Gates Walkthrough on March 1. 8 of 9 First-year medical students from the Warren Alpert School of Medicine snap selfies as they wait to proceed through the Van Wickle Gates. 9 of 9 With hands in the air, a Brown undergraduate proceeds through the Van Wickle Gates. With the majority of campus events being held virtually since the school year began, the walkthrough also gave students a chance to meet each other in person, said Nikhel Sylvain, a sophomore transfer and political science concentrator who served six years in the U.S. Air Force before coming to Brown this year. “It's the first time I’ll get to see a lot of these faces, which is exciting,” he said. The piles of snow lining the streets of Providence during the first walkthrough have since melted, but the second procession retained the health and safety features of the first. The event was held over several hours, with students lining up — masked and 6 feet apart — along Prospect Street at staggered times assigned to them before the procession. And the full route was peppered with free mask stations, signs reinforcing public health guidelines, and representatives from the Department of Public Safety, who cheered the new students along while offering reminders of pandemic protocols. Students also received gift bags with Brown-themed cold-weather gear before departing campus. While most of the students participating in today’s ceremony have been on campus since the fall, proceeding through the Van Wickle Gates still carried a special significance, Sylvain said. "I feel really honored to be part of this tradition that’s welcomed Brown students for generations,” he said. “My soul will finally be here." https://www.youtube.com/embed/xRU8UTmLQ1Q Van Wickle Gates Walkthrough Transfer, Resumed Undergraduate Education, Brown-RISD Dual Degree, graduate and medical students participated in a time-honored Brown tradition. Tags Graduate School The College Warren Alpert Medical School Related news: News and Events Brown Corporation elects two new fellows, eight trustees June 1, 2022 Brown’s governing body elected each new member based on their commitment to the University and its mission of education and research. Read Article Open details for Brown Corporation elects two new fellows, eight trustees News and Events Brown Corporation approves base budget for Fiscal Year 2023 June 1, 2022 The $1.5 billion base budget includes deep investments in student financial aid and support for faculty and staff, balancing continued advancement in academic excellence with a focus on long-term financial sustainability. Read Article Open details for Brown Corporation approves base budget for Fiscal Year 2023 News and Events In three ceremonies, medical, doctoral and master’s graduates celebrate hard-earned degrees May 29, 2022 In addresses at Brown’s Commencement ceremonies on Sunday, May 29, student speakers entreated their peers to make a positive impact using lessons they had learned during the COVID-19 pandemic. Read Article Open details for In three ceremonies, medical, doctoral and master’s graduates celebrate hard-earned degrees Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Brown welcomes graduate, medical, transfer students with second Van Wickle Gates procession Open details for Brown welcomes graduate, medical, transfer students with second Van Wickle Gates procession Bookmark this Page