Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Information for Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni Search BC.edu Links Career Center Menu Main Nav Career Center Meet With a Career Coach Back Back Close About Overview Meet Our Team Student Employment Contact and Visit Us Meet with a Career Coach Learning Outcomes Career Clusters Overview Career Exploration Business, Consulting, and Finance Communication, Arts, and Media Education, Nonprofit, and Social Service Government, Law, and Public Policy Healthcare and Nursing Science, Technology, and Engineering Jobs and Internships Overview Be Career Ready Internships Jobs Resumes Cover Letters Online Presence Networking Interviewing Evaluating an Offer and Salary Negotiation Graduate School Overview Applying to Graduate School Law School For Current Graduate Students Events and Programs Overview Event Calendar Careerfest Endeavor Schedule of Events Endeavor Fellows Endeavor Keynote Endeavor FAQs Information for Alumni Envision Designing Your Career Course Alumni Job Shadow Program Career Fairs and Networking Events Campus Recruitment Eagle Intern Fellowship Career Closet Praxis Summer Program Winter Break Challenge Illumination Awards Outcomes Resources Overview Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Handshake Guide Eagle Exchange Guide Meet With a Career Coach Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC Career Center Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Praxis Summer Program Home Events and Programs Praxis Summer Program Events and Programs Event Calendar Careerfest Endeavor Envision Designing Your Career Course Alumni Job Shadow Program Career Fairs and Networking Events Campus Recruitment Eagle Intern Fellowship Career Closet Praxis Summer Program Winter Break Challenge Illumination Awards Get Career Ready From Home The Career Center’s Praxis Summer Program is a free comprehensive, self-guided summer career program designed to help you recognize and develop the skills most highly sought after by employers. You have been developing these critical skills throughout your time at Boston College, both in and outside the classroom. This week-by-week guide will help you reflect on and strengthen these skills in order to give you a competitive advantage when applying to jobs and graduate school in the future. Details Dates Summer 2022 Class Years All undergraduate students and graduate students in MCAS, STM, LSEHD, and WCAS are welcome! Majors All Welcome How to Register Registration Closes May 30, 2022. Registration Form Complete the program on your own schedule The eight-week program will be available via Canvas. It is designed to be completed on your own schedule at your own pace. There are approximately four to five required tasks for each weekly module. Most tasks will take 20 minutes to one hour. In addition, there are more in-depth optional activities for those skills you want to spend more time developing. While you are encouraged to work through the full program, we recommend that you identify the two to three skills you most want to develop and focus your energy there. Week by Week Schedule Week 1 Know Yourself: Start Where You Are and Discover Where to Go Example Activities: Take a self-assessment to further understand your work and leisure interests, personality, values, and skills Identify the top two to three skills you plan to work on this summer Learning Outcomes: Identify 1-3 skills you hope to incorporate into your career paths that align with the skills employers are seeking in recent college graduates. Identify 1-3 career fields that align with your interests that you would like to further explore. Week 2 Effective Communication Example Activities: Take a self-assessment to understand your communication style. Craft your professional resume. Draft outreach messages to alumni professionals. Learning Outcomes: Demonstrate the ability to effectively articulate ideas, experiences, and skills orally. Demonstrate the ability to effectively articulate ideas, experiences, and skills in writing. Week 3 Equity and Inclusion in the Workplace Example Activities: Gain a deeper understanding of diversity, equity, and inclusion and its importance in the workplace through reflective exercises Complete an Implicit Association Test Learning Outcomes: Articulate the importance of diversity in the workplace. Identify at least one way your identity impacts feelings of inclusion in group settings. Week 4 Teamwork and Collaboration Example Activities: Complete a conflict style assessment Create a “How to Work With Me” User Manual Learning Outcomes: Articulate my strengths as they relate to teamwork and collaboration Articulate my areas for growth as they relate to teamwork and collaboration Conduct 1 or more informational interviews with an alum. Week 5 Leveraging Technology Example Activities: Learn the tech skills necessary to succeed in your industry of interest. Create and update your online presence. Build Excel skills to serve your needs. Learning Outcomes: Demonstrate the ability to use Handshake for a job or internship search. Identify 1-3 key workplace technologies relevant to my career field(s) of interest. Week 6 Leading Effectively and Serving Others Example Activities: Take a self-assessment to understand your leadership style Understand how to manage a project and learn how to build a project tracker Craft a personal mission statement Learning Outcomes: Articulate leadership style and strengths Articulate how you will become a person for others Week 7 Critical Thinking and Problem Solving Example Activities: Complete a self-assessment to understand how you solve problems. Read about strategies leaders use to make better decisions. Learning Outcomes: Identify your strengths in critical thinking and problem solving. Identify your areas for growth in critical thinking and problem solving. Create a decision matrix to help you make decisions important to you. Week 8 What it Means to be a Professional Example Activities: Learn about professional etiquette. Add Praxis to your resume. Create a plan to further develop your skills going forward. Learning Outcomes: Articulate an understanding that professional and effective work habits are culturally-dependent. Articulate the value of inviting and incorporating feedback from others. Identify 1-3 areas of strength in terms of professional character traits. Identify 1-3 areas of growth in terms of professional character traits. Learning Outcomes In addition to strengthening specific career skills, upon completion of the Praxis Summer Program, you will be able to: Create application materials such as resumes, cover letters, LinkedIn profiles, and personal statements that articulate your experiences, skills, interests, and values. Verbally articulate how your experiences, skills, interests, and values relate to opportunities through networking conversations and/or interviews. Identify 1-3 next steps in your career discernment and planning. Articulate at least one example of where you have developed each of the 9 career readiness competencies. Create a plan to develop skills and competencies required for a particular field of interest. Articulate how your individual strengths and skills can be used to help others and serve the greater good. FAQs Who is eligible for Praxis and who will benefit from participating? All current BC undergraduate students and graduate students in MCAS, LSEHD, STM, and WCAS are eligible to participate in Praxis. Any student who is looking to explore careers and build their skills for future employment will benefit from participating, but we strongly recommend students participate in Praxis during the summer after their first year or sophomore year, when possible. Students can participate in Praxis in lieu of or in addition to a summer job or internship, volunteer work, or other summer experience. The most recent graduating class is also eligible to join as a way to continue building skills while job searching. Are students automatically enrolled in the program once they register or is there a selection process? All students who register for Praxis are enrolled. The registration period takes place in May and the program launches in early June. If you would like to be notified when registration opens, indicate your interest here. Is the entire program virtual? Yes, Praxis is a fully virtual program, allowing students to participate from anywhere in the world. What is the cost for Praxis? Praxis is free to all students. While there may be a few optional activities that have a small charge, all required activities are free of charge. If you have any questions or concerns, please contact us at career.center@bc.edu. What are the dates of Praxis? The summer 2022 dates are as follows. Keep in mind that students are encouraged to complete Praxis on a schedule that works best for them: Wednesday, June 1: Praxis 2022 Official Start Date Tuesday, July 26: Completion date if you stick to one module per week for 8 weeks starting on June 1 Wednesday, August 17: Final day to submit Praxis work in order to receive a certificate of completion Back To Top Back To Top Career Center Southwell Hall 38 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-3430 About Departments & Programs How can we help you? Events Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College