Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Journalism MJ You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Journalism MJ Apply Request More Info Journalism MJ Admissions Careers & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships and Financial Aid Master of Journalism Become a versatile and innovative professional journalist with the Master of Journalism degree program from the Lew Klein College of Media and Communication at Temple University. Develop your talents in writing, editing and multimedia work, and gain a deeper understanding of journalism’s evolving roles and practices in today’s media landscape. Using Philadelphia as an extension of the classroom, you will refine the reporting skills necessary to convey compassionate and extensively researched stories centered in an urban environment. Designed to teach current and aspiring journalists, the 30-credit Journalism MJ provides rigorous training as a cohort experience, encouraging students to work together and learn from one another as much as they’re learning from faculty and local professionals. Expand on your overall reporting expertise, or receive specialized training in one of the following areas. Broadcast journalism Community journalism Entrepreneurial journalism Investigative reporting Podcasting Various forms of digital journalism Within one year, your immersive training experience will culminate in a self-guided capstone project that represents your independent reporting. Philadelphia Is Your Classroom Located in the fourth-largest media market in the U.S., the Journalism MJ program offers students access to a city ripe with innovation. Philadelphia is replete with journalistic experiments (including startups and nonprofits) that are rethinking metropolitan, niche and ethnic media. The city’s daily newspapers are owned by a nonprofit organization—an experiment many hope will represent a path to sustainability for news organizations around the country. As a student in this master’s program, you will interact with journalists and innovators from those organizations, forming strong connections in Philadelphia’s vast network of media professionals. Program Format & Curriculum The 30-credit Master of Journalism courses take place at Temple’s Main Campus, and students are expected to complete the program in one year of full-time study. The following courses are required. Editing the News Introduction to Urban Journalism Journalism and the Public Interest Journalism Concepts Urban Reporting Lab 1 and 2 Additionally, students are required to complete the Capstone Reporting Experience, which consists of an independent reporting project. The goal of this project is to produce a journalistic masterwork (analogous to a thesis) that will lead to professional publication. Students must also choose one elective course to aid in their specialization. Learn more about program requirements for the Journalism MJ. Related Graduate Degrees Communication for Development and Social Change MS Media Studies and Production MA Related Graduate Certificates Conflict Management and Dispute Resolution Cultural Analytics Public Relations Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Journalism offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,078.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,441.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors Faculty advisors can help you navigate your program and discuss research opportunities, teaching assistantships and more. Learn more about Klein College of Media and Communication faculty. Program Contacts Contact the following faculty or staff members with questions about the Journalism MJ. Kaitlin Pierce is associate director of the graduate office. Email: kaitlin.pierce@temple.edu Phone: 215-204-8560 David Mindich is the department chair. Email: mindich@temple.edu Phone: 215-204-1788 Logan Molyneux is the program director. Email: logan@temple.edu Phone: 215-204-3092 Student Clubs & Organizations Supplement your Journalism MJ coursework and enhance your graduate education experience through student clubs and organizations. You’ll meet and network with other like-minded students, gain invaluable knowledge and skills, and become involved with a community that helps you bring your personal and professional goals to fruition. Participation in student organizations will support and prepare you for a career in advertising, communication, journalism, media and more. Some of the related clubs and organizations include the following. Freely Magazine strives to faithfully represent the experiences of Philadelphia’s international student community as well as those who show appreciation for diversity and cultural uniqueness. The LatinX Media Association provides support, opportunities, professional development and extracurricular enrichment to LatinX students and students interested in LatinX media, communication and culture. Public Relations Student Society of America is a preprofessional organization for students who are interested in public relations. Sports Media Society for Women is Temple’s first organization dedicated to supporting women in sports media. The Temple Association of Black Journalists aims to support students of color and all student journalists as they pursue their career goals. The Temple News, an award-winning student publication, has been the paper of record for the Temple community since 1921. WHIP Radio, Temple’s student-run internet radio station, provides the opportunity for students to gain firsthand experience in radio production. Learn more about student clubs and organizations available to Klein students. Accreditation Temple’s Department of Journalism is one of only three programs in Pennsylvania that are accredited by the Accrediting Council on Education in Journalism and Mass Communications. CO-JRN-MJ Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Journalism MJ Admissions Careers & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info