Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Resources For Students Links to Success Links to Success These tips can help you throughout your time at Columbia—and not just with health-related issues. From academics and finances, to relationships and more, this guide to campus resources will make it easier to find the information you need and stay on track. Expand all Collapse all Campus Resources Quick Response If you have an urgent mental health concern, you can reach Counseling and Psychological Services at 212-854-2878 to talk with a licensed professional. If you have an urgent medical concern, you can reach Medical Services at 212-854-7426 to talk with a nurse. Due to COVID-19, Medical Services is not offering walk-in appointments. Reach out anonymously to a peer counselor through Nightline. Listeners are available via Zoom on Monday, Thursday, and Friday from 4-6pm EST. For support during an emergency, contact CUEMS and Public Safety at 212-854-5555. Contact an advocate at the Sexual Violence Response at 212-854-HELP. Columbia undergraduate students can contact the resident assistant on-duty in your building or area by calling the number posted throughout building, 9pm-8am during the week and 24-hours on weekends. Academics If you’re a Columbia College or Columbia Engineering undergraduate, you can get support from your academic advisor by contacting the Berick Center for Student Advising. Schedule an appointment with your professor to talk about homework or deadlines. Make an appointment with the Writing Center for a one-time or weekly one-on-one consultation to help you at every stage of the writing process. Visit a help room for subject-specific support. Request a tutor for your class through the CSA Tutoring Service. Speak with a librarian about research through their online chat feature. Meditate to soothe and sharpen your mind for studying or your next exam with the Bhakti Club or the Columbia University Buddhist Association. Register with Disability Services if you are seeking academic-related support services or accommodations. Relationships Learn about the differences between healthy and unhealthy relationships. Expand your social network by joining a student group or club that piques your interest. Talk with a staff member at Sexual Violence Response or other resources outlined on the Sexual Respect website. For support with grief or sexual assault, attend a support group meeting or make an appointment with Counseling and Psychological Services. Check out the Go Ask Alice!  Relationships Q&A archives for additional tips and strategies. Sleep Enhance your bedtime routine by taking the online sleep assessment. Learn how to do more than count sheep with tips for getting a better night's rest. Talk with a health care provider or mental health professional about your sleeping patterns. Check out the Go Ask Alice! Q&As about sleep for more information. Nutrition Check out the nutrition resources on the Columbia Health website to learn about making food choices that support your well-being. Make an appointment with a registered dietitian in Medical Services or Columbia Dining to talk through any special diets you may follow. For support addressing concerns about eating or body image, contact a member of the Eating Disorders team at Counseling and Psychological Services. If you are experiencing food insecurity, visit The Food Pantry at Columbia. Check out the Go Ask Alice! Q&As about nutrition for additional information Physical Activity Check out a physical education course or virtual fitness classes, such as yoga or body sculpt. No-cost virtual well-being classes are also available. Find an intramural sport you enjoy or want to try. Alcohol and Other Drugs Take the anonymous online alcohol use self-assessment or the cannabis use self-assessment if you’re concerned about substance use habits. Examine drinking behavior in a judgment-free and confidential environment through a one-on-one BASICS appointment. Schedule an appointment with Columbia Health to discuss tobacco cessation. General Health Learn strategies for betters supporting your well-being from Alice! Health Promotion during drop-in hours. Have a health question? Go Ask Alice! Make an appointment with a health care provider about any ailment you may have. Contact the Gay Health Advocacy Project for free, confidential HIV testing (for all members of the Columbia community). Finances Visit the Columbia iGrad website to learn more about the financial literacy app. Read up on financial aid FAQs. Check out the Student Financial Services website for support with financial planning. Find an internship or part-time job through LionSHARE. Check out student employment opportunities with Columbia Health and within the university! Undergraduate students can reach out to The Center for Career Education (CCE) for career counseling. Career Decisions Talk with a professional at the The Center for Career Education (CCE) to explore your career opportunities. Check your department website for a list of faculty, peer advisors, and upcoming information sessions on identifying a career path. Find an internship or part-time job through LionSHARE. Talk with a career counselor about questions you may have about your job search as someone with particular backgrounds or situations. Religion and Spirituality Explore the services of the University Chaplain. Check out a religious or spiritual student organization. Explore your religion and spirituality through Religious Life. Identity Reach out to the Office of Multicultural Affairs for programs, resources, and personal identity development. Find a campus student organization that matches your interests. Join one of ROOTEd’s weekly conversations on identity. Find your community. Living on Campus Get support for your living environment by visiting the Residential Life website. Speak with a representative from Disability Services to coordinate any specific housing accommodations. Reach out to a staff person from Fraternity and Sorority Life if you are a member of a Greek-letter organization. Submit a campus housing maintenance request online or call 212-854-2222 if you are having any problems in your residence. Find off-campus housing through Columbia Residential. Campus Culture Got an idea or opinion? Provide feedback to your respective undergraduate student government or graduate school. Find opportunities to be involved in organizations on campus. Attend an Office of University Life event. Get involved with the Live Well. Learn Well. undergraduate initiative. Students with Families Find out about housing options for couples and families through Columbia Residential or Teachers College Student Housing. Join the Columbia University Family Support Network or check out their Facebook page. Check out the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Resources for Parents website. Learn more about School of General Studies family resources, such as childcare and breastfeeding support. Find Columbia policies and access to breastfeeding spaces, and family health insurance plans. Stress Coping Speak with a mental health professional by scheduling an appointment with Counseling and Psychological Services by calling 212-854-2878, or sign up for one of the virtual support groups. Schedule an appointment online to see a health care provider at  Medical Services or call 212-854-7426. Speak with a Health Promotion Specialist about healthy stress coping and resources by contacting Alice! Health Promotion at [email protected] or attending drop-in hours. Check out these stress coping techniques and coping tools. Student Resources Links to Success Funding for Student Organizations Get Involved Student Employment Summer Program Need help with weekend or late night distress? Check out our Coping Tools page for various digital services, mobile apps, and online resources outside our regular hours of operation. Our limited podcast series, Invisible and On Stage, provides an open conversation around racism-related stress, identity, and community, and the way they impact mental health. Listen now! The entire Columbia Health team, photographed in Lerner Hall. Click the image to see a larger version. Columbia Health Alice! Health Promotion Disability Services Counseling and Psychological Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Immunization Compliance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response All Columbia Health offices are closed on University Holidays. Annual Report Columbia Health Annual Report Stay Connected Receive important news and event info from Columbia Health Columbia Health Events Join us for workshops, panel discussions, skill-building opportunities, and other events! Accessibility Accommodations Columbia Health makes every effort to accommodate individuals with disabilities. If you require disability accommodations to attend an event sponsored by Columbia Health, or by the University, contact Disability Services at 212-854-2388 at least 10 days in advance of the event. 212-854-2284 [email protected] Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close