Brown University Quick Exit General Health Physical Health Acne Asthma Breast Exams Bronchitis Colds Concussion Headaches Meningitis Mononucleosis Sleep Seasonal Flu Sun Safety and Skin Cancer Stomach Flu Testicular Self-Exams Travel and Health Yeast Infection Emotional Wellbeing Mindfulness Sleep Stress Self-Care Techniques for Stress Relief Wellness on Campus Social Wellbeing Community, Connection and Coping: Remote Resources Consent Economic Stress Roommate Relationships Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Bacterial Vaginosis Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy Gender Care GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Premature Ejaculation Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Accessing Care Gender Care GYN Visits LGBTQ Health Care at Health Services Men's Health Exams Pregnancy Tests STI Testing Options Resources and Links Nutrition & Eating Concerns Eating Well at Brown Being a Vegetarian Dietary Guidelines Eating Off Meal Plan Meal Plan And Dining Information Supplements Eating Concerns and Body Image Body Image Concerns Eating Concerns Help at Brown Sports Nutrition Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S) Sports Nutrition Accessing Care Help at Brown Worried about a Friend Sexual Health Sex 101 SHAG! Erectile Dysfunction Orgasm Premature Ejaculation Sex and Alcohol Sex Toys Sexually Explicit Media Contraception Birth Control Pills Cervical Cap Condoms Depo-Provera Emergency Contraception Fertility Awareness Method Implant Internal Condoms IUD Ortho Evra (The Patch) Ring Spermicides and Lubricants The Recent Election & Contraception Access Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Yeast Infection Safer Sex Ship n SHAG! Sexual Health and Safer Sex During Covid-19 Abstinence Condoms Dental Dams Internal Condoms Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) Pre Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Safer Sex Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) STIs AIDS/HIV Bacterial Vaginosis Chlamydia Colposcopy Gonorrhea Hepatitis B Herpes HPV and Genital Warts HPV Vaccine Molluscum Contagiosum Oral Sex and STIs Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pubic Lice and Scabies Sexually Transmitted Infections Syphilis Talking with a Partner STI Testing Options Trichomoniasis Urinary Tract Infections Yeast Infection Sexual Assault & Dating Violence Get Help Sexual Assault Response Line SHARE Advocates Dating Violence First Five Days After an Assault Male Survivors Sexual Violence and Assault Sexual Harassment Stalking Help a Friend SHARE Advocates How to Help a Friend Get Involved in Prevention Interrupting the Red Zone: How we keep each other safe Culture of Respect Collective Sexual Assault Peer Education (SAPE) Help Prevent Sexual Assault Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Relationships and Communication Consent Dating Violence Learn More Common Reactions to Sexual Violence and Assault Predatory Drugs Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Sexual Violence: Key Terms Resources and Links Alcohol & Other Drugs Alcohol Alcohol and Your Body Recognizing a Problem Risks and Realities Sex and Alcohol Ways to Cut Down Other Drugs Caffeine Cocaine Ecstasy Energy Drinks GHB Inhalants Ketamine LSD Marijuana Methamphetamine Predatory Drugs Psilocybin (Mushrooms) Rohypnol Tobacco Smokeless Tobacco Smoking Cessation Tobacco Learn More Law and Policy Summary Educational Links Accessing Care Resources at Brown Off Campus Resources Calling EMS How to Help a Friend Quit Smoking How to Talk to a Friend about Drinking or Drug Use Google Tag Manager Accessing Care Resources and Links Resources at Brown Health Promotion 401.863-2794 Health Promotion is available for confidential individual appointments and group education on a variety of health issues, alcohol, other drugs, nutrition and safer sex. We have condoms, lube, dental dams and other safer sex supplies available at no cost. We are located at 450 Brook Street, on the ground level of the Health and Wellness Building. Health Services 401.863-3953 Health Services provides a range of services including general health care, STI testing, inpatient services and emergency medical care. You can request a medical provider by gender or you can request a specific provider by name. We are located at 450 Brook Street, on the main level of the Health and Wellness Building. Call 401.863-3953 to make an appointment. Counseling and Psychological Services 401.863-3476 Counseling and Psychological Services provides individual appointments, referrals, and crisis counseling. at 450 Brook Street, on the main level of the Health and Wellness Building. Call 401.863-3476 to make an appointment. Related Links WebMD WebMD is a comprehensive health web site. Interactive tools include slide shows, calculators and quizzes. Featured sections include Medical Information, Health & Wellness and Latest News Headlines. You can sign up to receive email newsletters on many topics and the search function allows you to find what you need quickly. MEDLINEplus This web site is a service of the National Library of Medicine, which is part of the National Institutes of Health. It provides health information by population groups, so you can go to sections on African American health, Asian American health, Native American health, Latino health, Men's health and Women's health among others. Other features include information on conditions, diseases and wellness, and a medical encyclopedia. ULifeline ULifeline is an online resource center where students can find information about mental health, learn the signs and symptoms of emotional problems, take the mental health assessment Self E-valuator, and link to services on campus. Black Women's Health Imperative This extensive site includes sections on Black Health News, Hot Topics and a Health Center with information on nutrition, self-care and alternative remedies. If you register as a member, you can use interactive tools such as Assess My Stress, A Guide to Optimal Fitness and Eating Right. Womenshealth.gov Part of the US Department of Health and Human Services, this site has an extensive list of health topics to search, plus information on minority health and violence against women. Health articles are featured every month in English and Spanish. National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine NCCAM is part of the National Institutes of Health and is dedicated to exploring complementary and alternative health practices in the context of rigorous science. The A-Z index allows you to search for a particular treatment or therapy. Topic areas include acupuncture, vitamin supplements and ayurvedic medicine. Medscape For clinical information and the latest medical research, Medscape is an extensive resource. There are 27 specialty home pages, including Oncology, Mental Health, HIV/AIDS, Allergy and Clinical Immunology, and Women's Health. You can register to receive email newsletters in any of these topic areas. International pages have medical information in Spanish, Italian, Portuguese, Japanese and Swedish. National Institute of Mental Health The Health Topics section offers information about the symptoms, diagnosis and treatment of mental illnesses. Brochures, information sheets, statistics and information in Spanish are included. About BWell: Quick Links About Us Staff Confidential Appointments Sexual Assault Response Line Workshops Peer Education Programs Health Empowerment Tools PHONE NUMBERS 401.863-2794 Health Promotion 401.863-3953 Health Services 401.863-6000 Sexual Assault Response Line 401.863-4111 EMS 401.863-3476 Counseling & Psychological Services 401.863-4111 DPS Make an Appointment What is Peer Education? Learn about BWell's Peer Education Programs! Get involved in empowerment and prevention work at Brown. Get Involved Meet Our Staff About Us Make an Appointment Brown University BWell Health Promotion Health and Wellness Brown University Box 1928 450 Brook Street Providence, Rhode Island, 02912 Phone 401-863-2794 Fax 401-863-7953 [email protected] © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Related Offices Brown EMS Counseling and Psychological Services Health Services Social Media BWell on Facebook SHAG on Facebook BURP on Facebook Health Services on Facebook