Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Strategic Communication and Cross-Cultural Leadership Certificate (Graduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Strategic Communication and Cross-Cultural Leadership Certificate (Graduate) Apply Request More Info Strategic Communication and Cross-Cultural Leadership Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Graduate Certificate in Strategic Communication and Cross-Cultural Leadership Gain the practical and theoretical skills essential to navigating diverse leadership contexts with the Graduate Certificate in Strategic Communication and Cross-Cultural Leadership in the Lew Klein College of Media and Communication at Temple. Acquire the cultural awareness and strategic competence to develop and manage collaboration within your organization. The 12-credit Strategic Communication and Cross-Cultural Leadership graduate certificate is ideal for individuals aspiring to leadership positions, as well as those who currently hold leadership positions and want to increase their ability to deal with cross-cultural conflicts, manage diverse teams and make responsible decisions. An online format provides students flexibility in how they access resources, submit assignments, and balance their studies with job constraints and personal responsibilities. Program Format & Curriculum The 12-credit Strategic Communication and Cross-Cultural Leadership graduate certificate is an online program of study that can be completed over two years of full- or part-time study. There are no prerequisites, and courses can be taken in any order. The following are required courses for this program. Communicating Organizational Leadership Cross-Cultural Leadership Leadership in Crises and Conflict Management Leading Diverse Teams Learn more about admissions requirements for the Strategic Communication and Cross-Cultural Leadership Graduate Certificate. Path to a Master’s Degree Once completed, the Graduate Certificate in Strategic Communication and Cross-Cultural Leadership can satisfy 12 credits of the 31-credit Master of Science in Communication Management degree. The GRE requirement for that master’s program would also be waived. Related Graduate Cetificates Conflict Management and Dispute Resolution Public Relations Career Opportunities The Lew Klein College of Media and Communication’s Career Services offers specialized, career-related programming exclusively to Klein College students. Klein Connect, our exclusive internship and job portal, is accessible to current students, alumni and employers. Through Klein Connect, you can complete a student profile; upload a résumé; and apply for job listings posted daily in a variety of areas including advertising, graphic/web design, journalism, marketing, media and production, public relations, and social media. Learn more about the current job opportunities available through Klein Connect. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Graduate Certificate offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,078.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,441.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors Faculty advisors can help you navigate your program and discuss research opportunities, teaching assistantships and more. Learn more about Klein College of Media and Communication faculty. Program Contact Contact the following staff or faculty members with additional questions about the Strategic Communication and Cross-Cultural Leadership Certificate (Graduate). Kaitlin Pierce is associate director of the Office of Research and Graduate Studies. Email: kaitlin.pierce@temple.edu Phone: 215-204-8560 Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. CO-SCCL-GRAD Additional Program Information Available online. School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Strategic Communication and Cross-Cultural Leadership Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info