Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Health Center Home About Us About Us Contact Information After Hours Care Patient Rights and Responsibilities Our Staff Cost of Services Medical Medical Flu Vaccines Current Students Incoming Students Faculty and Staff Resources Cost of Services Emergencies Counseling Services Counseling Services Pre-Doctoral Psychology Internship/fellowship Program Available Counseling Options at SMU Psychiatric Services Referrals Mental Health Apps Substance Abuse and Recovery Emergencies Drug-Free Schools and Communities Act Dental SMU Pharmacy SMU Pharmacy Filling Out of State Schedule II Prescriptions Insurance Insurance Frequently Asked Questions Services and Fees Wellness Wellness Health Topics Student Wellness Champions Health Portal ☰ Summer Hours (May 16 - Aug 19) Monday - Friday 9:00A - 4:00P Dr. Bob Smith Health Center SMU Health Portal Latest News & Updates COVID-19 Vaccinations COVID-19 vaccinations are available at the Dr. Bob Smith Health Center. All students as well as SMU employees and their families age 12 and older are eligible. Please schedule your vaccination appointment through the SMU Health portal. If you do not have access to the portal, please call the Health Center at 214-768-2141 (select option 1) to schedule an appointment. Boosters Studies show that COVID-19 vaccine protection decreases over time. Boosters provide additional protection, especially against severe illness that can lead to hospitalization or even dying from the virus. Here is when the FDA and CDC recommend boosters, based on your age and which vaccine(s) you've already received: Ages 12+ can get a booster dose of the Pfizer vaccine at least five months after their second dose. If they are immune-compromised, they can get a second booster four months after their first booster. Ages 18+ can get a booster dose of either the Pfizer or Moderna vaccine at least five months after their second dose. If they are immune-compromised, they can get a second booster at least four months after their first booster. Those who received the one-dose Johnson & Johnson vaccine may get a booster of any COVID vaccine at least two months after their first dose. Ages 50+ can get a second booster of the Pfizer or Moderna vaccine at least four months after their first booster. COVID-19 Additional Doses for Immunocompromised Individuals The Health Center provides additional doses to those who are moderately to severely immunocompromised in accordance with CDC recommendations. Receiving an additional primary dose only applies to moderately to severely immunocompromised people who have received an mRNA COVD-19 vaccine primary series (Pfizer BioNTech or Moderna). Moderna - Immunocompromised people ages 18 years and older who completed their Moderna vaccine primary series should plan to get an additional primary dose 28 days after receiving their second shot. Pfizer – Immunocompromised people 12 years and older who completed their Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine primary series should also plan to get an additional primary dose 28 days after receiving their second shot. In addition first and second boosters are now authorized and recommended for people ages 12 and older who are immunocompromised. Immunocompromised Individuals 12-17 years are eligible for another dose of Pfizer. Individuals 18 and older may receive the Pfizer or the Moderna vaccine. Click here to view complete CDC information including a list of immunocompromised conditions that are included in the recommendation. Upload your vaccination record to the SMU Health Portal If you received a COVID-19 vaccine off-campus, please upload a record of your vaccination to the secure SMU Health Portal. If you were vaccinated on campus, no further action is required. Your vaccination record is available 24/7 on the health portal. After Hours Care The Health Center provides after hours and weekend services. Click here for more information. Medical Services Explore all of the medical services available to SMU students! Learn More Counseling Services Stressed, anxious, or just needing to talk to someone? Our trained professional counseling staff is here to help you with all of your mental health needs. Check out our services and how to get in touch with a counselor today! Learn More Health Promotion Bring balance to your life through our health promotion services! Our staff is here to help you manage all areas of your well-being through exciting health programs and resources. Learn More Dental We want to see you smile! Visit our on-campus dental clinic for all your oral healthcare needs. Learn More Pharmacy Get prescriptions filled, purchase over-the-counter products, and manage refills all from SMU's on-campus pharmacy! Learn More Health Insurance Review the Student Health Insurance Plan, waive coverage, and learn more about how health insurance works at SMU! Learn More Connect with us Summer Clinic Hours Monday - Friday 9:00A - 4:00P Main Number 214.768.2141 Physical Address Dr. Bob Smith Health Center 6211 Bishop Boulevard Dallas, TX 75205 Mailing Address P.O. Box 750195 Dallas, TX 75275 SMU Student Affairs Dr. Bob Smith Health Center Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share