UW Home College Home Directories Maps Search Search Make a Gift & Help Support ESS Search Search College of the Environment University of Washington About Chair's Welcome ESS Photo Gallery Diversity Community Resources Quick Facts (PDF) History Faculty History Contact Us Reporting Concerns Support ESS People Directory Awards & Honors Student Publications Alumni Profiles Community Profiles Education Student Services Undergraduate Program Graduate Programs Courses Research Groups Centers & Programs Research Labs Support Labs News & Events Events, Exams, & Seminars Seminar Recordings News Newsletter Awards Ceremony Graduation Faculty Meeting Minutes Intranet Forms, Guides, & Policies MyESS Safety Faculty & Student Committee List ESS Org Chart Room Reservation System ESS Wiki Welcome to ESS ESS in the News Dinosaur Apocalypse: The Last Day | PBS PBS NOVA explores a new theory for what caused the dinosaur extinction, based on evidence from Montana. UW Provost Mark Richards, professor of Earth and space sciences, is ... - Read More Pandemic Delays Afflict Polar Science The COVID19 pandemic has had a significant impact on Antarctic sciences, hitting an enterprise that was already stretched. Among the projects affected is the UW-led "Hercules ... - Read More Huge Groundwater System Discovered Under Antarctica | Gizmodo Geophysicists used remote sensing to see reservoirs beneath the surface. That water could speed up the loss of ice as the climate warms. Brad Lipovsky, assistant professor of ... - Read More New Hope That Alien Life Could Thrive in Oceans on Jupiter and Saturn's Moons | Yahoo! News Could alien life forms lurk in the icy oceans of Jupiter and Saturn's moons such as Titan, Ganymede or Europa in our own solar system? NASA and others aim to find out, with ... - Read More 'Expedition Titan' Turns Saturn's Moon into a Mixed-reality Thrill Ride | GeekWire It's doubtful anyone alive today will get to ride through the ice volcanoes of Saturn's largest moon -- but you can do the next best thing at Seattle's Pacific Science Center, ... - Read More Experiments Measure Freezing Point of Extraterrestrial Oceans to Aid Search for Life Researchers from the University of Washington and the University of California, Berkeley have conducted experiments that measured the physical limits for the existence of ... - Read More Devastating Ice Age Floods That Occurred in the Pacific Northwest Fascinate Scientists | Smithsonian Magazine The Scablands were formed by tremendous and rapid change, and may have something to teach us about geological processes on Mars. Kelsay Stanton, a doctoral student in Earth and ... - Read More Forensic Seismology Reveals Details of Nearly-simultaneous (but Unrelated) Explosion and Fireball Updates to PNSN investigations about recent mystery booms on Orcas Island. Part of the mystery was a fireball high in the atmosphere seen around the same time as probably ... - Read More Discovering the Cause of Mystery Booms on Orcas Island | KUOW Steve Malone, research professor emeritus of Earth and space sciences at the UW, discusses using seismic readings for tracking down the causes of the noise. - Read More Food Grown on Regenerative Farms Could Actually Be Healthier for You | Modern Farmer A preliminary study led by UW's David Montgomery looks at the link between regenerative agriculture methods and their impact on food nutrients. - Read More When a Seattle Earthquake Zone Fault is Detected by Your House | The Seattle Times Earthquakes are personal. Amid all the descriptions of generalized suffering lies your own story. And mine. Bernard Hallet, professor emeritus of Earth and space sciences at the ... - Read More Opinion: Exploring Subduction Zone Geohazards on Land and at Sea | Eos "Understanding the various types of Earth surface disturbances in subduction zone landscapes and seascapes -- and the cascading impacts of these disturbances -- has enormous ... - Read More WA Would Invest Millions to Retrofit Schools Against Earthquakes Under Bill Awaiting Inslee's Signature | The Seattle Times Hundreds of school buildings across Washington state are likely to suffer major damage and cause severe injury in the event of an earthquake, according to the state Department of ... - Read More Isolab and Ice Core Research Featured on KUOW’s SoundSide ESS Chair Eric Steig was featured on KUOW talking about his research on ice cores. IsoLab, and the work of grad student Gemma O’Connor, are featured. - Read More Seismologists Investigating 'mystery Boom' on Orcas Island | KING 5 A mystery boom recorded across the seismic network in the San Juan Islands is catching the attention of researchers. What could be the source? Steve Malone, research professor ... - Read More What is Antarctic Ice Telling Us? This UW Scientist Can Translate | KUOW Sea ice around Antarctica is reaching record lows in 2022. The ice is melting from the bottom and high winds are pushing sheets of ice further apart. The more that ice melts, the ... - Read More Statement from UW President on Tragic Deaths of Two UW Community Members The following is a statement from University of Washington President Ana Mari Cauce following the news that a UW professor and a UW staff member were killed while diving off ... - Read More Landslide Closes Highway 18 | KIRO 7 David Montgomery, professor of Earth and space sciences at the UW, says that rain can lead fairly rapidly to shallow - Read More Submit News Item Print this page About Chair's Welcome ESS Photo Gallery Diversity Community Resources Quick Facts (PDF) History Faculty History Contact Us Reporting Concerns Support ESS People Directory Awards & Honors Student Publications Alumni Profiles Community Profiles Education Student Services Undergraduate Program Graduate Programs Courses Research Groups Centers & Programs Research Labs Support Labs News & Events Events, Exams, & Seminars Seminar Recordings News Newsletter Awards Ceremony Graduation Faculty Meeting Minutes Intranet Forms, Guides, & Policies MyESS Safety Faculty & Student Committee List ESS Org Chart Room Reservation System ESS Wiki University of Washington Be Boundless © 2022 University of Washington Jobs My UW Privacy Terms