Skip Navigation menu Sign-ons CyMail Outlook Canvas AccessPlus Workday More Directory Maps Contact Us Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Policy Library Home About Policy Index Feedback menu Browse by Category Academics Business & Administration Facilities & Property Information & Technology Personnel, Conduct & Human Relations Research & Intellectual Property Safety & Health Student Life Handbooks & Manuals Faculty Handbook Graduate College Handbook Regents Policy Manual University Catalog Other Resources University Forms Records Retention Schedule ISU Compliance and Ethics Hotline Smoke-Free Campus Effective: November 1, 2012 Updated/Revised: January 1, 2016 Contact: ISU Department of Public Safety Introduction The Smokefree Air Act, effective July 1, 2008, applies to Iowa State University. The purpose of this legislation is “to reduce the level of exposure by the general public and employees to environmental tobacco smoke” and is designed to "regulate smoking in public places, places of employment, and outdoor areas” and “to improve the public health of Iowans.” Included in this policy statement are the applicable sections of the Smokefree Air Act, Iowa Code Chapter 142D, and the rules and regulations of the Iowa Department of Public Health found at Iowa Administrative Code Section 641, Chapter 153, that relate to the campus community. To protect the health and environment of the campus community, Iowa State University has extended this policy to include electronic smoking devices. Scope This policy applies to all university employees, students and visitors. This policy covers all university owned, leased or operated buildings, property and grounds under the control of the university. Definitions For the purpose of this policy: The university is a “school” and “public educational facility” governed by the Board of Regents, State of Iowa, pursuant to Iowa Code section 262.7. The grounds of the university include parking lots, athletic fields, playgrounds, tennis courts, and any other outdoor areas under the control of the university, including inside any vehicle located on university grounds. Smoking materials include lighted cigars, cigarettes, pipes, or other tobacco products in any manner or form including ash, cigarette butts or filters, or cigar stubs. Smoking materials also include electronic smoking devices. Electronic smoking device means any product containing or delivering nicotine (e.g., Electronic Nicotine Delivery System or ENDS) or any other substance intended for human consumption that can be used by a person to simulate smoking through inhalation of vapor or aerosol from the product. The term includes any such device, whether manufactured, distributed, marketed, or sold as an e-cigarette, e-cigar, e-pipe, e-hookah, or vape pen, or under any other product name or descriptor. Policy Statement It is the policy of Iowa State University to comply with the Smokefree Air Act by declaring the entire university grounds and properties as a Smoke-Free Campus. Therefore, smoking is prohibited in “public buildings and vehicles owned, leased, or operated by or under the control of” the university as well as on the entire “grounds of the university.” Smoking is prohibited and a person shall not smoke in any of the following enclosed areas: Enclosed areas within places of employment including but not limited to work areas, private offices, conference and meeting rooms, classrooms, auditoriums, employee lounges and cafeterias, hallways, medical facilities, restrooms, elevators, stairs and stairwells Vehicles owned, leased or provided by the university Privately owned vehicles when operated or parked on the grounds of the university Smoking is prohibited and a person shall not smoke in or on any of the following outdoor areas: The entire grounds of the university The seating and parking areas of outdoor sports arenas, stadiums, amphitheaters and other entertainment venues where members of the general public assemble to witness entertainment events The ISU Farms Veenker Golf Course When a university employee, student, or visitor enters the grounds of the university any smoking material shall be extinguished and disposed of in an appropriate receptacle at the perimeter of the grounds of the university. The sale, sampling or advertisement of all tobacco products is prohibited on university property or at university sponsored events in accordance with university Trademark Management policy. Exception Smoking will be allowed in an enclosed area within the university that conducts a medical or scientific research or therapy program, if smoking is an integral part of the program. Responsibilities and Enforcement All members of the ISU community are responsible for observing the provisions of this policy and share responsibility for compliance. The Smokefree Air Act designates the Iowa Department of Public Health as responsible for enforcement with respect to tobacco products. ISU Department of Public Safety will coordinate compliance with the law on campus. ISU Department of Public Safety is responsible for enforcement of this policy and the Smokefree Air Act on the grounds of the university. Complaints Concerns or complaints regarding this policy that involve ISU property should be directed to the ISU Department of Public Safety by calling 515-294-4428 or by visiting their website, www.police.iastate.edu. Any person may also register a complaint regarding a violation of the Smokefree Air Act with the Iowa Department of Public Health by: Calling the toll-free number, 1-888-944-2247, or Registering a complaint on the department’s website, www.IowaSmokefreeAir.gov, or Downloading a complaint form from the department’s website and mailing it to the department at: Department of Public Health Division of Tobacco Use Prevention and Control Lucas State Office Building 321 East 12th Street Des Moines, IA 50319 Resources Links ISU Police Division, Department of Public Safety Iowa Department of Public Health (IDPH) Smokefree Air Act website Quit Line Iowa Files Smoke-Free Campus [Policy in PDF] Copyright © 1995-2022, Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved.