Skip to main content ISU Index Menu ISU News Store Contact Us Offices Iowa Grain Quality Initiative Search form Search Main menu Main Menu Home Projects Lab Services Areas of Expertise Food Safety Feed Mill and Grain Science Center IGQI Resources About Us Events Resources New ISU Feedmill Website With Construction well underway on the new ISU Feedmill, stay up-to-date on the feed mill by checking out its new website. You can even track progress on the build through a 24-7 webcam. Category: Resources [node:read-more:link] Tags: Grain Quality, harvest, feed mill News & Events New Food Talk Released Food manufacturing is a complicated business with many challenges and a regulatory structure that has gone through many changes in recent years. Wouldn’t it be nice to have a place where you could discuss your problems and seek guidance in the best practices of others? Category: Food Safety Tags: Food, Grain, Toxins, storage Spring, Summer & Harvest ISU Grain Quality Lab Open & Ready for Your Grain Planning for harvest? We wanted to let everyone know that the ISU Grain Quality Lab is open and operating. Throughout the COVID-19 disruptions, the lab and its staff were able to adapt and serve our customers. We are here to help you analyze your grain and we are looking forward hearing from you about plans for the fall. Category: Lab Tags: corn, soybeans, storage, Lab, Grain Quality Training Modules Grain modules brought to you by the Iowa Grain Quality Initiative. Grain Storage - Quality Management Dryeration Aeration Fan Performance Grain Storage - Economics Grain Drying Economics Grain Storage Economics Food Safety - Mycotoxins in Grain and Feed Mycotoxin Development Best Practices in Handling See All about ICM Resources Toxin Levels in 2018 Corn Crop Quality Management for Harvest 2017 Corn Yield Composition Trials Soybean Yield and Composition Trial Mycotoxin Grain Testing Directory USDA- FGIS Service Providers Mycotoxin Articles For more ICM resources visit crops.extension.iastate.edu Category: Resources Tags: Grain, storage, Crops Tweets by IA_GQI >Tweets by IA_GQI Agriculture and Natural Resources Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. 2150 Beardshear Hall, Ames, IA 50011-2031 (800) 262-3804 Iowa State University | Policies State & National Extension Partners Site Index | Site Map 3167 NSRIC 1029 North University Boulevard Ames, IA 50011-3611 Phone: 515-294-8629 Email: tatry@iastate.edu Twitter Email