Skip navigation Columbia University Faculty & Staff Students Info for - Choose - Faculty & Staff Students News Events Forums Alumni Give Experience SIPA Dean's Messages About SIPA Why SIPA? SIPA Stories Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Centers & Institutes Columbia & New York City Global & UN Connections Student Organizations Ideas Lab Dean's Public Policy Challenge Grant Tech & Policy @ SIPA Entrepreneurship & Policy @ SIPA Central Banking and Financial Policy @ SIPA Kent Global Leadership Program on Conflict Resolution Academics Degree Programs Concentrations & Specializations International Fellows Program Dual Degree Programs Courses Capstone Workshops Executive Education Admissions What We Look For How to Apply Financial Aid Application Status Accept Your Offer Connect with SIPA Admissions FAQs Meet a Current Student Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research & Publications Libraries & Campus Resources Careers Career Education Career Resources Internship Program Job & Internship Postings Employment Statistics Career FAQs For Employers Experience SIPA Dean's Messages About SIPA Why SIPA? SIPA Stories Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Centers & Institutes Columbia & New York City Global & UN Connections Student Organizations Ideas Lab Dean's Public Policy Challenge Grant Tech & Policy @ SIPA Entrepreneurship & Policy @ SIPA Central Banking and Financial Policy @ SIPA Kent Global Leadership Program on Conflict Resolution Academics Degree Programs Concentrations & Specializations International Fellows Program Dual Degree Programs Courses Capstone Workshops Executive Education Admissions What We Look For How to Apply Financial Aid Application Status Accept Your Offer Connect with SIPA Admissions FAQs Meet a Current Student Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research & Publications Libraries & Campus Resources Careers Career Education Career Resources Internship Program Job & Internship Postings Employment Statistics Career FAQs For Employers Search form Search You are here Home Ideas Lab Kent Global Leadership Program on Conflict Resolution You are here Home Ideas Lab Home Advisory Board Our Team Summer Training Publications and Past Events The School of International and Public Affairs (SIPA) at Columbia University has launched the Kent Global Leadership Program on Conflict Resolution with the ambition to help prepare the next generation of global practitioners for the complexities of contemporary conflict. Conflicts are increasingly multi-layered, impacted by geopolitical, regional and local dynamics that challenge traditional strategies of conflict resolution. Global trends such as climate change and resource competition create additional stress. Multiple actors, public and private, are involved, generating opportunities as well as obstacles for conflict resolution. That evolution of conflict calls for new thinking. The Kent Program will explore innovative responses, among them how to harness the power of public institutions, civil society and business so that they form a "Golden Triangle" that contributes effectively to conflict resolution and peaceful societies. The program will combine the knowledge and academic rigor of the faculty of Columbia University with the experience of practitioners who can share the real-life situations they are confronting. The program's flagship event is an intensive week-long Summer Training for professionals from governments and inter-governmental institutions held annually in New York City. With its emphasis on case studies and simulations, and the active participation of government, civil society and business leaders, it will help the peacemakers of tomorrow build the broad array of practical skills they need to address contemporary conflict. Over the coming years, the Kent Global Leadership Program will develop a global network of alumni, instructors, scholars, and practitioners devoted to advancing our understanding of ways to enhance conflict resolution. In addition to the summer training for mid-career diplomats, the program also sponsors on-campus events and workshops during the academic year, a visiting professorship, fellowships for outstanding SIPA graduate students, and original research in conflict and peacebuilding. The Kent program is the brainchild of the late Ed Luck; Merit Janow, the former dean of SIPA; and our generous donor Muhtar Kent. The program is now directed by Jean-Marie Guéhenno. Read the Kent Program Concept Paper by Ed Luck News On April 22nd, Jean-Marie Guéhenno hosted a panel discussion on postwar Ukraine with Grigory Nemyria, Mariya Zolkina, and Sergei Guriev. Watch "Future Prospects: Ukraine" Recording Applications for the Summer 2022 training program are now closed. Highlights from last year's training can be accessed via the link below. Summer Training Contact Us Jean-Marie Guéhenno Director [email protected] Brit Helena Felsen-Parsons Program Coordinator [email protected] Featured Events Launch of the Kent Global Leadership Program on Conflict Resolution Video of Launch of the Kent Global Leadership Program on Conflict Resolution Launch of the Kent Global Leadership Program on Conflict Resolution New Threats, Old Thinking: Is Conflict Resolution Due for a Makeover? Video of New Threats, Old Thinking: Is Conflict Resolution Due for a Makeover? New Threats, Old Thinking: Is Conflict Resolution Due for a Makeover? A Conversation with Peter Maurer Kent Executive Seminar on Conflict Resolution: A Conversation with Juan Manuel Santos Video of Kent Executive Seminar on Conflict Resolution: A Conversation with Juan Manuel Santos Kent Executive Seminar on Conflict Resolution: A Conversation with Juan Manuel Santos Share This Elazar Barkan Video of Elazar Barkan Director Perspective What characterizes the students at SIPA is the desire to improve the world. Elazar Barkan, Director Top Connect with Us Facebook LinkedIn YouTube Twitter Instagram Twitter June 1, 2022 RT @ColumbiaUEnergy: "There are going to be tipping points with this transition and tipping points in technology, and I have no doubt th… https://t.co/Kl0BvFY4gk June 1, 2022 RT @Columbia: Explore the rich history of the LGBTQ+ movement at Columbia, the scholarship of our faculty on related issues, even… https://t.co/SQC3HllMcz COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY School of International and Public Affairs Main Address 420 West 118th Street New York, NY 10027 Non-Discrimination Statement and Policy Office of Admissions and Financial Aid 514 West 113th Street New York, NY 10025 SIPA Admission Tel (212) 854-6216