Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Optics and Photonics (MS) Request Info Program at a Glance Program Master College(s) College of Optics and Photonics Department(s) Optics and Photonics In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $369.65 per credit hour $1,194.05 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. The Master of Science in Optics and Photonics program is intended for students with a bachelor's degree in optics, electrical engineering, physics, or closely related fields. The program is interdisciplinary and combines optical science and engineering. The College of Optics and Photonics offers an interdisciplinary graduate program in optical science and engineering leading to a Master of Science in Optics and Photonics. The college has grown rapidly and now has 55 faculty members and faculty with joint appointments, 41 research scientists and 148 graduate students with research activities covering all aspects of optics, photonics, and lasers. Research expenditures are over $10 million annually, with over 20 percent of the funding coming from industrial partners, illustrating the effectiveness of the commitment to partnerships that is a foundational value of the COP. Research activities cover all aspects of optics, photonics, and lasers, and the Center for Research and Education in Optics and Lasers (CREOL), the Florida Photonics Center of Excellence (FPCE), and the Townes Laser Institute (TLI) are integral parts of the College. Current research areas include: linear and nonlinear guided-wave optics and devices, high speed photonic telecommunications, fiber optic fabrication, fiber optic communications, solid state laser development, nonlinear optics, laser-induced damage, quantum-well optoelectronics, quantum optics, photonic information processing, infrared systems, optical diagnostics, optical system design, image analysis, virtual reality, medical imaging, diffractive optics, optical crystal growth and characterization, high intensity lasers, X-ray optics, EUV sources, optical glasses, laser materials processing, free-electron lasers, and light matter interaction. The MS program is intended for students with a bachelor's degree in optics, electrical engineering, physics, or closely related fields. The program's mission is to: Provide the highest-quality education in optical science and engineering Conduct scholarly, fundamental, and applied research Aid in the development of Florida's and the nation's technology-based industries Please note: Optics and Photonics MS may be completed fully online, although not all elective options or program prerequisites may be offered online. Newly admitted students choosing to complete this program exclusively via UCF online classes may enroll with a reduction in campus-based fees. International students (F or J visa) are required to enroll in a full-time course load of 9 credit hours during the fall and spring semesters. Only 3 of the 9 credit hours may be taken in a completely online format. For a detailed listing of enrollment requirements for international students, please visit http://global.ucf.edu/. If you have questions, please consult UCF Global at 407-823-2337. UCF is not authorized to provide online courses or instruction to students in some states. Refer to State Restrictions for current information. Request Information View Full Description Program Tracks/Options International Track Photonics Optics Application Deadlines Domestic International Spring December 1 Summer April 1 Fall July 1 Spring July 1 Summer November 1 Fall January 15 Ready to get started? Apply Today Career Opportunities UCF prepares you for life beyond the classroom. Here, you’ll experience a wide range of opportunity, like learning diverse skills from world-renowned faculty to networking with top employers across Central Florida to gaining first-hand experience in internships nearby. Achieve your degree and more as a Knight. Aeronautical Engineering Professor Ceramic Engineering Professor Chemical Engineering Professor Corrosion Control Engineer Electrical Engineering Director Electrical Engineering Professor Electronics Engineering Professor Engineering Design Manager Engineering Research Manager Industrial Engineering Professor Manufacturing Engineering Professor Marine Engineering Professor Mathematical Engineer Mechanical Engineering Director Mechanical Engineering Professor Ordnance Engineer Petroleum Engineering Professor Photonics Engineer Process Engineering Manager Salvage Engineer Show More Career Opportunities Degree Search College of Optics and Photonics programs Masters Optics and Photonics (MS) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management Request Information × Enter your information below to receive more information about the Optics and Photonics (MS) program offered at UCF. Loading... × The Master of Science in Optics and Photonics program is intended for students with a bachelor's degree in optics, electrical engineering, physics, or closely related fields. The program is interdisciplinary and combines optical science and engineering. The College of Optics and Photonics offers an interdisciplinary graduate program in optical science and engineering leading to a Master of Science in Optics and Photonics. The college has grown rapidly and now has 55 faculty members and faculty with joint appointments, 41 research scientists and 148 graduate students with research activities covering all aspects of optics, photonics, and lasers. Research expenditures are over $10 million annually, with over 20 percent of the funding coming from industrial partners, illustrating the effectiveness of the commitment to partnerships that is a foundational value of the COP. Research activities cover all aspects of optics, photonics, and lasers, and the Center for Research and Education in Optics and Lasers (CREOL), the Florida Photonics Center of Excellence (FPCE), and the Townes Laser Institute (TLI) are integral parts of the College. Current research areas include: linear and nonlinear guided-wave optics and devices, high speed photonic telecommunications, fiber optic fabrication, fiber optic communications, solid state laser development, nonlinear optics, laser-induced damage, quantum-well optoelectronics, quantum optics, photonic information processing, infrared systems, optical diagnostics, optical system design, image analysis, virtual reality, medical imaging, diffractive optics, optical crystal growth and characterization, high intensity lasers, X-ray optics, EUV sources, optical glasses, laser materials processing, free-electron lasers, and light matter interaction. The MS program is intended for students with a bachelor's degree in optics, electrical engineering, physics, or closely related fields. The program's mission is to: Provide the highest-quality education in optical science and engineering Conduct scholarly, fundamental, and applied research Aid in the development of Florida's and the nation's technology-based industries Please note: Optics and Photonics MS may be completed fully online, although not all elective options or program prerequisites may be offered online. Newly admitted students choosing to complete this program exclusively via UCF online classes may enroll with a reduction in campus-based fees. International students (F or J visa) are required to enroll in a full-time course load of 9 credit hours during the fall and spring semesters. Only 3 of the 9 credit hours may be taken in a completely online format. For a detailed listing of enrollment requirements for international students, please visit http://global.ucf.edu/. If you have questions, please consult UCF Global at 407-823-2337. UCF is not authorized to provide online courses or instruction to students in some states. Refer to State Restrictions for current information. Program Prerequisites A bachelor's degree in Optics, Electrical Engineering, Physics, or closely related fields. Students with degrees in related fields may be required to take undergraduate articulation courses determined by the program director on a case-by-case basis. Degree Requirements Required Core Courses 9 Total Credits Complete all of the following Take the following: OSE5115 - Interference and Diffraction (3) OSE6111 - Optical Wave Propagation (3) OSE5525 - Laser Engineering (3) OSE 6536 Semiconductor Lasers may be used as a substitute for OSE 5525 Laser Engineering Elective Courses 15 Total Credits Earn at least 15 credits from the following types of courses: A listing and description of courses offered by the College of Optics and Photonics is found in the "Courses" section. Other courses with significant optics content may be accepted towards the Optics (OSE) course work requirement, upon approval by the Associate Dean. Comprehensive Examination 0 Total Credits An oral master's comprehensive examination, based on the core courses (OSE 5115 Interference, Diffraction and Coherence, OSE 6111 Optical Wave Propagation, and OSE 5525 Laser Engineering) must be passed as a graduation requirement for the MS degree in Optics and Photonics. Students will be required to take this exam within one semester after completing the core courses. The exam may be taken twice. After failing on the second attempt, the student will be required to re-take the courses covering the areas in which the examination committee determined the student to be deficient. The retaken courses must be passed with a minimum grade of B+ in order for the student to graduate. This Comprehensive Examination requirement may be satisfied by passing the Optics and Photonics PhD Qualifying exam. Thesis/Nonthesis Option 6 Total Credits Complete 1 of the following Thesis Complete all of the following Earn at least 6 credits from the following: OSE6971 - Special Topics (1 - 99) The thesis option requires at least 6 credit hours of thesis research. Independent study and directed research credit hours are not allowed toward the degree requirements. The student must prepare an approved program of study and form a thesis committee upon completion of nine credit hours. The MS thesis committee consists of three members, with at least two regular graduate faculty members from the College of Optics and Photonics. Students are required to write a thesis and pass an oral exam based primarily on the topics of the thesis and course work. Nonthesis Complete all of the following Earn at least 6 credits from the following types of courses: A listing and description of courses offered by the College of Optics and Photonics is found in the "Courses" section. The nonthesis option requires an additional 6 credit hours of electives. Up to 3 credit hours of directed research (OSE 6918) or research report (OSE 6909) may be included as electives with prior approval of the College of Optics and Photonics although they are not counted toward the required 27 credit hours of formal coursework. Students must prepare an approved plan of study upon completion of nine credit hours. The research report is a written report on a subject based on research completed under the guidance of a faculty advisor who is a member of the graduate faculty in the College of Optics and Photonics. The subject matter will be determined by advisor and should be on some aspect of experimental, theoretical, or literature research in the area of optics and photonics. Normally the research and report should be completed within one semester. The written report should contain between 5,000 and 10,000 words and should roughly follow the format of a scientific journal paper. The report will be evaluated by a committee consisting of the advisor and two other faculty members. The student will be expected to present a brief oral presentation of the work to the committee, not less than 5 business days after submitting the written report to the committee and prior to the last day of classes in the semester. The report will be graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis by the advisor, based on the input from the committee. Independent Learning 0 Total Credits Nonthesis students engage in directed research or research report. Thesis students enroll in 6 hours of thesis credits during the completion of their research study. Grand Total Credits: 30 Application Requirements For information on general UCF graduate admissions requirements that apply to all prospective students, please visit the Admissions section of the Graduate Catalog. Applicants must apply online. All requested materials must be submitted by the established deadline. In addition to the general UCF graduate application requirements, applicants to this program must provide: One official transcript (in a sealed envelope) from each college/university attended. A bachelor's degree in Optics, Electrical Engineering, Physics, or closely related fields. The GRE is not required for admission to this program. Personal Statement: a brief 1 page or less statement about educational, research, and long-term professional career objectives. Three letters of recommendation. Résumé. Applicants applying to this program who have attended a college/university outside the United States must provide a credential evaluation showing an equivalent bachelor's degree in the U.S. A course-by-course evaluation must be provided, with a GPA calculation. Credential evaluations are accepted from World Education Services (WES) or Josef Silny and Associates, Inc. only. Students with degrees in related fields may be required to take undergraduate articulation courses determined by the program director on a case-by-case basis. Application Deadlines Optics and Photonics MS *Fall Priority Fall Spring Summer Domestic Applicants Jan 15 Jul 1 Dec 1 Apr 1 International Applicants Jan 15 Jan 15 Jul 1 Nov 1 *Applicants who plan to enroll full time in a degree program and who wish to be considered for university fellowships or assistantships should apply by the Fall Priority date. Financial Information Graduate students may receive financial assistance through fellowships, assistantships, tuition support, or loans. For more information, see the College of Graduate Studies Funding website, which describes the types of financial assistance available at UCF and provides general guidance in planning your graduate finances. The Financial Information section of the Graduate Catalog is another key resource. Fellowship Information Fellowships are awarded based on academic merit to highly qualified students. They are paid to students through the Office of Student Financial Assistance, based on instructions provided by the College of Graduate Studies. Fellowships are given to support a student's graduate study and do not have a work obligation. For more information, see UCF Graduate Fellowships, which includes descriptions of university fellowships and what you should do to be considered for a fellowship. University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida