Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Community Connection Magazine Diana R. Garland School of Social Work Menu Community Connection Magazine From the Dean Stories BSW MSW PhD Alumni Community Faculty Research C3I Class Notes Submit News Ideas Print Archives Field Awards Field Agency Awards 2022: Task Supervisor of the Year Field Agency Awards: 2022 Field Instructor of the Year School of Social Work Baylor>Community Connection Magazine >Stories>Meet Samantha Nelms: 2021 MSW Outstanding Student Award Winner Meet Samantha Nelms: 2021 MSW Outstanding Student Award Winner By Lucy Ruscitto May 28, 2021 MSW Outstanding Student Award winner Samantha Nelms never imagined herself to be so involved in the field of social work. Growing up, with her mother as a member of the city council in her hometown of Birmingham, Alabama, Samantha had been raised to appreciate and prioritize policy and politics. Because of her passion for the two, she decided to major in sociology, a field where she could study social organization, structure and the reasons behind it. Because of her expertise in the field after conducting her senior capstone on community partnership and education, Samantha remembers her friends that were already in the MSW program at the GSSW encouraging her to apply. “[At the time] I thought social work was just therapy, which was nothing what I wanted to do,” she admitted. But, after speaking to her friends about the program, and about what they were learning in their classes and studying out in the field, she discovered the macro-side of the field that she had never considered. “I had no idea of the doors social work could open for me, especially with the emphasis on neighborhood engagement and community partnerships,” she said. “This field is honestly perfect for me.” Because of her knowledge and zeal for working within and for communities, Samantha was able to land an internship in community development working alongside former MSW GSSW alums such as Elise Jones, MSW ‘18, at Grassroots Waco. Samantha has shown strength in her vulnerability as this semester has present many unforeseeable events, including the death of her friend, peer, and co-intern Alicia. Her ability to be honest with herself and with people around her has aided her in her growth and development through loss and she continues to succeed in her education, her role in BLMSW, her services to the community. Grassroots is a Waco-centered nonprofit is committed to “cultivating healthy neighborhoods through leadership development training classes, free financial literacy and homebuyer education, and counseling to prepare families to become homeowners,” as well as promoting literacy and partnering with local Waco schools. Samantha said her days consisted of popping into neighborhood association meetings, sitting in on and contributing in grant meetings, and reflecting inward toward the Grassroots organization in order to make improvements. While she thoroughly enjoyed the diversity of her internship role, Samantha said she certainly faced some obstacles while at Grassroots, but they made her all the better as a social worker. In one instance, Samantha recalls a time from the fall semester, shortly after she had just began her time with Grassroots. Many members of the North Waco community were upset that a liquor store was being built in this specific part of Waco, because of surrounding nursing homes and nearby recovery homes. “I was a new face and so trying to gain their trust and their understanding in those moments were really difficult because they were really upset about all of the predatory businesses that had been popping up in their areas,” she said. Samantha said through this experience, she was also able to delve deep into her passion for policy-- liquor laws, on the local, state and national level had to be investigated, as well as contacting and working with city council members and representatives. Because of the deep connection she developed with community members and leaders through her projects and work at Grassroots, Samantha said she didn’t think her time in Waco would be quite over after her internship. “I feel as my work and my time in Waco is not done. I just have that feeling that God is like, ‘You’re going to be here for a little while.’ I’m not done helping Waco, being in Waco, helping the Waco community empower themselves.”’ One colleague said in their nomination, “Samantha has shown strength in her vulnerability as this semester has present many unforeseeable events, including the death of her friend, peer, and co-intern Alicia. Her ability to be honest with herself and with people around her has aided her in her growth and development through loss and she continues to succeed in her education, her role in BLMSW, her services to the community.” It is our honor to recognize your hard work, Samantha! Congratulations! #sicemsocialwork Explore More Featured Meet MSW Outstanding Student Trinity Martinez May 12, 2022 Pope Francis once said, “Go and show love to everyone, because your life is a precious mission: it is not a burden to be borne, but a gift to offer.” And when you meet our 2022 MSW Outstanding Student Trinity Martinez, you know no other mantra could better describe her. Trinity is an advanced standing student from San Antonio, Texas, but has lived all over the US and has traveled the world through mission work and study abroad programs, including countries such as Lithuania, Jamaica, Italy and Ireland. All of these experiences contributed to her ability to adapt well to change and exposed her to many cultures and diversity at a formative age. Today, she is a natural leader, committed to speaking up for others and standing up for what she believes. Featured Meet BSW Outstanding Student Micaela Jones May 9, 2022 From a family of educators arises Micaela Jones—emerging social worker. This graduating senior originally thought she would continue the “Jones legacy” as a teacher until she began student teaching and realized that many times, the “home prevented students from being able to thrive in the classroom.” Couple that with a heart for justice, and it became clear that social work was the correct path for Micaela to pursue so that she could impact change at a larger systemic level. It was this passion that earned Micaela the title of BSW Outstanding Student of the year! Research Healthy Bonds for Black Fathers-in-law, Sons-in-law Feb. 9, 2022 What does a healthy relationship look like for a Black son-in-law and his father-in-law? A study aims to answer that question and was published in “Psychology of Men & Masculinities” by University of Maryland School of Social Work’s (UMSSW) Assistant Professor Ericka M. Lewis, PhD, MSW, with Professor Michael E. Woolley, PhD, MSW, and Baylor University Assistant Professor Brianna P. Lemmons, PhD, MSW. Studies on in-laws are far and few between, less so for male in-law relationships, and even less so for Black male in-laws. Community The Enneagram and Baylor's Certification Program Oct. 19, 2021 The Enneagram, unlike many modern-day personality tools such as the Myers-Briggs or the Birkman, can trace its roots to ancient times. The word itself is derived from the Greek words ennea (nine) and grammos (drawn symbol). The Enneagram is represented by a circle with nine different starting points and nine equidistant lines drawn within the circle. It is meant to show nine different perspectives or “personalities” for how different people view and understand the world. The lines within the circle show how different personalities interact with each other in times of stress or growth. Numerous tests or checklists can be found online or in books to help someone identify which personality type resonates the most with themselves. However, as learned from Dr. Jon Singletary, Dean of the Garland School of Social Work, the Enneagram is so much more than just a test. Dr. Singletary describes the Enneagram as a resource that can be used to better help us understand ourselves. He adds that the Enneagram can reveal more about how God has created us, is calling us, and transforming us. Featured Crystal Brown Alumni Profile: Shining Her Light For Others Oct. 5, 2021 Military veteran and Baylor alumna Crystal Brown is shining her Baylor light via social work in a way she never expected—in the field of nephrology. Growing up, Brown recalls seeing her cousin dressed professionally each day as an attorney. She always knew as a kid that she too wanted to be a professional one day so she would be able to establish her own voice. Are you looking for more Stories? All StoriesArchives Stories BSW MSW PhD Alumni Community Faculty Research C3I Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 From the Dean Stories BSW MSW PhD Alumni Community Faculty Research C3I Class Notes Submit News Ideas Print Archives Field Awards Field Agency Awards 2022: Task Supervisor of the Year Field Agency Awards: 2022 Field Instructor of the Year School of Social Work