Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. International Services International Services right arrow down arrow Admissions and Arrival right arrow down arrow Cost and Finances Apply to UC right arrow down arrow Transfer to UC Exchange and Visiting Student Programs DACA Students Next Steps to Enroll Orientation & Check-in Visas and Immigration right arrow down arrow Students right arrow down arrow F-1 Students J-1 Students Faculty, Staff and Interns right arrow down arrow J-1 Scholars J-1 Interns H-1B Workers E-3 Status O-1 Status TN Status Permanent Residency Dependents Change Your Status Government Updates Visa Fees Life at UC right arrow down arrow Student Experiences Essential Resources right arrow down arrow Housing and Dining Transportation Finances Healthcare and Insurance Law and Safety Academics Student Employment right arrow down arrow On Campus Off Campus OPT (F-1 Students) right arrow down arrow OPT Seminar CPT (F-1 Students) Fellowships and Assistantships (J-1) Academic Training (J-1) Social Life Hiring, Hosting and Admitting right arrow down arrow Hiring International Workers right arrow down arrow Students Hosting Visitors and Delegations Admitting Students Using iBearcatsGlobal Credential Evaluation Taxes right arrow down arrow How to File right arrow down arrow Non-Resident with US Income Non-Resident with No Income Resident Alien with No Tax Treaty Resident Alien with a Tax Treaty SSN & ITIN right arrow down arrow Social Security Tax Refund Contact Us iBearcatsGlobal Home » About UC » International Services » Visas and Immigration » Faculty, Staff and Interns » E-3 Status Set Navigation title in component Students F-1 Students J-1 Students Faculty, Staff and Interns J-1 Scholars J-1 Interns H-1B Workers E-3 Status O-1 Status TN Status Permanent Residency Dependents Change Your Status Government Updates Visa Fees E-3 Visa Status The E-3 classification applies only to nationals of Australia. You must be coming to the United States solely to perform services in a specialty occupation. You must be able to demonstrate your qualifications for the position offered through documentation: A US baccalaureate degree or higher which is specifically related to and required by the specialty occupation. A foreign degree which has been evaluated by an accredited firm or organization to be equivalent to a US baccalaureate degree which is specifically related to and required by the specialty occupation. Work experience directly related to the proposed duties at UC. In such cases, three years of direct work experience counts for one year of education. USCIS Information on the E-3 Visa Application Process There is an annual cap that limits the number of E-3 visas that can be approved each year. That number is 10,500. Once this cap has been reached no further E-3 visas can be approved Your hiring department will submit an E-3 eForm to UC International right arrow down arrow If you've been hired for a specialty occupation, your hiring department will submit the E-3 eForm in UC International's online system, iBearcatsGlobal. They will submit the following: A letter signed by the Department Head addressed to the U.S. Embassy stating the dates of the employment requested for the E-3 visa (not to exceed 2 years) the salary being offered a description of job duties which demonstrate that the job requires at least a bachelor’s degree in a specific field of study an agreement to comply with all terms of the LCA until the end date A check made out to the Department of Homeland Security for the filing fee (if the applicant is in the US) You submit the appropriate documentation right arrow down arrow With the eForm request, you will submit the following documents: A copy of highest diploma and related transcripts. If the degree is NOT from a university in the U.S., Canada, the United Kingdom, or Australia, an evaluation of the equivalent US degree must be submitted. curriculum vitae copies of all current immigration documents (passport, visa, I-94 card) if the employee will not be applying for the E-3 visa at a US Consulate/Embassy abroad. if applying from within the US with dependents, Form I-539 and copies of all current immigration documents (passport, visa, I-94 card) for dependents. UC International will prepare the I-129 application right arrow down arrow Upon receipt of the eForm and all documentation, UC International will: Obtain a Prevailing Wage Determination from the Department of Labor. We will contact with the hiring department if there is a wage problem. Obtain a Certified Labor Condition Application (LCA) from the Department of Labor. Prepare the I-129 application for E-3 status. After the completion of all three steps, you will either: send the application for the E-3 status to the Department of Homeland Security OR obtain an E-3 visa from a consulate outside the US. The E-3 employee will need to pay the I-129 fee. If you are overseas and does not require a change of status to E-3 or an extension of E-3 status, then the fee is not required and the I-129 petition does not need to be filed with USCIS. Upon approval of the petition or entry to the US, you will report to UC International Services for check-in and onboarding. UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 international.students@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top