Skip to Content (Press Enter) Quicklinks A-Z Index Colleges Locations Careers Give Emergency Info Directory Search Search Options CSUF Site Directory Colleges The Arts Business and Economics Communications Education Engineering and Computer Science Health and Human Development Humanities and Social Sciences Natural Sciences and Mathematics Extension and International Programs Careers Emergency Info Give A-Z Index Quicklinks Webmail Academic Advisement Academic Affairs Admissions and Records Associated Students, Inc. Bookstore Campus Dining Career Center Catalog Class Search Daily Titan Financial Aid Housing and Residence Life Human Resources Information Technology Winter Session Parking Police Pollak Library Student Affairs Student Business Services Summer Sessions Transcripts Veterans Resource Center Directory: Search CSUF People California State University, Fullerton Quicklinks Academics Degrees Colleges and Departments The Arts Business and Economics Communications Education Engineering and Computer Science Health and Human Development Humanities and Social Sciences Natural Sciences and Mathematics Extension and International Programs Academic Calendar Catalog Research more... About CSUF Overview Mission and Goals Facts and Figures Rankings Accreditation Divisions Strategic Plan Academic Master Plan Diversity and Inclusion Careers at CSUF Locations Titans Reach Higher more... Pollak Library Titan Athletics Visit the Campus Give to CSUF Student Portal|One Stop Shop Faculty & Staff Future Students Parents & Families Alumni Athletics News Social Media About Academics Library Athletics Visit Give to CSUF Rankings and Recognition Cal State Fullerton is a university of significance, ranked as a top institution in the nation and recognized as a leader within the California State University and beyond. A Titan education is defined by immersive learning experiences amid a rich diversity of perspectives and backgrounds. CSUF graduates are confident, well prepared and culturally competent, uniquely positioned to excel in the global marketplace, in further education and in their communities. No. 3 in students’ social mobility Education Reform Now (December 2020) No. 9 in the "Best Public Colleges in California in 2020" Money magazine, August 2020 Top Regional University of the West CSUF is among the country’s top “regional universities of the West.” U.S. News & World Report (September 2020) No. 5 Most Innovative School among the Western regional universities U.S. News & World Report (September 2020) No. 3 in the nation for bachelor’s degrees awarded to underrepresented students Diverse: Issues in Higher Education (October 2021) No. 3 in the nation for bachelor’s degrees awarded to Hispanics Diverse: Issues in Higher Education (October 2021) No. 10 in the nation for bachelor’s degrees awarded to to Asian Americans Diverse: Issues in Higher Education (October 2021) Top 7% of universities CSUF ranks in the top 7% of universities on the 2020 “Best Bang for the Buck: West” list. Washington Monthly (August 2020) 57% of bachelor’s degree recipients are first-generation university graduates. CSUF Office of Assessment and Institutional Effectiveness (fall 2018) Top 5% “Best Colleges For Your Money.” CSUF is in the top 5% of “Best Colleges for Your Money.” Money (August 2020) “Top Transformative College in 2020” CSUF is among the nation’s “Most Transformative Colleges in 2020” Money Magazine (August 2020) “Best Value” CSUF is among top U.S. institutions for “Best Value” Forbes (April 2019) No. 5 in the state and No. 13 in the nation in enrolling transfer students U.S. News & World Report (March 2020) No. 1 destination for community college transfer students CSUF has been the No. 1 destination for community college transfer students for 18 of the past 21 years. CSUF Office of Assessment and Institutional Effectiveness (September 2019) among all California public universities 32.68% increase in six-year graduation rate CSUF’s six-year graduation rate for first-time freshmen has risen by 32.68% over the past six years to the highest level in the institution’s history. CSUF Office of Assessment and Institutional Effectiveness (fall 2019) 110 degrees CSUF delivers 110 degrees at 32% below the national average total cost of attendance at four-year public universities. U.S. News & World Report (September 2019): published tuition for in-state residents at four-year public universities 19 individual championships CSUF’s NCAA Division I program has produced 19 individual championships and 12 national titles — four of them by the Titan baseball team. CSUF Athletics (September 2019) No. 3 in the nation for bachelor's degrees awarded to Hispanic students Hispanic Outlook on Education (October 2021) “America's Top College” CSUF is among America's Top Colleges. Forbes (August 2019) Contacts and Addresses | General: 657-278-2011 | Emergency Closure Info: 877-278-1712 Tell us about a web accessibility problem. | © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Additional Resources Emergency Information University Police CSUF Accessibility | Feedback Form Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Acrobat Reader | Microsoft Viewer Privacy Policy Annual Security Report (Clery) California Campus Safety Plan Title IX Site Index Campus Map CSU