Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Alumni Association Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Alumni Clubs Alumni Community Benefits CAA Arts Access Career Resources Events Get Involved News Columbia Alumni Association You are here: Home CAA DC | A conversation with 2020 ACM Turing Award winner Events Past Event CAA DC | A conversation with 2020 ACM Turing Award winner Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo September 29, 2021 America/New_York Online Enter the Dragon:A conversation with 2020 ACM Turing Award winner Alfred V. Aho Ph.D., Princeton '67 Lawrence Gussman Professor Emeritus of Computer Science, Columbia University Host: Mihalis Yannakakis Ph.D. Princeton '79 Percy K. and Vida L. W. Hudson Professor of Computer science, Columbia University In the last half-century, computers have been incorporated into every aspect of our lives implementing instructions and algorithms written in high-level languages that are not dissimilar to the human ones. But machines can only understand machine language, essentially a series of zeros and ones. The critical link is the translator between the two, called the compiler. Compilers are now an indispensable part of any technology development, and that is in a major part due to the groundbreaking work of Alfred V. Aho and Jeffrey D. Ullman during their tenure at Bell Labs in the 70s. For their work on algorithms, databases, formal languages, and the seminal publications for the associated compilers commonly known as the Dragon book trilogy, they have received the 2020 ACM Turing Award, equivalent to the Nobel prize in Computer science. Prof. Aho, in a wide-ranging conversation with his former Bell Labs colleague Prof. Mihalis Yannakakis, will talk about milestones of his journey to become a transformative guru in Computer languages and compilers. He will explain the fundamentals of the research that lead to the ACM Turning award, and will offer his views on the current and future state of programming and the leading research at Columbia. Time will be allocated for Q&A. This event is free but RSVP is required: HERE Cosponsored by: The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science, Columbia University Alfred V. Aho is the Lawrence Gussman Professor Emeritus of Computer Science at Columbia University. He served as Chair of the Department of Computer Science from 1995 to 1997, and again in the spring of 2003. Professor Aho has a B.A.Sc in Engineering Physics from the University of Toronto and a Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering/Computer Science from Princeton University. Professor Aho won the Great Teacher Award for 2003 from the Society of Columbia Graduates. In 2014 he was again recognized for teaching excellence by winning the Distinguished Faculty Teaching Award from the Columbia Engineering Alumni Association. https://dc.alumni.columbia.edu/alfredaho?utm_campaign=afghanistan_supp_8_18_21&utm_medium=email&utm_source=columbia22 Contact Information CAA Global and Diversity Engagement [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Alumni Center 622 West 113th Street, Mail Code 4525 · New York, NY 10025 Phone 212-851-7800 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close