Directory Maps Contact Us AccessUH UH Home Home About Prospective Students Current Students Corporate Resources Parents Alumni Visitors Staff Resources Faculty & Research Academics Undergraduate MBA & Graduate Full-Time MBA Professional MBA Executive MBA MS Programs MS Accountancy MS Business Analytics (STEM) MS Entrepreneurship MS Finance (STEM) MS Global Energy Leadership MS MIS (STEM) MS Marketing Online MS Management & Leadership MS Sales Leadership MS Supply Chain Management (STEM) Online Doctoral Office of Executive Development The Bauer Mini-MBA Earn a Certificate Custom Programs Centers Wolff Center for Entrepreneurship (WCE) Real Estate Program Stephen Stagner Sales Excellence Institute (SEI) Gutierrez Energy Management Institute (GEMI) AIM Center for Investment Management (ACIM) Decision Sciences Institute Center for Economic Inclusion Institute for Health Care Marketing (IHCM) Institute for Regional Forecasting (IRF) UH Small Business Development Center Student Success Advising Emerging Leaders Academic Success Program Leadership & Engagement Bauer Honors RED Labs Learning Abroad Departments Accountancy & Taxation Decision & Information Sciences Finance Management & Leadership Marketing & Entrepreneurship Offices Office of Digital Learning Office of Experiential Learning Office of Global Initiatives Apply for Scholarships Apply to UH Career Center Students Alumni Employers News & Events News Center Events Calendar Latest News Where Awesome Happens Inside Bauer Administration Office of the Dean Bauer College Board Strategic Initiatives 2020-2025 Strategic Plan AI & Digital Society Digital Learning Experiential Learning Global Initiatives Inclusive Leadership Bauer Division of Technology Leadership & Engagement Bauer Excellence Scholars Office of Communications Invest in Bauer Invest in Bauer Home Your Investment How to Invest The Bauer Excellence Initiative BauerMerch.com Contact Us Invest Now Home Menu Department of Finance Learn More About Bauer's Finance Department Faculty Our faculty includes tenure-track faculty whose research is published in top journals in finance and other areas of business management, as well as instructional faculty, senior executives from the finance, energy industry, and real estate industries. Students benefit from being exposed to the latest knowledge, which allows to develop solid foundations with the help of our tenure-track faculty, and students benefit from the industry knowledge and experience of our non-tenure-track faculty in our more industry-specific courses. Research Our faculty are active researchers, working on a variety of topics in finance and related disciplines. This research is presented at the best conferences and published in the top journals in finance and other areas of business management. For details please visit the individual faculty pages. For a list of recent publications, click here. Seminars Scholars from other universities present their current research in our weekly research seminar. For details, click here. Undergraduate We offer a variety of courses in our Undergraduate Program. Finance is the among most popular business majors. We offer a variety of certificates and tracks in specialized areas of finance (see below for more details). For more information, click here. MBA We offer a large number of electives in the Full-time MBA Program and the Professional MBA Program, including electives on a variety of finance topics as well as electives in energy finance or real estate. These electives are also organized in Certificates that help you concentrate in specific areas (see below for more details). The flexible structure of the Bauer MBA allows you to build a curriculum that suits your needs, making the best use of the broad range of electives that we offer. MS Finance Our MS Finance Program lets you focus on acquiring and developing knowledge, skills and tools in finance and related areas. You can choose from a broad list of electives, focusing on different areas of finance (corporate finance, investments, etc.) or on energy finance or real estate. Our MS Finance Program is an approved CFA University Affiliation Program, and it is a STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) certified program (from September 1, 2019). For more information, click here. PhD The PhD Program in Finance at the College of Business is designed to provide students with the necessary skills to carry out high quality research and teaching in finance. For more information, click here. Courses Our faculty teach several core classes and a large number of electives. Course information for MBA and MS Finance students. Course information for undergraduate students. Graduate Certificates Certificates in the MBA and MSF program are organized around courses that give you a solid foundation in a specific area, such as corporate finance, investment management, energy risk management, and real estate. They help you build a useful curriculum and describe your interests and knowledge to employers. Financial Services Management Certificate Corporate Finance Certificate Investment Analysis Certificate Investment Banking and Private Equity Certificate Economics of the Energy Value Chain Certificate Energy Finance Certificate Energy Investment Analysis Certificate Energy Risk Management Certificate Real Estate Certificate Undergraduate Certificates Certificates in the undergraduate program are also organized around specialized industries and knowledge areas. The Department offers certificates in energy, real estate, commercial banking, risk management and insurance, and personal financial planning. Global Energy Management (GEM) Program Commercial Banking Track and Certificate Personal Financial Planning Track and Certificate Real Estate Track and Certificate Risk Management & Insurance (RMI) Track and Certificate Experiential Learning The main experiential learning opportunity for MBA and MS Finance students is the student-managed Cougar Investment Fund, a multi-million dollar private investment fund that manages real funds provided by outside investors. Being a member of the fund management team requires that you take the courses listed in the Financial Services Management Certificate. Fund students develop valuable skills in analyzing and valuing companies, in constructing and maintaining an investment portfolio, in working as teams, and in communicating with supervisors and investors. Joining the Cougar Investment Fund gives students a great preparation for any finance career, be it on the investments side or in corporate finance roles. The Department also offers courses in investment management, led by industry professionals, which allow students to learn how to construct and manage portfolios in realistic settings. Alumni Graduates of our Undergraduate Program who want to deepen and broaden their finance knowledge and skills should visit the pages of our MS Finance Program, to find out how the requirements are adjusted for UH Bauer Graduates. Current students in our Undergraduate Program and recent graduates can benefit from the Integrated BBA-MSF program. Alumni of our MBA Program can also benefit from adjusted requirements when registering for our MS Finance Program. Faculty Jobs If you are interested in becoming a tenure-track faculty member of an instructional faculty member in our department, please click here for more information. Centers Several Centers and Initiatives support our faculty and students, focusing on different areas and topics. The AIM Center for Investment Management provides data, space, and technical infrastructure for the student-managed Cougar Investment Fund. The Gutierrez Energy Management Institute (GEMI) partners with the energy industry to create energy-related education, networking, and research opportunities. The Stanford Alexander Center for Excellence in Real Estate provides professional, practice-based programs that complement the academic curriculum of the Real Estate Program. The Institute for Regional Forecasting provides essential economic information to the local community, focusing in particular on the economic outlook for Houston. The Program for Financial Empowerment promotes financial literacy across the university and the community. Contact For contact information, please click here. Home Faculty Tenured/Tenure-Track Instructional Faculty Research Seminars Undergraduate Program MBA MS Finance Ph.D. Course Descriptions MBA and MS Finance Undergraduate Graduate Certificates Financial Services Management Certificate Corporate Finance Certificate Investment Analysis Certificate Investment Banking and Private Equity Certificate Wealth Management Certificate Economics of the Energy Value Chain Certificate Energy Finance Certificate Energy Investment Analysis Certificate Energy Risk Management Certificate Real Estate Certificate Undergraduate Certificates and Specializations Global Energy Management (GEM) Program Commercial Banking Track and Certificate Personal Financial Planning Track and Certificate Real Estate Track and Certificate Risk Management & Insurance (RMI) Track and Certificate Finance Faculty Recruiting Centers and Initiatives AIM Center for Investment Management Gutierrez Energy Management Institute (GEMI) Stanford Alexander Center for Excellence in Real Estate Institute for Regional Forecasting Program for Financial Empowerment Contact Information Main Navigation Home Bauer Home Page About Prospective Students Current Students Corporate Resources Parents Alumni Visitors Staff Resources Faculty & Research Academics Undergraduate MBA & Graduate Online Doctoral Executive Development Centers Advising Departments Office of Digital Learning Office of Experiential Learning Office of Global Initiatives Apply for Scholarships Apply to UH Career Center Students Alumni Employers News & Events News Center Events Calendar Latest News Where Awesome Happens Inside Bauer Administration Office of the Dean Bauer College Board 2020-2025 Strategic Plan Digital Learning Experiential Learning Global Initiatives Inclusive Leadership Bauer Division of Technology Leadership & Engagement Bauer Excellence Scholars Office of Communications Invest in Bauer Invest in Bauer Home Your Investment How to Invest The Bauer Excellence Initiative Contact Us Invest Now Home Bauer Home Page About Prospective Students Current Students Corporate Resources Parents Alumni Visitors Staff Resources Faculty & Research Academics Undergraduate MBA & Graduate Online Doctoral Executive Development Centers Advising Departments Office of Digital Learning Office of Experiential Learning Office of Global Initiatives Apply for Scholarships Apply to UH Career Center Students Alumni Employers News & Events News Center Events Calendar Latest News Where Awesome Happens Inside Bauer Administration Office of the Dean Bauer College Board 2020-2025 Strategic Plan Digital Learning Experiential Learning Global Initiatives Inclusive Leadership Bauer Division of Technology Leadership & Engagement Bauer Excellence Scholars Office of Communications Invest in Bauer Invest in Bauer Home Your Investment How to Invest The Bauer Excellence Initiative Contact Us Invest Now × Undergraduate Prospective Students Bachelor of Business Administration Academic Advising Graduate & Doctoral Full-Time MBA Professional MBA Executive MBA MS Accountancy MS Business Analytics (STEM) MS Entrepreneurship MS Finance MS Global Energy Leadership MS Management Information Systems Online MS Management & Leadership MS Marketing MS Sales Leadership MS Supply Chain Management Doctoral Executive Comprehensive Leadership Programs Open Enrollment Programs Custom Programs Student Success Scholarships Leadership Initiatives Bauer Honors Learning Abroad Success Stories Career Services Rockwell Career Center Career Gateway Our Campus UH System Emergency Information Privacy and Policies Jobs at UH About Bauer Our Message Our Name Our Story Our Faculty Our Students Our Learning Goals Our Rankings Our Mission Bauer College Board Faculty & Staff Directory BauerConnect (SharePoint Intranet) Staff Resources Room Reservations Social Media Contact Us suggestions@bauer.uh.edu Contact Us Directions & Parking C. T. Bauer College of Business 4250 Martin Luther King Boulevard, Room 334, Houston, Texas 77204-6021. (713) 743-2255 suggestions@bauer.uh.edu Last modified on 19 December 2019 at 9:20am ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies