By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Life Services & Support Writing & Tutoring More from this Section Safety & Security Technology Financial Literacy Career Counseling & Support Health and Wellness Writing and Tutoring Your academic success is our goal, so we provide you with the tools to succeed. Take advantage of the academic resources, available to students, faculty, and staff, to make the most of your academic experience at Syracuse. The Writing Center The aim of the Writing Center is to help you become a stronger, more accomplished writer. Our consultants will work with you at any stage of your writing process in any form of support you choose. Each semester hundreds of students visit our consultants to: Interpret an assignment sheet, talk through ideas, or discuss course readings. Keep writing styles focused, concise, and organized. Acquire research strategies, integrate scholarly sources, and apply proper documentation. Improve editing and proofreading skills, expand vocabulary, and better understand technical conventions of academic writing. Make an appointment with one of our experts Center for Learning and Student Success The Center for Learning and Student Success (CLASS) provides and facilitates academic support services for Syracuse students, including one-on-one tutoring, small-group tutoring and workshops, and academic integrity education and training. Through collaboration with academic departments and offices, the Center coordinates programs and disseminates information about campus-wide academic resources available to students. The Center is located in room 014 in the basement of Bird Library. Please stop in and see us. Resources for students include: Free group tutoring Individual tutoring Maximizing Your Learning sessions Book a tutoring appointment Related Pages Academic Support Whether it’s a study clinic or getting help with an upcoming assignment, there are plenty of resources available at Syracuse University to help you succeed not only in the classroom, but all around campus. Writing Center Consultants Meet the consultants who work at the Writing Center. Become a Tutor We are always excited to welcome new tutors to our team. If you are interested and meet the qualifications, print out the application and bring it to our office. Get a Tutor In order to book an appointment with one of the Tutoring and Study Center tutors, you must create an account in our MyTutor system. Study Skills Have you ever thought about how to take a test? Or, how to organize your schedule more effectively? Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy