Your browser does not support JavaScript! Your browser does not support JavaScript! Skip to main content Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Canvas | Webmail | Contact Us Request Info Apply Now eCourseware | Webmail | Contact Us Request Info Apply Now About UofM Global Learn More Rankings Accreditations Contact Us Degrees & Programs Undergraduate Graduate Certificates All Programs Complimentary Courses Admissions Apply Now Request Info Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Current Students Student Services & Support Register for Courses Graduation Home UofM Global Degree Programs UofM Global Degrees Education | Undergraduate and Graduate Degrees Degree Programs Online Degrees Undergraduate Degrees All Undergraduate DegreesBusinessComputingHealth ProfessionsHumanitiesSocial Science Graduate Degrees All Graduate Degrees Arts Business Computing Education Engineering Health Professions Humanities Liberal Studies Social Science Graduate Certificates Complimentary Courses Contact Us Need Help? Call 844-302-3886 Email Us Education | Graduate Programs Graduate Degrees Master of Arts in Teaching Secondary Education Prepare to educate adolescents (grades 7-12) in a group setting with coursework in adolescent development, learning theory, social foundations of education, and teaching methods. Requires field hours and prepares students to meet the competencies for Tennessee licensure. Learn More Master of Arts in Teaching Special Education Designed for students interested in teaching children with mild disabilities such as learning disabilities or mild developmental delays. Learn More Master of Science in Educational Psychology and Research The Online Master of Science Program in Educational Psychology and Research is designed for students who want to learn how to conduct applied research in psychology- and education-related fields while studying toward a master’s degree. The program requirements include an in-depth understanding of human development, learning, cognition, research design and methods through a 30 credit-hour program. Learn More Master of Science in Instruction and Curriculum Leadership - Instructional Design and Technology This 100% online, 30 credit-hour degree program prepares professionals to assess training, design and develop learning solutions for online and face-to-face delivery, manage projects and collaborate with diverse stakeholders in business, higher education and PK-12 settings. Streamlined for working professionals, this program can be completed in as little as four semesters. Eclectic in nature, the program welcomes professionals from art, business, communication, computer science, education, English, graphic design, health care, learning sciences, military, psychology and related fields. Learn More Master of Science in Instruction and Curriculum Leadership – Literacy Concentration An in-depth understanding of literacy practices, assessment, and policies. You'll learn how to implement an integrated language arts program, assess literacy levels and apply current research and instructional approaches to improve students' reading and writing skills. Learn More Master of Science in Instruction and Curriculum Leadership - School Library Information Specialist As a certified librarian and media specialist, you can advance in your career and guide young minds in their search for information and adventure through books and media. The School Library Information Specialist is an emphasis area within the Instruction and Curriculum Leadership (ICL) concentration. Must be part of enrollment towards a master's degree if a student has not already completed an M.S. or M.A. degree; also offered as a graduate certificate for those who have already earned a master's degree (or higher). Learn More Master of Science in School Administration and Supervision This online 30-hour (ten classes) master’s program is designed for individuals who want to become school principals/assistant principals. Graduates develop their skills in leadership, policy formulation, have opportunities to analyze data and its relationship to organizational effectiveness, and will garner state licensure to serve as school leaders. Learn More Master of Science in Student Affairs Administration The Master’s degree in Student Affairs Administration prepares students for professional roles in a variety of student service higher education settings. The program offers coursework on college student development, campus diversity, student engagement, academic advising, program assessment, and campus leadership. Learn More Master of Science in Health Studies with a Concentration Physical Education Teacher Education Research on teaching and teacher education in physical education. Learn More Doctor of Education in Higher and Adult Education - Higher Education Primarily for mid- and senior-level administrative positions in higher education institutions and higher education-related agencies, boards, and commissions. Learn More Doctor of Education in Higher and Adult Education - Adult Education Study the practice of teaching adults, including those in college and graduate school. This program differs from other education degrees due to cognitive differences in developmental stages. Learn More Doctor of Education in Instruction and Curriculum Leadership - Instructional Design and Technology Prepare for positions like teacher educators and university researchers; become an expert in research and development and lead initiatives to analyze, implement, and evaluate instructional materials and learning environments. Learn More Graduate Certificate in Autism Studies The University of Memphis is excited to offer an online Autism Certificate Program. The Autism Certificate Program is designed to equip parents, teachers, and professionals with the tools necessary to successfully work with children with autism and deal with the unique challenges and rewards associated with the disorder. Learn More Graduate Certificate in College and Career Counseling The University of Memphis' certification in college and career counseling as an online and field based post-degree program designed to address contemporary issues related to career and college counseling in schools. Learn More Graduate Certificate - Educational Leadership This online 18-hour (six classes) graduate certificate is designed for individuals who already possess a master's degree, work in a K-12 setting and are seeking alternate route certification to become a school principal/school leader. This certificate mirrors the MS in Leadership and Policy Studies School Administration and Supervision concentration. Learn More Graduate Certificate in Higher Education Instruction This online 18-hour (six classes) graduate certificate is designed for individuals already teaching in higher education settings or working on an advanced degree who would like to hone their college classroom teaching skills. Graduates can work at community colleges, private and public colleges/universities, for-profit agencies and adult learning centers. Learn More Graduate Certificate in Instructional Design and Technology Our graduate-level certificate program is completely online and offers two tracks: (1) Educational Technology and (2) Design and Development. Each track is comprised of four classes. The courses may be completed as part of a degree program in IDT or other program with your advisor's approval. Transform your career! Learn More Graduate Certificate in Literacy, Leadership, and Coaching Literacy Education is concerned with the promotion of literacy, with specific emphasis on reading, writing, listening and speaking. No matter what your career goals, local or global, we have a program to meet your professional needs. Learn More Graduate Certificate - School Library Information Specialist The program of study for School Library Information Specialist (SLIS) is a graduate program offered 100% online, and the courses must be part of enrollment towards a Master's degree if a student has not already completed an M.S. or M.A. degree. It is also offered as Graduate Certificate for those who have already earned a Master's degree (or higher). Learn More Special Education Comprehensive Certificate The Special Education Comprehensive Certificate is designed for individuals seeking certification in Comprehensive Special Education or wanting to enhance their knowledge of Low Incidence Disabilities. The program provides advanced coursework directed at foundational knowledge and evidence-based instructional practices for children with low incidence disabilities (e.g., intellectual disorders, ASD, multiple disabilities). This non-degree-seeking program can lead to an advanced degree, or enhance skills for those who work in fields requiring an ability to work with children with low incidence disabilities. Learn More About UofM Global Learn More Ranked Online Degrees Accreditations Contact Us Degrees and Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Certificates Corporate Partners Complimentary Courses Admissions Apply Now Request Info Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Contact Us Tuition Financial Aid Students Canvas Student Services & Support SmartStart Learning Support Technology Support Advising Register for Courses Experiential Learning Credit Graduation Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/4/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.