Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary SCHOOL OF MEDICINE HEALTH METRICS SCIENCES Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 HMS 510 Principles of Health Metrics (3) Christopher Murray Introduces methodological approaches and metrics to comprehensively measure health at the population level. Addresses the question, "What is health?", and provides an overview of the rationale, conceptual, and historical basis of population health measurement and health metrics sciences. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: HMS 510 HMS 511 Problems in Global Health ([0-4]-, max. 4) Steve Gloyd Explores social, political, economic, and environmental determinants of health and societal responses to health problems globally. Covers impact of colonialism, equity strategies, Primary Health Care, neoliberalism, war, international agencies, the climate crisis, water, sanitation, and traditional health systems. Student groups develop proposals to improve health systems or address social determinants of health in a specific low-income country. Offered: jointly with G H 511; A. View course details in MyPlan: HMS 511 HMS 512 Mortality Analysis for Health Metrics Sciences (3) Haidong Wang Introduces students to the fundamentals of demographic analysis for mortality. Provides a thorough overview of the conceptual, methodological and empirical basis for quantifying health among individuals and populations. Students learn about the strengths and limitations of applying mortality analysis methods, especially in developing countries with limited empirical data. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: HMS 512 HMS 520 Introduction to Programming, Version Control, and Data Wrangling for Health Metrics Sciences (3) Peng Zheng Covers basics of programming, including communicating with machines, writing clean code, and collaborative programming. Students learn to build code base to deal with a series of tasks focused on data manipulation. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: HMS 520 HMS 530 Global Burden of Disease: Methods and Results (3) Emmanuela Gakidou, Stein Emil Vollset Covers (1) the history and importance of the Global Burden of Disease Study (GBD), (2) the quantitative methods used by the GBD to develop estimates of mortality, morbidity, and risk factors from often sparse data, (3) major findings from the GBD, including leading causes of disease burden and the pattern and variability in burden globally, (4) implications and uses of GBD findings for global health policy. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: HMS 530 HMS 535 Advanced Methods for Global Health I (4) Bryan Weiner Focuses on the advanced concepts, theories, and methods of implementation science in global health, with a specific focus on fidelity, adaptation, strategy selection, de-implementation, sustainability, scale-up, advanced trials designs, qualitative methods, and mixed methods. Assumes prior knowledge of the fundamentals of implementation science. Prerequisite: G H 541 or permission of instructor. Offered: jointly with G H 535/HSERV 526; A. View course details in MyPlan: HMS 535 HMS 536 Advanced Methods for Global Health II (4) Presents applications of the cluster-randomized trial design to estimate the impact of interventions for a global health and implementation science audience. Covers trial design and implementation, reviews methods commonly used for analysis. Assumes prior knowledge of generalized linear models and modern methods to analyze correlated data, including generalized estimating equations (GEE) and random-effects models. Prerequisite: either BIOST 540, CS&SS 560/SOC 560/STAT 560, or permission of instructor; recommended: EPI 512 and EPI 513. Offered: jointly with BIOST 528/EPI 553/G H 536; W. View course details in MyPlan: HMS 536 HMS 537 Advanced Methods for Global Health III (4) Brad Wagenaar Focuses on applying advanced non-randomized methods to quantitatively evaluate global health implementation science questions, including a specific focus on applying difference-in-differences, interrupted time-series, and regression discontinuity designs. Assumes prior knowledge of generalized linear models and modern methods to analyze correlated data, including generalized estimating equations (GEE) and random-effects models. Prerequisite: either BIOST 540, CS&SS 560/SOC 560/STAT 560, or permission of instructor; recommended: EPI 512 and EPI 513. Offered: jointly with BIOST 525/EPI 556/G H 537; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: HMS 537 HMS 539 Methods, Tools, and Data in Global Health (2) Emmanuela Gakidou Familiarizes students with current global health issues and their analytical challenges. Introduces analytical methodologies, quantitative concepts, statistical packages applied to global health challenges, and software used in health metrics and evaluations research. (Two weeks). Credit/no-credit only. Offered: jointly with G H 530; A. View course details in MyPlan: HMS 539 HMS 540 Health Economics and Health Systems in Low and Middle Income Countries (3) Explores applications of health economics in health systems in low and middle income. Students examine the drivers of differences in health across countries with different income groups. Highlights the challenges and peculiarities of addressing key questions about health care access, interventions, and systems in low and middle income settings. Recommended: previous college-level coursework in either economics or microeconomics; and previous college-level coursework in statistics; probability; and the fundamentals of calculus. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: HMS 540 HMS 541 Fundamentals of Implementation Science in Global Health (4/5) Judith N. Wasserheit, Kenneth Sherr Provides an introduction to the emerging field of implementation research by outlining various methods that are applied to improving implementation (including applied engineering, management tools, health systems, and policy research), and using experiential case studies from global health leaders. Addresses barriers to effective replication and scale-up in local settings. Offered: jointly with G H 541; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: HMS 541 HMS 580 Global Health Doctoral Seminar (1/2, max. 4) Bernardo Hernandez Prado, Kenneth Sherr Examines the most critical issues in global health and currently available solutions. Introduces complementary perspectives of metrics and implementation science to build a multidisciplinary understanding of these issues, including effective and appropriate strategies for their control. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: jointly with G H 580; AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: HMS 580 HMS 590 Measures and Metrics of Malnutrition: Results from the Global Burden of Disease Study (2) Ashkan Afshin Provides an overview of various method of assessing nutrition at the population level; reviews epidemiologic methods used to assess the causal relationship of each form of malnutrition and disease endpoints; evaluates the epidemiologic evidence on health effects of each form of malnutrition. Introduces the process of estimating the global burden of disease attributable to each form of malnutrition at the population level. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: HMS 590 HMS 591 Measuring the Global Burden of Disease of Tuberculosis and HIV/AIDS (2) Hmwe Hmwe Kyu Introduces students to the measurement and estimation of trends in the global burden of disease of tuberculosis and HIV/AIDS as well as the burden due to co-infection. Students will learn about primary data sources to estimate the epidemiological burden of these diseases, limitations of data sources, and current modeling approaches. Online visualization tool will be used to analyze results from the Global Burden of Disease Study. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: HMS 591 HMS 592 Health Metrics Sciences Seminar (1, max. 6) Designed to strengthen ability to critically assess, examine, and interpret research articles. Seeks to broaden understanding and knowledge about health metrics science. Three rotating topics: Health Metrics, Health Systems, and Global Institutions and Goal Setting. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: HMS 592 HMS 593 Didactic Teaching for Health Metrics Sciences (2/3) Students work with instructor to identify responsibilities in accordance with learning outcomes, providing opportunities to implement teaching ideas and techniques, and reflect on this experience. Develop portfolio of accomplishments, demonstrating achievement of learning outcomes. Prerequisite: PhD student standing; and permission of instructor. Offered: AW. View course details in MyPlan: HMS 593 HMS 594 Capstone I (2) Laura Dwyer-Lindgren Focuses on project planning: students identify a project, select a faculty mentor, conduct a literature review, acquire and compile any necessary input data, develop an analysis plan, and finalize a project proposal and timeline. To be taken when all other program requirements are completed or in progress. Prerequisite: Master of Science in Health Metrics Sciences students only. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: HMS 594 HMS 595 Capstone II (4) Laura Dwyer-Lindgren Focuses on implementation: students carry out their research and prepare a final product based on their analysis and research findings, as well as a short oral presentation. To be taken when all other program requirements are completed or in progress. Prerequisite: Master of Science in Health Metrics Sciences students only. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: HMS 595 HMS 600 Independent Study or Research (0-10, max. 50) Independent study or research on Health Metrics Sciences topics conducted under the direction of one or more instructors. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: HMS 600 HMS 800 Doctoral Dissertation (*-) Prerequisite: permission of Dissertation committee chair. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: HMS 800 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022