Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of Nationally Competitive Awards NCA right arrow down arrow About NCA right arrow down arrow Programs and Events Understanding Fellowships Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us News Awards right arrow down arrow Core Awards right arrow down arrow Fulbright U.S. Student Program Gaither Junior Fellows Program right arrow down arrow Gaither Info Session Goldwater Scholarship right arrow down arrow Goldwater Info Session Marshall Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Mitchell Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Rhodes Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Truman Scholarship right arrow down arrow Truman Info Session Udall Scholarship right arrow down arrow Udall Info Session Priority Awards right arrow down arrow Boren Awards right arrow down arrow Boren Info Session Critical Language Scholarship right arrow down arrow CLS Info Session Fulbright UK Summer Institutes right arrow down arrow Fulbright UKSI Session Gates Cambridge Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Knight-Hennessy Scholarship National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship Paul & Daisy Soros Fellowships for New Americans Schwarzman Scholarship right arrow down arrow Schwarzman Scholarship Info Session Other Awards right arrow down arrow International Studies International Students Underrepresented and Minority Students Specific Interests or Disciplines Applying right arrow down arrow Deciding to Apply Preparing Your Application right arrow down arrow Recommendation Letters Essay Strategies Developing as a Candidate The Leadership Essay Student Spotlight right arrow down arrow 2021–22 Award Winners 2020–21 Award Winners 2019–20 Award Winners 2018–19 Award Winners NCA Ambassadors Fulbright@UC right arrow down arrow Info Session Recordings UC Fulbright Winners Fulbright Boot Camp Aspire Scholars For Faculty Home » Campus Life » Office of Nationally Competitive Awards » Awards » Core Awards » Truman Scholarship Set Navigation title in component Core Awards Fulbright U.S. Student Program Gaither Junior Fellows Program Gaither Info Session Goldwater Scholarship Goldwater Info Session Marshall Scholarship UK Awards Info Sessions Mitchell Scholarship UK Awards Info Sessions Rhodes Scholarship UK Awards Info Sessions Truman Scholarship Truman Info Session Udall Scholarship Udall Info Session Priority Awards Boren Awards Boren Info Session Critical Language Scholarship CLS Info Session Fulbright UK Summer Institutes Fulbright UKSI Session Gates Cambridge Scholarship UK Awards Info Sessions Knight-Hennessy Scholarship National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship Paul & Daisy Soros Fellowships for New Americans Schwarzman Scholarship Schwarzman Scholarship Info Session Other Awards International Studies International Students Underrepresented and Minority Students Specific Interests or Disciplines Truman Scholarship The Harry S. Truman Scholarship is the premier graduate fellowship in the United States for those pursuing careers as public service leaders. Established as a living memorial to President Truman, the Truman Foundation nurtures and supports future generations who answer the call to public service leadership. Students apply in their third undergraduate year and should have an outstanding record of public service activities and leadership. The Foundation is bipartisan and defines public service broadly as working for the common good. Students in a wide variety of academic fields are encouraged to apply. This award requires university endorsement through a competitive campus process. In order to apply, you must contact NCA by the Intent to Apply Deadline. Having trouble writing an essay on your leadership skills? Prestigious scholarships often ask for a leadership essay, but what does such an essay entail? NCA has recorded a webinar full of tips to help you craft a compelling leadership narrative for your application. Please watch our 30-minute Leadership Essay Webinar (be sure to view as a Slide Show for audio narration). Closed captions are available. Deadlines Application Opens: Late August Campus Deadline: November 8, 2022 National Deadline: February 2023 Award Details right arrow down arrow The Truman Scholarship provides up to $30,000 for the graduate education and professional development of outstanding young people committed to public service leadership. Scholars may pursue any field of study as long as it leads to a career in public service (common options are a master's degree, doctorate, or professional degree such as a law degree or a Master of Public Administration, Master of Public Health, Master of Social Work, Master of Education, Master of Public Policy, or Master of International Affairs). Who Should Apply right arrow down arrow Eligibility Criteria 3rd year students (could be junior or senior level standing) U.S. Citizens or will become citizen by time scholarship is awarded Commitment to work in government, education, the nonprofit sector, or public interest and advocacy for at least three of the first seven years after completing the Foundation-funded graduate degree. Please refer to the Truman website for a detailed list of potential Truman Scholar criteria. Selection Criteria Student hopes to be a "change agent," in time, improving the ways that government agencies, nonprofit organizations, or educational institutions serve the public. Student wants to work in government, education, the nonprofit sector, or the public interest/advocacy sector to improve these conditions. Their potential for leadership in whatever domains their careers may lead. Student has participated extensively in two or more of the following sets of activities: Student government and/or campus-based extracurricular activities; Community service-related activities that were not organized by my school or by my fraternity/sorority; Government internships, commissions or boards, advocacy or interest groups, nonpartisan political activities, or military/ROTC ; Partisan political activities and campaigns Please refer to the Truman website for a detailed list of qualities of a potential Truman Scholar. Application Components right arrow down arrow Background information Transcripts 9 short answer essays Policy proposal 3 letters of recommendation (1 academic, 1 leadership, 1 public service) How to Apply right arrow down arrow In the fall, attend an NCA Learning Series session on the Truman Scholarship. Schedule an advising appointment with Dr. Jenny Hyest through My Bearcat Network. In advance of that appointment, please: Complete two NCA forms: Intake form Records Release Form and submit to nca@uc.edu Confirm your intent to apply with NCA. Earlier is better because NCA must open an application for you. Submit your application by the Campus Deadline: November 8, 2022. Those selected for campus interviews will meet with the committee in late November / early December. Endorsed candidates submit revised application by National Deadline: February 2023. Helpful Links, Tips, and Reminders right arrow down arrow If you wish to familiarize yourself with the application before it opens, you can review the application here. Spend time on the Truman website. Review bios of past awardees. Take advantage of the resources they provide, like Personal Statement Tips and Samples of Effective and Ineffective Essays. Information on this page is intended to supplement, not supplant, your own careful review of the official Truman website. If you find any discrepancy between the two, the Truman website takes precedence. UC’s Student Code of Conduct applies to this application process. Recent Awardees right arrow down arrow Adam Elzarka - Truman Scholarship Recipient, 2022. Camryn Morrow - Truman Scholarship Finalist, 2021. Chinmay Bakshi - Truman Scholarship Finalist, 2020. Anna Layman - Truman Scholarship Finalist, 2018. Mary Siskaninetz - Truman Scholarship Finalist, 2018. Mohamed Elzarka - Truman Scholarship Recipient, 2017. Office of Nationally Competitive Awards 707A Swift Hall 513-556-1003 nca@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Office of Nationally Competitive Awards 707A Swift Hall 513-556-1003 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top