Skip to main navigation Skip to main content apply visit give Information for: Current Students Admitted Students Alumni & Friends Faculty Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About Overview Dean’s Message Diversity, Equity, Inclusion Keys to Inclusive Leadership in Nursing Diversity Advisory Board Facts & Figures History & Traditions Dean Rita P. Kelleher Award Grand Rounds Pinnacle Lecture Series Tenure Talks Our Spaces News & Events Contact Us Admission & Aid Overview Why BC Nursing? Tuition & Aid Tours & Info Sessions Related Links Find Your Path Facts & Figures Living in Boston Academics Overview Find Your Path Bachelor’s Program Master’s Program Doctor of Nursing Practice Program (D.N.P.) D.N.P. in Nurse Anesthesia Ph.D. Program Continuing Education Related Links Admission & Aid Faculty Directory Clinical Experience Research Continuous Program Improvement Plan Faculty & Research Overview Faculty Directory & Expertise Nadia N. Abuelezam Stacey Hoffman Barone Stewart M. Bond Ann W. Burgess Lindsey Camp Melissa PéRez Capotosto Catherine Conahan Maureen Connolly Donna Cullinan Sabianca Delva Julie P. Dunne Andrew Dwyer Joyce K. Edmonds Susan Emery Jane M. Flanagan Susan Gennaro Katherine E. Gregory Nanci Haze Elizabeth Howard Dorean Behney Hurley Dorothy A. Jones Corrine Jurgens Susan Kelly-Weeder Kellie Lavin LaPierre Christopher Sean Lee Karen Lyons Cherlie Magny-Normilus Kathleen Mansfield Carol Anne Marchetti Alison O. Marshall Beth McNutt-Clarke Erin Murphy-Swenson Tam H. Nguyen Luanne Nugent Monica O'Reilly-Jacob Britt Pados Jinhee Park Victor G. Petreca Patricia Reid Ponte Richard Ross, S.J Cassie Ryan Sherri B. St. Pierre Christine Repsha Colleen Simonelli Jacqueline Sly Patricia A. Tabloski Allan Thomas Sheila Tucker Patricia C. Underwood Melissa Kurtz Uveges Brittney van de Water Judith Vessey Caitlin McManus Vitale Lisa J. Wood Laura White Research & Clinical Focus Open Faculty Positions The Barry Family/Goldman Sachs Endowed Professorship in Nursing The Lelia Holden Carroll Endowed Professor in Nursing Related Links The Marjory Gordon Program Boston College Vice Provost for Research Clinical Experience Overview Become a Preceptor Simulation Lab Community Overview Student Leadership Opportunities International Programs Living in Boston Career Services Related Links Why BC Nursing? CSON Traditions BC Campus Life Current Student Resources Office of Student Services Close Directory A to Z Listing Search CSON Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close apply visit give Current Students Admitted Students Alumni & Friends Faculty BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Academics Bachelor’s Program Academics Find Your Path Bachelor’s Program Master’s Program Doctor of Nursing Practice Program (D.N.P.) D.N.P. in Nurse Anesthesia Ph.D. Program Continuing Education Bachelor’s Program As a student in our bachelor's program, you will be prepared to practice as a generalist in a range of settings—including hospitals, clinics, and community agencies—while also making the most of your undergraduate experience by studying abroad and participating in student organizations. Our undergraduate curriculum combines classroom learning with clinical experiences and includes essentials in nursing, the liberal arts, and the natural and social sciences. You also may be eligible to take graduate-level electives during your junior and senior years. Earning a bachelor's degree takes four years, and we encourage you to take advantage of opportunities outside the classroom—including Boston College athletics, student clubs, and international study and travel. In fact, one-third of our students study abroad during their junior year and another third of senior students participate in global clinical experiences. Get Started Apply through the Boston College Office of Undergraduate Admission. Apply Program Overview Curriculum Lab Fees Program Outcomes Open All Close All Freshman Year Fall Semester Course Course Title NURS1010 Professional Development Seminar BIOL1300 Anatomy & Physiology I BIOL1310 Anatomy & Physiology I Lab CHEM1161 Life Science Chemistry CHEM1163 Life Science Chemistry Lab 2 core courses Spring Semester Course Course Title NURS2070 Introduction to Professional Nursing BIOL1320 Anatomy & Physiology II BIOL1330 Anatomy & Physiology II Lab MATH1180 Statistics 2 core courses Sophomore Year Fall Semester Course Course Title BIOL2200, 2210 Microbiology + Lab NURS2122 Nursing Assessment of Health NURS2121 Health Assessment Clinical* NURS2080 Pathophysiology 1 core course *Lab fee associated with this course Spring Semester Course Course Title NURS2230 Adult Health Nursing Theory I NURS2231 Adult Health Nursing Clinical I* NURS2205 Clinical Pharmacology HLTH2206 Principles of Nutrition NURS2090 Sophomore Formation Seminar 1 core course *Lab fee associated with this course Junior Year Fall Semester This flexible semester—available for you to study abroad, adjust clinical hours, or catch up on core course requirements—may occur during the fall or spring semester. Spring Semester Course Course Title NURS3242 Adult Health Nursing Theory II NURS3243 Adult Health Nursing Clinical II NURS3244 Childbearing Nursing Theory NURS3245 Childbearing Nursing Clinical NURS3170 Principles of Evidence-based Nursing The Undergraduate Programs Office will determine the exact clinical sequence for your junior and senior years. Senior Year Fall Semester Course Course Title NURS4250 Child Health Theory NURS4251 Child Health Clinical NURS4252 Psych-Mental Health Theory NURS4253 Psych-Mental Health Clinical 1 core course or elective Spring Semester Course Course Title NURS4260 Population Health Theory NURS4261 Population Health Practice NURS4263 Nursing Synthesis Clinical* NURS4264 Actualizing the Role of Professional Nurse 1 core course or elective *Lab fee associated with this course The Undergraduate Programs Office will determine the exact clinical sequence for your junior and senior years. For undergraduate laboratory fees, visit Boston College's Student Services webpage. View Nursing Lab Fees Open All Close All Assessment of Student Learning Continuous improvement through assessment Boston College is deeply committed to providing you with the highest quality educational experience. The ASSESSMENT process requires all programs to: Be clear and specific about the learning goals it sets for students Develop measures to determine the degree to which each of its goals is being met Have a standard process for assessing learning outcomes for students and recommending appropriate adjustments Bachelor’s Program Objectives As a graduate of the CSON baccalaureate program, you will be a critical thinker who: Respects the intrinsic worth of all human beings by valuing and integrating altruism, autonomy, human dignity, integrity, and social justice into professional nursing practice across all health care settings and populations Synthesizes concepts from a liberal arts, Jesuit education to develop a philosophy of care that guides professional nursing practice Uses management and leadership skills to coordinate and promote quality health care Uses empirical evidence and theoretical knowledge from nursing and other disciplines to influence health promotion and disease prevention in individuals, families, and populations across the lifespan and across health care environments Generates clinical judgments based on assessment data and implements interventions to achieve individual, family, and population-centered outcomes Collaborates with individuals, families, community stakeholders, and the interdisciplinary health care team to ensure safe, clinically efficacious, cost-effective care Articulates the relationships among intrapersonal, interpersonal, social, environmental, cultural, and ethical influences on health care delivery in a diverse, multicultural, and global society Uses informatics and electronic technology to document, evaluate, and improve the quality of health care Articulates the influence of policy on health care and professional nursing practice Accesses information and seeks experiences to promote personal and professional growth, advance nursing practice, and improve the care of individuals, families, and populations. Approved by Faculty Assembly, April 21, 2010 Bachelor’s Program Professional Standards and Guidelines Professional Nursing Standards and Guidelines addressed by the Baccalaureate Program American Association of Colleges of Nursing (AACN). (2008). The Essentials of Baccalaureate Education for Professional Nursing Practice. Quality and Safety Education for Nurses (QSEN). (2007). Competency Knowledge, Skills, and Attitudes for Pre-Licensure. American Nurses Association (ANA). (2021). Nursing Scope and Standards of Practice. American Nurses Association (ANA). (2010). Nursing’s Social Policy Statement: The Essence of the Profession. American Nurses Association (ANA). (2015). Code of Ethics for Nurses with Interpretive Statements. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. (2020). Healthy People 2030. The Joint Commission. (2022). National Patient Safety Goals. Other American Nurses Association, American Psychiatric Nurses Association and International Society of Psychiatric-Mental Health Nurses (2014), Psychiatric-Mental Health Nursing: Scope and Standards of Practice, 2nd Edition. Silver Spring, MD: Nursebooks.org. The Quad Council of Public Health Nursing Organization Competencies. (2018). Core Competencies for Public Health Nurses. American Nurses Association (ANA). (2013). Public Health Nursing Scope and Standards of Practice. Association of Women Health’s, Obstetrics and Neonatal Nurses (AWHONN) (2019). Standards for Professional Nursing Practice in the care of women and newborns American College of Obstetrics and Gynecology (ACOG). Practice Guidelines & Reports. Our Undergraduate Students 427 Undergraduate students 96.5% First-time pass rate on NCLEX in 2020 32% Students who study abroad their junior year More Facts & Figures “I was drawn to the opportunity to have a hands-on, challenging, and enriching nursing degree that was rooted in the Boston College liberal arts education. My time here has taught me critical thinking, teamwork, time management, communication skills, and service to others—but above all else, BC nursing has helped me become a more well-rounded human being.” Lauren Yarkony ’17 Clinical Placements Students experience a variety of practice settings by rotating among clinical sites, including: Addiction Treatment Center of New England Atrius Health Beth Israel Lahey Health Boston Children's Hospital Boston Health Care for the Homeless Program Boston Medical Center Brigham and Women's Hospital Cristo Rey Boston High School Dana-Farber Cancer Institute Dimock Center Fenway Health Franciscan Children's Hebrew SeniorLife Joslin Diabetes Center McLean Hospital Shriners Children's Boston Signature Healthcare South Boston Community Health Center Spaulding Rehabilitation Network VA Boston Healthcare System Opportunities at the Connell School Leadership Learn More Enhance your leadership abilities through undergraduate research fellowships, student government, our local chapter of Sigma Theta Tau International, or our Keys to Inclusive Leadership in Nursing program. Advising Meet Our Faculty Benefit from our culture of support, which includes one-on-one mentorship opportunities with our faculty of internationally renowned scholars, teachers, and practitioners. Global Impact Learn More Gain a greater understanding of global issues and the diversity of health care needs through our international trips. Undergraduate students can also study abroad during their junior year. Hands-on Learning As an undergraduate student, you'll work with a small group of peers under the guidance of faculty mentors during prestigious and varied clinical placements. Learn More about Clinicals Quick Links Events & Traditions Current Students Why BC Nursing? Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion Facts & Figures Back To Top Back To Top Connell School of Nursing Maloney Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Call: 617-552-4250 About Admission & Aid Academics Faculty & Research Clinical Experience Community Apply Visit Give Find Your Path Connect with Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College