Media - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Third Ward Initiative Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Third Ward Initiative Third Ward Leadership Get Involved Media UH Home Third Ward Initiative Media Media Features From Cathedral to Community On Saturday, January 29, 2022 Wheeler Avenue Baptist Church dedicated its new worship facility and presented the University of Houston $30,000 for scholarships in honor of its Pastor Emeritus Rev. William A. Lawson. Representing the university were: President Renu Khator, Dr. Elwyn Lee, Vice President for Neighborhood & Strategic Initiatives, Executive Leader of the Third Ward Initiative, and Dr. Daniel O’Connor, Dean of the College of Liberal and Social Sciences who received the scholarship check from Senior Pastor Marcus D. Cosby. Boynton Chapel’s Pastor Linda Davis is Opening Doors and Changing Lives One of the busiest and most dynamic faith leaders in the city doesn’t pastor a mega-church, yet she has had and continues to have a mega-impact upon the lives of people in the Houston area, especially in Third Ward, home to the church she pastors. CenterWell Senior Primary Care Clinic Ribbon Cutting CenterWell Senior Primary Care, held a small ribbon-cutting event on Monday, January 24, 2022, to celebrate the opening of their primary care clinic for seniors in Third Ward at One Emancipation Center. CenterWell Senior Primary Care is a unit of the national insurer Humana that is focused on treating the senior population. Pictured are CenterWell representatives: Dr. Karen Millender, Christine de Jongh, Michael Lerner, Dr. Brie Law, State Representative Garnet Coleman District 147, and Pastor Linda Davis Boynton Chapel United Methodist Church. Thanksgiving Meals for Seniors The Third Ward Initiative in partnership with UH Staff Council raised over $1,000 to provide 60 Thanksgiving meals to the residents at the William A. Lawson Institute for Peace and Prosperity (WALLIP) Senior Residence located in Third Ward. The WALIPP Senior Residence is a four-story structure offering independent living for adults age 55 and above, which opened in 2004. It provides 42 two-bedroom and 8 one-bedroom apartments. All amenities comply with the American Disabilities Act. It is located in Houston’s Third Ward community. All Heart: Partnership Provides Food for Underserved Communities Recognizing the additional financial struggles now facing low-income Houstonians due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the University of Houston College of Medicine, Third Ward Initiative, and American Heart Association joined forces to provide high quality, farm fresh produce to residents at two public housing complexes. Third Ward Mask Distribution The Third Ward Initiative passed out hundreds of masks to Third Ward organizations which were then given to residents to Third Ward residents to help promote health awareness and prevent the spread of COVID 19 in May of 2020. UH BOUNCE Program Expands Community Gardening to Third Ward The BOUNCE program, led by College of Education Professor Norma Olvera, leads a community gardening project, teaching elementary and middle school students how to garden and grow their own healthy food. The Master Growers Club, launched in fall 2018 in Houston’s East End, has grown to include partnerships with five schools and centers in the neighborhood. This fall, BOUNCE also expanded the program to the Third Ward neighborhood thanks to a special partnership with Blackshear Elementary, the Third Ward Multi-Service Center and UH’s Advancing Community Engagement and Service Institute. Mentorship Program Allows UH Students to Apply Classroom Lessons in Real World As part of Toya Conston’s Introduction to Educational Psychology course in the College of Education, students get the opportunity to mentor middle school students in Third Ward. The project is supported through a grant from the UH Advancing Community Engagement and Service (ACES) Institute. Third Ward Schools Appreciation Breakfast The University of Houston’s Third Ward Initiative hosted its Third Ward Schools Appreciation Breakfast, honoring leaders of the six area schools in which the initiative has partnered and provided services for. These schools are Blackshear, Foster, Hartsfield and Thompson elementary schools, Cullen Middle School and Yates High School. The event also featured table discussions on ways the initiative could better serve the represented schools. Students at Blackshear Elementary School Benefit from Generosity of Administration & Finance Staff A local elementary school once again is reaping the benefits of the generosity of Administration and Finance Division employees, who donated shirts, pants and other articles of clothing to students. Volunteers take initiative to help improve historic Third Ward UH and Third Ward have formed a powerful partnership that works toward improving the neighborhood by progressing education, strengthening businesses and celebrating the culture and history of the area. A strong believer in leadership by example, Jerry Evans, associate professor of information and logistics technology, is the champion of the College of Technology's commitment to the UH Third Ward Initiative. Being a good neighbor: UH’s Third Ward Initiative The University of Houston has an all-hands-on-deck initiative designed to help the school be a better Third Ward neighbor by utilizing the entirety of its resources to meet community needs as identified by area residents. The effort, titled the Third Ward Initiative (3WI), is led by Executive Leader Dr. Elwyn Lee. Third Ward Students Become Coogs for a Day More than 100 students from Third Ward and the surrounding area had a chance to envision themselves as future Coogs during an activity-packed visit to campus this week. The University of Houston Advancing Community Engagement and Service Institute organized the campus visits on Tuesday and Wednesday for students from Blackshear, Foster and Hartsfield elementary schools and Yates and Sterling high schools. UH initiative partners with 3rd Ward schools Principals at two Third Ward schools, Blackshear Elementary and Cullen Middle School, are commending efforts by the University of Houston to improve student outcomes through the recently launched Advancing Community Engagement and Service Institute (ACES). Community Health Fair On Saturday May 20, 2017 Blackshear Elementary hosted a Community Fair. UH representatives Dr. Anne McClellan and Dr. Jonathan Schwartz from the College of Education and other departments were there to support this effort. Dr. Ezemenari Obasi and his team performed health screenings and the UH mascot Sasha and members of the UH cheer team entertained the participants. Also present were Dr. Elwyn Lee and Mr. Wayne Luckett, and Ms. Michelle Verma. My Home Library at Blackshear Elementary The College of Education partnered with the Barbara Bush Houston Literacy Foundation to establish a My Home Library program for Blackshear Elementary school. Under the program donations were solicited to pay for summer books for each of the 526 students. Michele Verma of the Third Ward Schools Task Force of the UH Board of Visitors coordinated this very successful effort to send each child home with a book bag full of books to read this summer. Blackshear Elementary 100th Anniversary Gala Blackshear Elementary school was established in 1916 and is still going strong. The UH College of Education, and the UH Board of Visitors (BOV) Third Ward Schools Task Force are partnering with HISD and Principal Alicia Lewis to make it stronger. Third Ward Nonprofits Receive Grant to Develop Revitalization Plan A coalition of nonprofits, The Northern Third Ward Consortium, has received a $100,000 planning grant in August of 2016 from the Wells Fargo Foundation to develop a comprehensive, resident-driven revitalization plan for the Northern Third Ward. The Northern Third Ward Neighborhood Planning Project will result in the development of a comprehensive revitalization plan over the next 12 months, led by a planning consultant, that assesses community needs and provides a framework for ensuring equitable development. University of Houston Honors Change Happens! CEO with 2016 Community Partner Award Reverend Leslie Smith, CEO and founder of Change Happens!, is the recipient of the University of Houston’s 2016 Community Partner Award. UH President Renu Khator presented the award to Smith on Feb. 3, 4 p.m. at the Change Happens! youth center and office. The University Neighborhood Partnership Forum (UNPF) The University of Houston (UH) and Neighborhood Partnership Forum (UNPF) is an initiative set forth by Dr. Renu Khator, Chancellor/President of the University of Houston System and University of Houston. Updates and Newsletters The Third Ward Initiative Newsletter and or updates will be published periodically and contain information on Initiative activities and progress. Third Ward Initiative May 26, 2020 Update Third Ward Initiative April 15, 2020 Update Third Ward Initiative February 28, 2020 Update Third Ward Initiative January 30, 2020 Update Third Ward Initiative April 15, 2019 Update Third Ward Initiative March 7, 2019 Update Third Ward Initiative February 21, 2019 Update Third Ward Initiative January 31, 2019 Update Third Ward Initiative December 18, 2018 Update Third Ward Initiative November 27, 2018 Update Third Ward Initiative October 17, 2018 Update Third Ward Initiative September 25, 2018 Update Third Ward Initiative April 18, 2018 Update Third Ward Initiative March 14, 2018 Update Third Ward Initiative February 21, 2018 Update Third Ward Initiative December 15, 2017 Update Spring 2017 Newsletter Spotlight Entrepreneurship in Action A recent graduate of the UH SURE entrepreneurship boot camp has started a business selling candles in Third Ward. University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies