Skip To Content Skip To Navigation Skip To Search Academics Admissions Research Global Notre Dame International Keough School of Global Affairs Education Abroad Global Network Faith & Service Campus Life About Visit About Visit Give Alumni Athletics University of Notre Dame Home Academics Admissions Research Global Faith & Service Campus Life About Visit About Visit Give Alumni Athletics Home Contact Search Menu Global Promoting Cultural Fluency In an ever-shrinking world, Notre Dame seeks to approach problems in context. Notre Dame has been an international university since its founding. Established by a French priest with the help of Irish religious brothers, its early programs were modeled after the French method of residential community education. Near the dawn of the 20th century, Notre Dame recruited heavily from Latin America, even chartering a train to run from South Bend to Mexico City. Today Notre Dame’s presence is felt on six continents, through a combination of facilities, programs, projects, and relationships. More than two-thirds of the University’s undergraduates participate in a study abroad program, ranking Notre Dame in the top five in participation among Ph.D.-granting institutions. In addition, the University operates Global Gateways in five major international cities—Rome, Dublin, Jerusalem, Beijing, and London—which act as academic and intellectual hubs where scholars, students, and leaders from universities, government, business, and community gather to discuss, discover, and debate issues of topical and enduring relevance. A more focused academic and cultural exchange experience is found at the University’s six Global Centers in Hong Kong, Kylemore Abbey (Ireland), Mexico City, Mumbai, São Paulo, and Santiago. And just as the University has gone into the world, so too has the world come to Notre Dame. Approximately 10 percent of the University’s students and scholars come from outside the United States. Moreover, the University is a recognized leader in producing recipients of grants in the Fulbright Program, the U.S. government’s flagship international educational exchange program. The University seeks to expand our students’ intellectual and societal awareness through international programs that promote cultural fluency. This is true in the administration of our study abroad programs, and it’s embedded in the mission of Notre Dame’s newest school, the Keough School of Global Affairs. Founded in 2014, the Keough School builds on the strengths of seven institutes focused on international research, scholarship, and education at Notre Dame. The Keough School addresses some of the world’s greatest challenges, with particular emphasis on the design and implementation of effective and ethical responses to poverty, war, disease, political oppression, environmental degradation, and other threats to dignity and human flourishing. Notre Dame’s Global Gateways and Centers allow for rich collaborations with local universities, research centers, governments, churches, and grassroots organizations. Global Network angle right Global Ulysses Goes Global Notre Dame celebrates 100 years of James Joyce’s masterpiece Read story Colleges & Schools International Impact Students welcome sanctions against corrupt foreign actors Faculty & Staff The Rise of Populism Notre Dame experts analyze the worldwide decline of democracy Latest Thursday, May 05 Kroc Institute releases special report on ethnic approach within the Colombian Peace Agreement Tuesday, May 03 Pulte Institute launches Central America Research Alliance Thursday, April 21 Nanovic Institute to welcome Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist Anne Applebaum Global News Wednesday, March 30 Notre Dame signs agreement with St. Edmund’s College, University of Cambridge Tuesday, March 08 New anthology of Irish poetry offers ‘underground perspective’ on history and culture of Ireland Notre Dame International Keough School of Global Affairs Education Abroad Global Network Quick Links Bookstore Employment Tour InsideND Academic Calendar University of Notre Dame Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn © 2022 University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, IN 46556 USA 41.703234 -86.238985 Phone: (574) 631-5000 Contact Search Mobile App News Events Visit Accessibility Emergency Closed Captioning Notice of Non-Discrimination Home Academics Admissions Research Global Faith & Service Campus Life About Visit