Skip to content Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Main Menu About A Brief Introduction | Engineering Study Abroad Milestone Events Student Life Annual Safety Security Report Academics Courses Academic Calendars Current GT Students Transient Students Graduate Programs MS Analytics MS Computer Science MS Electrical and Computer Engineering MS Environmental Engineering Master of Industrial Design Exchange To GT-Atlanta MS Analytics MS CS MS ECE MS ENVE Master of Industrial Design To GT-Shenzhen To GT-Lorraine Faculty Georgia Tech Faculty with Rotational Assignment to Shenzhen Faculty Positions Financial Scholarships Coulter Scholarships Merit-Based Scholarships NACA Scholarships Tuition and Fees Industry FAQ FAQ on Admission FAQ on Financial Matters FAQ on Programmatic Issues FAQ on GT MS Degree FAQ on PhD Ugrad Summer Contact Us Search Search for: Search FAQ on GT MS Degree FAQ on GT MS Degree Q: Is the GT degree that you offer in Shenzhen a regular GT degree? A: Yes. The MS degree that we offer at GT-Shenzhen is the same as what we offer at GT-Atlanta. GT-Shenzhen and GT-Atlanta impose the same admission and degree requirements. Courses are taken from the GT course catalog and are taught in English by GT professors or adjunct professors. The main differences are: location, student body demographics, and tuition rate. Q: Does the diploma indicate that it is for the Shenzhen or China campus? A: No, the diploma (nor transcript) does not contain words about Shenzhen or China. All diplomas are issued from the Georgia Tech Registrar’s Office in Atlanta and they look identical to those that are earned by GT-Atlanta students. See sample. Q: Tianjin University is the sponsor of this program on the Chinese side. Is the degree a joint degree with Tianjin University? A: No, this is not a joint degree program. Students will receive a standard Georgia Tech MS degree. There will be students in the program who are dual-enrolled at Tianjin University and at Georgia Tech and these students will receive both the Tianjin University and the Georgia Tech graduate degrees, but the two degrees are completely independent of each other. For the vast majority of students in this program, they will be only studying with Georgia Tech faculty in Shenzhen. Q: Will the Chinese government recognize my GT diploma if I only studied in Shenzhen? A: Yes. According to relevant regulations of the Chinese government, the diploma that you will receive from a GT-Shenzhen MS program will be recognized because this is a program approved by the Chinese Ministry of Education (MOE). Our permit number is MOE44US1A20131462N. Once you have enrolled in the program, we will submit your information to the MOE database. When you receive your GT diploma, you can apply for your diploma to be certified by the MOE because there is a record of your enrollment in this MOE approved program. Q: I will receive my GT MS degree in May. When will I be getting the diploma? A: According to the information for degree candidates, diplomas are mailed out approximately 6-8 weeks after the graduation ceremony. Add another 2-4 weeks time for the parcel to reach you in China by regular air mail. The physical size of the diploma is quite large, so it will be rolled up in a tube and shipped as a parcel. By the time that you receive the diploma, it may be July or August. Q: How do I receive the GT diploma? A: The diploma will be sent to you by mail. BEFORE YOU SUBMIT YOUR ONLINE APPLICATION FOR GRADUATION, please enter an accurate shipping address where you can receive your diploma approximately 2-3 months after the graduation date. Instructions for entering the Diploma Mailing Address are given in the Registrar’s video. Be sure to enter the diploma mailing address before the end of the term in which you plan to graduate. Jostens sends out most international diplomas using UPS. GT-Shenzhen will no longer ship diplomas to Shenzhen. Q: How do I get a “degree pending verification”? A: You will need to complete two forms. First, the “Change of Anticipated Graduation Date” as explained here. The expected date of graduation was automatically calculated at the time of acceptance – correct it if necessary to reflect your actual progress. Next, follow the instructions posted here to request a verification of pending degree. You should send in both forms, and only after you have submitted your degree application materials. Q: I am a recent GT-Shenzhen graduate. How do I obtain an official “Statement of Rank in College or University Class” from the GT Registrar? A: Complete the Verification Request Form found on the Registrar’s website. Check “Rank” under “Type of Verification”. Once you have completed, signed, and dated the form, scan and email it to the Registrar’s office address printed on the form. Your rank will be given as a number among the thousands of current GT MS students (irrespective of major), ranked according to your GPA. Q: I have 30 credit hours and am on track for graduation; however, I will not enroll during my last semester. How do I maintain my graduation status? A: Georgia Tech requires enrollment for all students during their graduation term. If you are not enrolled, you must submit a one-time Enrollment Waiver Form and seek approval before the end of registration. Please see the ECE Graduate Student Forms & Guidelines page for this form and follow the Docusign instructions. Email GT-Shenzhen for the appropriate contact to add as the Graduate Coordinator signature in ECE. Q: I am a recent GT-Shenzhen graduate. I have not received my GT diploma yet but my employer requires me to provide proof of my GT degree. How do I do that? A: See the ECE Graduate Student Forms & Guidelines page for the Degree Verification Form. Please email GT-Shenzhen for the appropriate contact for signature. Q: I am a recent GT-Shenzhen graduate. It has been over 3 months and I have not received my GT diploma yet. I am afraid the address I entered may have been incorrect. How do I reorder? A: The diploma reorder form is located on the Forms & Student Records page of the Registrar’s website. There is a $100 replacement fee. Please follow their instructions to submit your payment. Since Georgia Tech does not ship internationally, we suggest you provide a US caretaker’s address on the diploma reorder form and have the caretaker express mail to China for you. Q: I am a recent GT-Shenzhen graduate. How do I order an official GT transcript? A: As soon as your degree has been awarded, you can order a GT transcript that shows your GT degree. FAQ FAQ on Admission FAQ on Financial Matters FAQ on Programmatic Issues FAQ on GT MS Degree FAQ on PhD Upcoming Events There are no upcoming events at this time. Contact the Institute Directory Offices Campus Map Apply Support / Give Log in Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404-894-2000 Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment ©2022 Georgia Institute of Technology