Skip to Main Content Brown University Brown University Medical School Records and Registration Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home Credentialing For Current Medical Students Academic Calendars Tuition and Fees Away Rotations Independent Study Requests For Visiting Medical Students Search Medical School Records and Registration Visiting Student Program Overview Visiting Student Program Overview We welcome inquiries from 4th-year students currently attending U.S. medical schools who are in good academic standing and wish to participate in our clinical elective programs. Inquiries All inquiries should be emailed to visiting-ams@brown.edu. Inquiries are welcome from 4th-year students currently attending U.S. medical schools who are in good academic standing and wish to participate in our Clinical Elective Programs. We are unable to accept requests for a basic (required) clerkship experience in Internal Medicine, Surgery, Obstetrics/Gynecology, Pediatrics, Psychiatry, Family Medicine, or Community Health. Application Visiting students should apply through VSLO. Our 2022-23 catalog and requirements have been posted in VSLO. What you see on the "Institution Overview/General Application Requirements" page in VSLO is accurate for the 2022-23 year. The application deadline is 8 weeks prior to the elective start date. Please be advised that there is a non-refundable $150 processing fee per elective due at the time of acceptance. Please adhere to our schedule of dates listed for each elective in VSLO. Rotation start and end dates are fixed and cannot be changed. Participation Requirements We expect visiting students to honor their commitment once they have been accepted to participate in an elective. Students must notify our office via email if they decide to cancel an elective. If we are not notified of the cancellation and the student does not show up for the scheduled elective, the home institution will be notified. All visiting students must be covered by malpractice or personal liability and health insurance and must submit proof of immunizations with their application. There is no tuition charge for a student who is enrolled in good standing at a U.S. medical school. Proof of COVID vaccine is required and all visiting students must adhere to Brown's COVID-19 campus safety policy. Housing All visiting students are responsible for their housing arrangements. International Students We are currently not accepting students from our international bilateral exchange programs. If you are a medical student from an international medical school seeking to do a clinical rotation at the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University, we can only consider your request if your home institution has a bilateral exchange agreement with Brown. If you are a student at an international medical school with whom Brown has a bilateral exchange agreement, please note that there are limited openings and you must be nominated by your medical school. Related Links: Visiting Student Learning Opportunities 2022 - 2023 Elective Calendar Hospital Partners Diversity and Inclusion Learn more about opportunities for visiting medical students from backgrounds underrepresented in medicine (URM). Diversity and Multicultural Affairs Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Credentialing For Current Medical Students Academic Calendars Tuition and Fees Away Rotations Independent Study Requests For Visiting Medical Students Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Visiting Student Program Overview Open details for Visiting Student Program Overview Bookmark this Page