Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Jazz Improvisation Certificate (Undergraduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Jazz Improvisation Certificate (Undergraduate) Apply Request More Info Jazz Improvisation Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Jazz Improvisation Undergraduate Certificate Develop significant knowledge and performance experience in the genre of jazz with the Jazz Improvisation Undergraduate Certificate from Temple’s Boyer College of Music and Dance. This 12-credit undergraduate certificate is designed for any currently enrolled Temple University student seeking to supplement their degree with knowledge of jazz performance and improvisation. This program allows students to experience the excitement of courses in Temple’s Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts in the coherent disciplinary context of a certificate. The center offers a wide array of artistic and cultural offerings throughout the year. Undergraduate students interested in the Jazz Improvisation Undergraduate Certificate must be in good standing and have completed at least 15 credits at Temple University by the initial semester they request certificate coursework. Classes & Curriculum The certificate will be acknowledged on your official transcript when you receive your bachelor's degree provided that you successfully complete each of the following courses with a grade of C- or better. The required courses you will take during your studies include Jazz Improvisation: Theory and Practice I; Jazz Improvisation: Theory and Practice II; Small Jazz Ensemble; and Topics in Music Theory. Learn more about the Jazz Improvisation Undergraduate Certificate courses. Tuition & Fees The tuition for this Certificate Program is based on school or college of your major, program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. Ensembles Jazz Ensembles Boyer boasts a number of jazz ensembles that range in level and style. You also have the opportunity during the first two weeks of the semester to enroll in small jazz ensembles, coached by Jazz Studies faculty members. Temple University Jazz Band is Boyer’s premier jazz band. It performs on Temple’s Main Campus and throughout the Greater Philadelphia region, and it hosts the annual Essentially Ellington Eastern Regional High School Jazz Band Festival. Temple University Lab Band has served as the opening act for the Temple University Jazz Band’s Kimmel Center performances and as the headliner for the annual Big Band Dance swing dance held each spring in The Underground at the Howard Gittis Student Center. The band has also performed at the Temple Performing Arts Center and in Tomlinson Theater. Jazz Band Number Three provides an environment in which students can improve application and knowledge of ballad concepts, ensemble and section blend, expansion of dynamic range and rhythmic interpretation. The repertoire covers a wide chronological range, from the Count Basie and Duke Ellington catalogs to contemporary arrangements and compositions. Our Academic Advisors The Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts has a centralized advising office with five staff members. This advising team serves all undergraduate students in the Boyer School of Music and Dance and the School of Theater, Film and Media Arts. Advisors help students navigate the undergraduate curriculum for each degree program. The academic advising team for Music, Dance, Theater, and Film and Media Arts majors is located in Mitten Hall, Suite 200 West. To schedule an advising appointment based on your individual needs or for more help, contact the advising team. Phone: 215-204-8301 Schedule an advising appointment. Program Contact Contact the following faculty for more information about the Undergraduate Certificate in Jazz Improvisation. Terell Stafford is the director of Jazz Studies and the program contact for the Jazz Improvisation Undergraduate Certificate. Phone: 215-204-8036 Email: terell.stafford@temple.edu Accreditation The Boyer College of Music and Dance is accredited by the American Music Therapy Association, National Association of Schools of Music, National Association of Schools of Dance and Pennsylvania Department of Education. BC-JZIM-CERT Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Jazz Improvisation Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info