Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Events Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Schedule a Visit SMU Tour Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Twitter Follow Us YouTube Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Home Academics Academics Departments Undergraduate Majors Undergraduate Minors and Programs Graduate Studies Why Study Here? Why Study Here? The Dedman Edge Heard on The Hilltop Research and Fellowships Research and Fellowships Undergraduate Students Graduate Students National Student Fellowships Institutes and Centers Faculty Dean's Research Council Resources Resources Current Students Faculty and Staff Prospective Students Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate About About Dean's Welcome Administrative Directory Executive Board Department Chairs Department Faculty Directory Dedman Diversity Publications Facilities Connect Connect Make a Gift Contact Us Prospective Student Visit Alumni Connection and Events ☰ Academics Undergraduate Minors and Programs Interdisciplinary Studies Biophysical Sciences Biophysical Sciences The Bachelor of Science in Biophysical Sciences at SMU is a rigorous degree program that provides a strong foundation for careers in medicine or research. Whether your goal is medical school, an M.D. Ph.D. program, or graduate studies in biophysics, this program will give you the preparation and distinction you need to aim for rewarding careers beyond college. With courses in biology, chemistry, physics, mathematics, and the School of Education, the degree plan includes the entire SMU pre-health curriculum and additional courses that provide advanced learning needed for post-college preparation. The program requires 89 term hours. A core of courses from biology, chemistry, physics, and mathematics provides 83 of these term hours. The remaining term hours can be obtained from a selection of elective courses that are available in the degree plan. This program is advised in the SMU Department of Physics. CLICK HERE to see the recommended semester-by-semester sequence of physics courses to the BS degree in Biophysical Sciences. Biophysical Sciences Biophysics Brochure Course Requirements Contact Apply Visit Academics Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Minors and Programs Research Centers and Institutes Connect Administrative Directory Department Directory Alumni Make a Gift Dedman College of Humanities & Sciences P.O. Box 750235 | Dallas, Texas | 75275-0233 214-768-2440 © Southern Methodist University Legal Disclosures facebook twitter youtube