Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Home Ways to give Get involved Alumni and friends Students Parents Faculty and staff Corporations and foundations Recognition Be Boundless Campaign The President’s Circle Cumulative Giving Recognition Henry Suzzallo Society Gates Volunteer Service Award Report to Contributors Contacts Giving FAQs Give now My UW Giving Give to the UW Menu Home Ways to give Get involved Alumni and friends Students Parents Faculty and staff Corporations and foundations Recognition Be Boundless Campaign The President’s Circle Cumulative Giving Recognition Henry Suzzallo Society Gates Volunteer Service Award Report to Contributors Contacts Giving FAQs Give now My UW Giving Home Give to the UW Recognition Henry Suzzallo Society Henry Suzzallo Society Close Menu Home Recognition Report to Contributors Report to Contributors 2021 President’s Circle Cumulative Giving Recognition Henry Suzzallo Society Gates Volunteer Service Award 2021 Gates Volunteer Service Award About the Gates family Gates Volunteer Service Award (GVSA) past recipients UW Recognition Award recipients This exclusive fellowship of the University’s most ardent supporters was named for the UW’s visionary 16th president, Henry Suzzallo, who called on Washington citizens to help create a “university of a thousand years.” The society honors individuals who have provided a future gift to the UW using one of the following tools: Bequest language Will or living trust Life insurance policy Retirement plan Today, there are more than 2,700 active members of the Henry Suzzallo Society. Planned gifts account for some 25 percent of all individual private giving to the UW. Whether it’s creating scholarships, building libraries or endowing professorships, this support opens doors and transforms lives every day. Membership in the Suzzallo Society is a way for the UW to thank and recognize donors now for their commitment to make a future gift. However, we know that many people prefer to keep their gifts confidential, and we respect the wishes of donors who prefer to remain anonymous. Components of membership include: Invitation to UW events, including events specifically for members of the Henry Suzzallo Society. Information about UW programs that interest you, and opportunities to meet faculty, students or administrators. You or your adviser can consult with planned giving staff in order to ensure the best match for your charitable intentions. Questions? Send an email 1- 800-284-3679 or 206-685-1001 206-221-2966 (FAX) University of Washington Office for Planned Giving 4333 Brooklyn Ave. NE Box 359515 Seattle, WA 98195-9504 Home Recognition Report to Contributors Report to Contributors 2021 President’s Circle Cumulative Giving Recognition Henry Suzzallo Society Gates Volunteer Service Award 2021 Gates Volunteer Service Award About the Gates family Gates Volunteer Service Award (GVSA) past recipients UW Recognition Award recipients Search for: Henry Suzzallo Society Membership Form Are you interested in becoming a member of the Henry Suzzallo Society? Fill out this form, and either mail or email our office (contact information is at the bottom of the form), and someone from our team will be in contact shortly. Thank you for your dedication and support! We look forward to partnering with you. Download PDF form University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA