Skip to main content Skip to main content Follow Us Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Twitter Skip to main content Log In Log In Student Login Log In Instructor Login Log In Canvas Login Canvas Login My Profile My Applications My Enrollment History My Certificate Plan My Account My Saved Items Log Off Contact Us Contact Us Help Help <span class="sr-only">Number of items in the shopping cart: </span><span id="cartCount"></span> Number of items in the shopping cart: Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Program Search Programs and Courses Areas of Study Career Building College Prep Communications & Marketing Creative Development Design & UX Engineering & Technology Humanities & Fine Arts Languages Legal & Finance Management & Leadership Program Types Certificate Programs Short Courses Corporate Programs & Customized Learning Instructors Resources for Current Instructors Instructor Portal Canvas for CAPE Instructors Become a CAPE Instructor Propose a Course Help Center New Students Payment Options & Financing Veterans Benefits FAQ Current Students Student Portal Canvas Zoom Instructors Instructor Portal Canvas for Instructors Policies & Procedures Parking & Maps About About Us Contact Us Blog Navigate Search Skip to main content CAPE Program Search All Programs & Courses All Programs & Courses Areas of Study Certificate Programs SMU College Prep Customized Learning Short Courses Areas of Study Areas of Study Career Building Communications and Marketing Creative Development Design and UX Engineering and Technology Humanities and Fine Arts Languages Legal and Finance Management and Leadership Courses Instructors Instructors Propose a Course Help Center Help Center Canvas for CAPE Courses Information about SMU NetIDs Frequently Asked Questions Instructor Portal Parking & Maps Payment Options and Financing Policies and Procedures Student Portal Digital Badges Adding Your SMU Certificate Credential to LinkedIn Veterans Zoom About SMU CAPE About SMU CAPE Contact Us ☰ CAPE Help Center Canvas for CAPE Courses Canvas for CAPE Courses Log in with your SMU NetID Log in with NetID Log in with your existing Canvas account Log in with existing account Getting Started Student Support Instructor Support Getting Started Once you are enrolled in a course that uses Canvas, you will receive a notification from our student management system. Log in with an SMU NetID When you created your account with SMU CAPE, a NetID was created and e-mailed to you. Click the "Log in with NetID" button above to login to Canvas. If you need help finding your SMU NetID, please contact SMU CAPE and we will assist. You can send an e-mail to smuthink@smu.edu or call 214-768-2273. Log in with your existing Canvas Account If you have not transitioned your account to an SMU NetID, you can still access your courses using your existing Canvas login. Click the "Log in with Existing Account" button above to login to Canvas. It is recommended that you transition your account as soon as possible. For instructions on how to transition your existing account to a SMU NetID, please visit our SMU NetID information page to get started. NOTE: If your instructor has not published their course you may not see any courses available, courses are usually published shortly before or on the first day of class. If you experience any issues logging in or accessing your online courses, please contact SMU CAPE. You can send an email to smuthink@smu.edu or call us at 214-768-2273. Student Support How Do I Access 24/7 Help @ SMU SMU has contracted Instructure, the company behind Canvas, to provide 24/7/365 Tier1 support for all SMU students, in fully online, hybrid, and residential student communities. Students can access this 24/7/365 support through the help menu in the lower left corner of the SMU Canvas interface (global navigation). This Canvas support allows for uninterrupted tech support for all students when the on campus Help Desk is closed. There are two choices for reaching 24/7/365 support, phone or chat. (The chat option will provide you with the option to have your completed chat session emailed to you in digest form for future reference.) Documentation and Training Canvas Guides for Students: Getting Started with Canvas as a Student Mobile Guides (Android) Mobile Guide (iOS) Video Tutorials Intructure.com: Canvas Video Guide Canvas Guides for Instructors: Getting Started with Canvas as an Instructor Canvas Instructor Guide 1:1 Training for Instructors Click the button below to schedule a 1:1 Canvas training session. Schedule Appointment Also available: Upcoming On-Campus Training Training from Instructure Online Training and Tutorials for Instructors Canvas Video Guide from Instructure Learn Canvas 2019 with Oliver Schinkten Canvas: Tips, Tricks, & Techniques with Oliver Schinkten Learning to Teach Online with Oliver Schinkten Elearning Essentials: Instructional Design with Samantha Calamari SMU Training-On-Demand: Canvas: Adding Essential Course Content How Do I Access 24/7 Help @ SMU SMU has contracted Instructure, the company behind Canvas, to provide 24/7/365 Tier1 support for all SMU faculty, staff, and students for use by fully online, hybrid, and residential student communities. Instructors can access this 24/7/365 support through the help menu in the lower left corner of the SMU Canvas interface. This Canvas support allows for uninterrupted tech support for all, when the on campus Help Desk is closed. There are two choices for reaching 24/7/365 support, phone or chat. (The chat option will provide you with the option to have your completed chat session emailed to you in digest form for future reference.) Need Help? 214-768-HELP help@smu.edu Help Center Canvas for CAPE Courses Information about SMU NetIDs Frequently Asked Questions Instructor Portal Parking & Maps Payment Options and Financing Policies and Procedures Student Portal Digital Badges Adding Your SMU Certificate Credential to LinkedIn Veterans Zoom Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University 5539 SMU Blvd, Dallas, TX 75206 instagram twitter linkedin facebook