Skip to main content FSU >> FSU LIBRARIES Top Right Search Box Search Our Website... * OneSearch | My Account Florida State University Libraries Search & Find Advanced Search Find a Database Journal Search Special Collections Search DigiNole Search Services & Research All Services Subject Librarians Distance Learning Digital Research & Scholarship Special Collections & Archives Government Information About the Libraries Libraries Overview Member Libraries Departments Accessibility @ FSU Libraries Diversity & Inclusion Giving to the Libraries Facts & Figures Strategic Plan Advancement Board Materials & Borrowing Borrowing Materials Library Express Delivery Interlibrary Loan Materials Purchase Request Help & Support Get Help Library Hours Maps & Directions Visitor Information COVID Guidelines Home >> List of Services >> Borrowing Materials Borrowing Materials How to Request Materials through OneSearch Through the search bar on the Library’s homepage, search for your topic or specific title. Once you search and find the results, you will need to log in with your FSUID and password to see all the available options and request materials. A yellow banner will run across the top of the search results: “Sign in to get complete results and to request items” and a “sign in” link to easily be able to log in. From the catalog, once you have chosen a title you are interested in, you will be able to click on the book’s location or title and then choose “Request” under “Get it” to request the book. Depending on your designation with FSU, you will see different pick up options. Undergraduate: Requested materials will be placed on hold at the circulation desk that the book you are requesting is shelved at. Faculty, Graduate Students, and Staff: Choose from a series of locations, including Library Express Delivery (LEDS)! For Curbside Pick Up, choose Strozier Library and then follow the instructions below. Once you send the request, you’ll be able to see the status of the request in your library account. Please allow staff 48 hours to process your request. You will get an email when the book is ready to be picked up. If you have any questions, please call Strozier Library at 850-644-2706 or Dirac Library at 850-644-5534. You may also use our Ask a Librarian online chat. Curbside Pick-Up Instructions Curbside Pick-Up is available at Strozier Library! Monday - Friday: 8am - 6pm Saturday: 10am - 6pm Sunday: 12pm - 6pm To pick up your request, please park on Collegiate Loop, across from Landis Green, near the front entrance of Strozier Library (see map below). Look for our “Park here for Curbside Delivery” street sign. Call (850) 443-7223 and give our team your name. Our staff will bring the items to your vehicle. If possible, please open your trunk from inside the vehicle and we will place the items inside. If this isn't possible, please notify the delivery person when you call and they will place the request on the ground next to your car for you to retrieve after they walk away. Returning Items Our curbside service is only for pick-ups only, (not returns). If you wish to return materials, you may use a book drop on campus such as the one pictured below, or you may return them by mail to FSU Libraries, 116 Honors Way, Tallahassee FL 32306. Have you returned an item but still see it listed on your account? Use this form: Claims Returned Report a lost book to the Libraries. Use this form: Lost Books Related: Fine management Borrowing Terms All active FSU students, faculty, or staff may request materials through the FSU Libraries online catalog and borrow materials in-person at the Circulation desks. Current students, faculty, and staff at Florida Community Colleges and Public Universities are granted borrowing privileges. Current university I.D. must be presented and verified. Special Borrowing permits are given to certain patrons. Please visit the Special Borrowing Permits page for more information on who qualifies and how to apply. See the below charts for how long you can borrow materials. FSU owned materials can be renewed for the same loan period as the original, a total of five times, unless the item is recalled by another scholar, in which case it will need to be returned within 10 days of the recall. You can renew items through the "My Account & Renewals" link to the left of this page. Please see the Uborrow or Interlibrary loan pages for renewals of non-FSU owned items. Florida State University Books Bound Journals Popular Videos Instructional Videos Interlibrary Loan Remote access to databases FSU Undergraduate Students 4 weeks In-library use only 2 days In-library use only Yes Yes FSU Graduate Students 8 weeks 24 hrs 2 days 3 days Yes Yes FSU Faculty 16 weeks 24 hrs 2 days 3 days Yes Yes FSU Staff 8 weeks 24 hrs 3 days No Yes Yes Friends of the Libraries 4 weeks In-library use only No No No No Special Borrowing Permit 4 weeks In-library use only No No No No State University Libraries Books Journals Popular Videos Instructional Videos Interlibrary Loan Remote access to databases State University Undergraduate Students 3 weeks In-library use only No No No No State University Graduate Students 6 weeks In-library use only No No No No State University Faculty 16 weeks In-library use only No In-library use only No No State University Staff 6 weeks In-library use only No No No No Community College Libraries Books Journals Popular Videos Instructional Videos Interlibrary Loan Remote access to databases All Community College Students 3 weeks In-library use only No No No No Community College Faculty and Staff 6 weeks In-library use only No In-library use only No No Fines If an item is still checked out 60 days after its due date, the item will be declared "lost". Items declared lost will be assessed a $100 replacement fee. You may return these items or replace them (In "like new" or better condition) to have the $100 fine removed, provided they fall within the reimbursement policy listed below. If you have already returned your items and are being charged please fill out a claimed return form: Claims Returned Late Return and Reimbursement Policy The University Libraries has developed the following guidelines for patron return of any library materials. Missing/replacement items will not be accepted or payment reimbursed for: Books that have been declared lost for 12 months or more from its original due date. Items that have been withdrawn from the collection. Items that have already been replaced. Library charges can be paid through Student Business Services. Call Library Fines Management, (850) 645-8822, Monday-Friday from 8 a.m.- 4:30 p.m. with any questions. General Material Fees Fine amount Maximum Fine Books (General Collection) Only if Declared Lost *$100 Videos 25¢ per day $5 Journals 25¢ per day $20 Reserve Items $3 per hour $30 Temporary library Cards $5 if late $5 Media Equipment Loans and Fees ITEM TYPE LENDING PERIOD LATE FEES Android Phone Chargers 2 Hour Loan $1 and $1 each additional hour Audio Extension Cable 4 Hour Loan $0.25 and $0.25 each additional hour Calculators 4 Hour Loan $5 and $5 each additional hour Dry Erase Markers 4 Hour Loan $0.25 and $0.25 each additional hour DSLR Cameras 3 Day Loan $10 and $10 each additional hour External DVD Drive to USB 3 Day Loan $5 and $5 each additional hour External Harddrive 4 Hour Loan $5 and $5 each additional hour GoPro Camera 3 Day Loan $10 and $10 each additional hour HDMI Cable 4 Hour Loan $0.25 and $0.25 each additional hour Headphones 4 Hour Loan $0.25 and $0.25 each additional hour iPhone Chargers 2 Hour Loan $1 and $1 each additional hour Laptops and Tablets 4 Hour Loan $10 and $10 each additional hour Laptop and Tablet Chargers 4 Hour Loan $5 and $5 each additional hour Magsafe to Magsafe 2 Converter 4 Hour Loan $5 and $5 each additional hour Mini Displayport to VGA Adapter 4 Hour Loan $0.25 and $0.25 each additional hour Monodopad Accessories 4 Hour Loan $0.25 and $0.25 each additional hour Point and Shoot Cameras 3 Day Loan $5 and $5 each additional hour Powerstrip 4 Hour Loan $0.25 and $0.25 each additional hour Projectors 3 Day Loan $10 and $10 each additional hour SD Card Reader 4 Hour Loan $0.25 and $0.25 each additional hour Sennheiser Headphones 4 Hour Loan $5 and $5 each additional hour Sony MDR-7506 Headphones 3 Day Loan $10 and $10 each additional hour Tripods 3 Day Loan $5 and $5 each additional hour USB-C to Digital AV Multiport Adapter 4 Hour Loan $5 and $5 each additional hour USB-C to USB Adapter 4 Hour Loan $0.25 and $0.25 each additional hour VGA Cables 4 Hour Loan $0.25 and $0.25 each additional hour Video Game Consoles 3 Day Loan $10 and $10 each additional hour Wacom Tablet 4 Hour Loan $5 and $5 each additional hour Service Categories: Borrowing Resources Service Redirect Link: https://www.lib.fsu.edu/services/borrowing-materials Getting Materials Borrowing My Account & Renewals UBorrow Interlibrary Loan Access my ILL Account Library Express Delivery Course Reserves Collection Strategies About The Florida State University Libraries The mission of the University Libraries is to support and enhance the learning, teaching, research, and service activities of the Florida State University... READ MORE > Library Hours Maps and Directions Our Libraries Staff Directory Subject Librarians All Forms Library News Library Departments Library Events Library Services Employment Visiting the Libraries Giving to the Libraries Policies About the Libraries FAQ Government Information Staff Intranet Content Editor Login Internal Knowledge Base © Florida State University Libraries 116 Honors Way Tallahassee, FL 32306 Website Suggestions Privacy Principles Copyright Policy Contact Us (850) 644-2706 Search Articles, Books and More... * Connect with us!