Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home News Observations While on Quarantine in Newport, Oregon Natural Disasters Observations While on Quarantine in Newport, Oregon Before embarking on a 6-week voyage to scan for Cascadia’s megathrust fault, the research team had to quarantine for two weeks in a hotel. By Madeleine Lucas June 30, 2021 During a socially distanced walk, group members posed for a photo on several “toadstools” left by wave erosion. Photo: Madeleine Lucas To prevent the science team from bringing COVID-19 onto the R/V Langseth, we were required to quarantine in Newport, Oregon at the Hallmark Resort for 1-2 weeks. In addition to quarantining, everyone received COVID-19 testing prior to travel and during quarantine to ensure we did not contract COVID-19 while traveling to Newport and staying at the hotel. Fortunately for us, the Hallmark Resort is located right on the beautiful Newport Beach with ocean views from every room. To maintain our physical and mental health during quarantine, we were allowed go outside for 1.5 hours each day. One day, the group decided to use our outdoor time to meet up at the beach for a socially distant walk. During our walk along the beach, we discovered many interesting outcrops. One of the outcrops had perfect “toadstool” seats created by wave erosion from the tide moving in and out — a perfect place to stop for a group picture. During our quarantine, we spent long hours gazing out at the Pacific Ocean, patiently waiting for our time to set sail. We spotted the R/V Marcus G. Langseth offshore in the second week of quarantine. She was out on a complementary deployment of ocean bottom seismometers which will record seismic waves from our seismic reflection survey. We tracked the Langseth’s location and were able to welcome her back into port from the grassy dunes along the Yaquina River at Yaquina Bay State Recreation Site. The R/V Langseth, spotted offshore. Photo: Brian Boston Seeing tsunami evacuation signs on our daily walks around Newport during quarantine reminded us of the purpose of our experiment: to better understand the megathrust earthquake and tsunami hazard from the Cascadia Subduction Zone. In the tsunami evacuation map of Newport-South, Oregon, you can see the tsunami evacuation zones for a local Cascadia earthquake in yellow, a distant tsunami in orange, and areas outside the hazard zone in green. The black arrows point inland towards higher ground in green and the “A” marks safe assembly areas in the event of a tsunami. You can see that a local tsunami can reach more than a mile inland from the coast, flowing up river valleys and along stretches of low ground. This emphasizes how important it is to increase public awareness and preparedness for these hazardous events and to understand how large the tsunami waves might be in populated areas along the Cascadia margin such as Newport. Just south of Yaquina River, you can see the NOAA Marine Operations Center, the Oregon State University Hatfield Marine Science Center, and the Oregon Coast Aquarium are all located within the tsunami hazard zones, and the only safe assembly areas near these large centers is Safe Haven Hill, shown in the map inset, and the vertical evacuation structure on the roof of the Hatfield Marine Science Center. It is crucial for people who work and live near these population centers to be ready to evacuate in the event of an earthquake and tsunami and to know where exactly to go, since a tsunami from a Cascadia megathrust event could reach the coast within 15 to 20 minutes, according to the Oregon Tsunami Clearinghouse. For more info on how to prepare for a Cascadia tsunami, see their website here. With the new seismic images collected during the our research cruise, we hope to improve our understanding of Cascadia megathrust earthquake and tsunami events, to better prepare coastal communities like Newport for these hazardous events. Madeleine Lucas is a PhD student in earth and space sciences at the University of Washington. Tags cascadia COVID-19 illuminating the cascadia subduction zone Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory tsunamis News May 31, 2022 Aurora Barone Looks for Equitable Ways to Cut Carbon Emissions May 27, 2022 Sylhet City, Geology, and Packing Up May 25, 2022 Community-Led Science Uncovers High Air Pollution From Fracking in Ohio County May 20, 2022 Start of the Mini-Field School May 17, 2022 Lazy Bears and Confused Birds: What a Warming Planet Means for Wildlife Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close