Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Diversity & Inclusion Menu Leadership Commitment Future Gilbert-Walker Statue President's Diversity Council Faculty Development and Diversity Commitment to Diversity and Inclusion Developing Cultural Humility Diversity Updates Human Sexuality at Baylor Frequently Asked Questions Policy Commission on Historic Campus Representations Academic Programs Xavier University Exchange Program Baylor Interdisciplinary Core Women's and Gender Studies McNair Scholars Program Campus Involvement Active Citizenship Campus Communities Student Organizations and Greek Life THIS Matters Global Baylor Train & Learn Students Staff & Faculty Cultural Events Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Community Events Resources Baylor Free Food Events Campus Diversity Committee Diversity Enhancement Grant Diversity Enhancement Award Cultural Events Experience for Religiously Diverse Students Communities of Faith Religious Observance Calendar The Good Neighbor Project Report It! The Career Closet Women's Colloquium Dr. Beverly Daniel Tatum Report It! Baylor>Diversity & Inclusion>Campus Involvement>Active Citizenship Active Citizenship Baylor Chapter of NAACP The Baylor NAACP (National Association for the Advancement of Colored People)is dedicated to engaging in social justice activism and addressing relevant issues at the local, state and national level, with a primary focus on education, economic development, health, juvenile justice and voter empowerment. Baylor NAACP strives to build coalitions among people of various cultural and racial backgrounds and promote unity through Baylor University and the surrounding community. Learn more by visiting the Baylor NAACP Facebook Page. Baylor Chapter of International Justice Mission Baylor's campus chapter of the national International Justice Mission organization advocates and prays for international justice on behalf of one of the largest global justice organization in the world. They participate in campus events, host documentary screenings, and serve local organizations in Waco. If you are interested in learning about how injustices such as sex trafficking, labor trafficking, the commercial sex industry, or modern day slavery are being fought in this world, check them out! Mission Statement: As representatives of Baylor IJM it is our responsibility to be a source of light in the darkness by promoting Gods love for all, protecting peoples inherent worth & rights, and fighting against injustice within Waco and all nations. Better Together BU Better Together BU is a departmental program focused on religious diversity and cultural humility. This group is part of a national network of campuses and universities that are passionate about religious and interfaith literacy, sharing their stories, working together to solve global issues, and becoming better leaders and citizens. As part of Baylor Formation in the Office of Spiritual Life, this group models the Formation departmental values of Christian hospitality, responsibility, vocation and depth. Public Deliberation Initiative The Public Deliberation Initiative (PDI) at Baylor University is an initiative of critical deliberative democracy, activism, interdisciplinary collaboration, pedagogical research, student involvement, and training for ongoing community engagement. This initiative seeks to engage students, staff, faculty, and community members in constructive dialogue and deliberation that addresses important global and local issues and offers new perspectives for participants. Baylor's PDI strives to enhance local civic culture, to increase student/citizen participation in community problem solving, to expand collaborative decision-making on campus and in the local community, and to improve citizenship through civic pedagogy. Baylor PDI is a collaboration between Baylor Formation and Community Engagement and Service. Urban Missions Baylor Urban Missions partners with Waco organizations and churches to provide opportunities for students to engage in the greater Waco community through relationship building and service. At Baylor Missions we believe God calls us to love our neighbor and Urban Missions seeks to facilitate this as we provide opportunities to engage in weekly service. Our teams are student-led and partner with existing organizations in Waco to support the great work they are doing. All Baylor students are invited to join a team and serve consistently with that team all year long. Requirements for volunteering vary on a team-by-team basis so interested students can contact the student leader for team-specific information. Campus Involvement Active Citizenship Campus Communities Student Organizations and Greek Life Multicultural Greek Council National Pan-Hellenic Council THIS Matters Global Baylor General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Leadership Commitment Future Gilbert-Walker Statue President's Diversity Council Faculty Development and Diversity Commitment to Diversity and Inclusion Developing Cultural Humility Diversity Updates Human Sexuality at Baylor Frequently Asked Questions Policy Commission on Historic Campus Representations Academic Programs Xavier University Exchange Program Baylor Interdisciplinary Core Women's and Gender Studies McNair Scholars Program Campus Involvement Active Citizenship Campus Communities Student Organizations and Greek Life THIS Matters Global Baylor Train & Learn Students Staff & Faculty Cultural Events Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Community Events Resources Baylor Free Food Events Campus Diversity Committee Diversity Enhancement Grant Diversity Enhancement Award Cultural Events Experience for Religiously Diverse Students Communities of Faith Religious Observance Calendar The Good Neighbor Project Report It! The Career Closet Women's Colloquium Dr. Beverly Daniel Tatum Report It!