Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Give to Brown Site Navigation Academics Undergraduate Graduate & Professional Schools & Colleges Academic Departments Centers & Institutes Libraries & Collections Global Education Non-Degree Programs Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Medical School Admission Executive & Professional Admission Tuition & Aid Research Find a Researcher Industry Engagement Conducting Research at Brown Life at Brown Athletics & Recreation Community Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Providence Student Organizations University Events News Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Open Curriculum at 50 Events Breadcrumb Home Academics Undergraduate Education The Open Curriculum Brown’s Open Curriculum at 50 Years Sub Navigation In This Section Voices Events History Steering Committee Open Curriculum at 50 Events The anniversary celebration Steering Committee and Office of the Dean of the College will engage a group of students in summer 2019 to plan a full schedule of anniversary events. Many major events at Brown will carry themes of the anniversary. Open Curriculum at 50 Community Picnic May 7, 2019 Location: College Green Time: 12 p.m. to 2 p.m. With student performances, a picnic and a brief speaking program, the May 7 event will mark the 50th anniversary of the pivotal moment in 1969 when students rallied on the College Green to support a new philosophy for undergraduate education at Brown. Commencement and Reunion Weekend 2019 May 24-26, 2019 Forums, panel discussions and other events will reflect the University’s educational innovation and themes around Brown’s Open Curriculum. Commencement Forum — Pivot Points: 50 Years of Dance in Brown's Open Curriculum May 25, 2019 Location: Granoff Center for the Creative Arts, Martinos Auditorium, 154 Angell St. Time: 9 to 9:50 a.m. The dance program began the same year as the establishment of the Brown Open Curriculum. Join program founder Julie Adams Strandberg for a look back at five decades of dance at Brown and the social, political and cultural context of this milestone anniversary. Commencement Forum — Reflections on the Open Curriculum May 25, 2019 Location: Salomon Center for Teaching, De Ciccio Family Auditorium, Room 101 Time: 11 to 11:50 a.m. The Open Curriculum prepares graduates to thrive as independent, innovative leaders no matter what path they choose. Join a conversation with Brown alumni who are also Brown faculty members as they discuss their journeys through the curriculum and its impact on their teaching and scholarship. Opening Convocation September 3, 2019 Families of newly enrolled students, and Brown students, faculty and staff are invited to the opening ceremonies of the new academic year, which will carry anniversary themes. Alumni Fall Weekend and Family Weekend October 18-19, 2019 Brown alumni and families of current students will take part in lectures, workshops, panels, activities and more with Open Curriculum themes included throughout. Commencement and Reunion Weekend 2020 May 22-24, 2020 As the yearlong Open Curriculum at 50 celebration culminates, forums, panel discussions and other events will reflect Brown’s educational innovation and themes around the Open Curriculum. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Academics Undergraduate Graduate & Professional Schools & Colleges Academic Departments Centers & Institutes Libraries & Collections Global Education Non-Degree Programs Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Medical School Admission Executive & Professional Admission Tuition & Aid Research Find a Researcher Industry Engagement Conducting Research at Brown Life at Brown Athletics & Recreation Community Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Providence Student Organizations University Events News Featured Events For Journalists Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Open Curriculum at 50 Events Open details for Open Curriculum at 50 Events Bookmark this Page