Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions Health Care Events Blog For Alumni For Recruiters Other Initiatives Other Initiatives Business & Environment Business History Digital Entrepreneurship Gender Leadership Social Enterprise Impact MBA Experience Faculty & Research Executive Education Health Care Initiative FAQs …→ Harvard Business School→ Health Care→ A New Kind of Leadership Video Blavatnik Fellowship: 5 Years of Thinking Big Video Making a Difference in Health Care Video Dr. Marlene Krauss - Health Care Visionary Video More Impact Stories Video Blavatnik Fellowship: 5 Years of Thinking Big Video Making a Difference in Health Care Video Dr. Marlene Krauss - Health Care Visionary Video More Impact Stories The Health Care Initiative (HCI) fosters and promotes faculty research, supports the development of a portfolio of high-impact educational programs, and creates an interconnected HBS health care community. More Highlights 01 May 2022 HBS Health Care Initiative Upcoming Webinar: Perspectives in Health: Closing Gaps in Women’s Health Innovation HBS alumnae, Halle Tecco (MBA 2011) and Anula Jayasuriya (MD 1984, PhD 1988, MBA 1993), will share their experiences investing in women-led health care companies that are creating innovative products and services to address health needs most relevant to women. They will also weigh in on how we can better define "women's health” as a concept and as a focus area in health care. This hour-long discussion will be moderated by HBS Prof. Rem Koning and will include a Q&A with the attendees. Cosponsored by the HBS Health Care Initiative and the HBS Gender Initiative. Friday, May 6th at noon ET 7 Mar 2022 HBS Health Care Initiative Perspectives in Health Webinar: Applying Engineering Principles to Program Biology HBS Professor Jeffrey Bussgang and Jason Kelly, cofounder and CEO of Ginkgo Bioworks, discussed the advancements in engineering and the application of those innovations to biology and biochemistry. Ginkgo is a leader in the field of programming cells, treating DNA like digital code. Listen in on the conversation. 10 Feb 2022 Harvard Health Innovation Network Webinar: How Technology Can Be Leveraged to Democratize Diagnostic Access Rushy Ahmad, Head of the Wyss Diagnostics Accelerator, moderated a discussion with HMS Professor, David Walt. and CTO of FIND, Marta Fernández Suárez. They covered the future of diagnostics and the importance of democratizing access. If you missed the talk, you can view it here. 28 Jan 2022 HBS Health Care Initiative Perspectives in Health Webinar: Health Care Leadership - Insights on Scaling Value-Based Care Delivery Watch the recent discussion between HBS Professor Ariel Stern and Ikenna Okezie, Co-Founder and CEO of Somatus on the lessons learned as a health care entrepreneur, growing and scaling a care-delivery organization, and what it takes to move towards a value-based care outcome. Pioneering Research Our faculty deliver the breakthrough insights from real-world expertise that shape global best practices and inspire visionary leaders. 15 Feb 2000 Research & Ideas Growing Pains: Prescriptions for U.S. Health Care by Staff The health care industry may look seriously ill, says HBS Professor Clayton M. Christensen, but it's merely suffering the growing pains of a natural evolution as technology forces change at both the high and low ends of the market. more More HBS Working Knowledge Article Early Withdrawal of Pandemic Unemployment Insurance: Effects on Earnings, Employment and Consumption By: Kyle Coombs, Arindrajit Dube, Calvin Jahnke, Raymond Kluender, Suresh Naidu and Michael Stepner May 2022 Article Policy Stringency and Mental Health During the COVID-19 Pandemic: A Longitudinal Analysis of Data from 15 Countries By: Lara B. Aknin, Bernardo Andretti, Rafael Goldszmidt, John F. Helliwell, Anna Petherick, Jan-Emmanuel De Neve, Elizabeth W. Dunn, Daisy Fancourt, Elkhonon Goldberg, Sarah P. Jones, Ozge Karadag, Elie Karam, Richard Layard, Shekhar Saxena, Emily Thornton, Ashley Whillans and Jamil Zaki More Recently Published In the News 18 May 2022 Harvard Business School Capping a Two-Year First at HBS: Inaugural Cohort of MS/MBA Biotechnology: Life Sciences Program Showcase Their Work Re: Amitabh Chandra 18 Apr 2022 STAT As FDA Offers Breakthrough Designation to Device Makers, Patients and Providers Are Left with Questions Re: Ariel Dora Stern 17 Mar 2022 Harvard Business School HBS Announces Howard Cox Health Care Initiative Fund Re: Howard Cox 18 May 2022 Harvard Business School Capping a Two-Year First at HBS: Inaugural Cohort of MS/MBA Biotechnology: Life Sciences Program Showcase Their Work Re: Amitabh Chandra 18 Apr 2022 STAT As FDA Offers Breakthrough Designation to Device Makers, Patients and Providers Are Left with Questions Re: Ariel Dora Stern 17 Mar 2022 Harvard Business School HBS Announces Howard Cox Health Care Initiative Fund Re: Howard Cox More News Tweets Initiatives focus on societal challenges that are too complex for any one discipline or industry to solve alone. ǁ Health Care Initiative Harvard Business School Cotting House Boston, MA 02163 Phone: 1.617.495.6032 Email: healthcare_initiative@hbs.edu →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College