Skip to main content Go to site search Go to primary navigation Go to resources navigation Penn COVID-19 Response » Penn Home Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Site Search Academics More Academics Undergraduate Graduate Schools Global Initiatives Interdisciplinary Online Learning Off-campus Learning Libraries Admissions & Aid Athletics Research & Innovation More Research & Innovation Research Enterprise Research News Life at Penn More Life at Penn Arts & Culture Community Involvement More Community Involvement Penn & Philadelphia Diversity Groups & Organizations Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Safety & Security More Safety & Security Emergency Contacts Emergency Preparedness Spirituality & Religion About More About Introduction to Penn History Facts News, Media, & Communication Services Sustainability FAQ Penn’s Interim President, Wendell Pritchett Trustees & Administration Policies Toggle Site Search Resources Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Visitors A-Z Directory Webmail Services Give to Penn Search Search Close Breadcrumb Home / Life at Penn / Groups & Organizations Groups & Organizations Participate in social, political, artistic, and multicultural activities that put learning into practice. Student Clubs and Organizations Overview Information about Penn’s many registered student organizations. Penn Clubs Search student groups, register an organization, and view upcoming campus events. Fraternities and Sororities Learn about Greek life at Penn and resources available through the Office of Student Affairs/Fraternity Sorority Life. Find information tailored to the needs of students, parents, and alumni. Student Government Deliberative and representative bodies for undergraduate, graduate, and professional students. Penn’s Medical Emergency Response Team, ‘prepared for anything’ The student-run organization, which includes nearly 70 undergraduates who are licensed EMTs, complements the Division of Public Safety and Philadelphia Fire Department by responding to medical emergencies on campus. Learn More Penn Electric Racing Penn Electric Racing is the University of Pennsylvania’s Formula SAE Electric Team. Each year, they build award winning, fully electric racecars that aim to push the envelope, bringing together Penn’s brightest engineers in the process. Learn More Faculty and Staff Organizations Weekly-paid Professional Staff Assembly The WPPSA represents weekly-paid professional employees on the University Council and gives voice to the interests of its membership throughout the Penn community. Penn Association of Senior and Emeritus Faculty PASEF initiates and coordinates activities that encourage retired faculty members to maintain connections among themselves and with the intellectual and social life of the University. Faculty Senate Elected members of the Faculty Senate’s executive and standing committees engage in investigation and consideration of matters of import with the University administration. Penn Professional Staff Assembly The PPSA provides a forum through which monthly paid staff can engage in dialogue about issues facing the University and higher education. 1 / 3 Previous Next Penn Lions 2 / 3 Previous Next Mask and Wig 3 / 3 Previous Next LGBT Center Explore Life at Penn Arts & Culture Community Involvement Diversity Groups & Organizations Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Penn & Philadelphia Safety & Security Spirituality & Religion Philadelphia, PA 19104 Telephone: (215) 898-5000 Contact Us Maps Parking Navigate Alumni Athletics Diversity Health Care Libraries Online Learning Penn Global Penn's Heritage As America’s first university, Penn has a history that dates back to 1740 and shares many ties with the colonial city of Philadelphia and the birth of our nation. Our History Disclaimer Emergency Services Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement Back To Top