Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu FedEx Institute of Technology About Research Innovation Engagement Emerging Tech Training Tech Transfer Impact Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Events FIT What's Next Series FIT-SPH Telehealth Series Critical Skills Emerging Innovation Faculty Workshop Series Lab Tours MemTech Meetups Research Conferences FIT-Blockchain901 Series Technology Serving Humanity Speaker Series Take Action Emerging Tech Training Research Collaborations News & Impact Distinguished Guests Follow Us FacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedIn Home FedEx Institute of Technology Events FedEx Institute of Technology Engagement The FedEx Institute of Technology plays a major role in bringing together researchers, community, knowledge and cutting-edge ideas from throughout the region and beyond. From research forums, lighning talks and innovation workshops, to corporate training and domestic as well as international conferences, the institute is helping our broader community engage with high-impact research, develop workforce talent and learn with emerging technologies in order to benefit from them. Check out all the upcoming events at the FIT below and find some of our select series and talks in the sidebar. Current Series FIT-Blockchain901 Speaker & Workshop Series World-class speakers as Blockchain takes into the next journey of the tech landscape Click Here Archive Minorities in Tech | 1 PM | February 21, 2022 | Watch the Replay Join us as we continue to celebrate Black History Month by welcoming Sandra Perry, CIO for Shelby County, and Meka Egwuekwe, Executive Director at CodeCrew, as they discuss and highlight their experiences within the industry as well as the opportunities and outlook for minorities in tech. FIT-School of Public Health Telehealth Webinar Series Learn how leading clinicians are using the latest technology to remotely serve their patients at home. Join us for a series of free, one hour webinars designed to instruct healthcare professionals, clinicians, and leaders of community-based organizations through the intricacies of enabling telehealth remote home visits. Click Here Using Tech to Address Racial Inequity in Cities Tuesday, August 24th, 4:30-6:00 PM | Methodist Presentation Theatre Mempops and Meet FIT Wednesday, August 25th, 1:30-3:00 PM | FedEx Institute of Technology - Patio and Lobby Come see what the FIT is all about and cool off with a MemPop during the welcome week! Machine Learning for Everyone Join us as subject-matter experts from the UofM and the US Army Research Lab as they go over the basics of what machine learning is and how it is being applied today. COVID-19 Lightning Talks COVID-19 has changed the way we work, study, and take in the world on a day-to-day basis. Researchers and faculty at the University of Memphis are making an impact in the global fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. Watch Now 5 Questions With...Interview Series The FedEx Institute of Technology sits down with the cutting-edge researchers on the University of Memphis campus and industry leaders in the midsouth to answer 5 questions about their research, work, and experiences. Watch Now Analytics Discussion with Dr. Naveen Kumar Analytics and data-driven decisions have become prevalent during the COVID-19 pandemic. Join us as Dr. Naveen Kumar, faculty member at the University of Washington (and former faculty member at the University of Memphis) as he deep dives into the world of analytics, focusing on industry trends, how data-driven decisions are made, and how employers can motivate employees by using analytics. Economic Recovery Town Hall Countries, states and cities across the globe are beginning the process of reopening their economies. Now, more than ever, the intersection of the public and private sectors will be invaluable in ensuring not only a safe reopening, but also one that reflects how an event like COVID-19 can ultimately transform ideals, innovations and services to improve the lives of the citizens they serve. The FedEx Institute of Technology brings together leaders from the University of Memphis, the Greater Memphis Chamber of Commerce and the City of Memphis for a discussion on local economic impact, the recovery outlook, and collaboration efforts that will nurture a resilient Memphis moving forward. Watch Now <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> Flattening It Together | COVID-19 Game Jam The FedEx Institute of Technology and the Memphis Game Developers are inviting you to flex your creativity & develop your game design chops by creating new board/video games. Whether single-player or teleconference-friendly, the games you create during this game jam should be themed around viruses, bacteria, & the challenges faced by COVID-19. Learn More Fighting It Together | Virtual Hackathon The FedEx Institute of Technology offered several remote collaboration sessions as part of a virtual hackathon designed to honor social distancing, while also addressing these critical ongoing issues many of us are experiencing. Participants worked together in teams to identify needs and opportunities with the goal of developing and implementing solutions related to virtual learning, medical shortages, and navigating business operations in an ever-changing environment. Three new platforms were created to address the challenges faced by displaced workers, over-strained charities, and the Digital Divide. Learn More Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/9/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.