Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts Featured News College of Medicine to participate in national effort to assess... May 31, 2022 College of Medicine joins national effort to improve teaching clinical reasoning skills Local 12 News: ‘It’s changing my life’: Ten students awarded... May 30, 2022 Benya Coleman, a recent graduate of Hughes STEM High School, spoke with Local 12 News reporter Jenna Cisneros about her award of the Marian Spencer Scholarship to attend the University of Cincinnati this fall. Imaging Technology News: First FLASH proton therapy trial... May 27, 2022 The University of Cincinnati's John Breneman, MD, spoke with Imaging Technology News about the completion of enrollment of the FAST-01 trial, the first FLASH proton therapy trial completed in humans. 1 2 Next › Last » Debug Query for this Latest News Keyword topics Select topics Answers Arts & Culture Athletics Bicentennial College bound COVID-19 Diversity Entrepreneurship Experience-based Learning Faculty Staff Health Impact In The News Insights International Must Read Next Lives Here Science & Tech Student Experience Thought Leadership colleges Select colleges College of Arts and Sciences Blue Ash College College of Allied Health Sciences College-Conservatory of Music College of Engineering and Applied Science College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services Clermont College Lindner College of Business College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing Online College of Pharmacy Clear All Filters {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove College of Medicine to participate in national effort to assess... May 31, 2022 College of Medicine joins national effort to improve teaching clinical reasoning skills Local 12 News: ‘It’s changing my life’: Ten students awarded... May 30, 2022 Benya Coleman, a recent graduate of Hughes STEM High School, spoke with Local 12 News reporter Jenna Cisneros about her award of the Marian Spencer Scholarship to attend the University of Cincinnati this fall. Imaging Technology News: First FLASH proton therapy trial... May 27, 2022 The University of Cincinnati's John Breneman, MD, spoke with Imaging Technology News about the completion of enrollment of the FAST-01 trial, the first FLASH proton therapy trial completed in humans. Presidential medals honor the 'best of the best' May 26, 2022 The University of Cincinnati honors four undergraduates with the Presidential Leadership Medal of Excellence and two graduate students with the Presidential Medal of Graduate Student Excellence in the annual 2022 celebration at Cincinnati's Queen City Club. Hoxworth Blood Center and Cincinnati Bengals partner for blood... May 26, 2022 Hoxworth Blood Center, University of Cincinnati, and the Cincinnati Bengals are once again teaming up to host a blood drive at Paul Brown Stadium, 10 a.m.-4 p.m., Tuesday, May 31, in the East Club Lounge. All donors who roll up a sleeve will receive an exclusive “It Is Us” Bengals T-shirt. Free parking will be available on the East Plaza. Silk layer improves function of surgical masks May 24, 2022 University of Cincinnati biologists found that a double layer of silk in combination with a surgical mask can enhance its ability to prevent the spread of viruses like COVID-19. Yahoo News/WCPO: Health leaders investigating monkeypox May 24, 2022 WCPO interviewed Carl Fichtenbaum, MD, of the Division of Infectious Diseases at the UC College of Medicine about the monkeypox outbreak. Connecting through music May 24, 2022 The University of Cincinnati's College of Medicine and College-Conservatory of Music collaborate on the innovative Dementia and the Arts course and intervention for community members with cognitive disorders and their family members. O’Toole co-edits book on women in pediatrics May 23, 2022 The University of Cincinnati's Dr. Jennifer O’Toole is co-editor of the book “Women in Pediatrics: The Past, Present and Future.” 55KRC: Naomi Judd suicide brings awareness to mental health... May 23, 2022 The University of Cincinnati's Caleb Adler discussed the recent death by suicide of singer Naomi Judd, risk factors for suicide and resources available for those struggling with mental health issues. Cincinnati Business Courier: Filak’s own medical practice lends... May 23, 2022 The Cincinnati Business Courier profiled Andrew Filak, MD, dean of the UC College of Medicine. NIEHS director visits to discuss environmental health concerns May 19, 2022 Richard Woychik, PhD, director of the NIEHS, visited the UC Center for Environmental Genetics on May 10 UC names chief digital officer May 19, 2022 UC President Neville Pinto announces hiring of Bharath Prabhakaran to guide the University of Cincinnati’s digital transformation. CPS grad finds ‘UC makes dreams come true’ May 19, 2022 Benya Colleman is one of 10 students who has been awarded the University of Cincinnati’s Marian Spencer Scholarship created to recognize high-achieving students in Cincinnati Public Schools (CPS). Spectrum News: Doctors explain high COVID-19 death rate despite... May 19, 2022 With the United States recently hitting one million COVID-19 deaths, many are wondering why there have been so many deaths despite having a higher than average vaccination rate. Medical professionals explained the current climate of COVID-19 in the hospitals and area communities. One of the experts interviewed for a story posted by Spectrum News was Carl Fichtenbaum, MD, professor in the Division of Infectious Diseases at the UC College of Medicine. Load More Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top