COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Biological Sciences, Master's Master'sBiological Sciences All Programs Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Biological Sciences Wichita State's Master of Science (MS) in Biological Sciences combines an advanced biology education with access to modern research laboratories and multiple outdoor research sites. The program offers specializations in the areas of ecology, molecular biology, microbiology, cell biology and evolutionary biology—preparing you to pursue a Ph.D. or enter the workforce in a variety of career settings. Learn how Biological Sciences is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program Admission into the program requires: A baccalaureate degree in a life science-related discipline from an accredited university A minimum GPA of 2.75 for the most recent 60 credit hours completed and minimum 3.0 GPA for all undergraduate biological sciences courses A one-page statement of purpose Three letters of reference from science faculty An acceptable score on the TOEFL, IELTS or PTE-Academic for non-native speakers of English For additional admission details, click on the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Biology major gets up close to Kansas amphibians and reptiles Biological Sciences students can get up close and personal with nature. Hannah Hoetmer has helped study amphibians and reptiles of the Youngmeyer Ranch, assisted with multiple projects in the Biodiversity Lab that look at the insect diversity across Kansas, and held several paid positions as a technician studying plants in the Prairie Community Ecology Lab. She is working on a large project that will try to establish whether or not high quality photographs can be used with an animal version of facial-recognition technology to look at the differences in the intersections between the scales on the heads of lizards and snakes to identify individuals. Curriculum Students accepted into the MS program in biology may pursue either the thesis or non-thesis option for their MS degree. All MS graduate students in biology must earn at least 16 credit hours from the Department of Biological Sciences. The thesis option comprises 30 credit hours of coursework and includes a thesis defense. The non-thesis option comprises 33 credit hours of coursework and includes research and applied learning. View the curriculum Careers A master's degree in biological sciences from Wichita State will put you on the path toward a wide range of biology-related careers—in the lab or in the field—and is excellent preparation for a future Ph.D. program. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Earth, Environmental and Physical Sciences (Master's) Chemistry (Master's) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©