Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator Research Lifecycle 1. Get Started 2. Identify Funding Opportunities 3. Write Proposal 4. Submit Proposal 5. Conduct Research 6. Commercialize Work Learners Key Partners About Vice Provost for Research and Scholarship Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Events Calendar Contact Us Research Lifecycle Learners Key Partners About Site Feedback Search Research Lifecycle 1. Get Started 2. Identify Funding Opportunities 3. Write Proposal 4. Submit Proposal 5. Conduct Research 6. Commercialize Work Learners Key Partners About Vice Provost for Research and Scholarship Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Events Calendar Contact Us Site Feedback Home About Research and Scholarship Administrative Areas RCO Research Intelligence & Capacity Research Navigator AAA Introducing: The Research Navigator Dear Colleagues, I am excited to announce the launch of the Research Navigator program, an initiative over a year in the making and one that will transform the way we accomplish our research and scholarship at the University of Miami. The Research Navigator is a new paradigm in research support for the University of Miami - a concierge service that connects faculty to the right resources, right now. It is one on one, centralized support designed to allow our faculty and staff to focus on research, not roadblocks. Your Navigator will provide expertise along every step in the Research Lifecycle, from idea to grant writing to sharing your work with the world. Below, we share some additional information about the new program. I cannot wait to see what great things we can accomplish together. All my best, Erin Kobetz, PhD, MPH Vice Provost for Research + Scholarship our goals Provide one-stop shopping for research-related questions Deliver customer-friendly, timely support Expedite research through improved navigation and access to resources Reduce administrative burden for faculty Provide enhanced support to streamline onboarding of new faculty/researchers Improve customer service Build a more collaborative environment Improve communication and expand educational opportunities Foster process improvement Our Services Funding Help finding resources for funding opportunities Expertise Guidance on available resources, services, and expertise Processes Assistance with administrative processes, policies, requirements, and forms Tools Advice on tools and systems for facilitating research Connections Liasing between faculty, research team, and administrators to expedite research Deep Dives Identifying where to go for more in depth assistance Ask The Research Navigator Do you need help? Didn't find what you're looking for? Not sure where to go next? Ask the Research Navigator! We look forward to working with you. Contact us at Navigator@miami.edu. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 305-284-2211 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices