Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open the search panel Open the main menu Search Go Close the search panel Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers News Events Alumni Giving About Library Login Open the Search panel Admissions Admissions Why Columbia J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics Academics J.D. Program and Curriculum LL.M. Program and Curriculum Executive LL.M. Program and Curriculum J.S.D. Program and Curriculum Dual and Joint Degrees International Programs Public Interest and Public Service Experiential Learning Courses Registration Services Academic Calendar Executive Education Areas of Study Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Criminal Justice Data Analytics Environment and Energy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Intellectual Property and Technology International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace Leadership Legal History Litigation and Dispute Resolution National Security and Privacy Social Justice and Human Rights Faculty & Scholarship Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Directory Research Centers and Programs Scholarship Archive Workshops, Lectures, and Colloquia Careers Careers Private Sector Careers Public Interest and Public Service Careers Academic Careers Judicial Clerkships Employment Statistics Employment Policies Community Life Community Life Visit Campus Dean’s Welcome Your Campus, Your City Student Life Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Strategic Initiatives Areas of Study More in this Section Explore Areas of Study: Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Criminal Justice Data Analytics Environment and Energy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Intellectual Property and Technology International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace Leadership Legal History Litigation and Dispute Resolution National Security and Privacy Social Justice and Human Rights Columbia Law School offers students unique and unparalleled learning experiences inside and outside of the classroom, preparing them to succeed in every phase of their careers and to serve as leaders in the legal profession—whether the private sector, government, or public interest—and beyond. In addition to taking a broad array of foundational courses in the law, students can explore their interests by curating their coursework around areas of study. All students, regardless of their chosen path, are guided by world-class faculty who shape how the law is understood as well as the public discourse on today’s most pressing issues. Externships and clinics provide valuable real-world training, and opportunities to work with Columbia’s research centers and programs enable students to help solve legal and policy questions in the United States and around the world. “I aim to teach our students not just international and comparative law but most importantly three things: curiosity, creativity, and confidence. It is most rewarding to witness how the students come to embody those features as they transform from law students to lawyers during their time at Columbia.” Anu Bradford, Henry L. Moses Professor of Law and International Organization Related News and Stories Read All Stories More in The Press Research and Scholarship News Beyond Unprecedented: The Post-Pandemic Economy—Season 2 From Columbia Law School and the Millstein Center, the popular podcast returns for a second season to examine the pandemic’s lingering economic effects on workers, investors, and corporations. Co-hosts Professor Eric Talley and Research Fellow Kate Waldock ’23 are joined by experts who have a knack for explaining the complex economic phenomena unfolding in a world changed by COVID-19. All episodes now available. Faculty News Full-Time Faculty Members Join Columbia Law School Law School News News Celebrating Women’s History Month In The Press Seize, Don’t Just Freeze, Putin’s Billions Michael W. Doyle | The Washington Post Admissions Why Columbia Visit 435 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 212-854-2640 Contact Us Social Media (Administrative Title) Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Instagram Admissions Academics Areas of Study Faculty & Scholarship Careers Community Life Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers Login News Events Alumni Giving About Library Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Donate © Copyright 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York.