Skip to main content Clemson University Degrees Home Degree Programs MENU Parks, Recreation and Tourism Management (B.S.) LEARN MORE ABOUT Whether it is traveling, planning events, organizing sports, creating experiences in the outdoors, working with youth or helping improve the well-being of others, a degree in parks, recreation and tourism management (PRTM) will prepare you for a rewarding career doing what you love while making a difference in your community and the lives of others. PRTM prepares students for a people-centered and community-engaged profession through experiential, hands-on learning. At the start of the program, you will spend a semester with a cohort of PRTM majors and dedicated, passionate professors organizing events, meeting area professionals, learning to communicate professionally, and collaborating on real-world business and management plans. Next, you will apply that foundation of learning to one of several career options with practicum and internship experiences that help you put the skills you have learned into practice while also building valuable industry connections. By the time you complete your degree, you will be ready for a career that will contribute to the $2.9 trillion PRTM industry while doing what you love and making a true difference in your community. Spend a career filled with adventure while creating unforgettable memories, meaningful connections and improvements in people’s health, wellness and lives. FAST FACTS Our EDGE program teaches you how to manage projects at every stage of the process — from ideas and implementation to evaluation, marketing and promotion, and cultivating partnerships. You’ll apply this business knowledge to your PRTM specialization. Our students have opportunities to build on-the-job experience through practicums and internships while earning their undergraduate degree. This engagement with industry experiences means students are ready to hit the ground running after graduation. Students have an opportunity to participate in global learning through PRTM faculty-led study abroad programs to places like Australia, Cuba and Tanzania. Our PRTM Student Success Center advisers work with you during every step of your degree and put you into engaging career-building experiences and courses that match your interests. Our graduates work in various sectors, from municipalities, visitor and convention bureaus and state and national parks to hospitals, event planning companies and youth sports. PRTM cultivates entrepreneurs seeking to make a difference in their community. WHAT YOU'LL STUDY The parks, recreation and tourism management major offers four areas of specialization. No matter which focus you choose, you will graduate knowing how to manage people and places, take an active role in the environment and apply scientific studies to everyday work. You will also have deep knowledge of the positive effects of PRTM on local, regional and national economies, communities and individual well-being. Community Recreation and Sport Management: Gain knowledge, skills and experience with planning, implementing and evaluating leisure, recreation, youth and sport programs and managing community recreation organizations. Parks, Conservation and Outdoor Recreation:Explore parks, outdoor recreation and public lands management from a visitor-centered perspective. Recreational Therapy: This allied health field creates recreation services that improve participants’ health, leisure experiences, quality of life and functional capabilities. Tourism and Event Management: Learn about the scope and scale of the travel and tourism industry, and how it can be planned and managed to support community development both locally and globally. This emphasis also includes a focus on event planning and management. Curriculum Parks, Recreation and Tourism Management: Parks, Recreation and Tourism Concentration, B.S. Parks, Recreation and Tourism Management: Recreational Therapy Concentration, B.S. Popular Minors Athletic Leadership Brand Communications Business Administration Communication Nonprofit Leadership Youth Development Studies Similar Majors Biological Sciences (B.S./B.A.) Environmental and Natural Resources (B.S.) Food Science and Human Nutrition (B.S.) Health Science (B.S.) Management (B.S.) Psychology (B.S./B.A.) Sports Communication (B.A.) Wildlife and Fisheries Biology (B.S.) EXPERIENCES BEYOND THE CLASSROOM While there is value to spending time in a classroom with your professors, our faculty fully believe that the best learning experiences for you are out in the world. It’s no secret that people attracted to parks, recreation and tourism management aren’t people who include “sitting inside” at the top of their list of favorite things to do. Therefore, our faculty have made providing outside-the-classroom learning experiences a priority. EDGE semester The EDGE semester takes you out of the classroom and into real-life applications of the fundamentals of community project management.Learn More » Study Abroad Take one of our international learning opportunities in Cuba, Australia or Tanzania.Learn More » Field Experience All PRTM students gain on-the-job experience through two 80-hour practicum courses and a 400-hour internship working for an employer in a position tied to their concentration area.Learn More » CONNECT WITH OTHER STUDENTS Clemson Event Planners Association Clemson Outdoor Recreation and Education AFTER GRADUATION Your college decision isn't really about the next four years. We get it. It's about what doors are opened by your degree and whether those opportunities are what you had envisioned for yourself. Here's a snapshot of what life after graduation looks like for some of our most recent students. WHERE OUR RECENT GRADUATES HAVE GONE KEY 41-100% 21-40% 11-20% 0-10% RECENT EMPLOYERS Director Experience Clemson Development Coordinator Pendleton Place Park Ranger United States Army Corps of Engineers Recreational Therapist White Oak Rehab Event Manager Duvall Catering & Events RECENT POSTGRADUATE STUDIES MBA Clemson University Doctor of Occupational Therapy Medical University of South Carolina J.D. Pepperdine Caruso School of Law MSW University of South Carolina M.Ed. Early Childhood Education College of Charleston COMMON CAREER AREAS Community Recreation, Sport and Camp Management Public, Private and Non-Profit Sector Athletic Director Event Management Facilities Management Youth Programming Planning Director Arts Programmer Campus Recreation Professional Camp Director Parks and Conservation Areas Management National, State and Land Management Park Staff and Rangers Historical or Cultural Interpreter Outdoor Recreation Providers Recreational Therapy Hospital Settings Rehabilitation Settings Inclusive Recreation Programs Camps Travel and Tourism Conference and Convention Planning Convention and Visitors Bureau Destination Marketing and Management Resort Operations FIND OUT MORE Have more questions or want more information? Fill out the form below, which goes directly to the following department contact. If you’d also like to receive general University information from Clemson’s admissions office, please follow the link to the right and sign up to join our mailing list. Savannah Jacobs Academic Adviser smjacob@clemson.edu Department Website College Website Loading... Department Website College Website Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2015 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on Google+ Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on YouTube Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram Search Clemson University degrees Clemson Degree Programs Search Alphabetical List Schedule a Visit Campus Life Admissions Costs & Financial Aid Similar Majors To Parks, Recreation and Tourism Management (B.S.) Biological Sciences (B.S./B.A.) Environmental and Natural Resources (B.S.) Food Science and Human Nutrition (B.S.) Health Science (B.S.) Management (B.S.) Psychology (B.S./B.A.) Sports Communication (B.A.) Wildlife and Fisheries Biology (B.S.)