Skip to content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University Department of Materials Science and Engineering Menu Toggle Search MSE Directory Giving to MSE MSE CyPoint About About the Department About MSE Accreditation Honors and Awards Meet the Chair Mission and Vision MSE Organizational Chart (PDF) MSE Partners More Resources Building Safety and Reservations Lab Safety External Advisory Council Informational Print Posting Policy (PDF) Visitors Contact Department Directory Materials Science and Engineering 2240 Hoover Hall 528 Bissell Road Ames, IA 50011 mse@iastate.edu (515) 294-1214 phone Future Students Future Undergraduate Students Degree Program Why Choose Mat E? Academic Advising Study Abroad Future Graduate Students Degree Programs Why Choose MSE? Admissions FAQ Admissions Requirements Connect with Current Students Graduate Resources Visit Iowa State More Resources Careers in MSE Student Organizations Transfer Students Current Students Undergraduate Student Resources Academic Advising Design Projects Opportunity for Grading Research Opportunities Study Abroad Graduate Student Resources Student Resources Student Achievements More Resources Career Services Commencement Reception Student Organizations Equipment & Safety MSE Mentorship Program Faculty & Staff Directory MSE Directory MSE Organizational Chart (PDF) Department Resources ABET documents Equipment & Safety Forms and Processes Governance (PDF) More Resources Communication Resources Research Support Technology Support Research Centers and Laboratories Faculty by Research Areas Research Focus Areas Corporate Senior Design Partnerships (PDF) Submit Senior Design Projects (DOC) Alumni Career Services Elements Newsletter ISU Alumni Association Giving to MSE MSE GOLD We have materials down to a science. We have materials down to a science. Materials Matter Materials engineers create new materials and improve existing materials. Everything is limited by the materials that are used to produce it. Materials engineers understand the relationship between the properties of a material and its internal structure — from the macro level down to the atomic level. The better the materials, the better the end result — it’s as simple as that. Undergraduate Degree Program Graduate Degree Programs Why Materials Engineering? Request More Info Apply to Iowa State Featured Stories Change Agent: Martin Thuo, materials science and engineering Martin Thuo and his research group have developed heat-free solder. They’ve printed electronics on rose petals. They’ve made “chameleon metals” that change surfaces in response to heat. With a bit of “metal whispering,” they’ve found a better way to recover precious metals from electronic waste. Continue reading.. REFORM plays to the tune of sustainability In the Recyclables Evolved from Offscouring Remade to Music (REFORM) project, students are working together to reduce plastic waste at Iowa State by gathering plastic materials and transforming them into durable plastic musical instruments. Continue reading… Innovators of Iowa State: Batteries of Tomorrow In the first installment of the new “Innovators of Iowa State” video series, President Wendy Wintersteen visits with Steve Martin, Distinguished Professor of materials science and engineering, who shares insights on his research to make batteries safer and longer-lasting. Continue reading.. Engineered defects in crystalline material boosts electrical performance Xiaoli Tan and a team of campus collaborators used a transmission electron microscope at the Ames Laboratory’s Sensitive Instrument Facility to study the effects of engineering defects into certain materials. Continue reading… All News New materials for nuclear reactors Trishelle Copeland-Johnson is a Ph.D. student in materials science and engineering. She was recently awarded an American Society for Nondestructive Testing Fellowship for her research in new materials for nuclear reactors. Continue reading… Upcoming Events No events All Events Our Areas of Expertise Ceramics Metals Polymers Learn More What is Materials Science and Engineering? Quick Links Advising Appointments Equipment & Safety MSE Directory Department of Materials Science and Engineering 2240 Hoover Hall 528 Bissell Road Ames, IA 50011 mse@iastate.edu (515) 294-1214 phone Copyright © 1995-2022 Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer Information Loading...