Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Ecology, Evolution and Biodiversity Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Ecology, Evolution and Biodiversity Major Apply Request More Info Ecology, Evolution and Biodiversity Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Science in Ecology, Evolution and Biodiversity Temple University’s Bachelor of Science in Ecology, Evolution and Biodiversity in the College of Science and Technology prepares students for rigorous advanced study in these fields and subsequent careers in academic, governmental or nongovernmental research institutions. The 123-credit hour bachelor’s program develops ecology, evolution and biodiversity scientists who will advance policy and research on our most pressing issues like climate change and sustainability. The fields of ecology, evolution and biodiversity are growing at a rapid pace, with a more than fourfold increase in total annual citations since 2003, exceeding the number of citations on medical research. Temple’s College of Science and Technology recognizes the demand for professionals who are knowledgeable in the fields of ecology, evolution and biodiversity. Recent investments establish Temple as a regional hub of research and instruction in these fields of study that are critical to our planet. In 2020, the college partnered with the Office of the Vice President for Research and University College to establish the Ambler Field Station, which expands opportunities for students to access environmental field research and training. You’ll build a strong foundation in theory, empirical approaches and quantitative methods while learning the following core tenets of biology. The biochemical and biophysical principles that underlie living organisms. The principal levels of organization of living organisms. The principles that govern interaction between and within cells, tissues and organisms. Study the major principles of ecology, evolution and biodiversity, such as evolution by natural selection and generation of diversity and proliferation. Develop the skills to critically evaluate experimental data and become familiar with computational and laboratory procedures. Communicate using electronic, oral and written media, and understand attribution and acknowledgement of sources. Classes & Curriculum The curriculum for the Ecology, Evolution and Biodiversity BS consists of program requirements, general education, a first-year seminar and two writing intensive courses. All coursework for this graduate degree program are offered on Temple’s Main Campus with the exception of the Field Research Community Ecology elective which takes place on Ambler Campus. Required courses include the following. Advanced Study in Biology Chemistry or Honors Chemistry I and II and Chemistry Laboratory I and II Evolution Genetics Introduction to Cellular and Molecular Biology Introduction to Organismal Biology Organic Chemistry or Honors Organic Chemistry I and Organic Chemistry Laboratory I Principles of Ecology Learn more about Ecology, Evolution and Biodiversity BS courses. Related Graduate Degrees Biology MS Biology PhD Biotechnology PSM Geoscience PhD Scientific Writing PSM Related Graduate Certificates Scientific Writing Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Science offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $20,568.00 per year Out-of-state: $33,792.00 per year Our Academic Advisors Center for Academic Advising and Professional Development The Center for Academic Advising and Professional Development in the College of Science and Technology helps you navigate New Student Orientation, advises on specific degree programs and courses, provides post-graduation guidance, and offers peer support. You can also be matched with a qualified student ambassador/ombudsperson who will further assist with degree and academic questions or concerns. Learn more about the Center for Academic Advising and Professional Development's academic advisors and student ambassadors/ombudspersons. Program Contact Erik Cordes is a professor in the College of Science and Technology. Phone: 215-204-4067 Email: erik.cordes@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Student clubs and organizations in the College of Science and Technology provide opportunities to meet with peers, network with professionals or scientists in your field of study, and learn about internship opportunities. The College of Science and Technology offers 15 major clubs and 12 prehealth clubs for undergraduate students. Enhance your academic study and social life by participating in a club related to your major or interests. Students pursuing a Biology degree may be interested in the following clubs and organizations. The Alliance for Minority Participation in STEM works to increase opportunities for students and help them complete their undergraduate and graduate degrees in STEM fields. The Biology Society helps students find and understand their career opportunities in the field. Leadership, Education and Development in Science empowers Philadelphia middle school students to take an interest in STEM through mentor-led science experiments. The Temple University Forensics Association helps students form an interest in forensic science through field trips and professional networking opportunities. The Undergraduate Neuroscience Society welcomes students interested in neuroscience to meet and discuss related topics, as well as find volunteer and career opportunities. Explore the full list of College of Science and Technology student clubs and organizations. Study Away Deepen your understanding of your math, natural science or computer science coursework by experiencing firsthand how such disciplines are studied overseas. Temple’s study abroad program offers College of Science and Technology students opportunities to spend a summer or semester studying in Germany, Italy, Japan and Spain. Learn more about your options for studying away. College of Science and Technology undergraduate students can also take part in international research. These opportunities include the following external scholarship programs. The Benjamin Gilman International Scholarship provides funding for underrepresented students to study in nontraditional destinations such as Australia and Eastern Europe. The Boren Scholarship Summer STEM Initiative offers undergraduate STEM majors opportunities to participate in a language-intensive program. The Indian Institute of Science Education and Research and Temple offer opportunities for students in biology, chemistry and physics programs to work in research groups in Pune, India, over the summer. The Siena Biomedical Research Program provides the opportunity for students to spend their summer working full time in a biotechnology and pathology lab based in Tuscany, Italy. The Sicily Applied Biotechnology Program allows students to learn the biological basis behind the technology used for art conservation and then apply that knowledge in the laboratory and in the field. Learn more about study abroad programs for College of Science and Technology students. Accreditation As a division within Temple University, the College of Science and Technology is accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. ST-EEB-BS Additional Program Information Visit College Site Go back to AcademicsMore in Ecology, Evolution and Biodiversity Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info