HOME Make a Gift Clemson Home Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift Toggle navigation ABOUT CSL&E ACCEPTED STUDENTS Welcome Week Orientation Orientation Ambassadors CURRENT STUDENTS Leadership and Service Student Organizations Student Involvement FAMILY PROGRAMS FACULTY & STAFF COMMUNITY MEMBERS Student Orgs Home Organization Resources Student Organization Category List Student Organization Consultants Tiger Prowl How to Find Involvement Opportunities How to Start a Student Organization Advisor Resources Contact How to Start a Student Organization Registration Registration is required for student organizations which hope to access the benefits and privileges associated with registering a student organization with Clemson. Registering an organization with Clemson means that the organization agrees to abide by all relevant Clemson policies, including the student organization policy, the facility use policy and the student code of conduct. Registration New & Inactive Student Organization Registration: April 1-Oct. 29, 2022 Spring Registration: All Student Organization Dates TBD Who should register? New organizations * Inactive organizations * Registered organizations which want to renew their registration New organizations * Inactive organizations * Additional requirements *New and inactive organizations must schedule a meeting with a Student Organization Consultant before October 1 to be eligible for registration and re-registration. *New and inactive organizations must schedule a meeting with CSLE by January 20 to be eligible for registration in this period. Where do organizations register? During the registration periods listed above, the registration portal will be live at https://clemson.campuslabs.com/engage/register What you need to get started? At least 6 Clemson undergraduate, graduate or Bridge student members. Recognition of Clemson policies. Various categories may have additional requirements. Review the student organization policy for more details. Student Organization Policy Student organizations may register at Clemson University during set periods to access many benefits, including using TigerQuest to engage members and manage the organization, advertising and reserving space on campus, requesting funding from the Student Funding Board and collaborating with Student Involvement and Leadership team during the creation and existence of your organization. Learn more about student organizations at Clemson by reading the Student Organization Policy. Student organizations may register in one of three categories. Please view these categories below, and review the student organization policy for more information. Student organizations that seek registration agree to abide by Clemson’s policies, including that no organization may use Clemson brand marks without written consent. Even with permission to use brand marks, no ISO or IC may use “Clemson University” or “CU” in their name, marketing or materials, whether printed or digital, but they may use “Clemson” or “Tigers.” Learn more about the student organization categories in the student organization policy and in the table below. Information about Student Organization Categories Information about Student Organization Categories Category Independent Student Organization (ISO) Independent Council (IC) Delegated Student Organization (DSO) Features Most of the 500+ student organizations at Clemson are ISOs. ISOs may voluntarily affiliate with ICs. Given certain limited authority to carry out University tasks. Mandatory for Registration 6 Clemson undergraduate, graduate or Bridge students Recognition of policies 6 Clemson undergraduate, graduate or Bridge students Recognition of policies 6 Clemson undergraduate, graduate or Bridge students Recognition of policies Advisor Constitution Information about traveling, if applicable Information about on-campus finances Reserving Space Eligible to reserve shared spaces, but not eligible to reserve private offices. Eligible to reserve shared spaces. Eligible to reserve private offices based on availability. Eligible to reserve shared spaces. Eligible to reserve private offices based on availability. What are the benefits of becoming a registered student organization? Participate in Tiger Prowl and other events through Student Involvement and Leadership Reserve space and advertise on campus. For more information, review the Facilities Use Policy Use TigerQuest, the online management platform for student organizations, which you can use to manage your membership, finances, elections, events, marketing and documents Request funding from the Student Funding Board; graduate student organizations may request funding form the Graduate Student Government Sponsor fundraising on campus. Read Sales and Solicitation Guidelines. Read more benefits here, including sharing events through GSG & CUSG listservs! Where can I learn more? Review our guides for student organizations in the resource library. CONTACT DIVISION OF STUDENT AFFAIRS 202 Sikes Hall, Clemson, SC Copyright 2020 Webmaster