Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Graduate Student Government Grad Student Government right arrow down arrow About us right arrow down arrow GSG Executive Board GSG Constitution right arrow down arrow GSG Bylaws GSG Member Groups List Awards right arrow down arrow Group Budget Awards Group & Community Grant Awards Conference Awards GSG Excellence Awards right arrow down arrow Graduate Student Risk Management Awareness Award GSG Research Fellowship Awards Presidential Medal of Graduate Student Excellence Talk to Us Programs right arrow down arrow Graduate Student Orientation and Welcome right arrow down arrow GSA Officer Orientation Home » Campus Life » Graduate Student Government Graduate Student Government The Graduate Student Government (GSG) is the primary organization representing all Graduate students attending the University of Cincinnati. As an organization run by graduate students for graduate students, the GSG acts as a liaison between the University administration and the Graduate student body and strives to make the graduate student experience as beneficial as possible to students and the University. Awards Signature Programs About Us Stay Connected Stay connected with us by signing up for our weekly newsletter, following us on social media, or visiting our office located on the 6th floor of Steger Student Life Center. We are directly above Starbucks and can be accessed quickly by the elevator located outside and inside of Starbucks or the outdoor stairwell. Accessible Route: Enter Steger Student Life Center through the entrance (with automated open button) on the ground level near Student Activities and Leadership Development (SALD). Entrance is located on Mainstreet across from the Campus Recreation Center and Center Court Dining Hall. Take the elevator to the 6th floor. Turn left out of the elevator and continue down the hallway to room 683. For help finding the Steger Student Life Center, access the Campus Map. Graduate Student Government 683 Steger Student Life Center University of Cincinnati PO Box 210193 Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-6101 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Graduate Student Government 683 Steger Student Life Center University of Cincinnati PO Box 210193 Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-6101 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top