Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open the search panel Open the main menu Search Go Close the search panel Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers News Events Alumni Giving About Library Login Open the Search panel Admissions Admissions Why Columbia J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics Academics J.D. Program and Curriculum LL.M. Program and Curriculum Executive LL.M. Program and Curriculum J.S.D. Program and Curriculum Dual and Joint Degrees International Programs Public Interest and Public Service Experiential Learning Courses Registration Services Academic Calendar Executive Education Areas of Study Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Criminal Justice Data Analytics Environment and Energy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Intellectual Property and Technology International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace Leadership Legal History Litigation and Dispute Resolution National Security and Privacy Social Justice and Human Rights Faculty & Scholarship Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Directory Research Centers and Programs Scholarship Archive Workshops, Lectures, and Colloquia Careers Careers Private Sector Careers Public Interest and Public Service Careers Academic Careers Judicial Clerkships Employment Statistics Employment Policies Community Life Community Life Visit Campus Dean’s Welcome Your Campus, Your City Student Life Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Strategic Initiatives Family, Gender, and Sexuality Some of the most profound questions of justice and equality involve the ways in which the private lives of individuals intersect with modern notions of gender, sexuality, and family. Debates rage in legislatures and the courts about laws regarding issues such as adoption, reproductive rights, domestic violence, surrogacy, employment discrimination, and sexual harassment and assault. As societal norms evolve, how does the law respond to changing definitions of the family, protect minors, and ensure the rights of women and the LGBTQ+ community. Columbia Law School pioneered the study of gender and sexuality law in the 1970s, when Ruth Bader Ginsburg ’59 became the Law School’s first female full-time tenured professor and introduced the first-of-its-kind Sex Discrimination seminar. Today, students can take a wide variety of courses covering the cultural, political, and historical contexts of LGBTQ+ rights, queer theory, and sexual rights claims in domestic and international contexts along with courses on family law. Why Columbia? Study with professors who've been on the frontlines of impact litigation efforts, legislative work, and community advocacy projects. Attend programs sponsored by the Center for Gender and Sexuality Law, a respected think tank that develops innovative approaches to issues facing identity-based social movements and frequently produces amicus briefs for the U.S. Supreme Court and other jurisdictions in precedent-setting cases. Edit the student-run Columbia Journal of Gender & Law, which publishes works rooted in feminist inquiry. Related Links Explore Courses Related Faculty All Faculty Kimberle W. Crenshaw Isidor and Seville Sulzbacher Professor of Law Elizabeth F. Emens Isidor and Seville Sulzbacher Professor of Law Katherine M. Franke James L. Dohr Professor of Law Suzanne Goldberg Herbert and Doris Wechsler Clinical Professor of Law Carol Sanger Barbara Aronstein Black Professor of Law Elizabeth Scott Harold R. Medina Professor Emerita of Law Jane M. Spinak Edward Ross Aranow Clinical Professor of Law Kendall Thomas Nash Professor of Law All Faculty Listing Related Centers and Programs All Centers and Programs Center for Gender and Sexuality Law Columbia Law School established the Center for Gender and Sexuality Law as an incubator for bold new approaches to complex issues facing gender and sexual justice movements. The center is home to research projects and initiatives focused on gender, sexuality, reproductive rights, bodily autonomy, and gender identity and expression across law, policy, and professional practice. Students can supplement coursework with lectures, panel discussions, conferences, and guest speaker series on contemporary issues. Areas of Study Family, Gender, and Sexuality Center for Intersectionality and Social Policy Studies The Center for Intersectionality and Social Policy Studies examines how social structures and related identity categories, such as gender, race, and class, interact to create social inequality. Its interdisciplinary and innovative research projects and initiatives unite a diverse group of academics and advocates interested in developing effective solutions to institutional inequality. Areas of Study Family, Gender, and Sexuality Legal History Social Justice and Human Rights Studio for Law and Culture The Studio for Law and Culture at Columbia University (SLC) is an intellectual home for the study, research, and scholarship on the intersection of law and culture. In addition to hosting fellowships, events, and workshops, SLC supports projects that explore dual interpretations of the law—as both a strict institutional doctrine and as a regime for ordering social life, constructing cultural meaning, and shaping group and individual identities. Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Legal History Social Justice and Human Rights All Centers and Programs Related Experiential Learning Opportunities All Experiential Learning Externship Civil Litigation Externships Areas of Study Social Justice and Human Rights Litigation and Dispute Resolution Family, Gender, and Sexuality Law of the Workplace Externship Criminal Prosecution Externships Areas of Study Criminal Justice Family, Gender, and Sexuality Externship Economic Justice Externships Areas of Study Social Justice and Human Rights Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Externship Family and Immigration Defense Externships Areas of Study Family, Gender, and Sexuality All Experiential Learning at Columbia Law Public Interest/Public Service No matter what your area of interest, find ways to incorporate public interest and public service into your academic program and career. Academics Careers Related Student Groups and Journals Columbia Human Rights Law Review Columbia Journal of Gender and Law Columbia Law Couples and Families Association Columbia Law Feminist Society Columbia Law Women’s Association Domestic Violence Project Empowering Women of Color If/When/How - Lawyering for Reproductive Justice Outlaws Queer and Trans People of Color Related News and Stories Read All Stories More in The Press Alumni News Inside the Columbia Archives: Writing by Ruth Bader Ginsburg ’59 To honor Supreme Court Justice Ginsburg on the 25th anniversary of her investiture to the U.S. Supreme Court, Columbia Law School has published a portion of its previously private papers. Faculty News Full-Time Faculty Members Join Columbia Law School In The Press If There Was Ever a Time for the Equal Rights Amendment, It’s Now Katherine M. Franke | The Hill In The Press Planning Your Life in Post-Roe America Carol Sanger | New York Daily News Empowering Women of Color All News & Stories Empowering Women of Color: Strengthening a Growing Intersectional Community All News & Stories Admissions Why Columbia Visit 435 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 212-854-2640 Contact Us Social Media (Administrative Title) Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Instagram Admissions Academics Areas of Study Faculty & Scholarship Careers Community Life Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers Login News Events Alumni Giving About Library Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Donate © Copyright 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York.