About Our Team MBA Real Estate Program Advisory Board Real Estate Forum Annual Forum Meeting Topics A Message from Founding Director Lynne B. Sagalyn Contact Us Get Involved MBA Real Estate Program Alexander Bodini Foundation Prize Winners Students Student Events Prospective Students Fellowships & Scholarships Get Involved Employment Resources Student & Alumni Testimonials 2020-2021 Student Events Alumni Real Estate Circle Alumni Events Alumni Participation Jeff Barclay ’83 Memorial Scholarship Fund Resources for Alumni Events Real Estate Symposium 2021 Past Symposia 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Real Estate Alumni Reception Real Estate Capital Markets Conference Real Estate Alumni Career Breakfasts Real Estate Lunch Speaker Series Panel Discussions and Featured Speakers Other Events Careers in Real Estate Workshop Series Webinars Research & Media Areas of Research Public Policy Proposals Accelerated Amortization Economic Stimulus Through Refinancing Mortgage Modification Impact Publications and Working Papers Case Studies Acquisition Strategy Asset Management Development Strategy Ethics in Real Estate Portfolio & Business Strategy Real Estate Technology Restructuring, Recapitalization & Securitization Work-Outs Congressional Testimony In the Media Alumni in the Media Newsletter Debt Relief and Real Economy Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Initiatives Executive Education News CBS Real Estate Alumni Community Paul Milstein Center for Real Estate About Our Team MBA Real Estate Program Advisory Board Real Estate Forum Annual Forum Meeting Topics A Message from Founding Director Lynne B. Sagalyn Contact Us Get Involved MBA Real Estate Program Alexander Bodini Foundation Prize Winners Students Student Events Prospective Students Fellowships & Scholarships Get Involved Employment Resources Student & Alumni Testimonials 2020-2021 Student Events Alumni Real Estate Circle Alumni Events Alumni Participation Jeff Barclay ’83 Memorial Scholarship Fund Resources for Alumni Events Real Estate Symposium 2021 Past Symposia 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Real Estate Alumni Reception Real Estate Capital Markets Conference Real Estate Alumni Career Breakfasts Real Estate Lunch Speaker Series Panel Discussions and Featured Speakers Other Events Careers in Real Estate Workshop Series Webinars Research & Media Areas of Research Public Policy Proposals Accelerated Amortization Economic Stimulus Through Refinancing Mortgage Modification Impact Publications and Working Papers Case Studies Acquisition Strategy Asset Management Development Strategy Ethics in Real Estate Portfolio & Business Strategy Real Estate Technology Restructuring, Recapitalization & Securitization Work-Outs Congressional Testimony In the Media Alumni in the Media Newsletter Debt Relief and Real Economy Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Initiatives Executive Education News manhattanSkyline.jpg Building Real Estate's Intellectual Capital The mission of the Paul Milstein Center for Real Estate at Columbia Business School is to integrate theoretical and practical knowledge of real estate as it relates to the ever-changing global market for real estate finance and investment. Learn More → circleheader_2019.jpg Real Estate Circle The Columbia Business School Real Estate Circle is an exclusive alumni-only group that provides unique networking and educational events for its members. More information → VW_CBS_MPA-4546_0.jpg Real Estate Industry in the Classroom Companies value the human capital available through the MBA Real Estate Program. Through case studies, guest lectures, and Q&A, students trade insight with corporate participants, many of them important players in the field. 2019–2020 Speakers → Quick links: 2021 Real Estate Symposium Real Estate Circle Real Estate Alumni Community MBA Real Estate Program In the Media Columbia Business School with-seasonal-2 Mailing List Subscribe to the Paul Milstein Center’s newsletter to receive news and invitations. SIGN UP NOW → Program Brochure The MBA Real Estate Program’s extensive curriculum builds on the MBA core curriculum and fosters sophistication in critical thinking and complex problem solving. View brochure → Endowment The Paul Milstein Center for Real Estate is supported by the generous endowment of the Paul Milstein family with additional research support from Howard Milstein. Prospective Students Frequently Asked Questions 2017 Spotlight On: Real Estate (webinar) Current Students Join the Real Estate Association! Paul Milstein Center Events Alumni Career Breakfasts Distinguished Real Estate Speaker Lunch Series Career Panels Join the Real Estate Circle The Real Estate Circle is comprised of alumni who are positioned across all parts of the real estate industry, who come together to network, strengthen their ties to the School, participate in exclusive events, engage in the classroom, mentor students, and support the ongoing efforts of Paul Milstein Center for Real Estate. Membership currently spans almost 40 graduation years. More information → Distinguished Alumni Voices Distinguished Alumni Voices Peggy DaSilva Headshot.jpg Peggy DaSilva '83 "The advice I always give women is to stay. Read More → baker chambers, gina_headshot.jpg Gina Baker Chambers '09 "I would encourage folks to get a holistic perspective of the industry. Read More → Steven Shores '00 Steven Shores '00 "It is important to be at a place that invests in you and wants to see you grow and succeed." Read More → marshall, meredith_headshot2.jpg Meredith Marshall '92 "Your goal is to change the world. Change the structures. Disrupt everything and do it quickly." Read More → Steinwurtzel, Brian_headshot.jpg Brian Steinwurtzel '04 "Columbia is a great first step if you know you want to transition to real estate." Read More → Rhone, Neville_headshot.png Neville Rhone, Jr. '00 Neville Rhone ’00 is Co-Founder and Managing Partner of Arc Capital Partners. Read More → Wong, Julie_headshot.jpg Julie Wong '03 Julie Wong ’03 is a Partner of GreenOak, where is responsible for global capital raising. Read More → neithercut_headshot.jpg David Neithercut '82 David Neithercut ’82 is the President and Chief Executive Officer and a member of the Board of Trustees of Equity Read More → Philippe Visser '04 Philippe Visser '04 Philippe Visser ’04 is the Senior Vice President of Development, Hudson Yards, at Related. In a recent interview with Mark Abramowicz ’18, Mr. Visser discussed his background and what drew him to real estate, the allure of large, complex projects, and gave advice for current Columbia Business School students aspiring to have careers in real estate. Read More → olshan.jpg Andrea Olshan '04 Olshan Properties Andrea Olshan ‘04 serves as the Chief Executive Officer of Olshan Properties. In a recent interview with Morgan Mann '17, Ms. Olshan discussed market trends and areas of disruption, joining the family business, strategies for the future, and gave advice for current Columbia Business School students aspiring to have careers in real estate. Read More → Nicholas Bienstock headshot.jpg Nicholas Bienstock '96 Savanna Nicholas Bienstock '96 discusses trends in creative office development in Brooklyn, starting his own business, and gives advice for Columbia Business School students aspiring to have careers in real estate. Read More → photo_CiaBuckley_13.jpg Cia Buckley Marakovits '93 Dune Real Estate Partners Cia Buckley Marakovits ’93 discusses trends in the real estate industry, provides highlights of her professional experience, and gives advice to Columbia Business School students aspiring to have careers in real estate. Read More → bob_berne_image.jpg Bob Berne '62 Formerly with Milstein Properties Bob Berne ’62 discusses trends in real estate and gives advice for students aspiring to have careers in real estate. Read More → Frater-Headshot-Med 11-11.jpg Hugh Frater '85 Chief Executive Officer, Berkadia Hugh Frater ’85 discusses business strategy and opportunities, commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS), and career development. Read More → Peggy DaSilva Headshot.jpg Peggy DaSilva '83 "The advice I always give women is to stay. baker chambers, gina_headshot.jpg Gina Baker Chambers '09 "I would encourage folks to get a holistic perspective of the industry. Steven Shores '00 Steven Shores '00 "It is important to be at a place that invests in you and wants to see you grow and succeed." marshall, meredith_headshot2.jpg Meredith Marshall '92 "Your goal is to change the world. Change the structures. Disrupt everything and do it quickly." Steinwurtzel, Brian_headshot.jpg Brian Steinwurtzel '04 "Columbia is a great first step if you know you want to transition to real estate." Rhone, Neville_headshot.png Neville Rhone, Jr. '00 Neville Rhone ’00 is Co-Founder and Managing Partner of Arc Capital Partners. Wong, Julie_headshot.jpg Julie Wong '03 Julie Wong ’03 is a Partner of GreenOak, where is responsible for global capital raising. neithercut_headshot.jpg David Neithercut '82 David Neithercut ’82 is the President and Chief Executive Officer and a member of the Board of Trustees of Equity Philippe Visser '04 Philippe Visser '04 Philippe Visser ’04 is the Senior Vice President of Development, Hudson Yards, at Related. In a recent interview with Mark Abramowicz ’18, Mr. Visser discussed his background and what drew him to real estate, the allure of large, complex projects, and gave advice for current Columbia Business School students aspiring to have careers in real estate. olshan.jpg Andrea Olshan '04 Olshan Properties Andrea Olshan ‘04 serves as the Chief Executive Officer of Olshan Properties. In a recent interview with Morgan Mann '17, Ms. Olshan discussed market trends and areas of disruption, joining the family business, strategies for the future, and gave advice for current Columbia Business School students aspiring to have careers in real estate. Nicholas Bienstock headshot.jpg Nicholas Bienstock '96 Savanna Nicholas Bienstock '96 discusses trends in creative office development in Brooklyn, starting his own business, and gives advice for Columbia Business School students aspiring to have careers in real estate. photo_CiaBuckley_13.jpg Cia Buckley Marakovits '93 Dune Real Estate Partners Cia Buckley Marakovits ’93 discusses trends in the real estate industry, provides highlights of her professional experience, and gives advice to Columbia Business School students aspiring to have careers in real estate. bob_berne_image.jpg Bob Berne '62 Formerly with Milstein Properties Bob Berne ’62 discusses trends in real estate and gives advice for students aspiring to have careers in real estate. Frater-Headshot-Med 11-11.jpg Hugh Frater '85 Chief Executive Officer, Berkadia Hugh Frater ’85 discusses business strategy and opportunities, commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS), and career development. News GSB News May 25, 2022 2022 Alexander Bodini Foundation Competition Winners by Daniel Vasserman '22 This year marked the twenty-third anniversary of the Alexander Bodini Foundation Competition, which was held in-person for the first time in three years at the school’s new Manhattanville campus. May 9, 2022 WX Announces 2022 Scholars, 4 Columbia Business School Real Estate Students Selected April 30, 2022 | Poets and Quants High & Low Real Estate MBA Salaries at the Top 25 B-Schools April 7, 2022 | CNN What a Real Estate Bubble Would Mean for Homebuyers February 16, 2022 Introducing New Members of the Real Estate Circle January 7, 2022 2021 Real Estate Symposium Keynote Conversation #2 Report: How Culture Eats Strategy for Breakfast by Katie Hogan '22 January 7, 2022 2021 Real Estate Symposium Keynote #1 Report: How Real Estate and Physical Space Utilization are Evolving By Michael Beer ’23 and Christine Yang '23 Diane Hoskins, Co-CEO and Chairperson of Gensler joins the 2021 Annual Real Estate Symposium as keynote speaker sharing trends in the design profession. The conversation was moderated by Ross Smotrich ’83 Principal at RE Strategic Advisors. January 7, 2022 2021 Real Estate Symposium Spotlight Presentation Report: Risk and Impact of the Climate Crisis on Real Estate By Jack Davis ’22 and Gianmarco Rea ’22 October 12, 2021 Real Estate Association Elects 2021-2022 AVPs The Columbia Business School Real Estate Association (REA) is pleased to announce the AVPs for the 2021-22 academic year. The officers were elected by the REA membership. Meet the Board! September 28, 2021 Introducing New September 2021 Members of the Real Estate Circle Make a Gift About Us Directories RSS Feeds Hiring Media Inquiries Contact Us Directions Follow on Twitter instagram Like on Facebook Follow on YouTube Connect on LinkedIn © Columbia University Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 212-854-1100 Privacy and Policy Statements Return to Top