Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni COVID-19 Ongoing Operations Forward Arrow Ongoing Operations Living and Learning on Campus Working on Campus Visiting Campus Prospective and Admitted Students COVID-19 Research Back Arrow Back Medical Guidance Forward Arrow Medical Guidance If You're Sick If You Test Positive If You're Exposed Back Arrow Back Vaccine Information COVID-19 Testing Forward Arrow COVID-19 Testing COVID-19 Dashboard Wastewater Dashboard Testing Data For Research Back Arrow Back FAQs Current Updates Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close COVID-19 Ongoing Operations show submenu for Ongoing Operations Living and Learning on Campus Working on Campus Visiting Campus Prospective and Admitted Students COVID-19 Research Medical Guidance show submenu for Medical Guidance If You're Sick If You Test Positive If You're Exposed Vaccine Information COVID-19 Testing show submenu for COVID-19 Testing COVID-19 Dashboard Wastewater Dashboard Testing Data For Research FAQs Current Updates Clemson Home COVID-19 Current: FAQs Frequently Asked Questions This guidance is based on currently available data and on the recommendations of public health experts and is subject to evolve as conditions continue to change. MASKS AND FACE COVERINGS Are masks or face coverings required in Clemson University facilities? Face masks are NOT required in University facilities with the exception of in medical facilities and testing sites and on public transportation (CATBus, TigerTransit). Note that individuals exiting isolation and quarantine are still required to mask for five days. While no longer required for all other individuals, masks are encouraged in instructional areas (classrooms, instructional labs) and research labs. Free N95 masks, which have been shown to provide the strongest protection against infection, are now freely available for pickup at pharmacies statewide. Furthermore, KN95 masks are still available for pickup at Vickery Hall. Are masks or face coverings required in all City of Clemson facilities? For updates related to requirements for the City of Clemson, visit COVID-19 Updates. What types of masks are acceptable for use? Compliance with the Health and Safety Directive: Masking permits the use of N95s, KN95s, disposable masks, surgical masks, cloth masks, etc. What should I do if I observe a student/employee/contractor/visitor not following Clemson's health and safety directives? Everyone should take collective responsibility for reminding others of important preventative measures. Should you see someone not following our health and safety directives, take a moment to kindly remind them of the requirement. If they do not comply, ask them to leave the space. As a last resort, if you encounter individuals who repeatedly fail to adhere to Clemson’s health and safety directives, their non-compliance can be reported to the following offices: Students – Office of Community & Ethical Standards Employees – staffrelations@clemson.edu or facultyrelations@clemson.edu Contractors - Procurement Ethics and Safety Line Should an emergency situation develop, call 911 for assistance. TESTING AND TESTING REQUIREMENTS Who needs to be tested? Those who need to be tested and testing details are offered in the Ongoing Testing Requirements. If I am fully vaccinated and become symptomatic, do I need to get tested? Yes. Individuals should be tested if they become symptomatic even after vaccination. What should I do if I am showing as Not Cleared in the COVID-19 Clearance Status Tool? To ensure compliance with the Ongoing Testing Requirements and that your on-campus tests are applied to your clearance throughout the semester, check your QR code. It should have numbers and only CAPITAL letters above the barcode. If your QR code has lowercase letters, follow the additional steps in the COVID-19 Test: QR Code Update article. What are the likelihoods of false negative or false positive results for the PCR test the University is using?  Unlike some other testing protocols, Clemson uses a quantitative PCR test. The cycle cutoff for a positive result corresponds to about 1,000 viral copies per milliliter, which is recommended by the CDC. Some false negatives may be seen at the very early stages of infection when the viral load is low; however, false positives are almost nonexistent.  The link to register for a test at main campus through  Rymedi  is not working; can you share the correct one?   Visit the University’s Testing Login page if you need to register for a test at the University’s testing site at main campus. General Vaccination Information Are COVID-19 vaccines required? At this time, Clemson is not requiring all employees or students to be vaccinated. To comply with the executive order related to federal contracts, Clemson University is requiring those individuals who are designated as covered employees under the mandate to either: How do I submit proof of vaccination? You can upload your vaccine card via the COVID-19 Vaccine Upload Tool. We request that you upload your card after receiving each dose, rather than waiting until you have received both. Please be sure to upload your booster vaccination information also. Where can I view my current vaccine status according to University records, or my prior vaccine uploads. You can view this information on the “Vaccination Status” section of the front page of the COVID-19 Vaccine Upload Tool. Where can I get vaccinated? Information on where to get vaccinated is available on the University’s Vaccine Information page. ACCESSING UNIVERSITY FACILITIES Will I lose my access to buildings during the period of time I am in isolation or quarantine? Yes, you will lose your access during periods you are subject to isolation or quarantine. ISOLATION AND QUARANTINE I was exposed to someone who is COVID positive, but am fully vaccinated; am I required to quarantine? For complete information on what to do if you were exposed to someone who tested positive for COVID-19, refer to ’If You’re Exposed to COVID-19’ on the University’s COVID-19 resource site. I am in isolation or quarantine protocol; how do I keep up with my academic obligations? First, complete a Notification of Absence that can be sent to your professors, letting them know of your situation. Consider reaching out to professors or teaching assistants over Zoom to ask for guidance. Utilize resources available through the Academic Success Center and check Canvas for class notes, announcements or assignments that may have been posted. If I am fully vaccinated and test positive, do I need to isolate? Yes. You should not visit private or public settings if you have tested positive for COVID-19 in the prior 10 days or are experiencing COVID-19 symptoms. SAFETY COMPLIANCE What should I do if I know a student/employee/contractor/visitor has tested positive or been exposed to COVID-19 and has not reported it? If you know someone has tested positive and has yet to report it, share the reporting expectations and resources with that person. To report a positive COVID-19 test or close contact with someone who tested positive: Students call Redfern Health Center (864-656-3571). Employees call the Sullivan Center (864-656-1218). Contractors/Vendors communicate with their University point of contact. If the individual who tested positive fails to comply with reporting guidelines, report this information to the offices listed below: Students – Office of Community & Ethical Standards Employees – staffrelations@clemson.edu or facultyrelations@clemson.edu Contractors - Procurement Ethics and Safety Line FACULTY AND STAFF Where can instructors, faculty and staff easily access the University’s COVID-19 information? Our Clemson—stories about programs and initiatives, including pandemic related activities Resources and Updates—operations and directives Dashboards Face coverings, masking (including for instructors in classrooms) All policies Where can instructors, faculty and staff easily access COVID-related HR questions? Visit the COVID-19 Resources for Staff and Faculty page on the Human Resources websitefor information about: Sick or Exposed? Employee Support Supervisor Guidance for Covid Positive Tests/Exposure Additional Resources Employee FAQs Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson