Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Geospatial Data Science Certificate (Graduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Geospatial Data Science Certificate (Graduate) Apply Request More Info Geospatial Data Science Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Geospatial Data Science Graduate Certificate Develop proficiency in data science and programming tools with the Graduate Certificate in Geospatial Data Science in Temple University’s College of Liberal Arts. This 12-credit certificate program’s curriculum focuses specifically on location-based data. The Geospatial Data Science Graduate Certificate is designed for data science professionals seeking to enhance their geospatial analysis skills and for current graduate students in public health, sociology and environmental science programs. It can also serve as a gateway to the Geospatial Data Science Professional Science Master’s. Drawing on computer science, engineering, math, spatial science and statistics, the certificate’s coursework explores geographic analysis, solutions that help advance science and society, and solutions to location-based problems. You’ll study big data handling, data mining, geospatial analytics and machine learning, as well as core data science competencies and industry-standard tools. Housed in the Department of Geography and Urban Studies, this graduate certificate program emphasizes faculty expertise in cartography, geographic information systems, remote sensing, machine learning, spatial data science, spatial statistics and urban analytics. Demand for data scientists is increasing as many industries rely on geospatial analysis to inform decision-making within their organizations. Program Format & Curriculum All classes for the Geospatial Data Science Certificate (Graduate) are held after 4:30 p.m. on Temple’s Main Campus. Students in the certificate program can transfer all 12 credits into Temple’s Geospatial Data Science Professional Science Master’s program if they apply to the master’s program prior to completing their fourth and final course in the certificate. Students have up to four years to earn the certificate. The curriculum includes the following required courses. Geovisualization or Statistics for Urban Spatial Analysis Big Geospatial Data Students complete the graduate certificate by choosing two electives from any of the required or elective courses in the Geospatial Data Science Professional Science Master’s program, including Advanced Remote Sensing, Applied Machine Learning for Spatial Data Students, Geosimulation, GIS Application Development, GIS Programming, Remote Sensing and Spatial Database Design. Learn more about Geospatial Data Science Certificate (Graduate) courses. Careers Geospatial data science is an emerging field. The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics predicts faster-than-average job growth for cartographers and photogrammetrists—both careers that leverage geospatial data science. Graduates are prepared for jobs in technology-based sectors, government and nonprofit organizations. They are prepared to pursue careers in the following areas. Agriculture Cartography Climate adaptation Education Healthcare Human security Marketing Retail and business location Social services Spatial epidemiology Transportation Urban and environmental planning Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Graduate Certificate offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $966.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,329.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Program Contact For questions regarding the Graduate Certificate in Geospatial Data Science, contact the following staff member. Hamil Pearsall is the graduate chair of the Department of Geography and Urban Studies. Phone: 215-204-3074 Email: hamil.pearsall@temple.edu Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-GSDS-GRAD Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Geospatial Data Science Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info