Skip to main content Columbia University Home Search form Search Our Services Adult Programs Current Adult Learners & Teachers ESOL High School Equivalency (TASC) CUNY Assessment Test Preparation College Road Job Road CAFE Prep Student Pre-Registration Form Volunteer Registration Form Youth Programs Emergency Services Health Student Executive Board Our Supporters Support Community Impact Giving Tuesday CI Endowment Campaign Community Impact Alumni Organization (CIAO) Sharing Our Stories Benefit About Us Mission History Leadership Our Impact News & Events Contact Our Opportunities Work Study Job Opportunities Van Amson Service Fellowship Volunteering Donate Home Our Opportunities Van Amson Service Fellowship Apply for the GVA Fellowship Apply for the GVA Fellowship Our Opportunities Work Study Job Opportunities Van Amson Service Fellowship Apply for the Fellowship! Frequently Asked Questions Van Amson Fellows & Partners Volunteering Support CI Today! Your support allows us to bring high-quality services to the Morningside Heights and Washington Heights communities. Learn More Learn more about our programs! Learn about the work 900 volunteers do under the Community Impact umbrella. Read about our 27 programs The 2022 application deadline is March 27, 2022 at 11:59PM ET. GVA Fellowship opportunities are available in three areas. Students must secure an internship prior to applying for the fellowship: The GVA Public Interest Fellow works at a local NYC nonprofit organization in a project- or research-based internship capacity The GVA Community Impact Brinkley Fellow will work at Community Impact on a self-initiated project or research that fulfills a specific organizational need The GVA Faculty Service Learning Fellow will assist a faculty member in the development and research of a service-learning project to be offered as part of a fall 2022 course Application Requirements: The application includes four parts that must be submitted at one time. You cannot save and return to your application. Only fill in when you have collected the following materials: Applicant and Internship Information Name and contact information for two Professional, Academic and/or Community References Project Statement relevant to the fellowship for which you are applying Current Resume (uploaded as an attachment to the application) In addition to the application, employer verification forms are due March 27, 2022. *If you require summer campus housing, you must apply separately through Barnard's Summer Housing Application. Due date tbd. Application Materials: 2022 GVA Application 2022 GVA Employer Verification Form Applicants will be evaluated on the following criteria: Impact of the organization on the community Impact of the fellowship project within the organization Impact of the project on the Fellow Project’s alignment with Community Impact’s mission to advance the public good and instill the importance of life-long service Applicant’s passion for the project and depth of understanding about how the project influences broader social change The first information session will take place over Zoom on Friday, February 25, 2022 from 12:00pm ET. The second session will be in-person at Earl Hall on Friday, March 4, 2022 from 3:00-4:00pm ET. Register for a session here. For more information, contact [email protected]. For more information, visit the Frequently Asked Questions page. 105 Earl Hall, 2980 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 212-854-1492 | [email protected] Our Services Adult Programs Current Adult Learners & Teachers ESOL High School Equivalency (TASC) CUNY Assessment Test Preparation College Road Job Road CAFE Prep Student Pre-Registration Form Volunteer Registration Form Youth Programs Emergency Services Health Student Executive Board Our Supporters Support Community Impact Giving Tuesday CI Endowment Campaign Community Impact Alumni Organization (CIAO) Sharing Our Stories Benefit About Us Mission History Leadership Our Impact News & Events Contact Our Opportunities Work Study Job Opportunities Van Amson Service Fellowship Apply for the Fellowship! Frequently Asked Questions Van Amson Fellows & Partners Volunteering Donate Follow us Facebook Twitter Copyright © Copyright Community Impact at Columbia University Site by Site by Bureau for Good