Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home All Services Problem-Solving Drop-in Problem-Solving Drop-in Need to talk about everyday life concerns impacting your emotional well-being? Problem-Solving drop-in is an opportunity to talk with a mental health professional about a specific situation that is causing emotional stress. Often a single conversation may help you gain clarity and find ways to address it. Problem-Solving drop-in is intended to be a one-time visit with a CPS provider. When you come to a Problem-Solving drop-in, your provider will work with you to understand the situation and help you develop a plan to address the problem. This may include connecting you to other campus resources that can help you along the way. Among the typical problems discussed in these sessions are relationship problems, adjustment to campus life, career concerns, acculturation, or anxiety about academics. These sessions are available to Columbia students who have paid the full Columbia Health and Related Services Fee. If you are already seeing a CPS provider, please call 212-854-2878 to determine the best course of action based on your treatment plan or visit our Coping Tools page. Please note that Problem-Solving drop-in is a supplementary support that is not intended to substitute for traditional counseling or other appropriate treatment options. If you are seeking ongoing counseling or psychiatric care, please call 212-854-2878 during regular business hours to arrange an initial phone consultation that will help guide you to the resource that is right for you. How to access Problem-Solving drop-in Problem-Solving drop-in is walk-in only. Students are seen on a first-come, first-served basis. See below for hours and locations We are committed to maintaining our posted office hours, however options may occasionally become unavailable due to unforeseen circumstances. As needed, your drop-in provider may refer you to individual therapy, support groups, or urgent drop-in counseling so that you get the appropriate support. 613 Jerome Greene Hall (Law School) Mondays, 6:00 PM to 8:00 PM Wednesdays, 4:00 to 8:00 PM 610 IAB (International Affairs Building) Thursdays, 11:00 AM to 1:00 PM (starting February 3) 502 Lerner Hall (multicultural concerns only) Thursdays, 5:30 PM to 7:00 PM CPS has a number of providers with a specialty in multicultural concerns. Visit the Multicultural Concerns page to see a list and schedule an appointment with one of these providers. Undergraduate Residence Halls Note: graduate students will not be able to access drop-in located in undergraduate residence halls. 100 Carman Hall Wednesdays, 2:00 PM to 4:00 PM 102 Broadway Hall Thursdays, 2:30 PM to 4:30 PM 600 W 113th, Room 2BB Mondays, 3:30 PM to 5:30 PM Sexual and Gender Identity drop-in The Sexual and Gender Identity Team hosts drop-in hours at Lerner 502 on Thursdays from 5:00 PM – 8:00 PM. Check-in closes at 7:30 PM. Sessions are first-come, first-served. When you check in, please tell the reception staff that you are here for the sexual and gender identity drop-in. Other ways to get support Columbia University has many resources to help you have a positive university experience. Consider speaking with a Health Promotion Specialist at Alice! Health Promotion. Drop by in-person from 3 PM - 5 PM on Tuesdays and Wednesdays, virtually from 5 PM - 7 PM on Tuesdays and Wednesdays, or email [email protected] to make an appointment. You can discuss a variety of topics aimed at prioritizing your well-being including, but not limited to: improving sleep, managing stress, or reducing harm related to alcohol or substance use. For general questions about your overall health, visit Go Ask Alice! For resources regarding relationships and sexual respect, visit the Sexual Respect Initiative To discuss sexual health or to learn about HIV/STI testing, visit GHAP (Gay Health Advocacy Project) at Columbia Health Medical Services To learn about nutrition and eating habits, visit our Nutrition page or make an appointment to see the Nutritionist at Medical Services To explore your faith and spirituality, visit the Office of the University Chaplain To learn about your substance abuse habits, take the alcohol self-assessment or the marijuana self-assessment For resources to help you sleep better, visit our Sleep page For more resources, see Alice! Health Promotion’s Links to Success Need help with weekend or late night distress? Check out our Coping Tools page for various digital services, mobile apps, and online resources outside our regular hours of operation. Our limited podcast series, Invisible and On Stage, provides an open conversation around racism-related stress, identity, and community, and the way they impact mental health. Listen now! The entire Columbia Health team, photographed in Lerner Hall. Click the image to see a larger version. Columbia Health Alice! Health Promotion Disability Services Counseling and Psychological Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Immunization Compliance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response All Columbia Health offices are closed on University Holidays. Annual Report Columbia Health Annual Report Stay Connected Receive important news and event info from Columbia Health Columbia Health Events Join us for workshops, panel discussions, skill-building opportunities, and other events! Accessibility Accommodations Columbia Health makes every effort to accommodate individuals with disabilities. If you require disability accommodations to attend an event sponsored by Columbia Health, or by the University, contact Disability Services at 212-854-2388 at least 10 days in advance of the event. 212-854-2284 [email protected] Health Unit Counseling and Psychological Services Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close