Skip to content Search Search Close Search Cornell University About ILR Who We Are About ILR Founding Faculty Alumni People at ILR Catherwood Library Faculty and Staff Resources Where We Are Cornell ILR in NYC Cornell in Buffalo Conference Centers News & Publications Research News ILR Review ILR Press Programs & Admissions Undergraduate Program Undergraduate Admissions Curriculum Requirements Tuition and Aid Apply Graduate Programs Master of Industrial and Labor Relations (MILR) The Executive Master of Human Resource Management (EMHRM) Program Doctoral Program MILR / MBA Dual Degree Program Professional Education Professional Workshops, Courses, and Training Certificate Programs Senior Leader Programs Customized Professional Programs Current Students Student Success Diversity and Inclusion Student Support Career Services Consider Graduate Schools ILR Commencement Beyond the Classroom Student Research Research Fellowships International Opportunities Credit and Non-Credit Internships Student Organizations Academic Resources ILR Class Enrollment and Course Information Academic Policies Resources for Graduate Students Faculty & Research Our Faculty Faculty Academic Departments Areas of Expertise Our Research & Publications ILR Review ILR Press Centers & Institutes Conducting Research Student Research Catherwood Library Public Impact Leadership & Professional Training Senior Leader Programs Certificate Programs Professional Education Research & Insights Centers & Institutes ILR Press DigitalCommons@ILR Student Engagement Research Fellowships Credit and Non-Credit Internships Global Service Learning Alumni Make an Impact Giving to ILR Make a Gift ILRAA Alumni Association Alumni Chapters ILR Alumni Association Board of Directors Learn More About Alumni Alumni Profiles Groat and Alpern Awards Toggle Searchers People at ILR Home People at ILR Esta Bigler people / faculty Esta Bigler Director of NYC Government Relations Labor and Employment Law Overview Esta R. Bigler, Esq., is Director of Cornell University ILR’s Labor and Employment Law Program, the Criminal Justice and Employment Initiative, and the Cornell Project for Records Assistance. Ms. Bigler uses her extensive background in labor and employment law to convene conferences and forums studying current and emerging legal issues impacting employment, with the goal of influencing legislation and public policy decisions. A major focus of her work is the use of criminal records as a screening device for employment, the impact of employment on reducing recidivism, employer attitudes toward hiring people with criminal records, and the collateral consequences of incarceration. Since beginning to work in the area of reducing barriers to employment of people with criminal records in 2008, the Labor and Employment Law Program has brought together stakeholder to discuss, analyze, and propose best practices on the issue of employment of people who have been involved in the criminal justice system, the mitigation of criminal records, and collateral consequences such as licensing bans. To expand this work, Ms. Bigler founded the Criminal Justice and Employment Initiative, which has held national conferences, focus groups, education programs, direct training, and developed informational websites and brochures. Ms. Bigler is Chair, New York State Apprenticeship Council; Executive Director, Cornell Criminal Records Panel Study; Member, Cornell Prison Education Program Advisory Board; Member, College of Labor and Employment Lawyers; Chair, NYC Chapter, ILR Alumni Association; and President, Prospect Park South Neighborhood Association. Ms. Bigler earned her J.D. from Georgetown University Law Center and B.S. from Cornell ILR. Publications Journal Articles Esta R Bigler. 1992. Review of Women, Minorities and Unions in the Public Sector, Industrial and Labor Relations Review . 45(2):382-384. Conference Proceedings Esta R Bigler. 1990. The Changing Workforce and Its Effects on Unions. in Proceedings of the New York University 43rd Annual Conference on Labor. Boston MA, United States: Little, Brown, and Co., 1990. Professional Activities Lois Gray. Presented to WI Lois Gray Labor Innovation Initiative. Virtual. 2021. Moderated panel with speakers Helen Missenbaum, Professor, Cornell Tech; JP Pollack, Sr. Researcher in Residence, Cornell Tech; Nathaniel Hupert, Internist/Researcher in Public Health, Weill Cornell Medicine. Presented to eCornell Keynotes and SC Johnson School of Management. Virtual. 2020. Labor and Employment Law and Worker Rights. Presented to Worker Institute. Virtual. 2020. Contact 16 East 34th St 4th Floor 212-340-2865 erb4@cornell.edu Areas of Expertise Affirmative action Collective Bargaining Discrimination Employment law and policy Fair employment practices Labor law Learning disabilities National Labor Relations Act/Board Worker and management rights Other Areas of Expertise Trade Union Administration About ILR News Dean's Statements Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Founding Faculty People at ILR Faculty Contact Us ILR School Map News at ILR ILR Events About ILR ILRie Alumni Magazine ILR Brand Coronavirus Resources and Updates Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Privacy policy Directory Centers and Institutes Catherwood Library Conference Centers College map For faculty and staff Contact Us at ILR Web Accessibility LinkedIn Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube © 2022 Cornell University | ILR School