Skip to content Facilities Management Submit a Work Order Alerts & Outages About Us Search Campus Life Campus Life Getting to and Around Campus On-Campus Housing 50 Haven Athletic Center Energy & Sustainability Augustus C. Long Health Sciences Library Student Health on Haven Faculty Club Public Safety Smoke-Free CUIMC On-Campus Housing Apply for On-Campus Housing Prospective Residents Current Residents Our Residences Housing Resources About Us 50 Haven Athletic Center We are open from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m., Monday through Friday only. Get More Information Facilities Services Facilities Services COVID-19 Submit and Check on Work Orders A-Z of Services Rates for Chargeable Services Resources for Researchers Event Support Moving Offices or Labs Checklist Supported Buildings Capital Infrastructure Other Services at CUIMC Contact Us COVID-19 Facilities Management and Campus Services is taking additional measures around campus to support basic operations. Learn How We Are Protecting the Campus Classroom Resources Classroom Resources Space Reservations Classroom Technology and Equipment Accessibility in the Classroom Student Lockers Training Calendar Contact Us Space Reservations Room Policies and Support List of Available Rooms 25Live Event Scheduler Capital Projects Capital Projects Our Projects Haven Plaza Request a Capital Project CARE Crew For Vendors and Contractors FAQ Contact Us Our Projects We are continuously renovating, building upon, and improving CUIMC's historic campus as a center for excellence and healing. View Our Projects Fire and Life Safety Fire and Life Safety Fire Safety Regulatory Compliance Contractor Safety Accessibility Gender-Neutral Restrooms Asbestos Maintenance Emergency Management Smoke-Free CUIMC FAQ Contact Us Fire Safety Columbia University Irving Medical Center's fire safety team keeps our community safe from fire. Learn About Fire Safety You are here Home > Campus Life > Getting to and Around Campus > CUIMC Parking Getting to and Around Campus CUIMC Parking CUIMC Parking Facilities Guest Parking Requests Parking FAQ and Policies Contact Us Alternative Transportation and Directions On-Campus Housing 50 Haven Athletic Center Energy & Sustainability Augustus C. Long Health Sciences Library Student Health on Haven Faculty Club Public Safety Smoke-Free CUIMC CUIMC Parking Limited on-campus commuter parking is available at Columbia University Irving Medical Center. Types of Available Commuter Parking Full-Time Commuter Parking Eligibility To be eligible for full-time commuter parking, you must meet all of the following criteria: Be a full-time, permanent Columbia University Irving Medical Center employee Reside outside of Manhattan Have a job grade of 106 or higher Available Parking Facilities Irving Cancer Research Center, 1130 Saint Nicholas Avenue 100 Haven Avenue Garage, 100 Haven Avenue School of Nursing/Russ Berrie Medical Science Pavilion, 560 West 168th Street Full-Time Parking Rates The full-time monthly parking rate is $262 per month. The monthly rate reflects the inclusion of the 18.375% Manhattan parking tax. If you live in Manhattan and have a New York City Department of Finance parking tax exemption form on file with our office, you will be taxed at a lower rate. Parking fees are billed monthly and are due by the close of the following billing cycle. We only accept payment via payroll deduction (pre-tax, in most cases). We don't accept payment by University ARC ChartString. If your account is 90 days past due, you will automatically lose your parking privileges. Monthly parking rates are subject to change. Part-Time Commuter Parking Eligibility To be eligible for part-time-time commuter parking, you must meet all of the following criteria: Be a full-time, permanent Columbia University Irving Medical Center employee Reside outside of Manhattan Have a job grade of 106 or higher Select the specific parking day(s) in advance If you park on a day not previously selected, you must pay the daily guest parking fee ($35/day). Additionally, if selected for the part-time parking program, you may not share your spots with other CUIMC parkers. Available Parking Facility 100 Haven Avenue Garage, 100 Haven Avenue Part-Time Parking Rates The part-time monthly parking rates are: Three Days per Week: $225.00 (High Tax Rate); $209.79 (Low Tax Rate) Two Days per Week: $180.00 (High Tax Rate); $167.84 (Low Tax Rate) One Day per Week: $145.00 (High Tax Rate); $135.20 (Low Tax Rate) The rates listed above reflect the inclusion of the 18.375% Manhattan parking tax. If you live in Manhattan and have a New York City Department of Finance parking tax exemption form on file with our office, you will be taxed at a lower rate. Parking fees are billed monthly and are due by the close of the following billing cycle. We only accept payment via payroll deduction (pre-tax, in most cases). We don't accept payment by University ARC ChartString. If your account is 90 days past due, you will automatically lose your parking privileges. Part-time parking rates are subject to change. Evening/Overnight Commuter Parking Eligibility To be eligible for evening/overnight commuter parking, you must be a Columbia University Irving Medical Center employee or graduate student who works the second (4 p.m.-12:30 a.m.) or third shift (midnight-8 a.m.). Available Parking Facility 100 Haven Avenue Garage, 100 Haven Avenue (3 p.m.-8 a.m. access only) Evening/Overnight Parking Rates The evening/overnight monthly parking rate is $187.56 per month. The monthly rate reflects the inclusion of the 18.375% Manhattan parking tax. If you live in Manhattan and have a New York City Department of Finance parking tax exemption form on file with our office, you will be taxed at a lower rate. Parking fees are billed monthly and are due by the close of the following billing cycle. We only accept payment via payroll deduction (pre-tax, in most cases). We don't accept payment by University ARC ChartString. If your account is 90 days past due, you will automatically lose your parking privileges. Monthly parking rates are subject to change. Suspended Parking (COVID-19) Many CUIMC departments continue to operate on hybrid or remote schedules due to the ongoing pandemic. As such, CUIMC Parking is offering suspended parking to existing Full-Time CUIMC parkers who are currently working remotely or on hybrid schedules. If you would like to suspend your parking, please contact the CUIMC Parking Office and enter all the necessary information, as prompted. Things to know: The deadline to respond is April 1 to ensure your payment will not be deducted. If you currently have a Parking arrangement and take no action, you will continue to be billed at your current rate. If you currently have suspended parking, your normal parking privileges will be reinstated on July 1, 2022. Parking suspension will end on June 30, 2022. Unless you notify the CUIMC Parking office in writing, all suspended accounts will be reinstated as of July 1, 2022. Apply for Parking To apply for commuter parking, complete and submit our online commuter parking request form. You will need: the address of your Columbia workplace; your job title, department, and job grade; and information about the vehicle you'd like to park. Once submitted, your parking application will be sent to the Parking Committee for review. Questions about your application? Email cumc.parking@cumc.columbia.edu. Please remember to include the best way to reach you as well. Apply for On-Campus Commuter Parking NewYork-Presbyterian Parking NewYork-Presbyterian's parking garage is located at 115 Fort Washington Ave., between 164th and 165th streets, and is managed by the NYP Parking Office. The garage is open 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Payments accepted at the hospital's parking garage include cash and debit/credit card. For more information on parking at the hospital, please visit their parking page or contact the NYP Parking Office at 212-305-4903. NYP employees looking for parking information should contact the NYP Parking Office at 212-305-4903. Columbia University Irving Medical Center Submit a Work Order Sign Up for Alerts Campus Map How Are We Doing? Contact Us CUIMC Facilities Management and Campus Services 650 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Back to top