Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content News Contact Us Experts Latest News Latest News 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Broadcast Studio Research ☰ Featured News SMU News Featured News SMU Breaks Ground on Extensive Expansion And Renovation of Cox School of Business SMU Breaks Ground on Extensive Expansion And Renovation of Cox School of Business SMU is celebrating the future of the Cox School of Business and its role as a driver of Dallas innovation, breaking ground today on a $140 million renovation and expansion project designed to train students for a collaborative and technologically integrated world. May 06, 2022 DALLAS (SMU) – SMU is celebrating the future of the Cox School of Business and its role as a driver of Dallas innovation, breaking ground today on a $140 million renovation and expansion project designed to train students for a collaborative and technologically integrated world. The two-year project will expand the school’s footprint by more than 30 percent, with the construction of four new buildings connecting the existing facilities into cohesive space that supports collaboration within the Cox School and across the campus, as well as with the Dallas business community. “This project will add to the Cox School’s stellar national reputation and will enable it to continue attracting outstanding students, faculty and industry partners,” said SMU President R. Gerald Turner. “Since 75 percent of our Cox School graduates stay in Texas, this ambitious project is a commitment to SMU’s role as a talent magnet for the state and the North Texas region.” Turner announced today that the Cox School’s renovated and expanded facilities will be called the David B. Miller Business Quadrangle, honoring Miller for his decades-long financial support and leadership of the Cox School. A former Mustang basketball standout, Miller ’72, ’73 and his wife, Carolyn Miller, and The David B. Miller Family Foundation made a $50 million commitment to SMU in October 2019 – half of which was earmarked for the Cox School project. That historic commitment, the largest alumni gift in the history of the University, is a dramatic punctuation to the relationship that began when Miller arrived at SMU in 1968 on an athletic scholarship. As part of the University’s multiyear fundraising campaign, SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow, more than 50 generous donors have already invested more than $100 million toward new and enhanced facilities at Cox, including these new principal gifts: $5 million from Fritz Duda and Mary Lee Duda and The Fritz and Mary Lee Duda Foundation $2 million from Susan Smith Cooper ’62 $1 million from Harlan R. Crow and Katherine Raymond Crow ’94 $1 million from Jennifer Tucker Clyde ’85 and R. Andrew Clyde ’85 and Murphy USA A list of those who have given $1 million or more to the project appears below, and the full list of donors to date is available at smu.edu/cox-future. “We are retooling the Cox School to create a more collaborative environment – to give students and faculty easier access to collaborate, to gather and share ideas and gain inspiration from one another,” said Cox School Dean Matthew B. Myers. “We will offer students more opportunity to obtain their business education in a ‘9 to 9’ environment, meaning they’ll come to classes, stay for lunch or dinner, work together with other students and their professors, and remain connected with and at Cox all day long. In short, our improved facilities will nurture an environment that will lead to a richer learning experience and a lifetime of connections. This really marks a new era for the Cox School.” Find more information on the renovation and expansion plans – including a virtual tour of the future David B. Miller Business Quadrangle – at smu.edu/cox-future. Donors of $1 million or more to the Cox School renovation and expansion, as of April 28, 2022: $25 million lead donor: David B. Miller ’72, ’73 and Carolyn L. Miller and The David B. Miller Family Foundation $5 million to $24.9 million: Anonymous (2) Jane R. Bolin and Pat S. Bolin ’73 Gina L. Bridwell and Tucker S. Bridwell ’73, ’74 Fritz Duda and Mary Lee Duda and The Fritz and Mary Lee Duda Foundation Aurelia C. Heppner and Brad K. Heppner ’88 Katy A. Miller and Kyle D. Miller ’01 Kim M. Shaddock and William C. Shaddock ’74 Bryan S. Sheffield ’01 and Sharoll M. Sheffield $1 million to $4.9 million: Allison T. Benners and Frederick H. Benners, Jr. ’90, ’97 Jennifer Tucker Clyde ’85 and R. Andrew Clyde ’85 and Murphy USA Susan Smith Cooper ’62 Harlan R. Crow and Katherine Raymond Crow ’94 Katherine E. Georgas and William J. Georgas Mark C. Griege ’81 and Peggy Griege Barry M. Kitt and Beth M. Kitt Michael T. McGuire ’05 and Natalie K. McGuire Kenneth R. Morris ’72 and Linda A. Morris and the Morris Foundation ### SMU is the nationally ranked global research university in the dynamic city of Dallas. SMU’s alumni, faculty and more than 12,000 students in eight degree-granting schools demonstrate an entrepreneurial spirit as they lead change in their professions, communities and the world. Building on its history of excellence, the University has launched SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow – a multiyear $1.5 billion campaign to empower students, to enrich teaching and research, and to enhance our campus and community. SMU News Broadcast Studio Contact Us SMU Research Blog Experts News Archives Featured News Research Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share