1-800-922-1245 Monday-Friday, 8am-6pm Eastern Time Insurance Plans Dental & Vision Coverage Disability Insurance Health Insurance Life Insurance Long-Term Care Insurance Medicare Supplement Pet Insurance Resource Center Blog Help Me Explore the AIP FAQs Video Library Webinars Customer Service Pay My Bill Change Of Address Change Beneficiary Other Requests Please Note! By clicking "continue" below, you will be redirected away from the Alumni Insurance Program website to one of our partner sites. Cancel Continue A Trusted Resource Your lifelong connection to Southern Methodist University brings many benefits. The Alumni Insurance Program is one of them. We can help you protect the people and things you value most. Help Me Explore the AIP Health Insurance Alumni can explore affordable health coverage options and a large selection of plans through a partnership with eHealth. Get quality individual, family, and small business plans here. Search and Compare Plans Pet Insurance Our dogs and cats make each day brighter. That’s why keeping them safe and healthy is so important. With Pet Insurance you can help take the worry out of covering the cost of unexpected pet care. Learn More Now Life Insurance You have access to life insurance plans that allow you to care for the people you love the most. Help protect your loved ones’ financial well-being in case the unexpected happens. Compare, Quote & Apply ID Theft Protection Safeguard your family against malicious activity. Get proactive monitoring and receive alerts if your identity is compromised. Certified ID theft resolution experts are ready to assist 24/7. Learn More & Enroll About the Alumni Insurance Program The Alumni Insurance Program is a benefit from your SMU Alumni Association, offering a diverse portfolio of insurance products to meet the needs of alumni and their families. Insure against the unexpected and cover immediate needs with Life Insurance, Health Insurance, Travel Insurance, and more. See All Plans Below VIDEO STORIES Life Insurance Levi and Melanie's story Get MetLife Level Term Life Coverage Dental Insurance Maria and Jason's story Get MetLife Dental Coverage Vision Insurance Darryl's story Get MetLife Vision Coverage Insurance Plans Life Insurance One life insurance plan does not fit all, so we have choices for you. MetLife's group term life plans offer competitive rates and valuable added benefits. Quote and Compare Health Insurance Find individual and family health insurance plans in our eHealth Marketplace. Compare coverage and choose health care that fits your needs and budget. Visit the eHealth Marketplace Long-Term Care Some experts say 70% of all people over age 65 will require some type of Long-Term Care during their lifetime. Are you financially ready for the care your family members may need? Explore the LTCRplus Program ID Theft Protection Minimize your risk of identity theft with 360° coverage from the Alumni ID Protection plan. Get peace of mind from these benefits: prevention, monitoring, suspicious activity alerts and 24/7 comprehensive resolution care. Learn More & Enroll Pet Insurance Help make sure your furry family members are protected against unplanned vet expenses for covered accidents or illnesses with MetLife Pet Insurance. Enjoy flexible product offerings, quick online enrollment, and hassle-free claims! Learn More & Enroll Auto, Home & Renter's Liberty Mutual has partnered with us to offer alumni exclusive savings on quality auto and home insurance tailored for the way you live today. You could also enjoy valuable discounts such as New to Liberty Mutual, Newly Married, New Move, and Hybrid Vehicle. Get Your Free Quote Trip Cancellation Protect your travel investment with coverage for trip cancellation, trip interruption, baggage loss and terrorist incidents with the Travel Select plan. Optional Cancel for Any Reason benefit can help take the worry out of last-minute changes. Quote & Enroll Now Dental & Vision You have access to savings, plan choices, and convenience through one of the largest dental & vision benefits administrators in the country: MetLife. Get special member-only rates with lower premiums, and preventive care is covered 100%. Quote and Enroll Now Disability Insurance Long Term Disability insurance provides a monthly benefit when your ability to earn an income is interrupted by a covered injury or illness. The AlumniDI plan from MetLife also has special features to help you get back on your feet physically as well as financially. Learn More & Enroll Emergency Assistance Emergency Assistance Plus (EA+) is a safety net that helps you pay for emergencies your health and travel insurance generally will NOT cover. Includes Emergency Medical Evacuation, Transportation Home, Travel Assistance, Personal Security Services and many other benefits! Start Your Risk-Free 30-day Trial Annual Travel Medical If you enjoy frequent travel, protect yourself in case of accidental injury and illness that may not be covered outside the U.S., plus emergency evacuation for medical, political or security reasons. With Voyager annual travel medical insurance you’ll be covered worldwide for multiple trips for a full year. Learn More & Enroll Medicare Supplement Medicare supplement plans from eHealth Medicare can pick up where Medicare leaves off and help fill the gaps in coverage that Medicare doesn't provide. Choose from Medicare Advantage, Supplement plans, and Part D (prescription) plans available in your area. Learn More Subscribe to AIP Blog Updates Subscribe Thanks. You are now subscribed! The Alumni Insurance Program Blog Recent Posts The Alumni Insurance Program is administered by: USI Affinity · 14 Cliffwood Ave., Suite 310 · Matawan, NJ 07747 1-800-922-1245 · Monday-Friday, 8am-6pm Eastern Time CustomerService@TheAIP.com Privacy | A BBB Accredited Business | California License #0778024 The SMU Alumni Association receives financial benefits from the administrator that provides this program. These benefits fund alumni programs and activities. Like most insurance policies, insurance policies offered by MetLife and its affiliates contain certain exclusions, exceptions, reductions, limitations, waiting periods and terms for keeping them in force. Please contact the plan administrator for costs and complete details. Close Pet Insurance offered by MetLife Pet Insurance Solutions LLC is underwritten by Independence American Insurance Company (“IAIC”), a Delaware insurance company, headquartered at 485 Madison Avenue, NY, NY 10022, and Metropolitan General Insurance Company (“MetGen”), a Rhode Island insurance company, headquartered at 700 Quaker Lane, Warwick, RI 02886, in those states where MetGen’s policies are available. Application is subject to underwriting review and approval. Like most insurance policies, insurance policies issued by IAIC and MetGen contain certain deductibles, co-insurance, exclusions, exceptions, reductions, limitations, and terms for keeping them in force. For costs, complete details of coverage and exclusions, and a listing of approved states, please contact MetLife Pet Insurance Solutions LLC. MetLife Pet Insurance Solutions LLC is the policy administrator authorized by IAIC and MetGen to offer and administer pet insurance policies. MetLife Pet Insurance Solutions LLC was previously known as PetFirst Healthcare, LLC and in some states continues to operate under that name pending approval of its application for a name change. The entity may operate under an alternate, assumed, and/or fictitious name in certain jurisdictions as approved, including MetLife Pet Insurance Services LLC (New York and Minnesota), MetLife Pet Insurance Solutions Agency LLC (Illinois), and such other alternate, assumed, or fictitious names approved by certain jurisdictions. Close Enjoy a free 30-day trial of the Alumni Identity Protection Plus plan when you select the monthly payment option and use Promo Code ALUMNI30FREE. Close By clicking "continue" below, you will be directed to a partner website maintained by eHealthInsurance Services. In order to provide information on plans that will fit you and your family, eHealth may ask you for a few pieces of personal information, like: Birthdate Zip Code* Household Income Rest assured that this is used only to provide the most accurate information for your needs. * Prices vary by age, geographic area, and other factors. Not all plans within a state are available in all areas of the state or to all residents in that state. Cancel Continue PLEASE NOTE: A Qualifying Life Event (QLE) — like getting married, having a baby, or losing health coverage due to job loss — may be needed in order to enroll in health insurance outside of the standard Open Enrollment period. Several states have extended the Enrollment Period due to the Coronavirus pandemic. If your state is not offering an emergency special enrollment due to COVID-19, you may still qualify for a general special enrollment. We understand you may have extra concerns and questions about travel insurance due to the Coronavirus outbreak. You may wish to visit our Coronavirus Information Center, where we make frequent updates with the latest information. You may also speak with a licensed agent at 1-800-937-1387 Mon-Fri, 9am-7pm Eastern Time. Please be patient; hold times may be longer than normal. Continue to select.travelinsure.com Cancel