Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Student Leadership & Involvement Student Engagement Leadership Community Engagement Frosh Camp Fraternity & Sorority Life Student Organizations Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Student Engagement Registered Student Organizations Join an RSOStart/Manage an RSOAccountability StatusHazing PreventionAdvise an RSOPLATiger ZoneCorq App Spirit Initiatives Student Event Allocation What is SEA? How to Submit a Proposal Upcoming Events Student Activities Council About SACSAC CommitteesEvent CalendarJoin SAC Fraternities & Sororities About FSAPotential MembersMember ResourcesInformation for ParentsInterfraternity Council (IFC)National Pan-Hellenic Council (NPHC)Panhellenic Council (PAN) Involvement Ambassadors Report a Concern about a Student Take Action Register for Recruitment Register for Frosh Camp Tiger Zone About Us Follow SLI Online InstagramFacebooktwitter Home Student Leadership & Involvement Student Engagement What is Student Event Allocation? What is Student Event Allocation? The Student Event Allocation (SEA) is an opportunity for Registered Student Organizations to submit proposals for events and programs such as speakers, lectures, dance performances, etc. Proposals are submitted on TigerZone using the timeline below. The Involvement Ambassadors score each proposal based on a rubric and decide if the organization should receive monetary allocation for their programs, as well as the amount of money, based on the program proposal. In order for an event to be applicable for SEA funding it must meet the following criteria: The event must be free to attend for all U of M students. The event must be open to all U of M students The event cannot be a fundraiser. Applying for Events All funding will be requested on TigerZone using the Finance tab on the Organizations page. Funding shall be requested using the following timelines Level 3 One semester before the event Evaluated and voted on by Involvement Ambassadors against all other level three events Funding letters will be sent at the end of the semester prior to the event taking place Level 2 Six weeks before the event Evaluated and voted on by Involvement Ambassadors at the next Involvement Ambassadors Meeting Funding letters sent out once funding is voted on by the Involvement Ambassadors Level 1 Four weeks before the event Evaluated and voted on by the Involvement Ambassadors digitally Funding letters sent out once funding is voted on by the Involvement Ambassadors What level is my event? How will students know what level their event falls into? Using the chart below, student organizations will decided their event level. The event level will be determined based off of any of the criteria in the HIGHEST Level. For example, if an event is bringing in an outside speaker for $800. The highest level the event would fall into would be Level 3 since they are bringing in outside talent. Level 3 Any event above $3,000 Contract or Signature required Brings in outside talent Food exemption form needed Travel Fees Lodging Fees Has a talent rider requirement Level 2 Any event less than $3,000 Does not require a contract or signature Does not require food exemption form No travel or lodging fees needed No talent rider requirements Can purchase supplies Food and refresments must be from Chartwells Level 1 Less than $1,000 Does not require food exemption form No travel or lodging fees needed No talent rider requirements Can purchase supplies Food and refresments must be from Chartwells Why the change? The purpose of this change is to provide more continued support to student organizations through a new Student Event Allocation model. This model requires less events to be planned the semester in advance, while still providing appropriate time for all contracts, purchase requests, and orders to be made. This model breaks the Student Event Allocation Process into 3 levels. Each level has an increased amount of care, attention, and steps needed to provide adequate support and funding. The three levels will be outlined below. For more information or questions please contact Talia Sowell, T.L.Sowell@memphis.edu Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 9/1/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.