Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu UofM Media Room Publications News Releases Podcasts Events Resources Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Take Action Music Performance Calendar Upcoming Art Exhibits University Events Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedIn Home UofM Media Room Resources Resources Calendar Guidelines Campus Parking Info for Media and Guests University Logos & Brand Standards Request Form for Monthly TV and Radio Appearances External Audiences Requests for Interviews *Please send all media interview requests to the Media & Public Relations team for approval. For more information or approval, contact media@memphis.edu. Expert List and Speaker Bureau The University of Memphis has many sources for media needing subject experts to provide commentary on or analysis of news events and other topics. Please contact us and we will provide the best faculty member for you to speak to. Office of Communications Services 303 Administration Building Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2843 E-mail: prnews@memphis.edu Faculty interested in being added to our list, please contact prnews@memphis.edu. Filming or Taking Photos On Campus Personal photos and video may be taken by students, parents, faculty, staff, alumni and other campus visitors for personal, non-commercial purposes. On-campus photography and videography must be consistent with UofM policy and not interfere with the ongoing operations of the University. The University accommodates reasonable requests for journalistic, news-related, non-commercial shooting, but reserves the right to deny permission when the request runs contrary to University policies, especially those that ensure student privacy. The University restricts the use of its land or buildings for commercial filming. Express permission is required and requests will be considered on a limited, case-by-case basis submitted at least 30 days prior to shooting and in coordination with a sponsoring division, college or other unit. Approval to film or photograph on University of Memphis property is required for internal and external parties. Please complete this form and email it to logo@memphis.edu and you will be contacted within two business days. Once your request has been approved, complete the Location Use Agreement Form > UofM Colleges/Departments External: Our Media and Public Relations team can assist you with sharing your college or department's story internally or externally. Request assistance with a press release by contacting prnews@memphis.edu. *Please send all media interview requests to the Media & Public Relations team for approval at media@memphis.edu. Internal: Share your story within the UofM community by submitting information to a weekly newsletter. Faculty & Staff E-Newsletter: Submit information to thisweek@memphis.edu. Student E-Newsletter: Contact sga@memphis.edu to learn how to submit news. Alumni E-Newsletter: Contact alumniassociation@memphis.edu for more information. Parent & Families E-Newsletter: Contact parents@memphis.edu to learn more. Tell Us Your Story Not sure the best way to share your news? Submit your story via our form and our team will contact you with more information! Tell Us Your Story > Public Relations Assistance Not sure how to handle an occurrence that could be potential good or bad press? Contact our team for guidance at prnews@memphis.edu. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/22/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.