Skip to main content Master of Health Administration Contact Us University of Washington University of Washington About Mission, Vision & Values Commitment to Anti-Racism & Social Justice MHA & Executive MHA Staff Student Resources UW & Seattle Alumni Resources Advisory Board Academic Experience Courses & Requirements Capstone Project Internships Faculty Concurrent Degrees Admissions Admissions FAQs Student Ambassadors Costs & Aid Scholarships Careers Postgraduate Administrative Fellowships Professional Development Contact Us Menu About Mission, Vision & Values Commitment to Anti-Racism & Social Justice MHA & Executive MHA Staff Student Resources UW & Seattle Alumni Resources Advisory Board Academic Experience Courses & Requirements Capstone Project Internships Faculty Concurrent Degrees Admissions Admissions FAQs Student Ambassadors Costs & Aid Scholarships Careers Postgraduate Administrative Fellowships Professional Development Contact Us Featured Story Slideshow Master of Health Administration Full Time / 2 Years / Seattle Photo taken in 2015 Become a Health Care Leader The Master of Health Administration program at the University of Washington trains the health care leaders of tomorrow. Designed for early career professionals, our two-year, full-time program will equip you with the leadership skills needed to launch your career in health administration and make an impact on the future of health care. At the UW, you'll earn your degree from one of the best programs in the nation. For decades, the UW MHA program has been a national leader in health administration training. It’s consistently ranked as one of the top MHA programs in the United States by U.S. News & World Report. We also offer an Executive MHA program designed for mid-level career professionals. Compare the MHA and Executive MHA programs. Prepare to Lead Acquire key leadership skills for a broad range of roles and settings though our unique, leadership-focused curriculum and expert coaching from the UW Center for Leadership & Strategic Thinking. Explore Academic Experience Gain Valuable Real-World Experience Apply what you learn in the classroom to the field through a full-time summer internship with a health care agency in Seattle or around the country. Find Out About Internships Learn From Innovators in Health Care Study with a renowned faculty, including researchers investigating best practices in health administration and executives from the Seattle health care community. Read About Faculty Strengthen Your Career Prospects Take advantage of our many professional development offerings. Request a mentor, network with health care executives and get your career off to a great start. Explore Career Services "The MHA program really positioned me to become an effective health care leader. It covered a spectrum of essential skills — from qualitative and quantitative analysis to building strong interpersonal relationships.” — Sara Vaezy Chief Strategy Officer, Digital & Innovation, Providence St. Joseph Health Important Dates September 1, 2021 Applications Open January 14, 2022 Application Deadline March 25, 2022 Visit Day How to Apply Important Update The MHA program no longer requires the GRE for admissions. Learn more about our admission requirements. Program News The UW MHA program wins the 2021 Award for Sustainability in Healthcare Management Education and Practice from CAHME and Canon Solutions America. Get Updates Thinking about applying? Sign up to get email updates about upcoming application deadlines, information meetings and more. Sign Up Connect with us Support the MHA Program Make a gift to the MHA Fellowship Fund Give Now Accreditation University of Washington Be boundless Privacy Terms Brought to you in partnership with UW Continuum College © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA