Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Mission & Ministry Mission & Ministry Information For: Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links CSF Menu Main Nav Center for Student Formation Contact Back Back Close About Overview Resources Undergraduate Programs Overview Compass Mentoring Program Stride Ascend Ascend Lead Profiles AHANA Summit Freshmen League Halftime Leadership Positions Collaborations Contact Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Mission & Ministry Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Stride Home Undergraduate Programs Stride Undergraduate Programs Compass Mentoring Program Stride Ascend AHANA Summit Freshmen League Halftime Hit Your Stride Sophomore year is an important and formative time in a person's college experience. The first year of college is mainly about a smooth transition, and students have many resources at their disposal to ensure they get off to a good start. For juniors and seniors, having determined their academic focus and being eligible for leadership roles around campus means they generally have a healthy balance in their academic and social lives. Sophomores, however, are still in a critical time of self-discernment; they have successfully adapted to university life, but are still figuring out their academic, social, and spiritual path forward. Stride is specifically designed to help sophomores feel established at BC. What is Stride? The program introduces second-year students to student leaders and faculty on campus through a lecture and panel series, builds social connections through regular co-ed small groups, and helps students grow as leaders through a formational retreat experience. Stride combines an academic, social, and spiritual approach to help second-year students integrate different aspects of their lives on campus. Stride is open to all rising sophomores (Class of 2025) who want to make roots at BC and grow in their self-knowledge and leadership ability. Selected participants will be asked to submit a $100 program contribution to participate in the program. This contribution helps cover a small portion of the cost of running the program. Full or partial financial assistance is available to those who demonstrate a financial need and/or are part of programs like Montserrat. What is the commitment? The Stride program runs from August-December 2022 (Fall 2022 semester). Participants in Stride will: ● Participate in a program-wide kick-off event prior to the first day of classes ● Attend four evening meetings throughout the fall semester, including a variety of student lead panels and lectures from amazing faculty members ● Meet weekly with seven other sophomores and two junior or senior leaders for a co-ed small group discussion ● Attend Halftime, a weekend overnight, about leadership, vocation, and purpose All four lectures will take place on Wednesdays from 6-7 p.m. during the fall semester. Attendance at the Stride lecture series is mandatory for all leads and participants. A full list of dates will be provided upon invitation to the program. All four lectures will take place on Wednesdays from 6-7 p.m. during the fall semester. Attendance at the Stride lecture series is mandatory for all leads and participants. A full list of dates will be provided upon invitation to the program. Apply Back To Top Back To Top Center for Student Formation 90 College Road Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-6140 About Undergraduate Programs Leadership Positions Collaborations Division of Mission & Ministry Mission and Ministry Campus Ministry Center for Ignatian Spirituality Center for Student Formation First Year Experience Intersections Montserrat Pastoral Support The Volunteer and Service Learning Center University of Mission and Ministry Service Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College