Skip to main content Skip to main content DIVISION of ENROLLMENT SERVICES Skip to main content &nbsp;<b>Student Quicklinks</b> Student Quicklinks &nbsp;<b>Faculty/Staff Quicklinks</b> Faculty/Staff Quicklinks Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Financial Aid The Financial Aid Process The Financial Aid Process Texas Residency Rules for State Aid Dates & Deadlines Texas Application for State Financial Aid (TASFA) Financial Aid Status Disbursement of Aid Appeals Due to Special Circumstances Helpful hints for completing the FAFSA and CSS/Financial Aid PROFILE Verification Process Are you Dependent or Independent? How to Accept/Decline Financial Aid Refunds Costs Types of Aid Types of Aid Scholarships Loans Grants Student Employment Graduate Financial Aid Federal Government Funded Financial Aid Programs SMU Funded Financial Aid Programs Summer and May Inter-Term Financial Aid Options for Undergraduate Students Veteran Benefits How Enrollment Level Affects Aid Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) Process Forms Library Financial Aid Glossary Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us ☰ Financial Aid Types of Aid Loans Loans Borrowing money for school can be a confusing and daunting process for students and their families. Selecting the student loan or combination of loans that meet your specific needs is crucial because the loan choices you make today will have an impact on your financial well-being for many years after you leave school. The following information is designed to provide an overview of the student loans that are available to choose from. Each loan has it's own unique eligibility requirements and repayment terms. It is important that you select the loan or combination of loans that best fit your specific needs. Detailed information for each loan can be found by clicking on the individual links. This guide will provide a brief overview of the Federal Direct Stafford, Federal Direct Parent PLUS and the Federal Direct Graduate/Professional PLUS loan programs, as well as State, Private/Alternative (credit based), and Consolidation loans. Due to the considerable benefits, favorable interest rates, and repayment options offered by the federal loan programs, SMU recommends the use of federal loans prior to selecting a private/alternative (credit-based) loan program. If you accepted the "Credit-Based Loan" option in My.SMU, you must submit an additional application for credit approval with your lender. The credit-based loan options including application instructions are identified below. Loan Interest Eligibility Terms How to Apply FEDERAL Direct Subsidized (no credit check required) 3.73% fixed Undergraduate Students Only Need-based Must be enrolled at least half-time status (6 or more credit hours) and in degree seeking program Limits based on grade level in school 1.057% Origination fee deducted at disbursement Repayment deferred, no interest while enrolled at least half-time Interest accrues during 6-month grace period before repayment begins Limited deferment provisions Automatic consideration for this when you file the FAFSA Must sign Master Promissory Note and complete Entrance Counseling to receive funds. Go toStudentaid.gov. FEDERAL Direct Unsubsidized (no credit check required) 3.73% fixed for Under-graduate students 5.28% fixed for Graduate students Undergraduate & Graduate Students Must be enrolled at least half-time (6 or more credit hours) and in degree seeking program Limits based on grade level in school. Interest accrues after disbursement and is capitalized upon repayment. Interest payments may be made while in school to lower overall payments once loan enters repayment. Repayment of principal deferred if enrolled at least ½ time (at least six credit hrs) Other limited deferment provisions 1.057% origination fee deducted at disbursement You are automatically considered for this when you file the FAFSA Unsub loan will appear in your financial aid award package in my.smu 1st, accept the loan in my.smu 2nd, sign Master Promissory Note and complete Entrance Counseling to receive funds. Go toStudentaid.gov. Credit-Based Loan Options (The following loans require an additional application for credit approval. See application instructions below) FEDERAL Direct Parent PLUS (Requires additional application for credit approval) 6.28% fixed Non-need based Parent borrows on behalf of student May borrow up to cost of attendance (COA) minus other aid Student must be enrolled at least half-time (6 or more credit hours) in degree seeking program. Interest begins to accrue upon loan disbursement. Repayment of principal and interest begins after the loan is fully disbursed. Limited deferment provisions 4.228% origination fee deducted at disbursement First, STUDENT must complete FAFSA Second, accept the "additional loan eligibility" in my.SMU. Third, Parent must submit PLUS Loan application for immediate credit decision thru studentloans.gov/ Fourth, Parent must sign Master Promissory Note to receive funds. (PARENT must go to Studentaid.gov to submit application for credit approval. Those who apply with a credit-worthy endorser or negative credit appeal a decision must complete credit counseling) FEDERAL Direct Graduate PLUS (Requires additional application for credit approval) 6.28% fixed Non-need based May borrow up to cost of attendance minus other aid Student must be enrolled at least half-time in a degree-seeking program (at least six credit hours per term) Interest begins to accrue upon loan disbursement. Repayment of principal and interest begins after the loan is fully disbursed. Limited deferment provisions 4.228% origination fee deducted at disbursement First, STUDENT must complete FAFSA Second, after receiving the award notification, student must accept the "additional loan eligibility" in my.SMU. Third, student must submit GRADPLUS Loan application for immediate credit decision thru studentloans.gov Fourth, student must sign Master Promissory Note to receive funds. (Student must go to Studentaid.gov to submit application for credit approval. Those who apply with a credit-worthy endorser or receive a negative credit appeal decision must complete credit counseling) STATE of TEXAS College Access Loan – CAL (Requires additional application for credit approval) 3.75% Undergraduate & Graduate Students Verified Texas Resident Must be enrolled at least ½ time in degree seeking program May need a credit-worthy co-signer No origination fee Loans have a six-month grace period from the date a borrower ceases to be enrolled at least half-time at an eligible institution. Principal balances under $30,000 have up to a ten-year repayment period with minimum monthly payments of $50. Principal balances of $30,000 or more have a repayment period up to 20 years. Postponements of loan repayment and income-sensitive or graduated repayment schedules are available. Look over the rules for residency for Texas state financial aid to see if you are eligible Go to HHLoans and apply Private/Alternative Various Private-Alternative Loans (Requires additional application for credit approval). Varies Based on credit check Non-need based Other criteria varies widely, however most require at least ½ time and meeting SAP requirements May need a credit-worthy co-signer Varies by lender Application process varies per lender. Click here to launch Lender List Methodist Institutional (if any) For more Details on Loan options follow the links below: Federal Direct Subsidized /Federal Direct Unsubsidized Loan Federal Direct Parent Plus and Graduate Plus Loan State Loans & Private Loan For information on the percentage of SMU students who borrow, the Cohort Default Rate (CDR) as calculated by the U.S. Dept. of Education, and how the CDR compares with other schools, please go to the U.S. Dept. of Education's College Scorecard website. Loans Federal Direct Student Loans Federal Direct Parent PLUS Loan Federal Direct Graduate PLUS Loan National Student Loan Data Systems (NSLDS) Consolidation Loan - Post Graduation State and Private Loans Federal Student Aid Penalties for Drug Law Violations Helpful Financial Counseling and Literacy Websites Student Services Quicklinks× Faculty/Staff Quicklinks× Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share