Skip to main content Student Financial Services Columbia University in the City of New York Search Submit SFSCU Undergraduates Graduate Students Veterans & Service Members Parents & Families Work-Study Financial Wellness Menu > Undergraduates Financial Aid Work-Study Bills & Payments Financial Wellness Graduate Students Financial Aid Work-Study Bills & Payments Financial Wellness Veterans & Service Members Getting Started General Information Fed Loan Benefits Financial Wellness Parents & Families Financial Aid Bills & Payments Work-Study Work-Study Financial Wellness Financial Wellness You are here Home Veterans & Service Members Getting Started New Student Checklist New Student Checklist Veterans Affairs Overview Submit Federal Application Request for Certification Medical Insurance Waiver Additional Funding Basic Info & FAQs New Student Checklist 2021- 22 Academic Year To qualify for deferred tuition payments, please provide a copy of your Certificate of Eligibility and DD-214 to the Columbia Office of Military & Veterans Affairs (OMVA). • In person to 202 Kent Hall • Scan and email to [email protected] • Fax to (212) 854-2818 If you don’t have this document – please visit Vets.gov in order to apply for the Post 9/11 GI Bill If you are entitled to receive Yellow Ribbon, apply at your school’s financial aid office. Complete the Request for Certification online form on the Columbia Veterans Affairs website, prior to the start of every term you want to utilize your benefits at Columbia. Please note: Block week courses must be certified separately and the VA will only issue MHA for the days enrolled. Noncredit bearing courses cannot be certified for educational benefits. Notify OMVA if you intend to utilize Chapter 31: Veterans Readiness and Employment formerly known as Vocational Rehabilitation & Employment benefits (VR&E). This benefit will cover 100% of tuition and mandatory fees. Medical insurance is not a mandatory fee. You are eligible to apply if you have a disability rating of 20% or greater. Remember to waive the medical insurance by the university’s deadline. Watch Columbia's short orientation video, "Registration, Benefits, and Resources for Veterans and Servicemembers." Sign up for direct deposit with the Veterans Administration by calling 1-888-442-4551. Notify OMVA if you will be on Active Duty when you begin the term (even for one day, including terminal leave) Students are responsible to pay any accounts balances that exceed their benefits by the due date listed on the E-Bill Statement. Failure to pay by the deadline will result in a hold on your student account and late fees. Students can apply for Veterans Tuition Assistance (VTA). Please refer to the eligibility criteria for more information. If there is a duplicative benefit of VA funding such as GI Bill, YRP, and VR&E., VTA payments will be reduced or decertified accordingly. Sign up for veterans health coverage at the Veterans Affairs Medical Center in the Bronx or at the Harlem Community Clinic. You have up to 5 years after your separation date to sign up for coverage. While at the Medical Center or Clinic, get your Veterans Affairs ID card. If you need any dental work, you have up to 6 months after your separation date to have it covered by Veterans Affairs. To Contact Us Office of Military and Veterans Affairs 202 Kent Hall MC 9203, 1140 Amsterdam Ave. New York, NY 10027 Phone: 212-854-3161 Fax: 212-854-2818 Email: [email protected] Announcements 16 Feb Inquiries on Student Payroll and Stipend Payments Click the title to read the announcement. 14 Feb Sign Up for User Interview with SFS Web Team Do you receive veteran or service member education benefits to pay for school? If so, we want to speak to you! 13 Apr Response to COVID-19 Learn about the measures SFS is taking to address student and family needs in response to COVID-19. 14 Mar Need Help with Your W-2? Click the title to visit our W-2 Information page. 08 Sep SFS Orientation Video View a short instructional video about Student Financial Services, Registrar's information and ID services. Quick Links SSOL Forms & Docs Administrator Portal Alumni Information About Us Contact Our Service Centers Departments Registrar ID Center E-Billing Housing Dining Health Forms SFS Forms Veterans Forms HR Forms Finance Forms CUMC IT Service Forms IT Systems Email Services SIS SSOL Software Downloads myColumbia ARC Portal Training Courseworks Lynda.com Getting Help Service Center Ask Us IT Help Office Locations © 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York