Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Curricular Resource Center Independent Concentrations Resources For Current ICers Curricular Resource Center Resources For Current ICers Resources for Current ICers See the Registrar's Academic Calendar for important deadlines and registration dates. Course Registration: Your IC course plan cannot change unless you formally request changes. Speak with your IC advisor first, then Peggy Chang, to determine if your requested change(s) is feasible/allowable. Then, fill out the IC Course Plan Change form listed below by the Friday before the end of Shopping Period. Dean Chang will review your request in the form and notify you and your advisor before the end of Shopping Period. IC Course Plan Change request form. Instructions for how to update IC course plan in ASK. How to request a course override for a departmental independent study course in [email protected] IC Research/Senior Year: All independent concentrators must complete a final project in their senior year that ties together the central themes, questions, and methods of the concentration. Many students choose to complete a 1-semester capstone project; some capstones can take place for two semesters. Those who meet the eligibility requirements for honors may consider completing a 2-semester Honors Thesis instead. See below for information about both options. All ICers present their capstone or thesis projects in their last semester before graduation, either in December or in the spring at the Theories in Action symposium. General overview of deadlines for 2021-2022: Third Friday of September/fall semester: Capstone description or Honors Thesis Proposal due to Peggy Chang (May '22 graduates) November 15th: First full draft of Thesis due to committee (December '21 completers) December 15th: Final version of Thesis due to committee & Peggy Chang (December '21 completers); first chapter of Thesis due to committee & Peggy Chang (May '22 graduates) February 11th: Capstone description or Honors Thesis Proposal due to Peggy Chang (December '22 completers) March 15th: First draft of Thesis due to committee (May '22 graduates) April 15th: Final version of Thesis due to committee & Peggy Chang (May '22 graduates) April 30th: IC Thesis Committee IC Honors-Advisor Report due to Peggy Chang. May 6th: IC DUS Recommendation for Honors due to the Registrar (no exceptions). Early May: Seniors present their capstone/thesis during the Theories in Action symposium. May 15th: First chapter of Thesis due to committee & Peggy Chang (December '22 completers) Senior Thesis/Capstone requirements: IC Honors and Capstone Overview (updated Fall 2021) IC Honors Guidelines with sample Title Page and "Senior Thesis Proposal Form" at the end of the document [MS Word version] (updated Spring 2022) For Thesis Advisors only: IC Honors-Advisor Report (updated Fall 2021). IC Capstone Proposal Form (google doc). Doing research: Discretionary funding for concentrators is available in UFunds. Subject Experts at the Brown Libraries. "Does My Project Need IRB Approval?" Related Files IC Honors-Advisor Report_2021-22_revised.docx IC Honors Guidelines_revised Spring 2022.docx IC Honors and Capstone Overview_revised Fall 2021.docx IC Honors Guidelines_revised Spring 2022.pdf Home Independent Concentrations What is an IC? Developing an IC The Approval Process Meet the ICers Resources For Current ICers Independent Studies Leavetaking Departmental Undergraduate Groups (DUGs) Matched Advising Program for Sophomores (MAPS) Fellowship, Internship, and Research Experiences (FIRe) Theories in Action Symposium (TiA) Contact Print this Page Share this Page Curricular Resource Center Brown University Box 1825 167 Angell Street Ground Level Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3013 Fax n/a [email protected] There are no events available. Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory