Skip to main content Skip to main content Degree Programs Perkins Chapel Bridwell Library Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Contact Us Contact Us Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Twitter Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Perkins School of Theology About About Mission Perkins United Methodist Seminaries Accreditation Statement of Educational Effectiveness Executive Board History Administration and Staff Habito Labyrinth Directions Campus Map Faculty & Academics Faculty & Academics Academic Services Bridwell Library Degree Programs Faculty by Teaching Area Faculty Listing A-Z Faculty Publications Perkins Video Library Global Theological Education Home Hybrid Houston-Galveston Extension Program Degree Interest Areas Perkins Intern Program Other Academic Programs Spiritual Formation Program Emeritus Faculty Open Faculty Positions Admission Admission Connect Visit Campus Apply Affording Seminary Admit Portal Student Life Student Life Academic Services Student Engagement Student Resources Alumni/ae & Friends Alumni/ae & Friends Update Your Records How to Get Involved Publications and News Events | Calendar Perkins Scholarship Luncheon Faith and Business Luncheon Series Distinguished Alumnus/a Award Seals Laity Award Make a Gift to Perkins News News News Archives Perkins Perspective Events Calendar External Programs and Centers External Programs and Centers Perkins Summit for Faith & Learning Certificate in Practical Ministry Certificate in Spiritual Direction Perkins Fall Convocation | November 15 - 16, 2021 Webinars & Hybrid Events Perkins School of Youth Ministry Course of Study | Curso de Estudio Center for Methodist Studies Center for Preaching Excellence Center for Religious Leadership Center for the Study of Latino/a Christianity and Religions El Programa de Ministerios Hispan@/Latin@ The Hispanic/Latino/a Ministries Program Video Library Contact Office of External Programs ☰ Perkins School of Theology About Habito Labyrinth The Ruben L.F. Habito Labyrinth The Habito Labyrinth was given in honor of Dr. Ruben L.F. Habito, professor of World Religions and Spirituality at Perkins School of Theology, by Dodee Frost Crockett and William B. Crockett, Jr., and was dedicated September 11, 2009. The Habito Labyrinth—a seven-circuit design, based on the eleven-circuit medieval labyrinth in France’s Cathédrale Notre-Dame de Chartres—is located in the Frost Marcus Labyrinth Courtyard Gardens, in the open and accessible space between Prothro and Selecman Halls at Perkins School of Theology. The path of the labyrinth is about one-third of a mile long and takes about 20 minutes to walk at a moderate pace. The labyrinth is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week, to anyone who seeks to walk the path toward peace. What is a Labyrinth? Labyrinths are ancient human symbols known to go back at least 4,000 years. The labyrinth symbol was incorporated into the floors of the great Gothic pilgrimage cathedrals of France in the 12th and 13th centuries. The most famous extant design is in the nave floor of the Cathédrale Notre-Dame de Chartres outside of Paris, which is now more than 800 years old. For Christians, labyrinths often held specific spiritual purposes. They served as a way to make a sacred pilgrimage even if one could not undertake an actual journey to a holy place (the shrine of a saint) or to the Holy Land. They engaged the body, the soul and the mind focusing upon movement along a defined path which fostered a sacred promise that if one followed the one way of life, it would lead to peace. Today, you will find all types of labyrinths throughout the United States, being used for reflection, meditation, prayer and comfort. During the past two decades, labyrinths have undergone a dramatic revival, beginning in churches and now encompassing religious communities of all types: hospitals, health care facilities, spas and retreat centers, schools and universities, public parks, memorials, healing gardens, prisons, and even progressive businesses. Why walk a Labyrinth? Personal and spiritual growth To pray To gain clarity To be in the present moment To feel inner peace To calm your nerves To grieve To be refreshed To remember To celebrate To explore To connect The Process of Walking the Labyrinth Move to the center of the labyrinth and let go of the details of your life to quiet the mind. When you arrive at the center, remember that this is a place of meditation, illumination and prayer. Receive what is there for you to receive. As you leave the center, you begin the third stage, union with God in Christ and service in the world. Guidelines for Walking the Labyrinth Maintain silence for your benefit and that of others. Take time before you walk to clear your mind and become aware of your breathing. Proceed along the Labyrinth at your own pace, beginning to pray. As you meet other walkers, gently give way to your meeting and passing. It is worth remembering that whatever happens along the way is not a distraction, but part of being Christ’s disciple in this world in which we are called to serve. Take time after your walk to reflect and meditate. About the Construction of the Habito Labyrinth Diameter: 35'-8" Materials: Mesabi Black, quarried in Babbitt, Minnesota; and Radiant Red, quarried in Fredericksburg, Texas. Finishes: The path, radiant red, is provided in a non-slip "thermal" finish. The mesabi black is a "diamond 10" finish, a thermal process with a high pressure water jet treatment to boost the color of the dark stone. The center is "diamond 8" finish, a type of honed finish, nearly polished, suitable for adding future inscriptions or engravings. Guide for Walking/Praying the Labyrinth (JPG) | (PDF) About Perkins' Mission and Context Perkins United Methodist Seminaries Statement of Accreditation Statement of Educational Effectiveness Executive Board History Administration and Staff Habito Labyrinth Directions Campus Map An Academy for the Whole Church in the Whole World Prepare to Serve Our groundbreaking Intern Program allows students to transform classroom knowledge into actual practical experience before graduation. Diverse Community We believe cross-cultural immersion experiences best teach students to build intercultural relationships, resolve cultural conflicts and guide intercultural ventures. Academic Excellence The combination of courses taught by renowned scholars with a diverse list of degree programs best prepares students for a wide variety of roles in ministry. Connect Visit Apply Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © SMU Perkins School of Theology, PO Box 750133, Dallas, TX 75275-0133 214-768-8436 or 1-888-843-6564 twitter facebook youtube share