Skip to main content COVID-19 information and resources School of Arts and Sciences - University of Pennsylvania University of Pennsylvania School of Arts & Sciences College of Arts & Sciences Graduate Division College of Liberal & Professional Studies Search Search Menu School of Arts and Sciences - University of Pennsylvania SAS_logo_white-sticky Main navigation About History Leadership Strategic Plan Inclusion Academics Departments Centers Degree Programs Other Programs Global Inquiries Resources for Faculty People Faculty Dean's Office Board of Advisors Administrative Offices News Events Upcoming Events Event Series All Departments Video Archive Stay Involved & Support Connect Give Learn More Contact Search University of Pennsylvania - School of Arts & Sciences OMNIA Podcast: In These Times In season 4, The Intricate Riddle of Life, we talk to scholars, musicians and poets, and members of creative communities, to explore the link between making art and making meaning, and how creativity shines a light on the way out of adversity in tough times, past and present. Listen to In These Times Arts & Sciences Annual Fund The Arts & Sciences Annual Fund supports students and faculty every step of the way. Show your support Previous Next 1 / 2 College of Arts & Sciences The undergraduate division of Penn Arts and Sciences, the College is the academic home for more than 6,200 students and provides a liberal arts foundation for all Penn's undergraduates. Spanning more than 50 majors and 2,000+ courses, the College offers a unique take on the classic liberal arts education. Explore Graduate Division The home of doctoral programs in the arts and sciences, with more than 30 graduate groups that award the Ph.D., as well as a number of programs leading to the degrees of Master of Arts, Master of Science, and Master of Philosophy (M.Phil.). Explore College of Liberal and Professional Studies LPS is the home of lifelong learning at Penn, with options for high school, undergraduate, post-baccalaureate, graduate, summer, and online studies as well as customizable professional training with courses that span across disciplines. Explore Arts & Sciences News Previous Next 1 / 2 Penn Arts & Sciences Faculty Among 2022 Mellon Fellows and Penn Fellows Both fellowship programs support faculty at mid-career. View Article > 2022 Penn Prize for Excellence in Teaching by Graduate Students Each year, graduate students are nominated by Penn undergraduate and graduate students for their profound impact on teaching at Penn. View Article > Students’ ToxiSense Wins Startup Challenge The venture by four first-year Penn students aims to improve testing for drinking water and biopharma products. View Article > J. Dean Amro, C’97, and Amira Amro Establish Lectureship to Energize Arabic Language Study The fund will provide financial support for instruction and curriculum development, with a focus on Arabic pedagogy in Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations. View Article > Penn Arts & Sciences Programs and People Receive Sachs Grants for Arts Innovation The Sachs Program 2022 Grant Awards support practitioners and projects that span creative practices including creative writing, music, film, photography, exhibitions, performance, artists books and zines. View Article > Ha-Nam Yoon, C’23, Named a Udall Scholar Udall Scholarships are awarded in recognition of leadership, public service, and commitment to issues related to Native American nations or to the environment. View Article > Featured Events No events to display at this time. Please check again at a later time. Omnia OMNIA, the premier publication for all things Penn Arts & Sciences, features a diverse array of faculty, students, and alumni who are blazing trails on a global level. Read more College of Arts & Sciences Graduate Division College of Liberal & Professional Studies Quick School Links Penn Arts & Sciences A-Z Academic Departments Faculty Index Computing Resources for Faculty Penn Resources Libraries Directory Calendar News Donate Contact Us Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Penn Weblogin