Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Okta Outlook More Sign Ons... Iowa State University Graduate College Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Application Programs Contact Mission Prospective Application Application for Nondegree Application Fee / Waivers Available Programs Connect With Us Frequently Asked Questions Request more information Funding International Students International Instructions English Requirements University Resources Current Students Academic Awards & Events Academic Information Events & Deadlines Graduate College Handbook Graduation New Student Orientation New Student Checklist Program Handbooks Program of Study / Committee Theses & Dissertations You and Your Major Professor Funding Professional Development Career Services Center for Communication Excellence Graduate & Professional Student Senate Student Forms Student Tools University Resources Faculty and Staff Academic Awards & Events Academic Information Events & Deadlines Graduate Program Review Graduate College Handbook Mentoring & Advising Online & Paper Forms Funding Graduate Tools Program Contacts (DOGE List) Program Handbooks Postdoctoral Getting Started Postdoctoral Scholar Resources Principal Investigator Resources Academic Awards Benefits Policies Postdoctoral Appointments Postdoctoral Association Postdoctoral Contact People (PCP) Professional Development Career Services Center for Communication Excellence Grant Writing Diversity Faculty Funding Recruiting Practices Mentoring Student George Jackson Symposium McNair Student Associations New Graduate Student Checklist Home > Current Students > New Student Checklist Welcome to graduate education at Iowa State University! As our graduate programs review applications, they will recommend applicants for admission to the Graduate College. Once you have received your official admission package from the Graduate College, you can begin planning your graduate experience at Iowa State University (ISU). Students who are U.S. citizens are encouraged to submit a Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) application to be considered for federal financial aid. Please contact the Office of Student Financial Aid at ISU if you have any questions or need assistance completing the application. Getting Started at ISU What should you do first? Get your ISU Card. Register for your ISU email address. Review our immunization requirements. The English Placement Test is required for all non-native speakers of English (with limited exemptions). The Oral English Certification Test (OECT) is required for international graduate students who accept a graduate teaching assistantship. Planning Your Arrival in Ames Transportation, directions, parking, maps Orientation Resources from the International Students and Scholars Office (ISSO) On-Campus Housing from the Department of Residence Connect with your program support staff. Orientation & Onboarding Orientation Graduate College Orientation is held each spring and fall semester. The ISSO holds orientation for international students each semester. Contact your program support staff regarding departmental or major program orientation. Register for Classes ISU Graduate College Handbook Graduate Program Handbooks Tuition & Fees ISU Schedule of Classes ISU Course Catalog (for course descriptions) Academic Calendars Your faculty adviser or Director of Graduate Education (DOGE) can assist you with course selection. Students on assistantship must take a minimum of one credit hour to meet the registration requirement of the appointment. Students not on assistantship must take a minimum of nine credit hours each fall/spring to be considered full-time. Selecting a Major Professor Many students will have a major professor selected as part of their admission to the program. Some programs offer rotations, where students spend a few weeks with multiple professors to decide which major professor is the best fit for them. A third possibility is that there is a defaulted major professor for the students. This is often the case for students enrolled in coursework-only master's programs. For students who are seeking support and do not have an adviser or major professor, the Director of Graduate Education (DOGE) is responsible for acting as the temporary adviser for all graduate students within their major. Find the DOGE for your major on our contact list. For Students on Assistantship If you have a graduate assistantship, you will receive an email notification regarding your required action in the ISU Workday system. If you do not receive a notification email, log in to Workday with your ISU Net-ID to view your Workday notifications directly. Common Workday actions and questions Updating Contact Information and Emergency Contacts Change Preferred Name Withholding and Direct Deposit Quick Reference Guide Workday Onboarding Quick Reference Guide for Student Workers & Graduate Assistants Payroll: How to Add, Update, and View Direct Deposit Information Payroll: How to Update Your Federal W-4 Withholding Elections Stipend Response - Pay for Grad Assistants Viewing Payslips in Workday View Stipend Deposit Schedule View Appointment Form Determine whether you are eligible for a Graduate College Tuition Scholarship. If you receive a tuition scholarship, the credit will be applied to your university bill as soon as possible. On AccessPlus, check “Yes” to authorize aid release. If your U-Bill is due prior to the availability of the scholarship credit, consider paying the minimum amount due, which will automatically enroll you in the Deferred Billing Plan (additional charges may apply). Student Health Benefits – Students with graduate assistantships are automatically enrolled in the Students and Scholars Health Insurance Program (SSHIP). At the start of the semester, you may add dental coverage or for your dependents. If you will serve as a graduate teaching assistant, consider the Center for Excellence in Learning and Teaching’s (CELT) Teaching Assistant Cohort Program. Degree Requirements Degree Requirements The Graduate College is available to assist you in proceeding through your graduate program according to processes and policies available for you to review in the Graduate College Handbook. Program Curriculum Please refer to the handbook for your graduate program to review its specific requirements and policies. Transferring Credits With the approval of the Graduate College and your Program of Study Committee, coursework taken at another institution in the pursuit of a graduate degree can be transferred to your program of study for a graduate degree at ISU. Please refer to the Graduate College Handbook, Chapter 6, to review the Graduate College policy on transfer credits. You cannot begin the transfer process until you have selected a major professor and committee and are ready to complete your Program of Study and Committee (POSC) form. Things to Know Once your academic record is created in AccessPlus, you’ll have a Graduate Student Status tab that shows all the credentials you’re pursuing. This tab will provide you a list of the requirements to complete each degree/credential. There are plenty of resources at ISU to support you and provide a positive experience during your time with us. Pursue a certificate in addition to your degree. See all the certificates available with the Graduate College. Learn more about the requirements to complete a certificate! The Graduate College Career Services office offers Iowa State University graduate students and postdoctoral scholars: Individual consultations, Group presentations, Resume workshops, Career Services Resources, and Cyclone Career Strategy. The Graduate College’s Center for Communication Excellence offers free individual consultations with graduate writing consultants. Students working on their thesis, dissertation, journal article, research proposal, conference paper, or poster presentation can make appointments with Disciplinary, Interdisciplinary, and English Writing Consultants. Students can also join graduate peer review groups, attend seminars and workshops, and access other various resources. MyState app has one place to find information on CyRide bus routes, classes, events, and more. Find on-campus employment opportunities at the Student Employment Center. ISU Veterans Center ISU Student Organizations and Clubs Graduate and Professional Student Senate (GPSS) represents the graduate and professional students’ perspectives on campus issues and serves as a liaison between graduate/professional students and the university administration. Professional Advancement Grants (PAG) are provided to graduate and professional students by the Graduate and Professional Student Senate (GPSS) to help defray expenses related to professional meeting and conference travel. You are encouraged to apply 8–10 weeks prior to departure. Questions? If you have any questions about graduate studies, please contact the Graduate College at grad_college@iastate.edu. ➤ Graduate College 1137 Pearson Hall 505 Morrill Rd Ames, IA 50011 grad_college@iastate.edu 515-294-4531 phone Facebook Twitter Linkedin Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Loading...