Skip to main content Skip to main navigation School of Education Center for Gifted Education and Talent Development Menu About Us Faculty and Staff Information Request Programs/Services Educators Educators GT Conference Parents Parent Conference Students Super Saturdays University for Young People Baylor TIP Resources Research Make a Gift Request Info School of Education Center for Gifted Education and Talent Development The Center for Gifted Education and Talent Development is committed to transforming potential into excellence through innovative educational opportunities, research, and outreach. We focus on the intellectual, academic, social, and emotional needs of gifted children and adolescents in Texas, and assist those who parent, teach, and otherwise work with them. We aspire to be a leading resource on giftedness, talent development, and creativity that is known regionally, nationally, and internationally. Explore Educators The Center offers professional learning opportunities for educators, administrators, and other service providers (e.g., counselors) in gifted education. Read More Parents The Center seeks to help parents of gifted and talented students by providing resources, programming, and advocacy information. Read More Students The Center for Gifted Education offers a variety of programs for gifted and talented students in Grades K-12. Read More Super Saturdays UYP Educators GT Conference Parent Conference Center for Gifted Education and Talent Development School of Education Marrs McLean Science Building #312 Waco, TX 76798-7301 (254) 710-2171 gifted@baylor.edu Request Information Submit School of EducationMake a Gift General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Us Faculty and Staff Information Request Programs/Services Educators Educators GT Conference Parents Parent Conference Students Super Saturdays University for Young People Baylor TIP Resources Research Make a Gift Request Info