Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Undergraduate Studies Undergraduate Studies Academic Partners UGS Home Students Faculty General Education/Crossings Additional Resources Contact Us Academic Success Center Located in the heart of the Clemson campus, the Academic Success Center (ASC) offers a variety of free services for all undergraduate students. Our services are designed to equip you with strategies and resources you can use. For more information, visit the Academic Success Center. Athletic Academic Services For more information, visit the Athletic Academic Services. Center for Career and Professional Development The Center for Career and Professional Development was created through the merger of the Cooperative Education Program and The Michelin Career Center. In addition, the UPIC Program was created to manage and facilitate our extensive on-campus internship and cooperative education program. The career center offers many unique services, such as career workshops, on-campus interviewing, experiential education opportunities (co-op program and internship programs), and others. The Center is located in a state-of-the-art facility on the third floor of the Hendrix Student Center. For more information, visit the Center for Career and Professional Development Website. Office of Teaching Effectiveness and Innovation The Office of Teaching Effectiveness and Innovation (OTEI) is, first and foremost, a safe haven for all members of the Clemson University teaching community to come to discuss any issue related to teaching, career development, faculty review preparation, and teaching-related scholarship. For more information, visit the Office of Teaching Effectiveness and Innovation. Rutland Institute of Ethics The programs and activities of the Rutland Institute are multidisciplinary and seek to benefit the campus and the community. Campus activities focus on students, faculty and staff. Community programs are designed to reach the entire community, with special attention directed to the business, education and professional sectors. The principal academic partner of the Rutland Institute is the Clemson University Department of Philosophy & Religion. For more information, visit the Rutland Institute of Ethics. Student Accessibility Services Aligned with Clemson University’s commitment to diversity, we envision a welcoming campus that is readily usable and accessible by students with varied characteristics, strengths, and challenges. To that end, we strive to provide access that is proactive, sustainable, equitable, and inclusive to the widest population possible. For more information, Student Accessibility Services. Academic Success Center Student Access Summer Session Calendar No valid event types Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram