Skip to content Xavier University Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Giving to Xavier Open search dialog Open Navigation Menu Undergraduate Admission Admission Process Undergraduate Application Tuition and Aid Visit Campus Make Your Commitment Contact Us Close Undergraduate Admission sub menu Graduate Admission Apply to Xavier Graduate Financial Aid Events and Information Sessions Contact Us Close Graduate Admission sub menu Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Student Outcomes Academic Support Education Abroad Honors Programs Xavier University Colleges Close Academics sub menu Campus Life Residence Halls Campus Dining Options Clubs and Organizations Diversity Faith and Service Recreational Sports Cincinnati Health and Wellness First-Year Experience Close Campus Life sub menu Athletics goxavier.com Close Athletics sub menu About Xavier Xavier University Rankings Mission, Vision, and Values What is Jesuit Education? Close About Xavier sub menu Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Giving to Xavier Current Students Alumni Relations Employees Parents and Families Employment Opportunities Maps and Directions Search Xavier University: Search Visit Campus Admission Process Tuition and Aid Find Your Counselor Make Your Commitment Xavier Home Undergraduate Admission Visit Campus Menu Admission Process Tuition and Aid Find Your Counselor Make Your Commitment Experience Xavier Students say campus has a special kind of atmosphere. They feel welcome here from day one, like they’re part of a family. It’s a rare quality in a college, and you’ll have to experience it to believe it. We are proud to offer safe, in-person campus visit opportunities for prospective families. Each visit option includes a tour led by a current student (no more than 3 families per group) that goes inside our main campus buildings for a great insight into campus life. Admission Presentation & Campus Tour Recommended for first time visitors or anyone starting the college search process Open to any visitor Admission Presentation & Campus Tour About 2 hours on campus Tours are offered daily Monday through Friday at 10am & 1pm. Click ‘Register Now’ to see available dates & times.” Fall dates will be posted in mid-July. Register Now Travel Resources We hope you will be visiting Xavier soon! We want to provide you with the resources you need to find us, so we have included below information on hotels in the area as well as directions to campus. View Travel Planning details Group Visits If your organization or school would like to plan a visit of 15 students or more, please find more information on our group visits below. We welcome groups during the fall & spring terms but are currently full for spring 2022. Please check back mid-summer to plan your group’s fall visit. Life at Xavier Some of the best moments in college happen outside the classroom. With a supportive campus community and a city full of opportunity, students from all over the nation and globe come together to find their passions and thrive at XU. Campus Life Website Road to Xavier High school seniors - Whether in-person or online, learn more about being a Musketeer and how the Xavier experience will be the best 4 years of your life. Visit Road to Xavier Making a Musketeer Juniors and Sophomores - Seeing a new member of the Xavier nation polished and poised for success never gets old. Now, it’s your turn. Are you ready to experience what goes into the making of a Musketeer? Get Started Virtual Tour Enjoy the sights of campus from the comfort of your couch. This virtual tour is led by two of our current students and allows you to spend time engaging with various campus buildings and learning about the Xavier experience. Launch Virtual Tour Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Xavier University 3800 Victory Parkway Cincinnati, OH 45207 513-745-3000 Privacy Policy Accessibility Policy Non-Discrimination Policy Editor Access Xavier University on facebook Xavier University on twitter Xavier University on linkedin Xavier University on youtube Xavier University on instagram