Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open the search panel Open the main menu Search Go Close the search panel Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers News Events Alumni Giving About Library Login Open the Search panel Admissions Admissions Why Columbia J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics Academics J.D. Program and Curriculum LL.M. Program and Curriculum Executive LL.M. Program and Curriculum J.S.D. Program and Curriculum Dual and Joint Degrees International Programs Public Interest and Public Service Experiential Learning Courses Registration Services Academic Calendar Executive Education Areas of Study Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Criminal Justice Data Analytics Environment and Energy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Intellectual Property and Technology International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace Leadership Legal History Litigation and Dispute Resolution National Security and Privacy Social Justice and Human Rights Faculty & Scholarship Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Directory Research Centers and Programs Scholarship Archive Workshops, Lectures, and Colloquia Careers Careers Private Sector Careers Public Interest and Public Service Careers Academic Careers Judicial Clerkships Employment Statistics Employment Policies Community Life Community Life Visit Campus Dean’s Welcome Your Campus, Your City Student Life Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Strategic Initiatives Leadership The role of a lawyer is to advocate, persuade, engage in difficult conversations, and work with others to resolve conflicts or to achieve a common goal. In short, lawyers must lead. Acquiring a core set of skills can transform lawyers into strategic and creative thinkers with the vision to change the world for the better—and influence others to do the same. What skills do law students need to become lawyers who lead teams and institutions effectively? Students learn not only to manage the everyday practice they will pursue, but also to rise to complex challenges throughout their careers. Through programs such as the Davis Polk Leadership Initiative and the Reuben Mark Initiative for Organizational Character and Leadership, Columbia Law offers courses, workshops, and research and professional development opportunities to teach students to be leaders in both the private and public sectors worldwide. Why Columbia? Take intensive courses to develop leadership skills and advance meaningful institutional and social change, such as Lawyer Leadership, Structural Change in Public Education (an immersive full-semester program in public education), and Vision, Action, and Social Change. Spearhead real-world projects to make a positive impact on the Law School community, the legal profession, and the broader community through funding and resources provided by the Davis Polk Leadership Fellowship and Innovation Grants. Develop essential skills around vision and strategy, management and teamwork, problem solving, and cultural literacy through workshops, coaching, training, and other programming. Receive one-on-one mentoring from from experienced practitioners, staff, and faculty to develop leadership skills related to your career goals and aspirations. Learn from visiting leaders-in-residence in the Reuben Mark Initiative’s In-House Counsel Program, who have served as general counsel, chief legal officers, and senior executives at top companies, such as Former Apple General Counsel Bruce Sewell and Nike General Counsel Hilary Krane. “We are committed to teaching the skills that prepare students to excel in the diverse roles they will occupy over the course of their careers—as both lawyers and leaders in society.” —Gillian Lester, Columbia Law School Dean and Lucy G. Moses Professor of Law Related Links Explore Courses Davis Polk Leadership Initiative The Reuben Mark Initiative & In-House Counsel Program Related Faculty All Faculty Gillian Lester Dean of the Faculty of Law and Lucy G. Moses Professor of Law Elizabeth F. Emens Isidor and Seville Sulzbacher Professor of Law James S. Liebman Simon H. Rifkind Professor of Law Avery W. Katz Milton Handler Professor of Law and Reuben Mark Professor of Organizational Character Colleen F. Shanahan Clinical Professor of Law Susan P. Sturm George M. Jaffin Professor of Law and Social Responsibility Kathryn Judge Harvey J. Goldschmid Professor of Law Michael Gerrard Andrew Sabin Professor of Professional Practice All Faculty Listing Related Centers and Programs All Centers and Programs Davis Polk Leadership Initiative Through the Davis Polk Leadership Initiative, Columbia Law offers courses, workshops, and research and professional development opportunities to teach students to be leaders in both the private and public sectors worldwide. Students learn not only to manage the everyday practice they will pursue, but also to rise to complex challenges throughout their careers. Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Leadership Social Justice and Human Rights The Reuben Mark Initiative for Organizational Character and Leadership In-House Counsel Program The Reuben Mark Initiative for Organizational Character and Leadership leverages the intellectual capital of Columbia Business School and Columbia Law School to design courses and programs that teach the leadership skills and strategies necessary to create an optimal organizational culture. The initiative’s In-House Counsel Program offers students innovative and rich courses, research, and programming exploring the role of the in-house counsel as strategic partners and leaders within companies and organizations. Areas of Study Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Leadership Center for Public Research and Leadership The Center for Public Research and Leadership (CPRL) aims to revitalize public education while filling substantial gaps in professional education. CPRL’s rigorous coursework, skills training, and research and consulting projects prepare graduate students in law, business, and public policy for careers in the education sector. With an eye toward improving outcomes for all children, CPRL utilizes the latest techniques in education, such as organizational design, democratic accountability, team-based problem-solving skills, and socio-emotional learning. Students can also participate in a semster-long intensive around transformational change in public education by enrolling in the Public Education Policy Lab-Seminar and Skills courses. Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Leadership Social Justice and Human Rights Columbia Law School Mindfulness Program Founded in 2017, the Columbia Law School Mindfulness Program is a community of faculty, staff, and students committed to the practice of mindful awareness and the examination of how it informs our understanding of law and lawyering. Areas of Study Leadership All Centers and Programs Public Interest/Public Service No matter what your area of interest, find ways to incorporate public interest and public service into your academic program and career. Academics Careers Related Student Groups and Journals Harlem Tutorial Project High School Law Institute Mentoring Youth Through Legal Education Society of Law and Ethics Reuben Mark Initiative In-House Counsel Program Leader-In-Residence All News & Stories Watch: Leadership Advice From Former Facebook General Counsel Colin Stretch All News & Stories Related News Read All Stories More in The Press Students News Meet the 2020–2021 Davis Polk Leadership Fellows The fellows are working to bring new participants and perspectives to the study and teaching of law. News Gift From Davis Polk to Expand Legal Services in West Harlem Students News Meet the 2019–2020 Davis Polk Leadership Fellows Admissions Why Columbia Visit 435 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 212-854-2640 Contact Us Social Media (Administrative Title) Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Instagram Admissions Academics Areas of Study Faculty & Scholarship Careers Community Life Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers Login News Events Alumni Giving About Library Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Donate © Copyright 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York.