Skip to main content Search for people, departments & websites Submit keywords Toggle search Columbia University Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Main navigation expanded Admissions Academics Research Campus Life About News You are here: Home Academics Academics Engaging the best minds in pursuit of greater human understanding, pioneering new discoveries, and service to society. The University offers an outstanding and comprehensive array of academic programs. These include three undergraduate schools, thirteen graduate and professional schools, a world-renowned medical center, four affiliated colleges and seminaries, twenty-five libraries, and more than one hundred research centers and institutes. Schools For more information on one of Columbia's undergraduate, graduate or professional schools Departments Search for a specific department at Columbia University or see a list of all departments. Centers and Institutes Search the broad spectrum of research institutes and centers in the natural and biomedical sciences, the social sciences and the humanities. Areas of Study Looking for information on a specific area of study? Search by keyword or view an alphabetical list. Office of the Provost The Office of the Provost maintains and advances the highest standards of scholarly research and teaching. Resources Faculty of Arts and Sciences The administrative body for faculty from the social sciences, humanities, and natural sciences. Academic Calendar Find important academic dates and deadlines. Courseworks Our learning management system offers a variety of online tools and features in support of teaching, learning and collaboration. Directory of Classes Search the extensive list of courses offered at Columbia. Registrar The Office of the Registrar directly supports scholarship, teaching, and learning. High School Programs Programs to engage and educate high school students. Libraries Access over 13 million volumes, 160,000 journals and serials, and extensive electronic resources. University Life Your hub for University-wide student life information and initiatives. Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close