COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Professional Studies in Music Performance, Graduate Certificate Graduate CertificateProfessional Studies in Music Performance All Programs College of Fine Arts School of Music Wichita State's Professional Studies in Music Performance certificate is a one-year, 18-credit-hour, graduate-level, non-degree course of study that helps you prepare for a performance career. Emphasis is placed on private lessons, practice, ensemble participation, and preparation for professional auditions or competitions. Performance areas include: chamber music, conducting, keyboard, jazz, strings, voice/opera and wind/percussion. Learn how Professional Studies in Music Performance is the right fit for you. Contact Coordinator Curriculum The program often follows completion of a master's degree but can be taken after completing your undergraduate degree. You'll design your course of study in collaboration with an advisor to best meet your needs and goals. View the curriculum Admission to the program There are two paths to admission to the program: For those already enrolled in graduate school, simply complete the Declaration of Intent to Pursue a Certificate Form. Prospective students should apply using the Graduate School application for admission. Graduate School Application Inside the Program Learn from the best with an international opera star At Wichita State, you have an amazing opportunity to study with accomplished opera star (and WSU alumnus) – Alan Held. Held, an international opera star and one of the leading bass-baritone singing actors today, is the Ann and Dennis Ross Faculty of Distinction in Opera. 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©