Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University Study Abroad Center Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search ISUAbroad Login - ISU Users Contact information Choose A Program Types of Programs Semester Programs Africa & The Middle East Asia Australia & New Zealand Central & Northern Europe Central & South America Italy, Spain & Greece United Kingdom & Ireland Summer Programs Africa & The Middle East Asia Australia & New Zealand Central & Northern Europe Central & South America Italy, Spain & Greece United Kingdom & Ireland Faculty Led Programs Intern Abroad Student Blogs Preparing Academics & Credit Transfer Health & Safety Logistical Preparations Handling Money Abroad Packing Tips Getting A Passport Returning to the US Diversity and Inclusion Frequently Asked Questions Financing Financial Aid Scholarships Program Cost Family Study Abroad Misconceptions Health & Safety Learning Abroad Cost Study Abroad Contacts at ISU Faculty/Staff Emergencies Abroad Academic Credit Transfer Process ISU International Program Office Directory Council on International Programs (CIP) Education Abroad Committee (EAC) About Study Abroad Center Staff Partnerships & Affiliations Reports & Statistics Give to Study Abroad Request a Presentation Peer Advisors 21-22 Meet the Advisors Health & Safety Safety ISU Study Abroad Statement on Safety and Security The safety and well-being of students, faculty, and staff who participate in ISU programs abroad is of the highest importance. ISU employs a variety of resources to evaluate the safety of travel to a particular destination: U.S. Department of State travel advisories Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) In-country program partners Consultation with US embassy and consulate security officers Private security and intelligence providers Peer institution international risk We also provide travelers the resources and tools to help make their international travel experience a success, including: Access to emergency security, medical and claims assistance through our international insurance carrier. Registration with the U.S. State Department’s Smart Traveler Enrollment Program (STEP). A subscription for security alerts. TripLingo app, which provides translation, cultural notes, a Wi-Fi dialer, and more. ISU’s policies and procedures also are designed to protect the safety and well-being of study abroad participants. Undergraduate international travel and study abroad programs in high-risk destinations require special review and approval. Sponsorship and student financial aid may be withdrawn, and programs may be canceled under certain circumstances. Students should also do the following: Blend in Use the buddy system Use a neck pouch or money belt Carry your insurance card Know the local equivalent of 911 for your location Store an ICE (In Case of Emergency) number on your cell phone so that emergency/medical personnel can contact your family Register with the U.S. State Department through the Smart Traveler Enrollment Program List current emergency contact information in ISUAbroad Special Safety Note: The major cause of student injury or death in overseas programs is traffic accidents. According to the U.S. State Department, road travel is the greatest risk to healthy Americans abroad. This does not refer to driving but as a pedestrian. Learn as much as you can about road signs, customs, and driving behaviors in all locations you plan to travel to. Most importantly, be very aware of all traffic around you at all times (including mopeds!). Study Abroad Center 281 Parks Library 701 Morrill Road Ames, IA 50011 studyabroad@iastate.edu 515-294-6792 phone 515-294-7700 for emergencies Current Hours: Monday-Friday 9:00-4:30pm Instagram Facebook Twitter Copyright © 1995-2022 Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information