Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Our Alumni Always Tigers After earning their stripes on campus, Princeton's alumni make their marks on the world. Alumni Profiles The Art Restorer . Abbie Bagley-Young Vandivere, Class of 2001, gives Old Master paintings new life. Learn More The Entrepreneur . Amanda Rinderle, Class of 2008, finds the right fit in a sustainable clothing enterprise. Learn More The Organizer . Achille Tenkiang, Class of 2017, is leading poetry workshops in Kenya. Learn More The Ecologist . Zoe Sims, Class of 2017, finds purpose and passion in the natural world. Learn More The Athlete and Inventor . David Morrow, Class of 1993, competes as hard in business as he did playing lacrosse. Learn More The Aerospace Engineer . For Douglas Chin, Class of 1983, attending Princeton was a “rocket booster” toward a career in space programs. Learn more Facts & Figures 94,000+ Living alumni 26,000+ Annual attendance at Reunions 165 Regional alumni associations worldwide 18 Alumni winners of the Nobel Prize 2 Alumni who served as U.S. president Show Me More Facts and Figures Alumni in the News Diversity & Inclusion Princeton marks more than 50 years of kosher dining on campus . In 1971, Princeton was one of a few schools in the country to open a university-sponsored kosher kitchen on campus. Today, the Center for Jewish Life's dining hall is a popular campus spot for students from all backgrounds. Read more Princeton awards five honorary degrees . Princeton University awarded honorary degrees during Commencement exercises Tuesday, May 24, to five individuals for their contributions to civil rights, higher education, healthcare, neuroscience and business. Read more Baccalaurate speaker Wendy Kopp ’89: The path to happiness is to align our lives with our values . Princeton's Baccalaureate service, one of the University's oldest traditions, offers seniors a chance to look back and think ahead. Kopp, who founded Teach For America and Teach For All, told them, “Our society’s injustices are solvable, but they are also massive and complex, and it takes a lot of time to make a meaningful impact in the face of them — so the path of no regrets is to start early.” Read more 2022 Princeton Baccalaureate address by Wendy Kopp . Wendy Kopp, Class of 1989, founder of Teach For America and Teach For All, addressed Princeton University's Class of 2022 at their Baccalaureate service on Sunday, May 22, 2022. Read more Alumni Links Learn more about Princeton's global network of alumni and the impact they are making on the world. Alumni Association Notable Alumni Reunions Alumni Day Meet Princeton In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice