Skip to main content University of Nevada, Las Vegas Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Donors Community Audiences Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Donors Community Topics About Academics Admissions Athletics Diversity Research Menu U-N-L-V Academics Academics About Academics Admissions Athletics Diversity Research Find close Academics menu Academics Academics Home Academically Cool Academic Enrichment Colleges and Schools Degrees Directory Graduate Studies Registration and Classes Professional Licensure Disclosures Resources and Support close find region Find Search A-Z Index Directories Quick Links Bookstore Bookstore Calendar Calendar Campus Maps Campus Maps Degrees Degrees Libraries Libraries MyUNLV MyUNLV News Center News Center RebelCard RebelCard Rebelmail Rebelmail Social Media Social Media UNLV Mail UNLV Mail WebCampus WebCampus Loading Directories Home A-Z Index Colleges, Schools, and Departments Administrative Units Research Centers and Institutes Resources and Services Employee Directory Contact UNLV Social Media Directory UNLV Mobile Apps UNLV and Barnes & Noble College Partners for Academic Success Bookstore UNLV is proud to partner with Barnes and Noble College to provide excellent service and competitive rates for students. The University Bookstore plays a direct role in supporting UNLV’s strategic objectives; enhancing recruitment, retention, and academic success. Our team is committed to engaging students on campus, building relationships and earning your loyalty. By serving as a campus hub, the Bookstore enhances the social and academic experience of everyone on campus; students, staff and faculty, parents and Rebel fans. 1.3 M Average student savings every year since 2010 5 Number of ways you can get your books with the bookstore $1.49 M Savings to students last year $12,000 Amount of scholarships awarded every year The Power of Choice Affordability is a major issue in higher education today. In compliance with the Higher Education Act of 2008, the UNLV Bookstore works to ensure that students have access to the most affordable course materials, including new, used, rental and digital. Getting the Most Book for Your Buck: Tips from the Bookstore Getting the Most Book for Your Buck: Tips from the Bookstore To buy or rent? That is one of the questions. Events No events found. Please check back soon. More Events Bookstore Bookstore Advisory Committee Student Affairs Faculty Textbook & Course Materials Adoptions (AIP) Wellness Coronavirus Information Safety and Emergency University Statements and Compliance Web Accessibility Top Tier 2.0 Employment Visit Our Campus Campus Maps Parking Information News Center Contact UNLV University of Nevada, Las Vegas 4505 S. Maryland Pkwy. Las Vegas, NV 89154 Phone: 702-895-3011 Campus Notifications © 2022 UNLV Produced by UNLV Web & Digital Strategy UNLV.edu Privacy Statement Website Feedback Social Media at UNLV