Student Work Career Services Academic Calendar Faculty Open Positions Admissions Academics People Campus About News + Events Apply Now Student Work Career Services Academic Calendar Faculty Open Positions Admissions Apply Now Admission Requirements Portfolio Requirements Financial Information Certain Affinity Scholarship Guildhall Preparation A Day In The Life Housing Refer a Game Changer Academics Specializations Student Work People Guest Lecturers and Advisors Faculty Staff Alumni Students Campus Our Facilities GameLab Area Studios Visit About History of Success FAQ Industry Partnerships Career Services Career Fair Testimonials Contact Us Apply Now Portfolio Submission Portfolio Requirements Art Design Production Programming Financial Information SMU Financial Aid Guildhall Preparation Art Design Production Programming Specializations Art Creation Level Design Production Programming Student Work Independent Projects Team Game Projects Faculty Faculty Open Positions Staff Staff Open Positions Alumni Alumni Spotlight Alumni Success Students International Students GameLab GameLab Facilities GameLab Events Steam FAQ Admissions Admissions Apply Now Admission Requirements Portfolio Requirements Financial Information Certain Affinity Scholarship Guildhall Preparation A Day In The Life Housing Refer a Game Changer Academics Academics Specializations Student Work People People Guest Lecturers and Advisors Faculty Staff Alumni Students Campus Campus Our Facilities GameLab Area Studios Visit About About History of Success FAQ Industry Partnerships Career Services Career Fair Testimonials Contact Us News + Events Apply Now Admissions Apply Now Portfolio Submission Admission Requirements Portfolio Requirements Art Design Production Programming Financial Information SMU Financial Aid Certain Affinity Scholarship Guildhall Preparation Art Design Production Programming A Day In The Life Housing Refer a Game Changer Apply Now Certain Affinity Nels Memorial Scholarship Certain Affinity and SMU Guildhall are honored to offer the Certain Affinity Nels Memorial Scholarship beginning in 2019 to commemorate the life and work of Nels Nelson and continue his legacy of excellence, generosity, and leadership by supporting talented future game developers. For the past six years, Austin-based game developer Certain Affinity has supported up-and-coming SMU Guildhall students through teaching, portfolio reviews, career days, and guest lectures, in addition to hiring several alumni. Certain Affinity aims to foster the values of passion, character, leadership and service in future Guildhall students and honor Nels Nelson, a past employee who embodied these values to the fullest, by partnering with SMU Guildhall to create the Certain Affinity Nels Memorial Scholarship. Students will be invited to apply based on their admission submission. Finalists will be reviewed by Certain Affinity and the recipient will be notified in the late Spring. About Nels: Nels Nelson joined the Certain Affinity family in 2013. During his time there as a game and systems designer, Nels always delivered a high level of passion, creativity, knowledge, and professionalism that garnered the admiration and respect of his peers. Nels improved Certain Affinity’s games, teams, and the company as a whole through his positivity, collaboration, and leadership. Nels Charles Nelson was born on January 17, 1975 in Tokyo, Japan. Growing up, Nels was a member of the National Honor Society, played competitive chess, and enjoyed English literature and drama. His love of English literature led Nels to graduate from Cornell University with a B.A. in English. Nels developed his love for computers and programming at a young age. He taught beginner and advanced computer courses during high school and over his winter and summer breaks from college. Nels also started designing computer games at that time, a hobby that he turned into a professional career spanning nearly two decades. Nels’ passion for his work and his heart for service inspired those who worked with him. His knowledge and ability made him a natural leader, and his individual character left a distinct and inspirational mark on Certain Affinity that will continue to guide us well into the future. For this reason, the ideal candidates for this scholarship will exemplify these four traits in their own lives and work: passion, service, leadership, and strength of character Apply to SMU Guildhall SMU Guildhall Game Changers Shaped Here 3100 McFarlin Blvd., Suite 306 Dallas , Texas 75275 (214) 768-4278 © SMU Legal Disclosures Site Index Working at SMU Apply to SMU Guildhall x