Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary SCHOOL OF DENTISTRY DENTISTRY Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 DENT 550 P-Special Studies in Dentistry (*, max. 12) Offered by the various departments from which students may elect study in areas of special interest to them. Includes subject matter applicable to all phases of dentistry. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: DENT 550 DENT 563 Elements of Conscious Sedation (1-2) Details theory and techniques for rendering oral, inhalation, transmucosal, intramuscular, and intravenous forms of conscious sedation. Focuses on pharmacology and pharmacokinetics of nitrous oxide, benzodiazepines, narcotics, and barbiturates. Addresses usual applications, special considerations, legal issues, and proper record keeping. Emphasizes prevention and management of emergencies. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: DENT 563 DENT 565 Dental Photography and Imaging (2) Provides postdoctoral students with sufficient knowledge and experience to select and use correct photographic equipment for photographing patients (facial and intraoral views), casts, instruments, x-rays, charts, and objects. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: DENT 565 DENT 568 Internal Medicine for Dentistry ([1-3]-, max. 6) Review of major organ systems, including normal anatomy and physiology, common pathophysiologies, medical interventions. Details modifications necessary for dental treatment and medical emergency management. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: DENT 568 DENT 663 Treatments of Patients with Special Needs 2 (2) K. ESPINOZA Exposes students to the assessment process and treatment strategies for successful management of patients with developmental and acquired disabilities, medically complex patients, geriatric patients, and anxious, fearful, or phobic patients in a variety of treatment settings, including clinical, hospital, and extramural (nursing home or senior center). Credit/no-credit only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: DENT 663 DENT 690 P-Extended Clinical Dentistry (1) Educational experiences in clinical dentistry. Available to students who have successfully completed the University of Washington Doctor of Dental Surgery curriculum and seek additional supervised experience in the delivery of oral health care services within three quarters of graduation and prior to licensure. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: DENT 690 DENT 700 Master's Thesis (*-) Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: DENT 700 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022