Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu University Libraries About Services Instruction Digital Commons Special Collections Government Publications Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Technology the sandbox. Check Out Tech Creatorspace & Studios Orientations & Workshops Lambuth Technology Take Action Ask-a-Librarian Interlibrary Loan Reserve Space My Library Account Follow The Libraries InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeBlogsVimeo Home Libraries Technology Today's Hours About the sandbox. Located on the UofM Main Campus in McWherter Library, the sandbox. is a collection of collaborative spaces and technology available to all UofM students and employees. The sandbox. spaces include a Video Studio, an Audio Studio, a Presentation Practice Studio, and a Creatorspace that includes 3D printers, a laser cutter, gaming corner, workshop space, and more. To learn more, visit our Creatorspace & Studios page. To reserve any of our technology or spaces, visit our Reservation page. To be authorized to use our 3D printers, laser cutter, and studios, you must take an orientation. To learn more, visit our Orientations & Workshops page. The sandbox. also includes technology that can be checked out for free with your UofM ID from McWherter's 1st Floor Check Out Desk and brought home with you. Our Check Out Technology includes laptops, art tablets, audio recorders, calculators, cameras, charger cords, headphones, microphones, projectors, video games, and more. To view a full list and learn more, visit our Check Out Technology page. Email the sandbox. Working Group at thesandbox@memphis.edu for more information, collaboration opportunities, or project questions. Sandbox Updates Due to restrictions during the pandemic, some sandbox. access and procedures have changed. Check back for updates. The Audio, Video and Presentation Practice Studios are currently UNAVAILABLE. We are working on making them available soon. In-person orientations have not been scheduled yet, but are coming soon. If you need assistance with any of our technology, please contact thesandbox@memphis.edu. <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> This video was created by Chase Wall, Caleb Lovett, Cassidy West, Jason Thibodeaux, and Colton Rhoads. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/26/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.