Skip to main content Clemson University Degrees Home Degree Programs MENU Management (B.S.) LEARN MORE ABOUT A major in management provides flexibility to tailor your education and classes to your specific business interests. Whether your goal is to start your own business or manage information systems, this program will teach you how. Choose from one of eight different emphasis areas - business analytics, entrepreneurship, general management, human resources management, international management, management information systems, operations management or supply chain management. Whichever you choose, you'll be exposed to numerous functional areas of business and spend time examining the social, legal, political and economic environments in which organizations operate. Leaving the management program, our graduates are prepared for careers as professional managers in corporations, government organizations and small businesses. Or, if you plan to continue your education, you'll leave with a solid foundation on which to pursue advanced degrees. FAST FACTS Our faculty have been honored with numerous prestigious honors at the University, college and state levels. The success of our graduates in the workforce means more internship and job opportunities for our students. Our faculty pride themselves in creating exceptional business management graduates and entrepreneurs. Faculty members serve as senior editors of the top journals in information systems, supply chain and operations management, and service science. WHAT YOU'LL STUDY All students interested in Clemson's management degree must first complete a pre-business core curriculum in order to move into the upper-level degree classes. On the Clemson admissions application, you'll apply as a pre-business major. Once into your core classes, you'll find that academic rigor and teaching excellence are our top priorities. Management faculty engage in a variety of teaching and research interests, offering students the ability to specialize in eight different disciplines. Business Analytics Emphasis: Apply statistics and use contemporary information technology to solve managerial problems. Entrepreneurship Emphasis: Learn how to plan new ventures in both the for-profit and social entrepreneurship avenues. General Management Emphasis: Gain a wide exposure to diverse management areas. Human Resources Emphasis: Learn how to select, assess and reward employees; oversee organizational leadership; and ensure legal compliance. International Management Emphasis: Discover what it entails for individuals and corporations to manage across national boundaries. Management Information Systems Emphasis: Focus on information systems concepts and their applications in business. Operations Emphasis: Take the opportunity to understand strategy, design, planning and control in both manufacturing and service organizations. Supply Chain Emphasis: Discover how to follow the intricate and complicated design, planning, control and improvement of supply chains in organizations. Curriculum Management, B.S. Popular Minors Accounting Brand Communications Economics Financial Management Legal Studies Psychology Similar Majors Financial Management (B.S.) Marketing (B.S.) EXPERIENCES BEYOND THE CLASSROOM You'll have a wealth of opportunities to engage with faculty and peers, learn outside of the classroom and truly enrich your entire educational experience - all geared to provide you the education and skills needed to be workforce or graduate school ready. Speakers series The Management Department Speakers Series brings in representatives from companies such as Amazon, UTI, ScanSource and Target to spend a half day with students. Experience Our student chapter of Society for Human Resource Management brings real-world HR experience to students by sponsoring HR professionals at meetings and participating in a shadow program with Greenville-area professionals. Networking The Clemson Chapter of Association for Information Systems exposes students interested in a career in management information systems to professional speakers as well as internship and career opportunities. Community Participate in a living-learning experience where you live and learn with peer business majors in a dedicated residence hall. Take part in educational and extracurricular activities while forming lifelong friendships.Learn More » CONNECT WITH OTHER STUDENTS Delta Sigma Pi Spiro Institute for Entrepreneurial Leadership Society for Human Resource Management Association for Information Systems AFTER GRADUATION Your college decision isn't really about the next four years. We get it. It's about what doors are opened by your degree and whether those opportunities are what you had envisioned for yourself. Here's a snapshot of what life after graduation looks like for some of our most recent students. WHERE OUR RECENT GRADUATES HAVE GONE KEY 41-100% 21-40% 11-20% 0-10% INTERNATIONAL CITIES Aarhus, Denmark Silkeborg, Denmark Paris, France RECENT EMPLOYERS Deloitte Apple Schneider Electric Westin-Poinsett Sherwin-Williams RECENT POSTGRADUATE STUDIES MBA Clemson University MBA The University of Virginia Master of Health Administration Medical University of South Carolina J.D. Florida State University J.D. Baylor University COMMON CAREER AREAS Management Information Systems Information Systems Analyst IT Consulting Systems Analyst Human Resource Management Employment Relations Manager Human Resources Manager Recruiter Training Manager Operations Management Business Analyst Consultant Inventory Manager Line Supervisor Logistics Coordinator Materials Coordinator Operations Manager Product Manager Project Manager Supply Chain Manager Traffic Manager Banking and Insurance Account Manager Banking Branch Manager Benefits Manager Credit Analyst Sales Management Used with permission from the University of Tennessee. FIND OUT MORE Have more questions or want more information? Fill out the form below, which goes directly to the following department contact. If you’d also like to receive general University information from Clemson’s admissions office, please follow the link to the right and sign up to join our mailing list. Jake Anderson Recruiter manders@clemson.edu Department Website College Website Loading... Department Website College Website Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2015 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on Google+ Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on YouTube Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram Search Clemson University degrees Clemson Degree Programs Search Alphabetical List Schedule a Visit Campus Life Admissions Costs & Financial Aid Similar Majors To Management (B.S.) Financial Management (B.S.) Marketing (B.S.)