Skip to Main Content Brown University Graduate Programs Search Menu Graduate Programs Behavioral and Social Health Sciences Ph.D. school School of Public Health Inquire Apply All Graduate Programs Navigate This Page Navigate This Page About the Program Admission Information Completion Requirements Alumni Outcomes Leadership Contact and Location The signatures of Behavioral and Social Sciences training at Brown University include health behavior interventions, development, and evaluation. Our students collaborate across disciplines, researchers, and communities. Students and faculty engage in research that seeks to identify social, psychological, and behavioral risk factors for disease and illness; understand the psychosocial determinants of health care; understand health protective behaviors, relationships, and institutions; and develop and evaluate health-promoting interventions that are grounded in behavioral and social science theory. Students in the Doctoral Program in Behavioral and Social Health Sciences demonstrate mastery of relevant theory and methods, assessed via coursework and examinations, and complete a dissertation that represents original research. Additional Resources The School of Public Health is home to several world-class research centers, such as the Center for Alcohol and Addiction Studies, Center for Health Promotion and Health Equity, Centers for Behavioral and Preventive Medicine, the International Health Institute, Mindfulness Center, and the Brown University AIDS Program. Our faculty members also collaborate with researchers at Brown's Population Studies and Training Center, Institute for Brain Sciences, Providence/Boston Center for AIDS Research, Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America, as well as the Rhode Island Department of Health. These centers and institutes offer doctoral students a rich learning environment in which to explore topics of interest. Admission Information Inquire Apply The most competitive applicants will have an earned master's degree in public health or in a behavioral or social science field (e.g., psychology, sociology, anthropology, education, communication). To be prepared to complete the doctoral degree requirements, applicants should have taken quantitative courses, such as undergraduate or graduate level calculus, statistics or probability coursework; and demonstrate research experience relevant to public health. A key element in evaluating applications is our assessment of the fit between applicant intellectual and research interests and those of one or more of the faculty. Students should identify potential faculty mentors in their application; advance correspondence with potential faculty mentors is highly recommended to establish fit. See a list of our faculty members open to taking students. Applicants to this School of Public Health program should apply through SOPHAS, a centralized application service for accredited schools and programs in public health. The application opens each year in mid–August. The GRE is not required. Admission Requirements GRE Subject: Not required GRE General: Not required TOEFL/IELTS: Required if applicable Official Transcripts: Required Letters of Recommendations: 3 Personal Statement: Required Resume/CV: Required Additional Materials: Application Fee Additional Requirements: International Applicants: Language Proficiency (TOEFL or IELTS if applicable) Transcript Evaluation (if applicable) Comprehensive application requirements are detailed on the School of Public Health's admissions requirements website. Dates/Deadlines Admission Deadline December 1, 2021 Completion Requirements A PhD degree in Behavioral and Social Health Sciences at Brown requires completion of 16 courses for students without a master's degree; up to four (4) of these may be fulfilled by prior graduate coursework. Doctoral students must maintain an average of B or higher in the coursework required for the Ph.D., complete written and oral qualifying exams, and a dissertation representing original contribution to the field. Alumni Careers Learn More Leadership Department Chair Christopher W. Kahler christopher_kahler@brown.edu Director of Graduate Studies Kate B. Carey Kate_Carey@brown.edu Contact and Location Department of Behavioral and Social Sciences Mailing Address Brown University Box G-S121-4 linda_angela@brown.edu 401-863-6578 Visit the Department of Behavioral and Social Sciences Resources Program Faculty Program Handbook Graduate School Handbook Public Health Career Outcomes Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Graduate School School of Engineering School of Professional Studies School of Public Health Warren Alpert Medical School This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Behavioral and Social Health Sciences Open details for Behavioral and Social Health Sciences Bookmark this Page