Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School Living & Resources International Students Office of International Student & Scholar Services Graduate School Skip to Navigation Office of International Student & Scholar Services The Office of International Student & Scholar Services (OISSS) is a frequent first stop for admitted international students with questions — even before arriving on campus. Focused on solving everyday issues facing students and scholars from abroad, OISSS issues applicable immigration documents and provides guidance on processes such as employment, taxation, Social Security cards, and driver’s license applications — all of which require dealing with various governmental agencies. OISSS also assists international students and scholars with the navigation of the geography and culture of the University and the exploration of the places and ways of life that make the United States unique. International students are encouraged to utilize OISSS as a resource. The office maintains close relationships with the Graduate School, the CareerLAB, and the Office of Student Life. Externally, OISSS is regularly in touch with government officials to keep abreast of policy and regulatory changes affecting its international clientele and to address specific issues. OISSS provides a special orientation for incoming international graduate students and sponsors informational programs throughout the year. The office works with the International House of Rhode Island, which offers weekly lunchtime gatherings and other social activities throughout the year. Students are encouraged to stop by the OISSS office during open advising hours or to set up an appointment by calling (401) 863-2427. Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Providence & RI Housing Offices & Resources Campus Facilities Family Resources International Students Crisis Support Food and Related Resources for Graduate Students Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Related Items OISSS OISSS Open Advising Hours International House of RI Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants