Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University University Library Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Index Hours My Library Card Give Research & Collections Find Books & Media (Quick Search) Article Indexes & Databases e-Books e-Journals - A-Z list Specific Article by Citation or DOI Course Reserves Movies and TV Streaming Video Collections WorldCat (Open Access) Catalogs of Other Libraries Iowa State Collections DataShare: ISU's Data Repository Digital Collections Digital Initiatives Digital Press Digital Repository @ Iowa State University Special Collections and University Archives Research Help Research and Course Guides Quick Search Tips Find Articles Find Dissertations and Theses Find Other Types of Material Find Audiovisual Materials Find Books Find Census Data Find Government Documents Find Images Find Legal Research Find Magazines, Journals Find Manuscripts and Archives Find Maps Find Microforms Find Newspapers and News Find Standards Cite Sources Cite Sources Overview Endnote Ask Us! Find Your Librarian Collections Areas Leisure Collection Media Center Periodical Room Reference Materials Call Numbers in Parks Library Library Storage Building Design Reading Room Design Reading Room Overview About the Design Reading Room Course Reserves - Design Reading Room Design Reading Room Staff Veterinary Medicine Library Restricted Building Access About the Vet Med Library Veterinary Medicine Library Staff Borrowing Main Desk Check Out and Return Request Books and More Pick From Shelf Service Recall or Hold an Item Renew an Item Interlibrary Loan & Document Delivery (ILL/DD) ILL/DD Overview ILL/DD Account Login Interlibrary Loan FAQ Libraries Requesting ISU Materials Unaffiliated User Terms and Conditions Missing Items Loan Periods Fines (overdue/lost items) Book a Media Item for Classroom Use Who May Borrow? Your Library Card Help & Services Accessibility Services Accessibility Services Overview Services & Equipment Available Physical Access to Parks Library Building and Collections Accessibility Services at Branch Libraries For You Services for Students Faculty & Instructors Distance Learners International Nest Alumni & Visitors Assistance Lost & Found Find Your Librarian Ask a Librarian How Do I ... Library FAQ Access E-Resources Access My Library Card Get Something That's Not Available Find Articles Find Dissertations and Theses Find Other Types of Materials Cite Sources Quick Search Tips Teaching & Class Support Library Instruction Overview Library 160 Course-related Instruction Course Reserves Research and Course Guides Workshops Copyright Information Open Scholarship Services Binding theses Solution Center Systems Status Spaces & Computers Study Rooms Group Study Rooms Research Study Rooms Quiet Areas Reserve a Library Space Parks Library spaces Floor & Tier Maps Accessible and Sensory Friendly Spaces Learning Connections Center Bookends Café International Nest Mindfulness Room Where to find ... Room Number Listings Physical Access to Parks Library Building and Collections Diaper changing stations and lactation room Restrooms Library Classroom Use Computers & Technology Assistive Technology Computers and Computer Labs Interactive Displays for Group Work Laptop & Equipment Checkout Group Equipment Loans Outlets and Wireless Printing, Copying, Scanning Other Equipment Parks Libro NVivo Software Access Design Reading Room Veterinary Medicine Library Ask Us! Course Reserves: Cost effective course materials needed to succeed May 11, 2022 · Chrislyn Lawson, student writer Instruction News Newsletter Research Services The University Library provides many services to students and faculty to enrich their academic studies, which include not only offering study spaces and technological resources but reserving course materials, too. The library offers a service called Course Reserves, in which they provide a collection of hard-copy and electronic course materials at the Main Desk. For a specified period time, Iowa State students can check out course materials such as textbooks and DVDs through Course Reserves. At the start of the semester, I realized that I needed a textbook for a linguistics class. I didn’t want to pay over $40 for a textbook that I wouldn’t use much during the semester, and fortunately, the professor of that class mentioned that the textbook was held by Course Reserves. I went to the library after class, checked out the material from the Main Desk, and took the time to scan the chapters I needed to read for the semester before I returned it. To reserve a physical item from Course Reserves, you must have an Iowa State University NetID and the call number of the item. The call numbers can be found in Canvas under the “Course Reserves” tab or in the “Library Collections” via the “Quick Search” bar on the main page of the University Library website; the call number displays in parentheses below the material information. If the call number is not available, the Main Desk staff can locate items by the name of the course using the textbook. Once the course material has been checked out, it must be used in the library building for a maximum of three hours. If not checked back in within the time limit, a fee may be charged. As for electronic copies, according to Jill Vasquez, a library assistant in Course Reserves, students may need to install a PDF reader or a plug-in to view items from various websites on their devices. It is also advised to turn off pop-up blockers to access the electronic material. Take note that Course Reserves have limited inventory of materials, so users should plan accordingly. Here are six things to note about Course Reserves: It is completely free! The library buys materials and pays copyright/licensing fees so that students can utilize them for free. Whether it is an assigned book, course pack, or any other material from any class, Course Reserves has it to relieve financial burden. Ask your instructor about using Course Reserves. It is available 24/7 in Canvas. There is no need to remember websites, book titles, call numbers or to create and manage multiple logins they are all in one place, which is Canvas. Access to electronic materials may require a software installation. Whether they are plug-ins, media players, or browsers, you may need to install software on your electronic device to access electronic material. This may take time, so allow plenty of time for the process before the assignment deadline. Materials have limited inventory. The status and number of items of the reserved material can be found in Canvas or on the University Library site. Checked out materials must be used in the library building for a maximum of three hours. There are sensors by the entrances and exits to detect if the materials are leaving the building. And remember that if the check-out time exceeds three hours, the student may be charged a fee. Find loan information and time through MyLibraryCard. If you want to know the time you checked out the material and more information along with it, it can be accessed through MyLibraryCard under the search bar on the main University Site. More information on Course Reserves, access, and policies can be found here. For questions, contact Course Reserves via email ereserves@iastate.edu. University Library University Library 701 Morrill Rd Ames, IA 50011-2102 Ask Us! 515 294-3642 phone Email Webmaster Facebook Twitter Follow us FDLP Copyright © 1995-2022 Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information