Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin Menu Header Helpful Links Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Families & Visitors Search Search Maps Directory UT Direct Give Apply Search Search About Academics Academic Experience Areas of Study Extended Campus Cockrell School of Engineering College of Education College of Fine Arts College of Liberal Arts College of Natural Sciences College of Pharmacy Dell Medical School Graduate School Jackson School of Geosciences LBJ School of Public Affairs McCombs School of Business Moody College of Communication School of Architecture School of Information School of Law School of Nursing Steve Hicks School of Social Work School of Undergraduate Studies Admissions & Aid Be a Longhorn What Starts Here Changes the World. It's more than a motto. It’s what we prove each and every day, as Texas and its Exes advance discovery and innovation on a global stage. Join us. Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions School of Law Admissions Dell Medical School Admissions Tuition & Costs Financial Aid Campus Visits Campus & Community Explore Your Passions Thousands of events, from concerts and film screenings to readings and lectures. More than 1,100 student organizations. Incredible facilities and special attractions. And it's all set in the heart of one of the world's greatest cities. Welcome home. Arts & Culture Campus Destinations Entrepreneurship & Innovation Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Austin Report Misconduct Safety & Security Student Involvement Longhorn Resources Research Change the World Longhorns are passionate about making the world a better place, united by the belief that creating and sharing knowledge can save lives and transform society. Come explore our vast research enterprise — or better yet, create, innovate and discover with us. Overview Student Research Units & Centers Off-Campus Research Sites Libraries Experts Guide Athletics News Home Campus & Community : Report Violence, Misconduct, Harassment, or Discrimination Report Violence, Misconduct, Harassment, or Discrimination Emergencies Call 911 if you or someone else is in immediate danger. Worried about someone's behavior or actions? Call the 24/7 Behavior Concerns and COVID-19 Advice Line (BCCAL) 512-232-5050 to get help now. Trained staff members from the Behavior Concerns and COVID-19 Advice Line (BCCAL) are available 24 hours a day to assist the caller in exploring available options and strategies. Callers can be anonymous. Report behavior concerns via BCCAL's online report form. Online reports are not anonymous; online reporting requires a valid UTEID. Sexual Misconduct Sexual Misconduct by a Student, Faculty, Staff, University Affiliate, or Visitors to the University Title IX Office The Title IX Office is committed to supporting the University’s mission to create and maintain an educational and work environment free from all forms of sexual assault, interpersonal violence (including domestic and dating violence), stalking, and sexual harassment (including harassment on the basis of sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, or pregnancy status), where students, faculty, and staff can learn, work and thrive. The Title IX Office seeks to provide leadership pertaining to the Title IX regulations, as well as develop and implement best practices for prevention, training, resources and support services at The University of Texas at Austin. To learn more about the Title IX Office, including our services, how to report, and frequently asked questions, please visit the Title IX Office website. Report sexual assault, interpersonal violence, stalking, sexual harassment, sex discrimination, sexual exploitation, unprofessional or inappropriate conduct, retaliation via the online form Call to report sexual assault, interpersonal violence, stalking, sexual harassment, sex discrimination, sexual exploitation, unprofessional or inappropriate conduct, retaliation 512-471-0419. Discrimination Discrimination, harassment, and/or retaliation on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, pregnancy, age, disability, citizenship, veteran status, genetic information, sexual orientation, gender identity, and gender expression can be reported to the Department of Investigation and Adjudication. Department of Investigation and Adjudication The Department of Investigation and Adjudication (DIA) investigates allegations of discrimination, harassment, and other prohibited conduct. These claims can involve students, faculty, staff, contractors, applicants, visitors, and other members of the university community. As a neutral investigator, DIA supports the university in fostering a campus environment that is inclusive, respectful, and free from discrimination and harassment. File a report of discrimination via online form Call to report discrimination 512-471-3701 or email: dia@austin.utexas.edu Office for Civil Rights (OCR) The Office for Civil Rights (OCR) in the US Department of Education is responsible for enforcing federal civil rights laws that prohibit discrimination in programs and activities that receive federal financial assistance from the Department of Education, including sex discrimination covered under Title IX. Call the Office for Civil Rights 214-661-9600. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) is responsible for enforcing federal laws that make it illegal to discriminate against a job applicant or employee on the basis of a protected class, including discrimination on the basis of sex. Call the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission 800-669-4000. Texas Workforce Commission (TWC) The Texas Workforce Commission’s (TWC) Civil Rights Division provides an avenue for current and former employees or job applicants to file a complaint for discrimination because of race, color, national origin, age, religion, sex, disability, or retaliation for participating in another discrimination complaint. Student Organization Hazing Office of the Dean of Students The Office of the Dean of Students investigates and helps to resolve complaints of hazing. Report Hazing via online form Illegal or Unethical Activities University Compliance If you suspect a member of the university community is behaving illegally or unethically, or violating university rules please report your concerns. Report unethical or illegal activities via online form Call to report unethical or legal concerns English: 877-507-7321 Español: 800-216-1288 UT Police Department (UTPD) UTPD assists victims in filing criminal reports. A pseudonym option is available to victims to shield the victim's identity in a police report. Report a Crime Tip Anonymously Emergency phone: Call 911 if you or someone else is in immediate danger. Non-Emergency phone: Call UTPD for non-emergencies 512-471-4441 Additional Referrals and Resources Behavior Concerns and COVID-19 Advice Line (BCCAL) Worried about someone's behavior or actions? Call the 24/7 Behavior Concerns and COVID-19 Advice Line (BCCAL) 512-232-5050 to get help now. University Ombuds Office The Student, Staff, and Faculty Ombuds Offices listen to concerns in a safe, confidential setting, offer referrals, and help identify options so you can seek resolution. Call for confidential help for Students 512-471-3825 Call for confidential help for Staff 512-471-3825 Call for confidential help for Faculty 512-471-5866 Title IX Office The university offers support services and resources to our community members who have experienced or have been accused of sexual misconduct. Call Title IX 512-471-0419 Email: titleix@austin.utexas.edu Student Healthcare: University Health Services Call the free 24/7 Nurse Advice Line 512-475-6877 (512-475-NURS) A free service for UT Students. Call the Nurse Advice Line for advice on how to schedule an appointment or forensic exam related to sexual assault, care for an illness or injury, or for guidance about when to see a healthcare provider. Call the free 24/7 SAFE Alliance Hotline 512-267-7223 (512-267-SAFE) A free service for UT students. Students can access a free sexual assault forensic exam through a partnership with SAFE Alliance to collect evidence in addition to a physical exam. Student Counseling: Counseling and Mental Health Center Call the student counseling and mental health crisis line 512-471-2255 (512-471-CALL) The Counseling and Mental Health Crisis Line is a confidential service that offers an opportunity for UT-Austin students to talk with trained counselors about urgent concerns. Call Voices Against Violence 512-471-3515 Voices Against Violence (VAV) provides support to survivors of sexual violence through advocacy appointments, individual counseling sessions, and group counseling. VAV's survivor's emergency fund provides financial assistance to student survivors of sexual violence, relationship violence, and/or stalking. Help for UT students in crisis: Student Emergency Services Call for crisis support 512-471-5017 (Mon-Fri, 8am - 4:30pm) Email: studentemergency@austin.utexas.edu Assistance includes outreach, advocacy, intervention, financial and emotional support, and referrals to relevant campus and community resources. In-person support available at Student Services Building (SSB) 4.400, Mon-Fri, 9am - 4pm. Help for UT staff and faculty in crisis: UT Employee Assistance Program (EAP) Call for staff and faculty assistance 512-471-3366 (Mon-Fri, 8am - 5pm) Email: eap@austin.utexas.edu UT staff and faculty can access counseling and behavioral health services, wellness support, and solutions to life's challenges. In-person help: UTA building Room 2.304 at 1616 Guadalupe Street (across from Clay Pit restaurant). Connect with UT Austin Subscribe to our newsletter Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Starts With You Footer Helpful Links Access Course Syllabi and Instructor CVs Campus Carry Contact Counseling and Mental Health Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan Diversity, Equity, and Disability Resources ♿ Emergency Information Fraud, Waste, or Abuse Hazing Prevention and Response HEERF/CARES Act Compliance Jobs Online Institutional Resumes Public Forum On Campus Site Policies State of Texas Statewide Search Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Title IX Reporting (Sexual Misconduct) UT System Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy © The University of Texas at Austin 2022