Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Paul L. Foster Success Center Menu About Us Academic Excellence Opportunities Celebration of First Year Excellence Deans' Reception Resources for Students Pursuing Academic Excellence Contact PLFSC Departments In The News Meet our Success Center Executive Team Search PLFSC Faculty & Staff Resources Academic Progress Reports Faculty/Staff SNR Link Not Returning Checklist Student Success Theology Navigate Staff NSE Instructor Resources OALA Faculty Resources Faculty Resources for Student Support Faculty/Staff Advising Resources Students Know Your Neighbor Week Calendar of Events Facts that you might not know about Baylor students We're here to help you take care of spring registration now! Returning Students Bear Textbook Scholarship - Apply Today Planning To Return To Baylor Planning To Register For The Next Semester Study Commons Hours/Locations Success Center Tutoring Non-Returning Students Planning To Leave Baylor Non Returning Checklist Making Academic Progress Navigate Student Cultural Humility Resources Specific Books In the News Tours of the Paul L. Foster Success Center Tour of Center for Academic Success & Engagement - CASE Tour of Student Opportunity & Accessibility Resources - SOAR Tour of Office of Access and Learning Accommodation - OALA Tour of the Tutoring Center Make a Gift Paul L. Foster Success Center Paul L. Foster Success Center The Paul L. Foster Success Center (PLFSC) provides a supportive environment for all students with a wide range of services intentionally designed to undergird and maximize opportunities for success in their Baylor experience. In partnership with faculty and staff, we empower students to strive toward academic excellence and exploration of calling while discovering and fulfilling their personal gifts, goals, and aspirations. Explore Welcome New Students!! We can’t wait to meet you and are excited to be partnering with you as you embark on your educational journey! The Paul L. Foster Success Center (PLFSC) maximizes opportunities for success in the Baylor experience. We empower students to strive toward academic excellence and exploration of calling while discovering and fulfilling their personal gifts, goals, and aspirations. Get a quick introduction to our services by watching this video. Also, check out our four departments at the links below. Feel free to reach out to us at our PLFSC email. Center for Academic Success and Engagement Office of Access and Learning Accommodation Student Opportunity & Accessibility Resources University Advisement An important first step in your Baylor experience is to download the Navigate app by going to your app store today. It will provide a customized academic experience with tools designed to support your success throughout your time at Baylor. Center for Academic Success and Engagement The Center for Academic Success & Engagement (CASE) educates and empowers all students to discover and engage in effective paths for academic and personal thriving through learning strategies, self-management tools, holistic support, and a sense of belonging in the Baylor community. Read More Office of Access and Learning Accommodation The Office of Access and Learning Accommodation (OALA) creates an encouraging, supportive, and caring environment where students with disabilities feel they are accepted and valued as individuals. This is achieved by showing compassion, patience, and open-mindedness as well as through teaching responsibility. Read More Student Opportunity & Accessibility Resources Student Opportunity & Accessibility Resources (SOAR) provides resources and programming aimed at supporting Baylor's diverse student population and is dedicated to offering the research and scholarly opportunities and financial knowledge, skills, and support systems necessary for students to ensure their educational success at all levels. Read More University Advisement University Advisement (UA) provides assistance in combining curricular and co-curricular experiences enabling students to realize their individual calling. We equip and challenge students to responsibly develop personalized, practical, and appropriate educational plans, reflecting their academic and creative strengths and encompassing transformational learning opportunities throughout the academic journey. Read More Success Stories See More Stories Nicole Ma "It's really great to have these support programs because sometimes you need that one-on-one support." "I found that it's more efficient and a smarter use of my time to get help on certain problems that I would otherwise spend hours stuck on." Maquela Noel "The people in the program have taken care of me past the scholarships and financial aid." "They are not only concerned with helping me able to stay at Baylor but also want to see me thrive here." Treasure Ramirez "The McNair program is really intense, fast-paced and requires a lot from you. But at the end of the day, you gain a lot in terms of skills and readiness for your future. Being in the program really helped me gain confidence not just in research but in my own capabilities as a person as well." Faculty Resources Navigate Planning to Leave? Planning to Return? Student Success Conversations The Store News Read More News Apr. 29, 2022 Center for Academic Success and Engagement to Unveil Ancestral Legacy Mural A new Ancestral Legacy Mural in Baylor University’s Center for Academic Success and Engagement (CASE) in the Sid Richardson Building has joined the growing list of inspirational murals located throughout the City of Waco. Read More Apr. 25, 2022 Visiting with Sara Ray, program manager for Student Financial Literacy in Baylor's Paul L. Foster Success Center. It is Financial Literacy Month, and we're going to highlight some of the resources housed within the Paul L. Foster Success Center at Baylor within the office to serve students. Student Financial Literacy helps Baylor students understand personal money management to develop the financial knowledge and skills necessary for both current and future financial wellness through one-on-one coaching, online education and more. Read More Apr. 19, 2022 Assistant director of OALA explains difference between emotional support, service animals Furry faces and wagging tails often fill Baylor’s campus, but most students do not truly understand the difference between pets, service animals and emotional support animals (ESA). While off-campus students may decide to share their space with a furry friend, the Office of Access and Learning Accommodations (OALA) works with students who live in residence halls to provide appropriate accommodations. Read More Feb. 14, 2022 Baylor Lariat: Hard of hearing student speaks about her experience Dena Sadler, a sophomore, tells her story about how Office of Access and and Learning Accommodation (OALA) has helped her experience at Baylor be a better one. Accommodation specialists have done what they can and more to help Dena in her classes. Ever since she has come to the OALA office, her grades have significantly improved. Read More Paul L. Foster Success Center Sid Richardson Building (254) 710-8212 Success_Center@baylor.edu Center for Academic Success and Engagement Office of Access and Learning Accommodation Student Opportunity & Accessibility Resources University Advisement Make a Gift General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Us Academic Excellence Opportunities Celebration of First Year Excellence Deans' Reception Resources for Students Pursuing Academic Excellence Contact PLFSC Departments In The News Meet our Success Center Executive Team Search PLFSC Faculty & Staff Resources Academic Progress Reports Faculty/Staff SNR Link Not Returning Checklist Student Success Theology Navigate Staff NSE Instructor Resources OALA Faculty Resources Faculty Resources for Student Support Faculty/Staff Advising Resources Students Know Your Neighbor Week Calendar of Events Facts that you might not know about Baylor students We're here to help you take care of spring registration now! Returning Students Bear Textbook Scholarship - Apply Today Planning To Return To Baylor Planning To Register For The Next Semester Study Commons Hours/Locations Success Center Tutoring Non-Returning Students Planning To Leave Baylor Non Returning Checklist Making Academic Progress Navigate Student Cultural Humility Resources Specific Books In the News Tours of the Paul L. Foster Success Center Tour of Center for Academic Success & Engagement - CASE Tour of Student Opportunity & Accessibility Resources - SOAR Tour of Office of Access and Learning Accommodation - OALA Tour of the Tutoring Center Make a Gift