Skip to main content Harvard University 1 site notification Latest COVID Information Search Search Quick Links Find a Person A to Z Index Menu Academics Academics Explore all programs Browse all of our undergraduate concentrations, graduate degrees, and professional certificates. Harvard Schools Academics Visit each School for information on admissions and financial aid. Explore more Harvard College Harvard Business School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Harvard Divinity School Harvard Faculty of Arts and Sciences Harvard Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Harvard Graduate School of Design Harvard Graduate School of Education Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences Harvard Kennedy School Harvard Law School Harvard Medical School Harvard Radcliffe Institute Harvard School of Dental Medicine Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Professional and lifelong learning Free online courses More about academics at Harvard Campus Campus Harvard's Campus Get tickets to our next game, hours and locations for our libraries and museums, and information about your next career move. Libraries Campus Explore our libraries Arnold Arboretum Horticultural Library Baker Library and Special Collections Biblioteca Berenson Botany Libraries Cabot Science Library Countway Library Dumbarton Oaks Research Library Ernst Mayr Library Fine Arts Library Frances Loeb Library Fung Library Gutman Library Harvard Divinity School Library Harvard Film Archive Harvard Law School Library Harvard Map Collection Harvard University Archives Harvard-Yenching Library HKS Library and Knowledge Services Houghton Library Lamont Library Loeb Music Library Robbins Library of Philosophy Schlesinger Library on the History of Women in America Tozzer Library Widener Library Wolbach Library Woodberry Poetry Room Museums Campus Explore our museums The Arnold Arboretum Carpenter Center for the Visual Arts Collection of Historical Scientific Instruments Graduate School of Design Exhibitions Harvard Art Museums Harvard Forest Harvard Museum of Natural History The Harvard Museum of the Ancient Near East Harvard Museums of Science and Culture Harvard University Herbaria Mineralogical and Geological Museum Museum of Comparative Zoology The Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology Warren Anatomical Museum Athletics Work at Harvard Events Commencement Campus Harvard Commencement for the Class of 2022 Harvard Commencement for the Classes of 2020 & 2021 In Focus In Focus Explore and understand the world with Harvard In Focus is a curated examination of Harvard's research, scholarly work, and community. Recent topics include: Commencement 2022 In Focus Celebrating the Graduates Highlighting the accomplishments and celebrating the bright futures of Harvard’s most recent grads Meet this year's graduates What's inside? The Harvard Gazette's coverage of this year's Commencement Explore each School's events Mental Health In Focus Mental Health Awareness Month To commemorate Mental Health Awareness Month, the Harvard community is exploring how we cope with, manage, and understand mental health and how it impacts our lives. View the feature What's inside? Is a mobile app as good as a therapist? Bipolar breakthrough Climate Solutions In Focus Climate Solutions Faculty and students from across the Harvard community are working on ways to address climate change and its effects. Explore these adaptations What's inside? Zero-waste architecture Better batteries inspired by a BLT Explore the In Focus archives Visit Visit Visit Harvard Ideas and assistance for your trip to our campus. Tours Maps and Directions About About About Harvard Information on how Harvard is structured, explore our long history, and discover our extended community. History of Harvard About History of Harvard Harvard is perhaps best-known because of its enduring history of innovation in education. But even die-hard Harvard buffs are not likely to know all of these Harvard firsts and historical snippets. Learn more History timeline Nobel Laureates Honorary Degrees Harvard Shields Leadership and Governance About Learn about our Leadership Officers and Deans Harvard Corporation Board of Overseers University Professorships Diversity and Inclusion Endowment Harvard in the Community Harvard in the World News News The Harvard Gazette Official news from Harvard University about science, medicine, art, campus life, University issues, and broader national and global concerns. Trending News Stories News Read more news Jacinda Ardern’s forceful reminder: Democracies can die New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern delivers warning on erosion of trust in her Commencement address, urging social media reforms and calling on individuals to reject tribalism. Harvard awards seven honorary degrees During today’s Commencement ceremony in Tercentenary Theatre, Harvard will recognize seven with an honorary degree. Humans hot, sweaty, natural-born runners Hairless, clawless, and largely weaponless, ancient humans used the unlikely combination of sweatiness and relentlessness to gain the upper hand over their faster, stronger, generally more dangerous animal prey, Harvard Anthropology Professor Daniel Lieberman said Thursday (April 12). Pursuit of joy starts with truth, Wu tells graduates Class Day speaker Michelle Wu ’07, J.D. ’12, urged the class of 2022 to hold fast to Harvard’s founding motto “veritas,” or truth. Sign up for the Daily Gazette Navigation Quick Links A to Z Index Find a Person Events Media Relations Alumni Give Now Harvard University Close Oceans In Focus Oceans Mental Health Climate Solutions Celebrating the Class of ’22 Oceans While more than 70% of the Earth’s surface is covered by its oceans, nearly 80% of that remains unexplored. Harvard experts are investigating the mysteries of the deep, diving into the impact of climate change, and searching for answers only found beneath our ocean’s waters. Under the sea Harvard students and faculty are using the latest technology to study the ocean’s largest, smallest, and most unique creatures. Creatures of the deep Why did you love ‘My Octopus Teacher’? Scholars reflect on the somewhat surprising appeal of the popular award-winning documentary. Read more about the documentary Creatures of the deep Understanding the whales Scientists who met at the Radcliffe Institute are exploring how whales communicate and if they have language Read more from the Harvard Gazette A fin-tastic friend Molly Gabler-Smith, a postdoctoral fellow at Harvard, discusses her work studying the way sharks move through the water. Read the transcript and find more episodes of HMSC Connects Prehistoric Walking underwater Researchers have found that some deep sea creatures use the same motor neurons and genes that help humans and other land vertebrates walk. Read more from the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences Prehistoric Water beast A recent paper argues the Spinosaurus was an aquatic dinosaur and powered by a predatory tail. Read more from the Harvard Gazette Oceans and climate change As temperatures and sea levels rise, what do we know about how climate change is impacting our oceans? Harvard Gazette Melting polar ice is shifting Earth itself, and not just sea levels Research shows that the melting of glacial ice in Antarctica, the Arctic Islands, and Greenland can be measured in the shifting of the Earth’s crust. School of Engineering and Applied Sciences Climate change is likely to increase human exposure to methylmercury The Harvard Gazette The Antarctic Ice Sheet is melting, lifting sea level higher than expected Graduate School of Design An Island in Flux: Envisioning a more resilient Nantucket The Harvard Gazette The impact of ocean acidification Harvard Chan School Plastic takes a toll on oceans and puts human health at risk Water we doing How are researchers, climate change experts, and environmental advocates finding ways to combat the effects of the changes to our oceans? Harnessing bacteria to fight ocean pollution Students’ synthetic biology project claims gold at international competition. Learn more from the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences Studying how kelp naturally combats climate change Research suggests that in addition to creating beautiful habitats, macroalgae such as kelp play a large role in reducing the effects of global warming. Learn more from the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Looking to the oceans for answers National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration says we should look to the seas for solutions, not problems. Learn more from the Harvard Gazette Reducing plastic waste that pollutes our oceans After graduating, Jane von Rabenau started a company that reduces plastic waste at the source in Indonesia. Learn more from the Kennedy School Advances in technology Exploring 3,000 meters under the sea Life is better under the sea. Take it from a group of Harvard undergraduates who were among the first to glimpse life on the ocean floor 10 miles off the coast of California. Read more from the Harvard Gazette Robot mimics the powerful punch of the mantis shrimp Advances in technology How do mantis shrimp produce deadly, ultra-fast movements? New research answers long-standing biological questions and paves the way for small but mighty robots. Read more from the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences Innovation in exploration A multidisciplinary group of engineers, marine biologists, and roboticists have developed a sampling device that is soft, flexible, and customizable, allowing scientists to gently grab different types of organisms from the sea without damaging them. Read more from the Wyss Institute School of Engineering and Applied Sciences Making a splash A team of Harvard students used nanostructured materials to create an educational board game that showcases the power of nanotechnology while teaching players about marine biology. Learn about the game Security & Brand Report Copyright Infringement Report Security Issue Trademark Notice Website Accessibility Digital Accessibility Privacy Statement Get In Touch Contact Harvard Maps & Directions Jobs © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube 0:00 0:00