Skip to main content Restrict my search to Office of the Provost Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Office of the Provost About Provost Paula Myrick Short Initiatives Deans of Colleges and Libraries Provost's Cabinet: Vice and Associate Provosts Office of the Provost Staff Presentations by Provost Paula Myrick Short Faculty Current Faculty Faculty Resources Underrepresented Women of Color Coalition Faculty Engagement and Development Faculty Awards Cougar Chairs Leadership Academy Grants Faculty Grievance Non-Tenure Track Faculty New Faculty Prospective Faculty Presidential Frontiers Faculty Faculty/Staff Administrators Student Success Undergraduate Academic Advising Current Students Undergraduate Student Success Center Provost Prizes for Prose & Poetry New Coogs UHin4: Four Year Graduation Plan Cub Camp: Student-Run, Student Led Provost Summer Read Program Peer Assistants Global Students Learning Abroad International Students Graduate Students University Success SACSCOC University Accreditation UH Global Global Initiatives Global Citizens Credential Peace Corps Prep Program Center for ADVANCING UH Faculty Success Cougar Initiative to Engage (CITE) Houston Guided Pathways to Success About People Memorandum of Understanding Foundations of Excellence About Year 1: Foundational Dimensions Year 2: Themes Success Indicators Dashboard Postdoctoral Fellows at UH Academic Program Planning Committee on Academic Centers and Institutes Planning and Budgeting Policies and Resources Academic Honesty Policy Frequently Asked Questions Student Policies and Resources Student Resources Faculty Policies, Programs, and Resources Policies Programs Resources University Policies and Resources FERPA Resources Senate Bill 4 Frequently Asked Questions Honorary Degrees COVID-19 Updates and Resources News News Travels With Shasta Cougar Milestones UH Office of the Provost Marketing and Communications UH Home Office of the Provost News Travels With Shasta News UH Provost Marketing and Communications News Travels With Shasta Cougar Milestones Contact Information To submit a photo for Travels with Shasta, please email provost@uh.edu. Social Media Travels With Shasta Where has Shasta been lately? Submit your photo of Shasta to provost@uh.edu to be included on this page! Shasta in Fairbanks, Alaska, assisting UH professor Jimmy Flynn with solar radiation measurements . Photo submitted by Dr. Jimmy Flynn, Department of Earth & Atmospheric Sciences. Shasta travels to Reunion Island in the Indian Ocean with UH atmospheric scientists to take measurements of the gas, ash plume from the eruption underwater volcano eruption near Tonga. Atmospheric sciences researcher Sergio Alvarez and Shasta visited to study ash from underwater volcanic eruptions near Tonga. Shasta travels to Reunion Island in the Indian Ocean as UH atmospheric scientists take measurements of the gas and ash plume coming from the eruption of the underwater volcano near Tonga. Shasta at the KLM Open PGA golf tournament in Amsterdam with Aristotle Economon. Shasta finally feeling the heat of 116 in Palm Jumerah, Dubai. Shasta soaking up the sun in South Beach, Miami. Shasta travels with Dr. Northup's Learning Abroad trip to Bologna, Italy. Shasta hiking in the hills outside of Bologna, Italy. He traveled down an ancient path that has been in use since Roman times. Shasta looks at photos of the Shasta Dam, California construction site. Shasta looks over the edge of the Shasta Dam in California. Shasta at the Shasta Dam in California Shasta visits Shasta Lake in California. Shasta visits the Shasta-Trinity National Forest in California Shasta visit the Shasta Dam Welcome Center in California Shasta at the Jack Valenti Hollywood Square in Los Angeles Shasta skydiving with Dr. Jeff Morgan Shasta at Hadrian's Wall in England Shasta at the Oriental Pearl Radio Tower in Shanghai, China Shasta at Bristol University in Bristol, England Shasta in Belfast, Ireland Shasta in Queenstown, New Zealand Shasta with the Terracotta Warriors in Xi'an, China Shasta celebrating Houston Pride Shasta at the beach Shasta visits Shantou University in Shantou, China Shasta visits the Lincoln Memorial in Washington D.C. Shasta visits the White House in Washington, D.C. Shasta visits the Royal Botanical Gardens in Hobart Tasmania. Shasta scales Mount Wellington in Tasmania. Shasta enjoys a visit to Rio de Janerio, Brazil. Shasta accompanied Valenti School of Communication Director Temple Northup to Shanghai, China to attend the 2017 International New Media Forum, where Dr. Northup gave a keynote address. Shasta tries on a medal at the Public Relations Society of America’s College of Fellows Class of 2017 in Boston, MA Shasta enjoys his morning coffee at the iconic Borobudur Hotel in Jakarta, Indonesia Shasta at the Open Textbook Network Conference with Dean Lisa German and Mimi Lee Shasta hiking in Boulder, Colorado with Dr. Christopher Arellano and Dr. Ruth Lopez and family Shasta in Shanghai, China with ECUST graduates Shasta with the Graduate College of Social Work in Shanghai, China Shasta at the Forbidden City in Beijing, China Shasta in Beijing, China with the Graduate College of Social Work Shasta at the United Nations in Geneva, Switzerland Shasta in Geneva, Switzerland Shasta at the Los Alamos Canyon in New Mexico Shasta at the National Radio Astronomy Observatory (NRAO) Karl G. Jansky Very Large Array. Shasta at the National Radio Astronomy Observatory (NRAO) Karl G. Jansky Very Large Array. Shasta at the Sandia Crest in New Mexico Shasta enjoying the food in Paris for the C.T. Bauer College of Business study abroad. Shasta visits Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris for the C.T. Bauer College of Business study abroad. Shasta at the Eiffel Tower in Paris for the C.T. Bauer College of Business study abroad. Shasta is packed and ready to travel to Paris for the C.T. Bauer College of Business study abroad. Shasta in Lausanne, Switzerland, attending the invitation-only Young Hoteliers Summit at École hôtelière de Lausanne with Hilton College students. Shasta visits with the UH Student Government Association. Shasta at the American Choral Directors Association (ACDA) conference in Minneapolis, MN. Shasta at the American Choral Directors Association (ACDA) conference in Minneapolis, MN. Shasta at the the 253rd ACS National Meeting in San Francisco, CA. Shasta with Julie Neisler, a PhD Student from the College of Education in Florence, Italy. Discover more about Learning Abroad. Shasta with Dean Dettlaff at a global conference in Guangdong, China. Shasta is enjoying free coffee at the new UH Faculty Café. Shasta at Chateau Montelena, with the bottle that put Napa on the map at the 1976 judgement in Paris. Shasta at Queen's University in Kingston, Ontario, Canada. Shasta at the London Bridge in London, England Shasta at Independence Hall in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Shasta at the First Fleet Bar & Bistro, Sydney, Australia's Oldest Pub Shasta at the Sydney Harbor Bridge in Australia Shasta at the Sydney Opera House Shasta with School of Nursing graduate students and faculty in Swansea, Wales Shasta in Swansea, Wales Shasta with School of Nursing graduate students and faculty in Swansea, Wales Shasta at the gym Shasta at the New Faculty Orientation as a Powerhouse Faculty Member Shasta with Steve Muiruri and Joshua George in Morocco Shasta with Hasina Sadiwala dressed as a Moroccan farmer Shasta with Amira Maruf and Aubrey Alvarez at the Alhambra in Granada, Spain Shasta at the Forbidden City in Beijing, China Shasta at the Spanish Royal Palace in Madrid, Spain Shasta at the Smithsonian Air and Space Museum in Washington, DC Shasta at the Hilton Headquarters with a statue of Conrad Hilton Shasta at the University of Heidelberg Shasta visits the home of Qu Yuan in Zigui, China Shasta with Dr. Armstrong and Dr. Zecher in Greece Shasta in Delft Shasta with Dr. Torres and Dr. Cuesta in Cuba Shasta at the Great Wall of China Shasta takes a Chinese calligraphy class Shasta at the Church of the Holy Trinity, Stratford-upon-Avon Shasta at Heidelberg Castle, overlooking Germany Shasta at Heidelberg Castle, Germany Shasta at a Kinderdjik windmill in the Netherlands Shasta at Mount Rushmore Shasta at St. Vitus Cathedral at Prague Castle Shasta at the New York Public Library Shasta at the top of Lares Pass, with an elevation of 15,620 ft Shasta at Machu Picchu Shasta in front of the Western Wall, with the Dome of the Rock in the background Shasta learning the history of wine in the region with UH students Shasta atop Le Due Torri (the two towers) in Bologna, Italy Shasta on Lake Geneva Shasta at the National Institutes for Quantum and Radiological Science and Technology in Japan Shasta at Il Castello Estense in Ferrara, Italy Shasta at the entrance to the National Chiang Kai Shek Memorial in Taipei, Taiwan Shasta with a new kitten friend Shasta on the Cliffs of Moher in Ireland Shasta with a future Cougar, Dean Kathryn Tart's grandchild Shasta in front of St. Basil's Cathedral in Moscow, Russia Shasta in Budapest, Hungary Shasta with Larry Alford, ARL President and Elliot Shore, ARL Executive Director Shasta at the Nitobe Gardens on the campus of the University of British Columbia in Vancouver Shasta in New Orleans, LA with UH Alumni Charles Dorn Shasta at Edinburgh Castle in Scotland Shasta at Edinburgh Castle in Scotland Shasta at the Edinburgh Napier University Craiglockart Campus Shasta at the 2016 Houston Livestock Show and Rodeo Shasta with graduate students Julie Neisler and Valerie Maclin Shasta at the National Cathedral in Washington, DC Shasta at the CNN Republican Presidential Debate Shasta with Texas Governor Greg Abbott Shasta at the Republican Presidential Debate Shasta with the University of Houston mace Shasta at the National Science Foundation Shasta at the Cross Houston Starting Line Shasta visits an original copy of the Declaration of Independence at the University of Virginia Shasta visits a statue of Thomas Jefferson at the University of Virginia Shasta visits the a statue of George Washington at the University of Virginia Shasta visits the Museu de Macau Shasta visits the Interior of the White House Shasta visits the office of John Gardner at the John N. Gardner Institute for Excellence in Undergraduate Education Shasta visits the ruins of St. Paul's in Macau Shasta visits the White House in Washington, DC Shasts visits Puerto Rico University of Houston Ezekiel W. Cullen Bldg., Room 203 Houston, TX 77204 832-842-0550 About the Office of the Provost Travels With Shasta Cougar Milestones Office of the Provost Staff Faculty Awards Student Success Undergraduate Academic Advising UHin4: Four Year Graduation Plan Provost Summer Read Program Cub Camp: Student-Run, Student Led University Success Policies and Resources SACSCOC University Accreditation ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies