Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Anthropology Menu Search TTU SASW Anthropology Anthropology A Welcome from the Anthropology Faculty Welcome to the graduate and undergraduate Anthropology programs at Texas Tech. We are committed to excellence in teaching, nationally and internationally recognized research, and outstanding service to the university, profession, and community. We think you will find us to be an energized program with approximately 20 graduate students and over 100 undergraduate majors. We offer course work and field programs in archaeology, ethnology, and physical anthropology. Students have opportunities to conduct research with our faculty in Belize, Ecuador, Texas, and Oklahoma. As you explore our website, we think you will find that our faculty and students represent a broad range of interests (from forensic anthropology to contract archaeology). Dedicated to the creation and dissemination of knowledge in anthropology, our faculty members are experienced teachers, researchers, and professional leaders at the state, regional, national, and international levels. We take great pride in creating an environment conducive to learning, growth, and development for all of our students. Anthropology Mission Statement Anthropology is uniquely positioned to educate and engage students about the human condition. In doing so, our faculty take an integrated view of humanity from its deep past to diverse modernity. Our faculty are committed to training students in the methods by which anthropologists investigate the diversity of ancient and modern human cultures and societies. We do so by using theories that serve to explain the wide range of human diversity. While we share our knowledge with students, we foster critical thinking and analytical skills through classroom teaching and via field school research programs. As a result our students gain hands-on practical experience in diverse fieldwork settings in Central and South America and the Southwestern United States. Anthropology Vision Statement Our vision for the Anthropology Program is to strengthen the links between the subdisciplines of our field as well as to build new ties to our allied departmental disciplines through common research questions and shared intellectual histories. Strengthening those links and establishing new ties will provide learning and research environments for our students that expose them to a fully integrated social science program. Equally, it will allow us to pursue international and national recognition for the quality and breadth of our student training. As a faculty we will continue to hallmark our field experience component of student training and plan to grow that aspect of the program as much as possible. The Anthropology program's vision includes national and international recognition for its quality of student training, its faculty research and scholarship, and its contributions to the discipline. We will achieve this by building on our strengths in archaeology, physical anthropology, and ethnology, providing field experiences in all three subfields, and preparing our undergraduates and graduate students to be successful in the pursuit of additional graduate study at the doctoral level or in professional careers. Contact TTU Contact Contact TTUContact Contact TTU News News for NewsNews for News Events EventsEvents Anthropology Address Holden Hall 158, Box 41012, 1011 Boston Ave., Lubbock, TX 79409 Phone 806.742.2400 Email athena.baumann@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityJan 17, 2020 11:31 AM Anthropology SASW Homepage Anthropology Faculty Library Research Graduate Program Undergraduate Program Forensic Response Team Research Anthropology Back Chan Chich Archaeological Project Courses Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index