Apply Give Contact Follow Apply Give Contact Follow About Message From Dean Vision, Diversity, and History What is an iSchool? Rankings & Fast Facts iLEAD Council Jobs at the iSchool Directory News Events Research Expertise Areas Interest Groups Centers & Labs Research Projects Research Improvement Grants Research Resources Academics Bachelor’s Programs Master’s Programs Doctoral Program Certificates & Non-Degree Study Alumni Alumni Network Alumni Spotlights Upcoming Events Ways to Connect Partners iConsultancy Student Internships Research KidsTeam Youth Tech Design #UMDiSchoolTalks Congratulations Congratulations to all of our Graduates! PERVADE In Conversation with PERVADE: Stevie Chancellor w/ Host Sarah Gilbert May 24, 12pm EST, Register Now CAFe Banner Dean’s Lecture Series: Spreadsheets for Racial Justice – Data Practices of Community Organizers w/ Roderic Crooks May 18, 12 p.m. EST, Register Now HeritgeMonths_May_Website Header-02 Celebrate Jewish American Heritage Month HeritgeMonths_May_Website Header-01 (1) Celebrate Asian American & Pacific Islander Heritage Month The University of Maryland College of Information Studies (UMD iSchool) is a top-ranked research and teaching college where faculty, staff, and students are passionate about using information and technology to break down barriers and create exciting new possibilities. Learn More Research Expanding the frontiers how information and technology is accessed, used, and leveraged to empower individuals and communities. Discover Our Research Partners Working with community, academic, and industry partners to create information science solutions and create learning and career opportunities for students. Explore How to Partner Academics Offering Bachelor, Master, PhD, and Certificate programs to prepare the next generation of information professionals and researchers. Explore Programs Alumni Supporting new generations of students through scholarships, internships, and connections while enjoying networking and other benefits. Get Involved UMD iSchool News Screenshot of an observation session on Zoom from the research study, with Dr. Emma Dixon, Ms. Diana Blackwelder, and a study participant (anonymized with an icon) viewing an NIH webpage reporting on risk factors for heart disease linked to dementia. How People with Dementia Access Health Information May 26, 2022 | Liz Zogby Dr. Amanda Lazar and her team examine the barriers faced by people with dementia to accessing relevant, accurate health information. UMD Info College Welcomes New Associate Professor Amelia Gibson May 25, 2022 | iSchool News Staff Dr. Gibson will also be stepping into the Associate Director role for the Info College’s Information Policy & Access Center (iPAC). UMD Info College Welcomes New Associate Professor Sheena Erete May 25, 2022 | iSchool News Staff Dr. Erete looks to build new community partnerships and engage the local community surrounding UMD in meaningful ways. Senior Associate Dean Moves to New Opportunities After a Decade of Service May 23, 2022 | iSchool News Staff The College reflects on the visionary prowess and “can-do” attitude of Dr. Brian Butler as he steps into new leadership role. View All News Upcoming Events Jun 07 Dr. Sacoby Wilson In Coversation With PERVADE Jun 23 ALA Annual Conference & Exhibition 2022 View All Events Contact Jobs Faculty & Staff Resources Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Patuxent Building, Room 1117, 4161 Fieldhouse Drive, College Park, MD 20742-4911 (301) 405-2033 Copyright © 2022 · UMD College of Information Studies. All rights reserved. TwitterTwitter FacebookFacebook YoutubeYoutube InstagramInstagram LinkedInLinkedIn