Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Registrar Verifications Enrollment Degree Enrollment Verification Enrollment verifications may be requested for a specific term, or for a total enrollment history. Clemson University has authorized the National Student Clearinghouse to act as our agent for providing enrollment verifications for insurance purposes, student loans, future employment, military IDs, etc. This service is available 24/7 to current students and alumni of Clemson University. This verification provides enrollment status only. It does not provide information on specific courses taken or grades received: courses and grades are only on your official transcript. 〉 Current Students 〉 Former Students 〉 Third Parties 〉 Enrollment Status for Loan Deferment Current Students Go to: iROAR 〉 Student Records Select the Enrollment Verification tab Select from the following options: Print a certificate enrollment to be forwarded to a third party View your enrollment information on file with National Student Clearinghouse View your loan deferment information that the Clearinghouse has provided to loan providers View information provided by the Clearinghouse to third parties on the student's behalf View detailed information about your loans Former Students Former Clemson students that have not been enrolled for a year or more. Go to: Student Clearinghouse Select the Order-Track-Verify option Select the Verify Degrees, Enrollment & Certifications option For a verification click the VERIFY NOW button Follow the instructions on the page to complete the request for a verification form Third Parties Clemson University has authorized the National Student Clearinghouse to act as our agent for all verifications of student enrollment and awarded degrees. Third parties must use the Clearinghouse. Please visit Student Clearinghouse or contact them by phone at 703-742-4200. Enrollment Status for Loan Deferment Minimum Credit Hour Requirements Status and Term Undergrad Grad Full time fall or spring 12 9 Half time fall or spring 6 5 Full time summer (all sessions combined) 12 6 Half time summer (all sessions combined) 6 5 Students who hold student loans are in deferred status on repayment as long as they remain enrolled at least half-time. For students holding Federal student loans, enrollment status is automatically verified each term through the National Student Clearinghouse. Although students receive deferment forms in the mail, they do not have to bring them to us or take any action because Clemson University is a member of the Student Loan Clearinghouse and the enrollment verification is an automatic process that occurs each term. Students whose parents hold PLUS loans, or other loans on behalf of the student, must bring those forms to the Registrar's Office for completion since enrollment is not automatically verified through the Clearinghouse. These loans refer to the parents, not the students, so the Clearinghouse is not an option. Questions about verifications should be directed to the Registrar Office or 864-656-2171. Degree Verification Clemson University has authorized the National Student Clearinghouse to provide degree verifications. National Student Clearinghouse 13454 Sunrise Valley Drive, Suite 300 Herndon, VA 20171 Fax: 703-742-4239 Questions can be emailed to Clearinghouse Degree Verification. Home Academic Calendars Academic Catalogs Graduation U.S. Veterans Students Registration Student Records Transcripts Name Changes Academic Forgiveness Verifications Course Substitution Academic Program Change Transferring Credits Admittance Examinations Degree Works Training Materials Faculty and Staff Reg Coordinators Forms FAQ Contact Us Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram