Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Student Affairs Main Navigation Our Story Show Extended Division of Student Affairs Welcome Leadership Team Organizational Chart Our Purpose Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Assessment Programs Professional Development Staff of the Month Program Publications Faculty Resource Page Student Employment University Employment Contact Us California State University, Fullerton 2018-2023 Strategic Plan Branding Campus News Donate Facts & Figures College Access and Career Pathways Engagement and Well-Being Identity and Belonging Virtual Student Services Associated Students Inc., CSUF Titan Athletics Academic Appeals Title IX and Gender Equity Show Extended Notice of Non-Discrimination on the Basis of Gender or Sex Hispanic-Serving Institution Initiatives Welcome Welcome from the vice president first-generation college student initiatives Hispanic-serving institution initiatives College Access and Career Pathways The area of College Access and Career Pathways consists of departments dedicated to building a pipeline of college success from outreach, admission, funding their education, community engagement, and career development. Engagement and Well-being The area of Engagement and Well-Being consists of departments dedicated to helping students navigate through their own challenges to be successful in their curricular and co-curricular activities. The area provides a personalized approach to supportive services to make certain students are able to enhance their personal and academic experiences. Identity and Belonging The area of Identity and Belonging consists of departments dedicated to the priorities of diversity, inclusion, supporting students in a meaningful way to give a sense of belonging and connectedness, which are essential for the persistence and graduation rates of students, aiming to empower Titans in the process of matriculation. Cal State Fullerton Academic Calendar This page uses Ajax which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled. This site is maintained by Division of Student Affairs. Last Published 4/12/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact danielramirez@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.