Skip to Content Menu Search Search Enter the terms you wish to search for. Other ways to search: Events Calendar Campus Map Close Main menu Home About Academics Admissions Research Visit COVID-19 Updates Secondary Menu Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Search Enter the terms you wish to search for. Other ways to search: Events Calendar Campus Map Mobile menu Home About Academics Admissions Research Visit COVID-19 Updates Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni The CU Boulder Difference There is a great value in Higher Education, including increased career potential and quality of life. We work to make high-quality education worthwhile, relevant and accessible. Rankings & Achievements About The University of Colorado Boulder is one of only 35 U.S. public research institutions in the Association of American Universities (AAU), a group of institutions recognized as America’s leading research universities. Public good, in the context of a top-tier comprehensive university, includes research, teaching and service by which we create knowledge for and with the public. We engage with problems that affect the public, and we enable each generation of citizens to remake our democracy by equipping them with skills of critical reasoning and analysis, and a broad sense of civic obligation to the state, the nation, and the world. —CU Boulder Academic Futures report Mission Priorities Values History Rankings & Achievements Research Focus Areas Discover how research at CU Boulder is changing the world. Our faculty and students are pioneering innovations in aerospace, biosciences, energy, Earth and environmental sciences, fundamental sciences and other major areas. Aerospace & Space Sciences Aerospace Research #1 public university recipient of NASA research awards The University of Colorado Boulder has created an environment in which our aerospace engineering and Earth and space sciences faculty, students and industrial researchers work together to solve complex problems, envisioning and creating the future for space and Earth systems. Bio/Health Sciences Biosciences Research Translating science into healthier living Biosciences at the University of Colorado Boulder aim to understand processes underlying behavior, function, disease and health at the molecular, cellular and whole-systems levels to develop interventions that improve human health. Climate, Energy & Sustainability Energy Research Transforming energy through discovery and innovation Energy research at the University of Colorado Boulder aims to advance basic and applied energy science, engineering and analysis through research, education and partnerships. Learn more about the comprehensive breadth and impact of CU Boulder research, innovation, public scholarship and creative work > A Student-Centered Campus Community Our core public mission is centered on the belonging, well-being and success of our undergraduate and graduate students. We offer a world-class faculty and staff who deliver high-impact learning opportunities, hundreds of co-curricular programs, strong alumni career achievement and a caring, holistic community of support—all situated within one of the most inspiring college campuses and most innovative, educated and sustainable communities in the world. We fulfill our public mission by sharing the positive impacts of new knowledge—from our role as one of the world’s top-ranked research and innovation universities, to our dozens of nationally ranked and highly regarded academic programs, to our hundreds of public outreach efforts that directly affect more than half a million Coloradans each year. We share a common desire to continuously improve, and we are driven to become a more diverse, equitable, inclusive and anti-racist university. We have hard work to do to make the progress we must achieve, and we seek the commitment and engagement of everyone at CU Boulder to help us build the practice of inclusion into the daily life of our campus. We are focused on supporting and enabling all who are driven to make a difference—and our faculty, staff and alumni share a proud 145-year history of advancing and sustaining the public good. Rankings & Achievements Our Imperatives Shape Tomorrow's Leaders We empower our faculty, staff and students to care for and support each other, practice inclusion, and foster a shared approach to belonging and community on campus. 4,300+ academic courses offered across 150 fields of study 20 CU Boulder students have received the Rhodes Scholarship Top 3% among world universities (Academic Rankings of World Universities, 2021) 7,000+ degrees awarded each year, the most of any university in Colorado CU naval corp proudly hosts national ROTC event On March 4–5, CU Boulder's Naval Reserve Officers Training Corps hosted a national competition between ROTC units called The Colorado Meet, which fostered teamwork, camaraderie and leadership skills. Read more Stanley McChrystal shares insights on Ukraine invasion, leadership in uncertain times This year's Leo Hill Leadership speaker, a retired four-star general and former special ops commander, discussed leadership in times of uncertainty and shared his perspective on the Russian invasion of Ukraine in front of an audience of more than 1,000 students and community members. Read more Center for Leadership presents student leader of the year awardees The campus award recognizing outstanding student leaders for 2021–22 is going to Joshka Gustav, Jake McGrath, Emma Pearson, Areyana Proctor, Brant Smith and Logan Turner. Read more Read more at CU Boulder Today Be a Top University for Innovation We encourage a culture of courage, curiosity, learning and continuous improvement that emanates from our world-class research and creative work, and dynamic innovation and entrepreneurial ecosystem. Top 3 town for entrepreneurs (Crowdspring, 2020) 13 years of the New Venture Challenge, an entrepreneurial startup competition 136 new startups based on university technologies $1.9 billion impact on the national economy (from 2014-2018) In person once more, startup competition brings capital to creativity Five startup ventures, led by CU Boulder students and faculty, competed for more than $100,000 in prize money Tuesday evening at the 14th annual New Venture Challenge championship, CU Boulder's premier entrepreneurial program and competition. Read more Commercialization program helped transform CU Boulder inventions to meet market needs Seven university companies pitched new startups after seven months of entrepreneurial training and guidance. Read more Groundbreaking innovators awarded $1.5 million in grants at Lab Venture Challenge Finals Eleven university innovators pitched their innovations at Lab Venture Challenge, an annual funding competition hosted by Venture Partners at CU Boulder that helps accelerate commercially promising technologies into business ventures. Read more Read more at CU Boulder Today Positively Impact Humanity We define our success by the meaningful lives we enable our faculty, staff, students, alumni and communities to live—and the positive results they achieve in Colorado, the nation and the world. 5th all time in the nation for graduates serving as Peace Corps volunteers 8,000+ students serve each year through CU Boulder Volunteer Resource Center programs 300+ campus and community organizations take part in the Be Involved Fair $3.85 billion annual economic impact on the state economy Interactive map gets closer to pinpointing African origins erased during slave trade When the transatlantic slave trade began in the early 19th century, there was no record of where in Africa enslaved individuals originated. Now, CU Boulder historians and statisticians are going back in time to better understand where these individuals lived before they boarded slave ships. Read more Diet, exercise can improve teens’ mental health In a wide-ranging, international, multi-disciplinary project to improve mental health in teens, researchers found diet, nutrition and exercise are among the most accessible and effective interventions to reduce depression in young people. Read more Hunting for emissions thousands of feet up Recent scientific flights above the Front Range will help scientists and policymakers cut unnecessary emissions, reduce greenhouse gases and help local residents breathe better. Read more Read more at CU Boulder Today See the Chancellor’s Strategic Plan The Value of a CU Boulder Education A degree from CU Boulder not only provides our students with promising career potential, it also expands their worldview, influences their social network and adds to their life experiences. And because college is so valuable, we believe all students should enter college knowing the cost of their education and what steps we’re taking to reduce those costs. Tuition Guarantee We believe you should know and understand the cost of your education, which is why we offer a four-year guarantee of tuition and mandatory fees for undergraduate resident students. Automatic Scholarship Consideration Every prospective freshman and transfer student applicant is automatically considered for a small range of CU Boulder scholarships. CU Promise For incoming Colorado residents who qualify for the federal Pell Grant and meet eligibility requirements, we promise to offer grants and work-study awards to help pay for tuition and other expenses. Best Value university every year since 2009 (The Princeton Review) 87% of graduates are employed, in grad school or in the military within six months of graduation Be Boulder Pact saves students $8.4 million a year in fees $111,000 median midcareer salary for students with a CU Boulder bachelor’s degree (Payscale, 2019) Innovation & Entrepreneurship Research Read more about our rankings Apply for Admission Visit Campus Support CU Boulder Get Help Safety & Health Services Campus Communications Emergency Alert System New Student & Family Programs Getting Around Campus Map Campus Events Parking & Transportation Visit Information Information for Faculty & Staff Families Journalists Initiatives Business & Industry Collaborations Diversity & Community Engagement Free Speech Innovation & Entrepreneurship International Students Public & Outreach Programs Sustainability Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Pinterest University of Colorado Boulder © Regents of the University of Colorado Contact Us • Privacy • Legal & Trademarks Accessibility • Student Consumer Information • Policies • CU Boulder Jobs Download the Clery Act Annual Security & Fire safety report, or request a paper copy from the CU Boulder Police Department. Return to the top of the page