COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Social Work and Child Welfare, Undergraduate Certificate Undergraduate CertificateSocial Work and Child Welfare All Programs Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Social Work Wichita State’s undergraduate certificate in social work and child welfare provides specialized knowledge and skills for bachelor’s-level students planning to enter the workforce or enter graduate school. The certificate is also available for social work professionals who already hold a BSW degree. Learn how Social Work and Child Welfare is the right fit for you. Contact Coordinator Curriculum The certificate program consists of five courses totalling 17 credit-hours. The program is designed to equip students with the ability to be effective as a social worker within a child welfare arena. Up to 3 credit hours taken outside of WSU may be used for the certificate. View the curriculum How to enroll To add this certificate to your plan of study: Log into the myWSU portal, find the Student Tools box (center of the page) and click "Change my Major/Minor." Click continue (this will show your current major and minor). Click continue, then click on "Add a certificate" and choose your certificate program. Click continue and submit request. Go to the myWSU portal Inside the Program Social work project lets students learn firsthand about homeless veterans Social work students can help make an impact in our local community. A collaboration between the School of Social Work and the Robert J. Dole VA Medical Center gave students the opportunity to learn more about the plight of homeless veterans in Wichita. The project, which was part of the Creative Empowerment in Helping Professions class, culminated in a public art exhibition that displayed the work of homeless and formerly homeless veterans. Similar Programs Social Work and Addiction (Undergraduate Certificate) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©