COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU News - All Stories For WSU News and WSU Today content older than July 2018, Search the WSU News Archive. WSU News Archive Return to WSU News Home Filter by: All students Applied Learning Faculty/Staff Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences pandemic community Alumni College of Engineering COVID-19 Research Graduate Profiles Community Engagement Innovation Campus Life Diversity/Inclusion Scholarships Talent Pipeline Innovation Campus College of Applied Studies College of Health Professions SearchDirectory Filter Search Beyond the Classroom: Anllir Ramirez-Tenorio May 31, 2022 — Anllir Ramirez-Tenorio is squeezing in a summer internship with Tesla in between his spring and fall internship with Delta TechOps. Anllir said the resources available at Wichita State have prepared him to succeed in his real-world career opportunities. Wichita State team will help Kansas communities deal with natural disasters May 26, 2022 — An interdisciplinary team from Wichita State University will participate in a $24 million state initiative to help rural and urban communities prepare for and recover from natural disasters. Student-created parking app concept wins 2022 Koch Innovation Challenge May 18, 2022 — Three Wichita State University students were named the champions of the 2022 Koch Innovation Challenge with their idea to ease parking frustrations via an app called Everwhen. Meet a Shocker: Cameron McGinley May 16, 2022 - Cameron McGinley’s work with machine learning with Dr. Sergio Salinas grew into one of the most rewarding parts of his education at Wichita State. McGinley will attend the University of California, San Diego for a Master of Science in computer science. Cameron is one of more than 2,400 students eligible for spring 2022 graduation. Learn more about his time at Wichita State and what is next for the grad. Wichita State entrepreneurs win Women for Women award May 9, 2022 — Five Wichita State University women were honored with the Women for Women Innovation Award for spring 2022. The Women for Women's Innovation Fund is awarded to Wichita State University students to support innovative ideas that show promise of commercialization. Meet a Shocker: Chadrack Kamba Tshimanga May 3, 2022 — The strength of Wichita State University's engineering program brought Chadrack Kamba Tshimanga to Kansas from the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Wichita State's MagicHand team takes project to NSF Innovation program April 15, 2022 - MagicHand, an anthropomorphic robotic hand designed by a Wichita State University engineering team, is participating in the National Science Foundation Innovation Corps program. The MagicHand is designed to achieve various dexterous object manipulations including object sorting, arranging and packaging. WSU's engineering grad program top 60 in the nation and highest in Kansas March 29, 2022 — In the latest U.S. News and World Report rankings of universities offering a Ph.D. in engineering, the College of Engineering at Wichita State University once again was ranked in the top 100 engineering graduate programs in the country and the only institution in Kansas to make it in the top 100. WSU College of Engineering awards $313,500 in Wallace Scholarships March 25, 2022 — Wichita State University’s College of Engineering has named the latest group of high school seniors to join the Wallace Scholar program. Ten Wallace Scholarship recipients will receive $28,500 each to attend Wichita State for four years. In addition, two students receiving other major university scholarships will be designated as Wallace Scholars. Internships with Lockheed Martin and Toyota help student prepare for the future Feb. 11, 2022 — As a young boy growing up in Oklahoma City Nicolas Reyes loved to hear the hum of the fighter jets from the nearby Tinker Air Force Base. Nicolas Reyes — a junior studying electrical engineering in Wichita State’s Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering — has always wanted to work in the aviation industry. He finally got his chance this past summer when he completed a virtual internship with Lockheed Martin. While there, Nicolas worked on the F-35 Lightning II for their location in Fort Worth. Free membership at GoCreate for WSU students fosters creative campus community Jan. 24, 2022 — Further expanding its presence as a diverse creative workspace at WSU, GoCreate recently began offering free memberships to Wichita State students. Six Wichita State teams advance in Koch Innovation Challenge Jan. 24, 2022 — Six Wichita State University teams were selected as semi-finalists in the university’s sixth annual Koch Innovation Challenge Angel Round on December 3. Those six teams of Wichita State students advance to the Grand Champion competition in May. Shocker alum receiving honorary doctorate for distinguished achievement in technology Dec. 9, 2021 -- Khalid Raza has never forgotten his Shocker roots. Now the chief executive officer of Graphiant, a next-generation networking technology company based in San Francisco, Raza’s first independent start-up began in 1992 when he was working as a graduate assistant at Wichita State University. Meet a Shocker: Joyce Chiam Dec. 8, 2021— Joyce Chiam, an international student from Malaysia, is earning her degree in industrial engineering with a minor in mathematics from Wichita State. Through the encouragement of her peers, she has learned how to thrive in an academic environment far away from home. Chiam is one of more than 1,100 students eligible for fall 2021 graduation. Applied learning abounds within Wichita State's digital twin program Dec. 7, 2021 — Since its inception, the National Institute for Aviation Research’s digital twin program has been rife with opportunities to progress research, digital transformation, engineering technology and sustainability efforts. It’s also been an important career steppingstone and training ground for more than 250 Wichita State University students, who have gained valuable applied learning experiences while working on the project. 1 2 3 4 5 ... Next Last 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©