Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search Harvard Museums of Science & Culture | HARVARD.EDU Join Subscribe Shop Rent Press Search Visit Exhibitions Programs Education Support About HOME / PLAN YOUR VISIT / Directions and Parking View the neighborhood map We strongly suggest arriving by public transportation as parking near the museum is very limited. Please see the parking section below about where and how to park near the museum. Public Transportation Taking the MBTA Subway Take the Red Line to the Harvard Square stop. Walk through Harvard Yard and down Oxford Street one block. The Harvard Museum of Natural History is the large brick building on your right, just an eight-minute walk from Harvard Square. Taking the MBTA Commuter Rail Take the Fitchburg Line to Porter Square. Walk 50 yards on Somerville Avenue, cross the tracks on the bridge, and bear right onto Oxford Street and continue to #26. The museum is less than a mile from Porter Square. Bike Share Bluebikes is Metro Boston’s public bike share program. The majority of bike-docking stations are available year-round, but in winter, it’s best to confirm station locations. View the Bluebikes map to locate the bike docking station across the street from the museum entrance. Driving Directions Google Maps Off-campus Parking There are a limited number of two-hour metered spaces located on Oxford and Kirkland Streets. These meters only accept US quarters. After 8:00 pm the meters do not require coins but may be restricted to Cambridge residents. Parking is free on Sundays, and resident permits are not required. Please read the street signs carefully. Commercial garages: There are commercial parking garages in Harvard Square; however, the museum cannot validate parking for those businesses. University Permit Parking Limited parking is available for museum visitors in nearby University-operated garages including the 52 Oxford Street Garage, located at the intersection of Everett and Oxford Street. Permits must be purchased in advance. Day permits (valid until 11:00 pm) can be purchased online up to two weeks in advance and range in price between $10 to $19 per pass. All major credit cards are accepted and sales are final. For customer service related to the purchase of permits, please contact the Harvard Parking Office at (617) 496-7827. Weekend permits for the 52 Oxford Street Garage can be online or in purchased in person at the museum's admission desk for $10. A license plate number is required for purchase. Purchasing a parking pass online Before proceeding to the online form, please note the following: Go to Harvard University Operations Services. Register as a "Visitor" Search Parking Select the reason for your visit from the drop-down menu, such as Museum Tour, Event, or Other Enter the desired date In the Harvard University Destination field, enter Harvard Museum of Natural History Select a parking location. The 52 Oxford Street Garage (52 Oxford Street) is the closest to . The 52 Oxford Street Garage is open seven days a week, and Broadway is open on weekdays only. Add to Cart Click the Cart icon in the upper right to pay Print out the permit Remember to bring your printed permit when you park Accessibility Please contact Harvard University Disabilities Services, or call (617) 495-1859 for parking options. Tour and School Buses Tour and school buses must get detailed bus parking instructions from the Education Department by calling reservations at (617) 495-2341. Plan Your Visit Directions and Parking Groups Accessibility The Shop at HMNH Make a Day of It: Harvard Square 0c780acd9669ab3fdf7718a51d53794c Email Updates Sign up for our newsletter. Your privacy: we do not share our list. Harvard Museum of Natural History 26 Oxford Street |Cambridge, MA 02138 (617) 495-3045 |hmnh@hmsc.harvard.edu Plan Your Visit 70cd81739d5e358583752680d7d39323 Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement