Your browser does not support iframes. Skip to main content Menu Scheller College of Business Request More Information Attend an Info Session Contact Us Directory Apply Now Search Why Scheller? Programs Executive Education Academics Centers & Initiatives News & Events Overview & History Dean's Message and Report Meet Ernest Scheller Jr. Advisory Board Accreditation Strategic Plan Business at Tech Graduates Get Hired Return on Investment Faculty and Advisors Global Perspective A Good Fit Corporate Engagement Trading Floor Georgia Tech Community Student Life Making Connections and Learning Opportunities Diversity Diversity News Career and Recruiter Services Career Services for Students Hire Our Students Giving to the College Meeting the Challenge Priorities and Needs Faculty Support Student Support Program Enrichment Unrestricted Endowment The Impact of Your Gift How to Make a Gift FAQs Scheller MBA Annual Fund Alumni Network Alumni News Alumni Resources Update Contact Information Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Full-time MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQsEvening MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Advancement Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQs Executive MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Student & Alumni Profiles FAQsMBA Programs Which Georgia Tech MBA is Right for Me? Commitment to Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Dual Degree Options Experiential Learning For Engineers For Military Community MD/MBA Option MBA Early Admission for Undergrads Rankings The Intersection Podcast Earn Your MBA in Atlanta Graduate Certificate Business Analytics Certificate Undergraduate Admissions Curriculum Career Services Student Services Student Life Scholarships & Awards Rankings & Stats Connect With Us The Intersection Podcast, Undergrad PhD Concentrations Program Milestones Faculty and Staff Funding Admissions FAQs Recruiting Events Student Bios Program News Request Program Information Interdisciplinary M.S. M.S. in Quantitative & Computational Finance (QCF) Master of Science in Analytics at Georgia Tech Lean Six Sigma Certification Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Certification Lean Six Sigma Black Belt Certification FAQs Custom Programs FAQs Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Engineering Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship International Management Management of Technology Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results Academic Speaker Series Guest Speakers in Accounting Guest Speakers in Finance Guest Speakers in Marketing Current Faculty Opportunities Business Analytics Center Engage with Us Executive Council News Research Education People Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics About Cecil B. Day The Cecil B. Day Prize Speakers and Events Faculty Support Net Impact Center for International Business Education and Research Projects Research Events Books People at CIBER Inside CIBER News and Events Archives International Management Certificate Sign Up for Future CIBER News Financial Analysis Lab Subscribe to Reports Institute for Leadership and Social Impact About Us Programs News Impact Speaker Series Leadership for Social Good Study Abroad Program Social Impact Fellows Ideas to Serve (I2S) Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Servant Leadership Programs Minor in Leadership Studies Excel Alumni Other ILSI Programs Partnerships Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business About Us Sustainable Business Insights Research Briefs Sustainable Business Events Sustainable Business News Blog Research & Thought Leadership Empowering Students Industry Engagement Newsletter Participating in the Drawdown Georgia Compact Drawdown Georgia Business Compact Meet the Team Alumni Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program Director's Message About Steven A. Denning T&M Curriculum Program Faculty & Staff Admissions T&M Corporate Affiliates Denning T&M Program News TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta Program Network TI:GER MBA & PhD FAQs News Apply Inquire Resources in Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller News & Events Home » Centers & Initiatives » Institute for Leadership and Social Impact » News » ILSI News Menu Institute for Leadership and Social Impact ILSI News excel-alumni Social Impact Fellows About Us Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Servant Leadership Programs Impact Speaker Series Leadership for Social Good Study Abroad Program Ideas to Serve Competition (I2S) Minor in Leadership Studies Other ILSI Programs April 14, 2022 Countdown to Commencement: Meet Jolie FoutsRead more April 12, 2022 Countdown to Commencement: Meet Conor WalshRead more 2022 2021 2020 Archives April 14, 2022 Countdown to Commencement: Meet Jolie Fouts As part of the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our Undergraduate program. Meet Jolie Fouts. Read more April 12, 2022 Countdown to Commencement: Meet Conor Walsh As part of the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our Undergraduate program. Meet Conor Walsh. Read more March 16, 2022 "A Rising Tide Lifts All Ships”: How Georgia Tech’s Women in Business Clubs Empower Students In honor of Women’s History Month, Scheller shares the stories of two of Georgia Tech women’s-focused clubs: Society of Women in Business for undergraduates and Women in Business for MBA students. Read more December 03, 2021 Countdown to Commencement: Meet Lyle Hoge As part of the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our Undergraduate program. Meet Lyle Hoge. Read more April 22, 2021 12th Annual Ideas to Serve (I2S) Competition Drives Discovery and Solutions with Social Impact The Institute for Leadership and Social Impact at the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business announces the 12th annual Ideas to Serve (I2S) Competition winners for 2021. Read more April 12, 2021 What Makes a Leader Effective? It’s About Power Motive, New Research Finds Scheller College faculty Terry Blum publishes paper on the different types of power motives and how it shapes leaders. Read more March 17, 2021 Georgia Tech Scheller’s MBA Pro Bono Consulting Practicum Expands Social Impact As a part of Georgia Tech Scheller’s pro bono consulting practicum, MBA students have the opportunity to do impactful work with mission-driven organizations, like Project Greer Street. Read more November 02, 2020 Make an Impact: Key Action Items From the Scheller Impact Speaker Series on Race, Social Justice, and Diversity & Inclusion The Institute for Leadership and Social Impact hosted their Impact Speaker Series centered on anti-racism, social justice, diversity, equity, and inclusion. Read the calls to action provided from these panel discussions. Read more October 13, 2020 What is Civic Innovation? Four Strategies for Contributing to a More Equitable Society Civic innovation. It’s a concept that is gaining increased relevance as our society recognizes the fact that all citizens can and should be empowered to be problem solvers. Civic innovation elevates community-driven ideas and solutions to address inequality and build trust in the public sector. And it’s a mindset each of us can engage in. Read more October 12, 2020 Scheller Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Hosts Conversation on Criminal Justice Reform, Racial Disparities, and Bipartisanship The Scheller College of Business Institute for Leadership and Social Impact hosted a discussion on Georgia’s new criminal justice reform bill, racial disparities in the criminal justice system, and how bipartisanship can make a difference in the Read more September 17, 2020 “Ask the question: ‘Who’s missing?’”: A Conversation with Dr. Beverly Daniel Tatum Dr. Beverly Daniel Tatum, an award-winning educational leader, best-selling author, and noted expert on the psychology of racism recently talked with Dean Maryam Alavi of Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business on the themes of prejudice, racism, discrimination, and racial bias. Read more August 27, 2020 Scheller College of Business Dean’s Office and Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Partner to Host Fall 2020 Conversations on Race, Equity, and Inclusion Scheller College Dean Maryam Alavi and the Diversity & Inclusion Speaker Series is partnering with the Institute for Leadership and Social Impact (ILSI) to host an impressive line-up of speakers who will center their discussion around race, social justice, equity, and inclusion. The series runs from September to November and is open to the public. Read more July 17, 2020 Eight Scheller Community Members Honored in 2020 Georgia Tech Alumni Association 40 Under 40 Eight members of the Scheller College of Business community made the list of 40 distinguished honorees in the Georgia Tech Alumni Association’s inaugural "40 under 40" list. Read more April 23, 2020 2020 Ideas to Serve Competition Focuses on Communities in Atlanta and Around the World The Institute for Leadership and Social Impact (ILSI) is thrilled to announce the results of the 2020 Ideas to Serve Competition (I2S). Read more April 13, 2020 Sports: A Key Player in Dori Pap's Life In 2000, Dori Pap came to the United States to play volleyball for the Yellow Jackets, and she never left. Today she is the managing director for Georgia Tech’s Institute for Leadership and Social Impact (formerly the Institute for Leadership and Entrepreneurship). Read more April 08, 2020 Annual Ideas to Serve Competition Moves to Virtual Format for 2020 With the help of so many of our Georgia Tech colleagues, community collaborators, and the wider Atlanta social innovation network, I2S 2020 has come together as a fully-virtual competition. Read more April 02, 2020 Past I2S Winner, Judge Jasmine Burton: Why Sometimes the Problem You’re Solving Isn’t the Right Problem Jasmine Burton, a Georgia Tech graduate, product designer, social activist, and founder is passionate about a problem fairly novel to most: access to safely managed sanitation. She's also a new judge in the upcoming Ideas to Serve (I2S) competition. Read more March 11, 2020 Waffle House CEO Walt Ehmer Orders Up a Dish of Success to Scheller Crowd at Impact Series Event Waffle House CEO Walt Ehmer represents a kind of servant leader that, like the business he oversees, is what he calls a “unique American phenomenon.” He spoke to Scheller about the company's success at a recent Impact series event. Read more More Jun 07 12:00 pm-1:00 pm Executive MBA Webinar Info Session Attend this webinar to learn more about Georgia Tech Scheller's Executive MBA program. Jun 09 12:00 pm-1:00 pm Full-time MBA Program Overview Webinar Attend this webinar to learn more about Georgia Tech's top-ranked Full-time MBA program and advancing your career. Scheller College of Business Home Why Scheller? Overview & History Business at Tech Georgia Tech Community Career and Recruiter Services Giving to the College Alumni Network Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Programs MBA Undergraduate PhD Interdisciplinary M.S. Executive Education Lean Six Sigma Certification Custom Programs Academics Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Academic Speaker Series Current Faculty Opportunities Centers & Initiatives Business Analytics Center Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics Center for International Business Education and Research Financial Analysis Lab Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta News & Events Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller LinkedIn Instagram Facebook Twitter Youtube Flickr Georgia Institute of Technology Scheller College of Business 800 W. Peachtree St. NW Atlanta, GA 30308 404.894.2600 © 2021 Georgia Institute of Technology Intranet Emergency Information Contact the College Privacy & Legal Notice Accountability Web Accessibility Resources for People with Disabilities Plugins Youtube Usage Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures