Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information Neighborhood Corner Co-Named Coogan's Way May 26, 2022 Share this page Share on Facebook Tweet Share on Linkedin Share by email Community members, elected officials, and CUIMC and NYP employees gathered May 25 to celebrate the co-naming of the corner of 169th Street and Broadway as Coogan’s Way. The co-naming honors the beloved Washington Heights bar and restaurant, Coogan’s, which closed permanently in March 2020 during the COVID-19 pandemic. The event was sponsored by New York City Council Member Carmen De La Rosa, who represents District 10. Coogan’s was iconic, De La Rosa said, because “the doors were always open for all of us, no matter your walk of life, no matter your experience, no matter your skin color. When you were inside Coogan’s you knew you were safe. And so, we owe a debt of gratitude to the visionary leaders who started Coogan’s: Peter [Walsh], Dave [Hunt], and Tess [O’Connor-McDade] and their family members.” Coogan's Way A proclamation from the office of Mayor Eric Adams declaring May 25, 2022, as Coogan’s Way Day was presented to the owners of Coogan’s, recognizing the restaurant’s impact in the Washington Heights community as a place where people gathered for meals, meetings, and celebrations. Coogan’s opened in 1985 during a period of violence and drug crisis in Washington Heights and became a gathering place for all people in the community. Located adjacent to the CUIMC and NYP campuses, Coogan’s offered a place of rest and entertainment for doctors, nurses, police officers, firefighters, students, and members of the diverse surrounding community. “You just cannot tell the history of Washington Heights over the past almost four decades without telling the story of Coogan’s,” said Mark Levine, Manhattan borough president. “We are a neighborhood today that is incredibly united, in part because of Coogan’s.” U.S. Rep. Adriano Espaillat (with microphone), New York City Council Member Carmen De La Rosa (center), and Manhattan Borough President Mark Levine (left) spoke at the event honoring Coogan's. Photo: Danny McAlindon/Columbia University Irving Medical Center. The movement to co-name the street corner began last year when a petition created by Martin Collins, executive director of UP Theater Company, gained traction online with more than 1,200 signatures. The proposal to co-name the street corner went before the City Council, which approved it on Dec. 14, 2021. “What brings us together makes us stronger than what keeps us apart. That’s how Coogan’s lived. Coogan’s recognition today is about the people who walked through its doors and cared about fighting the good fight for change and sometimes preservation,” Walsh said. “We accept this honor for all of us here and not here. Tess, David, and I were just custodians of a meeting house for the wonderful people who lived, worked, and played in Washington Heights.” Following the ceremony, a reception at the Armory included a screening of a 2021 documentary about the bar’s, “Coogan’s Way.” The documentary will air on PBS Channel 13 on Monday, May 30, at 10 p.m. and Thursday, June 2, at 5 a.m. Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top