Skip to site alert. Skip to content Columbia School of Nursing Students Alumni Faculty Contact Us Search Make a Gift About Us About Us Message From the Dean Leadership Faculty Our Culture News Events Facts and Figures Accreditation Make a Gift Contact Us Our Culture Diversity and Cultural Affairs Civility Statement Social Justice and Health Equity and Anti-Racism Commitment Sustainability Our History Jonas Partnership Join Our Team Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Learn about our commitment to social justice and health equality and anti-racism. View Our Progress Academics Academics A Columbia Nursing Education Admissions at a Glance Academic Programs Courses Financial Aid Continuing Nursing Education Helene Fuld Health Trust Simulation Center Academic Programs Doctor of Nursing Practice Doctor of Nursing Practice in Nurse Anesthesia Doctor of Philosophy Masters Direct Entry Program For Non-Nurses Masters in Advanced Clinical Management and Leadership Online Prerequisites for Entry to Nursing Transgender Non-Binary (Trans NB) Health Care for Advance Practice Nurses and PAs Palliative Care Throughout the Lifespan for Advanced Practice Registered Nurses (APRNs) Admissions at a Glance Learn more about Admissions at Columbia Nursing, including important dates and deadlines, and how to apply to all of our programs. Learn More About Admissions Research Research Research Faculty and Postdoctoral Fellows Research Areas of Focus Research Centers and Programs Training Programs Research Resources Research Centers and Programs Center for Health Policy Center for Improving Palliative Care for Vulnerable Adults with MCC Precision in Symptom Self-Management Center Center for Healthcare Delivery Research and Innovations Center for Research on People of Color Center for Sexual and Gender Minority Health Research Linking to Improve Nursing Knowledge Research Areas of Focus Explore the research areas of focus conducted by our faculty, postdocs, and students. View Our Focus Areas Patient Care Global Health Global Health Global Opportunities for Students Global Research International Visitors WHO Collaborating Center Contact Global Opportunities for Students Global opportunities for clinical practicum and research may be available for MDE and doctoral students at Columbia Nursing. Get More Information You are here Home > About Us > Message From the Dean Message From the Dean Leadership Faculty Our Culture News Events Facts and Figures Accreditation Make a Gift Contact Us Message From the Dean Lorraine Frazier, PhD, RN, FAAN As our world changes, so do challenges to health. People are living longer, many with chronic illnesses. And increasingly, vulnerable populations, including immigrants and refugees, LGBTQ people, and individuals with complex medical conditions are seeking affordable, accessible care that addresses their unique needs. For more than a century, Columbia University School of Nursing has prepared nurses at all levels and in all specialties to meet such challenges. As one of the world’s preeminent centers for nursing education, research, and practice, we are committed to caring for individuals and communities everywhere, and to their right to attain the highest level of health and well-being. Whether you join the Columbia Nursing community as a student, clinician, or faculty member, you will become part of an esteemed tradition that supports health as a human right. Given the changes and challenges facing our world, this right—to health care that is socially just and equitable—has never been greater. Our commitment to preparing our future nurses to meet these challenges, and to advancing social justice and health equity, is our legacy. We have a history of standing against barriers to health that are based on race or ethnicity; religion; socioeconomic status; gender; age; mental health; cognitive, sensory, or physical disabilities; sexual orientation or gender identity. This legacy informs every aspect of our school, from educational and research programs, to clinical practice, to administrative and operational strategies, to policies. It will inform the care you provide in a hospital, clinic or home; the scientific investigations you undertake; the classes you teach; the policies you advocate for, and, your evolution as a nurse leader. It is a legacy of caring that never changes. Welcome to Columbia Nursing. Lorraine Frazier, PhD, RN, FAAN Dean, Columbia University School of Nursing Mary O’Neil Mundinger Professor of Nursing Senior Vice President, Columbia University Irving Medical Center Read More Messages From Dean Frazier Watch the 2021 State of the School Address: the_state_of_the_school_a_360_view Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Academics Research Patient Care Global Health Contact Us Students Alumni Intranet Careers Columbia University School of Nursing 560 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Back to top