Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator Research Lifecycle 1. Get Started 2. Identify Funding Opportunities 3. Write Proposal 4. Submit Proposal 5. Conduct Research 6. Commercialize Work Learners Key Partners About Vice Provost for Research and Scholarship Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Events Calendar Contact Us Research Lifecycle Learners Key Partners About Site Feedback Search Patient Atlas REDCap Research Reporting System (RRS) StafaCT URIDE Velos eResearch Research Lifecycle 1. Get Started 2. Identify Funding Opportunities 3. Write Proposal 4. Submit Proposal 5. Conduct Research 6. Commercialize Work Learners Key Partners About Vice Provost for Research and Scholarship Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Events Calendar Contact Us Site Feedback OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator Patient Atlas REDCap Research Reporting System (RRS) StafaCT URIDE Velos eResearch $sLabel Home About Research and Scholarship Administrative Areas RCO Research Information Technology REDCap AAA REDCap Patient Atlas REDCap Research Reporting System (RRS) StafaCT URIDE Velos eResearch Research Electronic Data Capture (REDCap) Now at UM! REDCap is an application that allows users to build and manage online surveys and databases quickly and securely. Research Intelligence & Data Infrastructure has a REDCap installation that is available for use at no cost to all University of Miami employees. All REDCap data is securely hosted by the University of Miami’s IT Department. Research Intelligence & Data Infrastructure administers project creation, user account management, and movement of projects from development to production. Authentication is performed via CaneID Authentication Service (CAS), the same institution-wide system used for a variety of applications such as myUM. Access REDCap REDCap is accessible to all UM Faculty, Staff, and Students. External users can also access REDCap if they have a CaneID. No access request form is required to log into this application. REDCap Secure Login Which studies can be included in REDCap? Although the University of Miami’s REDCap application is a web-based, secure, and HIPAA compliant system, there are three categories of studies that are not REDCap eligible: Research that requires 21 CFR Part 11 compliance Research that involves an investigational new drug or device Research that is tracked for billing compliance If your project falls into any of the above, then Velos eResearch is the application you should use. Please see the Clinical Research Participant Enrollment and Tracking Policy (PDF) for more information. If your Research does not require 21 CFR Part 11 compliance or involve an investigational new drug or device, but requires tracking for billing compliance, you may still use REDCap as a supplemental system to Velos as long as all participants are registered in Velos for billing compliance purposes. REDCap Highlights Build online surveys and databases quickly and securely – Create and design your project rapidly using secure web authentication from your browser on your desktop computer or mobile device. No extra software is required. Fast and flexible – Conception to production-level survey/database in less than one day. Export data to common data analysis packages – Export your data to Microsoft Excel, PDF, SAS, Stata, R, or SPSS for analysis. Ad Hoc Reporting – Create custom queries for generating reports to view or download. Scheduling – Utilize a built-in project calendar and scheduling module for organizing your events and appointments. Easily manage a contact list of survey respondents or create a simple survey link – Build a list of email contacts, create custom email invitations, and track who responds, or you may also create a single survey link to email out or post on a website. Save your data collection instruments as a PDF to print – Generate a PDF version of your forms and surveys for printing to collect data offline. Advanced features – Auto-validation, calculated fields, file uploading, branching/skip logic, and survey stop actions. How do I start? To begin using REDCap, follow these steps: Navigate to https://redcap.miami.edu to create a REDCap account and complete the requested information. Once you submit your request, you will receive an e-mail within a few minutes confirming your account was created. Log in to REDCap’s URL in step 1 to view the Training Resources and the Help & FAQ sections. Here you will find videos and interactive demos of sample projects. To request a new project navigate to the Request New Project tab. Complete and submit all required information. After requesting a new project, you will receive a short survey by e-mail within one business day that you will need to complete and submit in order to determine its eligibility to be implemented in REDCap. The survey will also include a document with information about the project’s users and their roles. Once the Research IT REDCap Administrator approves your project, you will receive e-mail confirmation of your project’s creation. You may now begin creating your survey and/or data collection instruments. When you are ready to start collecting real data, request to move your project from development to production in your study’s Project Setup page. The Research IT REDCap Administrator will then process your request. Collect data! For more in-depth information about REDCap, visit the official site. Please contact us at redcapadmin@med.miami.edu should you have any questions or comments. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 305-284-2211 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices