Skip to main content Home About the School Apply to the School Exhibitions Publications News Public Events Close Yale School of Art 1156 Chapel Street, POB 208339 New Haven, Connecticut, 06520-8339 Pause animations Play animations Home About the School Apply to the School Exhibitions Publications News Public Events Pause animations Play animations This website exists as an ongoing collaborative experiment in digital publishing and information sharing. Because this website functions as a wiki, all members of the School of Art community—graduate students, faculty, staff, and alums—have the ability to add new content and pages, and to edit most of the site’s existing content. Content is the property of its various authors. When you contribute to this site, you agree to abide by Yale University academic and network use policy, and to act as a responsible member of our community. Visitor: Log in Edit this page Page history Page last changed by: Lindsey Mancini Background changed by: Lindsey Mancini Yale School of Art Knowledgebase 2021-2022 Academic Year This page serves as an archive of all useful information, links, and resources for the 2021-2022 academic year at the Yale School of Art. If a piece of information is missing or incorrect, or if you think something might be useful to add to this page, members of the SoA community are invited to login to the wiki to edit this page, or email Assistant Director of Communications, Lindsey Mancini. Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Quick links Current Students >> Community Calendar >> Faculty & Staff >> Fall 2021 Courses at the School of Art >> SoA Events Archive >> Central Yale Links: University Course Search >> Yale Directory >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody On this page School Resources Digital Technology Facilities Health & Mental Wellness University Resources External Arts Resources FAQs School Resources Staff & Administrative Faculty: Who can help with what? For courses, registration, or other academic-related questions: Office of Academic Administration Sara Cronquist*, Senior Administrative Assistant, Admission & Academic Affairs, sara.cronquist@yale.edu Emily Cappa, Registrar, emily.cappa@yale.edu Taryn Wolf, Assistant Dean of Academic Administration, taryn.wolf@yale.edu For financial aid and work-study questions: Office of General Operations and Business Administration David Blackmon, Director of Student Financial Resources, david.blackmon@yale.edu For specific shop questions: Printshop: Alexander Valentine, Printshop Supervisor, alexander.valentine@yale.edu Fabrication Shops: Elizabeth Tubergen (specializes in wood fabrication), Fabrication Shops Director, elizabeth.tubergen@yale.edu Desmond Lewis (specializes in metal fabrication), Fabrication Shops Coordinator, desmond.lewis@yale.edu Michael Fadel, Fabrication Shops Technician, michel.fadel@yale.edu Photography Lab & Darkrooms: Ben Donaldson, Senior Critic, Green Hall Darkroom Supervisor, benjamin.donaldson@yale.edu For building and facilities questions, and questions regarding COVID requirements/compliance: Alex Adams, Facilities Supervisor, alexander.adams@yale.edu For digital technology questions: Digital Technology Office Sarah Stevens-Morling, Assistant Dean for Communications and Digital Media Anahita Vossoughi, Associate Director of Digital Fabrication art.help@yale.edu For student equipment loan or classroom technology questions: Equipment Loan Office Edgar Serrano, Equipment Loan and A/V Specialist, edgar.serrano@yale.edu For questions or requests related to our community newsletters, calendars, or other all-school communications: Communications Office Lindsey Mancini, Assistant Director of Communications, lindsey.mancini@yale.edu For departmental questions related to studio assignments, visiting artists, or other program-specific queries: Graphic Design Larissa Hall, Senior Administrative Assistant, larissa.hall@yale.edu Julian Bittiner, Senior Critic and Assistant Director of Graphic Design Studies, julian.bittiner@yale.edu Sheila Levrant de Bretteville, Director of Graduate Studies in Graphic Design, sheila.debretteville@yale.edu Painting / Printmaking Kris Mandelbaum, Senior Administrative Assistant, kris.mandelbaum@yale.edu Sophy Naess, Lecturer and Painting/Printmaking Department Coordinator, sophy.naess@yale.edu Anoka Faruqee, Director of Graduate Studies in Painting/Printmaking, anoka.faruqee@yale.edu Photography Larissa Hall, Senior Administrative Assistant, larissa.hall@yale.edu Ben Donaldson, Senior Critic, Photography Department Coordinator, benjamin.donaldson@yale.edu Gregory Crewdson, Director of Graduate Studies in Photography, gregory.crewdson@yale.edu Sculpture Kris Mandelbaum, Senior Administrative Assistant, kris.mandelbaum@yale.edu Sandra Burns, Lecturer, Sculpture Graduate Department Coordinator, sandra.burns@yale.edu Martin Kersels, Director of Graduate Studies in Sculpture, martin.kersels@yale.edu For questions related to undergraduate course offerings at the School of Art: Sara Cronquist, Senior Administrative Assistant, sara.cronquist@yale.edu *On parental leave September–October 2021. Beth Lovell, Executive Associate to the Dean, beth.lovell@yale.edu. (Beth will be filling in for Sara while she’s on leave.) For undergraduate students or courses, you can also reach out to art.dus@yale.edu via email. Lisa Kereszi, Senior Critic, Director of Undergraduate Studies, lisa.kereszi@yale.edu Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Community spreadsheets & Resource lists Find the new opportunities and resources pages on the wiki here: opportunities > resources > These spreadsheets are intended for the School of Art community as a means of collective resource sharing. Please feel free to begin a new spreadsheet and add it to this list. Existing shared sheets include: Equity, Inclusion, & Antiracism Resources >> Located on the second tab / sheet, this list of resources was initiated by the Equity, Inclusion, & Antiracism Plan Working Group at the School of Art. The members and full details of which can be found in this spreadsheet’s first tab. Outside Artist Resources >> Artist grants, resources, and opportunities supporting artists in the time of COVID-19. Local Food Access in New Haven >> Local grocery stores and options for grocery delivery in New Haven. Wiki pages containing student resources include the Student Resources page >> and the Yale University Resources & Services page >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Lectures, events, & exhibitions SoA Community Access to Virtual Event Recordings Visiting Artist lectures and other all-school events hosted by the School of Art are recorded and archived whenever possible. The decision to record is left to each guest. SoA community members can access internally hosted recording files via the Dropbox credentials sent directly via email from Lindsey Mancini. Please contact her if you have trouble accessing and use this wiki page to see which talks will be recorded as soon as we get that information from the guest: art.yale.edu/news/visiting-artist-lectures/fall-2021 Email Lindsey >> Public Access to Events & Lectures School of Art lectures and events that are open to the public are published on our Public Events Calendar, which anyone can subscribe to their preferred calendaring software by clicking the orange “Subscribe” button in the bottom-left. All events hosted by the School of Art (beginning with the Spring 2020 semester) are archived on the wiki by semester. Many clips and segments from past talks are also available on the SoA’s YouTube channel and archived on the wiki by semester, so please do feel free to share these publicly accessible videos—each of which has been selected and edited in collaboration with the guest. Access our Public Events Calendar >> Access the events archive >> Fall 2021 Exhibitions The Fall 2021 exhibition schedule will be posted shortly, but will consist of group exhibitions of work by the School of Art MFA and undergraduate students. Depending on COVID regulations, Fall 2021 exhibitions may only be open to members of the School of Art community by appointment. Access the exhibitions webpage for the most up-to-date information >> Access the (new and in-progress) exhibitions archive >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Support & Promotion Opportunities Students interested in hosting virtual events, or who would like to share their current projects or work, are invited to: Submit an image to the official @yaleschoolofart Instagram account through the series #spottedatSoA Submit exhibitions and events to our digital calendar Yale School of Art in the World, Submit publications to the Yale School of Art in the World wiki archive, Submit long-term projects, organizations, and initiatives to the Yale School of Art in the World archive, or peruse the full list of communications resources here >> Access Yale School of Art in the World >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Digital Technology Have a tech issue? If it’s a Net ID issue: Contact the Yale ITS Help Desk at 203-432-9000 If it’s a software or hardware issue with a lab machine: Email art.help@yale.edu >> If you have a problem with classroom A/V: Email edgar.serrano@yale.edu >> If you have a problem with a printer in a lab: Email art.help@yale.edu >> If you are having an issue with your @yale.edu email: Call the Yale ITS Help Desk at 203-432-9000 If you are having issues connecting to Yale Wifi: Contact the Yale ITS Help Desk at 203-432-9000 Read the School of Art’s Online Teaching & Learning FAQ >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Accessing Wifi on campus Wifi is available in all University buildings. University faculty, students, and staff should only use YaleSecure, the recommended, encrypted wifi network. To use YaleSecure, enter your NetID and password when prompted. If you have trouble try using the YaleSecure Connection Assistant. Yale’s other wifi options include: YaleGuest: The guest wireless network is a limited wireless data network provided for guests of the University only. Eduroam: Individuals from Yale traveling to other participating institution may use the eduroam network by authenticating with their Yale credentials. Yale wireless: To use Yale wireless, you must register your computer or device. Learn more about all University wifi options here >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Platforms Zoom Getting Started Zoom has apps for all devices, but meetings can also be joined via phone using the Meeting ID number. You cannot join a Zoom meeting from the web alone—you must download the app in order to join or host a meeting. Read Yale IT’s Zoom Quick Guide Download Zoom >> Find all Zoom apps available for download >> Or log on to the Zoom web client to configure your Zoom settings >> How to… How to schedule a video conference >> How to check your audio and video feeds >> How to share your screen with participants (great for sharing powerpoint/keynote slides) >> Overview of your options during a meeting (managing participants, chat, raise your hand, and more) >> Learn the difference between single and recurring Zoom meetings >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Accessing your Yale "Enterprise" Zoom account To log-in to Yale Zoom you should select the “Sign in with SSO” option and input “yale.zoom.us” as the company domain name. You will then be prompted for your NetID and password. Full information about Yale Zoom >> How to log out of your personal Zoom account, and log into Yale’s Zoom Everyone with a Yale email address has access to an “Enterprise” Zoom account, which allows you to host meetings with up to 300 attendees and unlimited meeting times. In order to access this, you must first sign out of any non-Yale Zoom accounts and log in via the following process: Step 1: Sign out of your current account Step 2: Sign in to Yale’s Zoom by selecting the option “Sign in with SSO” Step 3: Type in “yale.zoom.us” as the company domain name. You will then be prompted to sign in via CAS with your NetID and password. For more information, see Zoom’s support article on signing out and switching between accounts >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Zoom Etiquette For Zooms hosted by the School of Art with a large number of participants, the following policies will be in place to ensure a productive, respectful virtual space: All participants will be placed in a waiting room upon joining the virtual space, and will be admitted at the start of the meeting. All participants will be muted on joining. Participants who would like to ask a question or raise a discussion point should use the “raise hand” feature in Zoom (this can be found under the “Participants” button), and they will be called on by the moderator and manually unmuted. Questions will be answered in the order that hands were raised, per Zoom’s participant panel, prioritizing participants who have not yet had an opportunity to speak. The live chat feature will be enabled, and questions or discussion topics may be posted there as well. However, any unconstructive or abusive language will immediately result in the closing of the chat. Anonymous log-ins will not be allowed in the virtual space. You must display at least your first name to enter the Zoom room. You can learn how to update your display name before the meeting here >>. To change your display name once you’re in the meeting, click on the “Participants” tab, hover over your name and click the “Rename” button. Please understand that we may often need to limit time devoted to each topic to ensure we can discuss as many issues as possible. We recommend that you go to zoom.us/download and download the latest version of Zoom prior to the event. We also recommend that you have as few programs running on your computer as possible to maximize your connection. Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Best practices for hosts, presenters, lecturers, and discussion leaders When participating in a large Zoom meeting, the following best practices are encouraged for those presenting, speaking, or leading a discussion: Turn off your computer’s alert volume to minimize distractions. For Macs, turn on “Do Not Disturb” in the Notifications panel, or go to System Preferences > Sound > Sound Effects > and turn the volume all the way down, unclicking “Play user interface sound effects.” For PCs, open the Control Panel by right-clicking the Start button or hitting Windows Key + X to bring up the hidden power user menu and selecting Control Panel. Then in Control Panel, scroll down and tap or click Sounds. In the Sound Control Panel, find Sound dialog, and scroll down to Notification in the Program Event section. Now you can scroll all the way to the top and select (None) to turn the sounds off. Turn off the virtual space’s enter/exit chime once the event has formally begun. If you are the host of the meeting, go to Participants > “More” (next to “Unmute All”) > and unclick “Play Enter/Exit Chime” Use the waiting room to give your virtual space a formal “start time.” Those who are involved in helping to host, manage, or speak within the virtual space should be advised to join the meeting a few minutes early, so they can be let in to the virtual space first to prepare. Then, when the official start time has arrived, all participants in the waiting room can be let in at once and the event can officially begin. Note: With the 300-participant limit, anyone in the School of Art is capable of hosting a virtual event with enough space for the entirety of our internal community to attend. However, for virtual events supported directly by the School (Visiting Artist lectures, All-School talks, etc.), a member of the School of Art staff or faculty should serve as the event’s formal “host,” and assign the appropriate SoA community members as cohosts once they’ve initiated the virtual space. When hosting all-school events or meetings, events with over 30 participants, or events for which the Zoom link has been publicly disseminated online, it’s recommended that the host un-checks the function “Allow participants to unmute themselves”, so that clinking glasses, surprise sneezes, or spammers, do not disrupt the conversation. In cases where participants are unable to unmute themselves, ask that they use the “raise hand” or chat functionalities to participate in the discussion. Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Random Zoom tidbits When you make someone an “alternative host” in the initial meeting set-up or editing process in the Zoom app, they are sent an automatic email by Zoom with a link that will allow them to start the meeting without you. This link swaps the “J” with in the Zoom link meeting with an “S”, so that “yale.zoom.us/j/string-of-numbers” becomes “yale.zoom.us/s/string-of-numbers” (“j” for Join and “s” for Start). However, if the meeting is already in progress and an alternative host clicks the /s/ link, it will kick everyone out of the virtual space and start the meeting over. Also, if you swap the “j” for an “s” in a meeting link manually, and you have not been made an alternative host of that meeting, that link will not work. “Co-hosts” are essentially “alternative hosts” assigned after a meeting has already begun. The easiest way to enable screen-sharing for someone who isn’t a host is to make that person a co-host of the meeting. Otherwise they must request and be granted explicit permission. Beginning on September 27, 2020, all Zoom meetings will require either a password or a waiting room. You can include the password in the link to join the meeting by ensuring that your link includes “?pwd=” followed by a character string. Learn more about the change here >> If you already have a Passcode or Waiting Room on, there will be no change to how you schedule meetings. UPDATE from Yale ITS, Sept. 24, 2020: The mandatory Zoom security changes previously communicated and scheduled to take effect on Sunday, September 27, have been retracted by Zoom. While these changes are no longer mandatory at this time, ITS recommends taking advantage of the recommended actions and features, including adding a password to your meetings. This action will help ensure your Zoom meetings are secure and private. Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Canvas For students If you are actively enrolled in a course at Yale, your courses are automatically visible in your Canvas account. Login to Canvas using your NetID and password at canvas.yale.edu. After you log in, your dashboard will appear. You should see many of your courses listed. If that is not the case, review the Poorvu Center guide to find your courses >> Update your notifications: You can modify how frequently you receive email notifications from your courses in Canvas. The Poorvu Center recommends enabling notifications for announcements, conversations/inbox, and the calendar. Learn how to enable or update notifications here >> Find more information: Visit the Poorvu Center website >> Or the Student Guides area of the Canvas help website >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody For faculty Ensure you can login to Canvas, Yale’s web-based system for class administrative support. It is run by Yale’s Poorvu Center for Teaching and Learning, and most Yale College courses use Canvas to distribute information to students, make announcements, and post course materials. You can contact Canvas Support directly via email at canvas@yale.edu. The Poorvu Center also has an excellent getting started guide here >> Canvas basics: Getting started in Canvas >> Adding your TA to your course >> Communicating with students through Canvas >> Enabling Zoom in a Canvas course >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody The Wiki (this website) Getting Started on the Wiki You might have noticed, but the School of Art’s website doesn’t look or function like other art school websites. Instead, our website exists as a wiki—an ongoing collaborative experiment in digital publishing and information sharing. All members of the School of Art community, including graduate students, faculty, staff, and alums, have the ability to add new content and pages, and to edit most of the site’s existing content. Visit the Sitemap—always located in the site’s footer—to see all of the pages officially managed by School of Art staff. While anything you publish on the wiki remains your property as an author, when you contribute to this site, you agree to abide by Yale University academic and network use policy, and to act as a responsible member of our community. Logging in All SoA faculty, staff, and students are able to log into the wiki to edit using their Net ID. Locate the set of black buttons on the lower left side of your screen when you’re on any page of art.yale.edu, and click “Log in.” Incoming students will have their Net IDs enabled on the wiki on the day of orientation, at which time the recently graduated class is removed as site editors. Alums interested in contributing to the wiki post-graduation should email art.help@yale.edu to have their access privileges reinstated. The wiki as a resource While the Communications Office works to maintain the wiki’s front page, gallery, publications pages, and news archive, and the Office of Academic Administration updates the [faculty, staff],(/faculty-and-staff) and current students pages, the wiki can be utilized by students, faculty, and staff in any number of ways, such as: Publish posters for upcoming events on the homepage. Create and customize your student page by clicking out to the automatically blank page your name links to on the Current Students page. Document and share your projects and initiatives by creating new pages, and then linking out to those pages from the homepage, or your student page. Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody How to create a page If you are already logged in, going to art.yale.edu/any-page-that-doesn’t-already-exist will automatically load the “Create a Page” option for that URL. Unfortunately there is no easy “Create a page” button, so to create a new page, go to art.yale.edu and log in, then add a slug to “art.yale.edu/my-new-page” wherever you’d like your new page to live on the site (preferably, the slug is directly related to your page title in some way). If no page already exists at your intended URL, you’re all set to begin creating your page! If a frontend page (how the site looks when you’re not logged in) loads instead of an empty “Create a Page” backend page (which always has a blue bar running across the top), unfortunately that means that slug is already taken and you must find an untaken one. If you’d like to create a page where one already exists but appears not to be in use (in that, it has not been edited in the past academic or calendar year), feel free to click “Edit this page” and make that page your own. Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Basic Editing Once you’re logged, click on the “Edit this page” button in the left sidebar. You’ll be taken to the backend version of that page, at art.yale.edu/slug/edit To edit or delete a module, click “Edit” or “Delete” to the left of the module. The modules that you don’t have access to will have these two buttons greyed out. After you make changes, press “Save” to retain them or “Cancel” to keep the current version of the module unchanged. Be sure to save both the module and click “Done” in the top right corner to save your changes to the page. Clicking on links in the backend editing page will take you to that page and your changes will be lost. To add a new module, hover your mouse in between the modules where you’d like your new module placed, and you’ll see a yellow line. Click that yellow line to be prompted with the list of modules to choose from. The most commonly used modules include: Accordion module (drop down text box) *this module is a 4-column accordion Background module Scrolling text module << for basic text Single image module << for posting a single image/GIF Divider module Title module For more: See “Editing on the wiki >> And find a full list of modules and examples on Wiki Modules Example page >>   Text formatting To format your text, you will use a simple text markup language called Markdown. HTML formatting will also work—if you’re having trouble, surround your content with html tags. Creating guides for formatting on a platform that uses these formatting rules can be confusing, so click “Edit this page” to see how each of the modules on this page function, and find all basic syntax for Markdown elements outlined in John Gruber’s design document >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Ensuring digital accessibility Ensure the content you publish on the wiki is accessible by following the three rules laid out in “Ensuring Digital Accessibility” >> Give your pages structure (or integrate new content within the existing page structure) Classify and clarify your images with alt text (required for all images that are not Backgrounds) Follow the good citizenship requirement of crediting the artist, sourcing any images you found online by including a link to where you got it from. Read more >> Read the School of Art’s broader accessibility resource, the “Digital Citizenship Toolkit” >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Student Information Systems (SIS) The Student Information Systems (SIS) can be used by students to: View your grades View your financial information Update your address Access Online Course Selection Manage Proxy Access Preferred Name My Gender NameCoach Access SIS at sfas.yale.edu/sis >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Software Adobe Creative Cloud As of the 2019-2020 academic year, Adobe’s suite of creative software, web-based services, and mobile device apps is licensed for all Yale students, faculty, and staff. You can download the software to your own machine from Yale’s Software Library. After downloading and installing the appropriate version of the Adobe Creative Cloud manager for your operating system/device, sign in with your Yale email address. Your Adobe Creative Cloud Yale Enterprise account is accessed using your Yale email address, NetID and password. Off-campus access may require use of Multifactor Authentication MFA-DUO (see “Digital Security” section below). If you already have a personal Adobe CC account, this remains separate from your Yale Enterprise account. Unfortunately, Adobe does not provide an option to merge accounts. You can access multiple accounts on the same computer by signing in and out through the Adobe CC Manager. Learn more here >> For information on accessing Adobe Creative Cloud post-graduation, visit Adobe’s migrating page for graduating students >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Software Library Anyone in the Yale community with an active and valid NetID is eligible to search and download Yale software licences for use. Many offerings are free to members of the Yale community; others are priced as listed. Off-campus VPN is not required to access the library. Visit Software Library >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Digital Security MFA-Duo: Multifactor Authentication In order to obtain off-campus access to Yale’s network and other resources—including Yale’s Central Authentication System (CAS)—use MFA-Duo. MFA-Duo recommends using a registered mobile device to securely access Yale resources from home. Enroll and Manage Devices >> Additional Information about Multifactor Authentication (MFA-Duo) Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Off Campus Access via VPN Yale VPN (Virtual Private Network) is a way to securely access Yale’s on campus services and resources on the University networks from a non-Yale internet source. While VPN provides excellent network security, it should only be used from an appropriately secured computing device. VPN is not required for services such as Zoom, Canvas, Workday, Office 365, Eli Apps, Software Library and others. Yale’s preferred client for secure VPN connections is Cisco AnyConnect, which you can connect to via your web browser, or by downloading the Cisco AnyConnect app. Follow the instructions for downloading and logging in, depending on your preferred method: AnyConnect web-based (easiest method) >> AnyConnect VPN software >> AnyConnect iPhone or iPad (PDF) >> More information on off-campus VPN access >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Digital Communications Calendars Community Calendars The SoA Community Calendar contains the Academic Calendar as well as those events, workshops, and town halls open to the entire SoA community. View calendar >> Each department within the School’s MFA program also has its own Program Calendar. It’s recommended that faculty, staff, and students within a department subscribe their calendaring software only to their program-specific calendar, as the SoA Community Calendar events are included there as well so that everything you need is one place. If you subscribe to both the SoA Community Calendar and your Program Calendar, events on the SoA Community Calendar are automatically imported in and thus will duplicate within your calendaring software. The School asks that the links to each program-specific calendar not be shared between departments. These links will be sent out to each program by the Communications Office at the start of the academic year and should not be posted publicly anywhere, including here on the wiki. Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Public Calendars For School of Art events open to the public, the School maintains three public calendars: The Public Events Calendar here on the wiki >> Events open to the Yale community and broader public are posted on the School of Art’s Yale Calendar listings >> Events open to the public are also posted on the School of Art’s Facebook >> If you have an upcoming event you’d like to open to the Yale community, or the public more broadly, email Communications Associate Lindsey Mancini to have your event posted across these platforms. Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Email For Students: EliApps All Yale students receive an “@yale.edu” email account. Accounts are provided via EliApps, Yale’s version of Google G Suite, which includes: Gmail, Google Drive with unlimited storage, and Google Calendar. For instructions on how to access your email account, set up email on your mobile device, or change your preferred name or email alias, read Yale IT’s Quick Guide >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody For Faculty: Office 365 All School of Art staff and faculty are given Office 365 accounts automatically, which uses Microsoft Outlook as its email application and is linked to your @yale.edu email address. Exchange Online, hosted on Microsoft Office 365, fully integrates email and calendaring with automatic synchronization of both. You can integrate your Zoom account to automatically add Zoom links to meetings, and use the “Scheduling” option on the calendaring tool to see when those you’d like to meet with might be available. However, there does appear to be a small glitch in auto-applying Zoom links to Outlook meetings: Meetings with Zoom links automatically applied often have the wrong times listed within Zoom app (although the time remains correct across everyone’s Outlook calendars and the link will still work regardless of the formal “event time” listed). View all the options for accessing your Office 365 email here >> Learn more about Office 365 here >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Newsletters & Social Media Week at SoA This weekly community-only email lists upcoming SoA events, including MFA crits, Visiting Artist lectures, and more, as well as public and university events in New Haven. Current students, faculty, and staff will find this email in their Yale inbox every Monday morning during term-time. Note: If you are a current student, full-semester faculty member, or staff member you will be automatically joined to this list with your yale.edu email address at the beginning of each semester. If you are not part of these groups you will need to re-enroll in this list each year. Learn about both of the School’s regular newsletters >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody #spottedatSoA With the start of the 2019-2020 academic year, the School of Art changed the way its Instagram (@yaleschoolofart) functions to give all community members the opportunity to participate. All members of the School of Art community are able to submit content to the @yaleschoolofart Instagram as part of the ongoing hashtag series: #spottedatSoA. All current and recent students, faculty, and staff members at the School of Art can use the form below to submit photos for posting. In the time of COVID, #spottedatSoA has expanded to include any image that relates to the work you’re undertaking here at the School—whether that’s on-campus or off. Submit to #spottedatSoA >> See all #spottedatSoA posts >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Find a full archive of all SoA newsletters here >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Facilities While on campus in any School of Art building, students, faculty, and staff must wear a face mask, remain 6 feet apart from others, and not gather in groups. Outdoor meetings and gatherings should not include more than ten people who are all wearing masks and staying six feet apart. Visit the Facilities page on the wiki for the full list of facilities at the School of Art >> University campus map >> (Includes information on accessible entrances.) SoA map (PDF) >> (from 2018 Open Studios) Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Buildings 1156 Chapel Street (Green Hall) Basement Floor Classroom (B01) Smart Room (B03) Gallery Lower Level (B12) Ground Floor Robert Reed Classroom (G01) Classroom (G02) Graduate Photo Seminar Room “The Pool” (G10) Darkroom (G11, G12) Graduate Photo Critique Space (G13, G15, G18) Graduate Photo Printing Lab (G19) Photo DGS Office (G30) Classroom (G32) Gallery “The Mezzanine” (G37) Undergraduate Photo (G47) Graduate Photo Studios First Floor Administrative offices: Dean’s Office (119) Business Office (120), Office of Academic Administration (122) Graphic Design and Photography Dept. Office (105) The majority of SoA staff are expected to continue to work remotely throughout the 2020-2021 academic year. Graphic Design DGS Office (106) Graphic Design “The Atrium” (104) Repurposed for Graphic Design Graduate Studios to allow for social distancing between workspaces during COVID. Classrooms (107, 109, 110) Faculty Mailboxes and Mailroom (113) There will be no student access to the mailroom during the 2020-2021 academic year. Student mailboxes (190) Conference room (118) Green Hall Gallery (126, 127) Second Floor Graphic Design Graduate Studios (203) Classrooms (207, 210, 211, 216) Communications and Digital Technology Office (208) The majority of SoA staff are expected to continue to work remotely throughout the 2020-2021 academic year. Students or faculty with technology issues or questions should email art.help@yale.edu to schedule a virtual support session. All School Computer Lab (209) Equipment Loan Office (215) Annex Computer Lab (215B) Graduate Studios (217) For details on the shops and labs in this building during the Fall 2020 semester, see the “Shops & Labs” section below. Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody 353 Crown Street (Painting / Printmaking + Photography) Basement Floor Crown Finishing Shop (C03) Classroom (G07) The Pit (G15) Printmaking Shop (C14) Graduate Painting Studios First Floor Painting/Printmaking and Sculpture Dept. Office (C106) The majority of SoA staff are expected to continue to work remotely throughout the 2020-2021 academic year. Graduate Painting Studios Second Floor Spray Booth (C207) Classroom (C220) Graduate Painting Studios For details on the shops and labs in this building during the Fall 2020 semester, see the “Shops & Labs” section below. Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody 36 Edgewood Avenue (Sculpture + Photography) Basement Floor Production Studio (17) Laser Cutter/New Media Lab (20) Classroom (22) Classroom/Computer Lab (23) Exhibit Space (90A) Graduate Photo Studios (9, 18) First Floor Sculpture Dept. Administrative and Faculty Offices (103) The majority of SoA staff are expected to continue to work remotely throughout the 2020-2021 academic year. Conference Room (107) Fabrication Shop (110) Spray Booth (110A) Classrooms (115, 119, 123) Second Floor Exhibit Space “The Shoe” (200) All-School Event Space and Classroom (204) Classrooms (210, 214) Undergraduate Studios (203, 212, 217) Graduate Photo Studios 2nd Floor Patio Third Floor Graduate Sculpture Critique Space (307) Graduate Sculpture Studios 3rd Floor Patio Fourth Floor Graduate Sculpture Critique Space (406) Graduate Sculpture Lounge (410) To ensure social distancing requirements are being met, students are asked to limit their time within the Graduate Sculpture Lounge. Graduate Sculpture Critique Space (412) Exhibit Space (490) Graduate Sculpture Studios For details on the shops and labs in this building during the Fall 2020 semester, see the “Shops & Labs” section below. Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody 32 Edgewood Avenue ("EIK") The building across from 36 Edgewood, colloquially known as “EIK” (pronounced “IKE”), is a smaller exhibition and All-School event space that may also be utilized as a classroom to meet social distancing requirements during the 2020-2021 academic year. Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Shops & Labs 1156 Chapel Street (Green Hall) Photography Lab & Darkroom Darkroom (G11, G12) + Graduate Photo Printing Lab (G19) For the Fall 2020 semester: • All group labs will be closed in Photography. • Photo check-out of loanable items will be per semester—checked out remotely on the School’s online system, with no physical contact. More information coming soon. Visit Photography Lab wiki page >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Equipment Loan Office (Room 215) For the 2020-2021 academic year, equipment loans will only be permitted for current MFA students at the School of Art—undergraduate students will not be permitted to check out equipment. Visit the Equipment Loan Office wiki page for full info and the Spring 2021 loan schedule >> Students will continue to be able to make equipment reservations at reservations.yale.edu/art and equipment return schedules will remain at the standard two weeks to allow our shared equipment adequate time undisturbed between uses. Pick-ups will happen every other Tuesday in Room 209 from Noon to 4PM. Returns will happen every other Friday in Room 209 from Noon to 4PM. All users will use their ID to swipe into the room. Students must follow all posted rules and policies. The door will lock to all users promptly at 4PM on these days. Students with questions about equipment or equipment loan are asked to reach out to Equipment Loan and A/V Specialist, Edgar Serrano at edgar.serrano@yale.edu or call the ELO office at 203-432-7436. Remote Assistance Remote assistance is available from 12-4PM, Monday through Friday beginning February 1. Virtually communicate with techs via message/chat, or meet virtually by joining the ELO Zoom Room: Zoom > Contacts > Channels > ELO Virtual Communicate Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Digital Technology Office (Room 208) Technical support is available by appointment during the Fall 2021 semester. All SoA community members can receive support by emailing art.help@yale.edu to schedule a virtual, or if possible in-person, support session. Visit the Digital Technology Office wiki page here >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody 353 Crown Street Printshop (C14) During the 2020-2021 academic year, the Printmaking Shop will be open by appointment, with students required to complete training beforehand. Please email Printshop Supervisor Alexander Valentine to find the next available reservation times. Visiting Printshop wiki page >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Crown Finishing Shop (C03) The Crown Finishing Shop is the satellite woodshop run by the Fabrication Shops faculty in the Sculpture department. Mandatory training sessions are required for any students interested in using the shop. For questions, please reach out to Fabrication Shops Director Elizabeth Tubergen >> or Fabrication Shops Coordinator Desmond Lewis >> Visit the Fabrication Shop wiki page >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody 36 Edgewood Avenue Laser Lab (20) Information about the Laser Lab, including access policies, is available at this link >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Computer Lab (23) This computer lab is open to Sculpture Graduate Students via keycard access. It contains one iMac, one Epson XL10000 scanner, a laser printer, and a Makerbot 3D printer. Find information on 3D printing at the Yale School of Art here >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Fabrication Shop (110) During the 2020-2021 academic year, the Fabrication Shop will be open by appointment, with students required to complete training beforehand. Please email Fabrication Shops Director Elizabeth Tubergen, Fabrication Shops Coordinator Desmond Lewis, or Fabrication Shops Technician Michael Fadel to find the next available reservation times. Visit the Fabrication Shops wiki page >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Health & Mental Wellness On March 29, 2021, President Salovey announced that the University expects to have a full residential program for undergraduates if public health conditions permit, and that graduate and professional school students will continue their studies in New Haven and faculty members will conduct classes primarily in person. Health and safety guidelines will be responsive to COVID-19 infection rates and the status of vaccination programs. Mask wearing and asymptomatic testing continues, and the University will host vaccination clinics as needed. Dr. Stephanie Spangler, the university COVID-19 coordinator, will continue to communicate with the Yale community about updates to COVID safety policies and the health guidelines website, below, will be updated regularly. Read the University’s Health and Safety Guidelines >> For up-to-date COVID-related information, visit covid19.yale.edu >> What to do if you feel sick >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Vaccination Requirements COVID VACCINATION REQUIREMENT While most students have submitted their documentation, those who have not yet done so must act promptly to upload their information to avoid barriers to registration. New students: Please enter your COVID-19 vaccination information on the Yale Vaccine Portal, upload your vaccination record and click submit even if you have not completed your other immunization requirements yet. You do not need the other immunization information entered to meet the COVID-19 requirement, just the dates and the photo of your COVID-19 vaccination record. Pending records: Some students may not yet be fully vaccinated in Yale’s system because they are awaiting vaccine verification, or are in the 2-week waiting period following the final vaccine dose, or are waiting for an exemption request to be processed. Be patient as these records are processed. You will be allowed to register for classes. Notify your school Health and Safety Leader now if you have vaccination underway but have not completed your series. For other vaccination questions you may contact immunization@yale.edu. Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody INFORMATION FOR INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS (in addition to above requirements) Students traveling to Yale from outside the U.S. are reminded that you will need to be tested no more than 3 days before traveling by air to the U.S. and show your negative result to the airline before you board your flight. Students arriving from international locations must follow Yale/CDC travel requirements for testing and, if indicated, quarantine. These will be met by the arrival testing outlined above by vaccination status. Students who have not yet received both doses of an approved vaccination regimen should schedule additional vaccination as soon as possible after arriving on campus according to the guidance on the Yale Vaccination Program website (scroll to the table). If you have not yet consulted with Yale Health on what is needed to complete your vaccination requirements, please do so ASAP by emailing immunization@yale.edu. Access the Yale Vaccination Program website >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody COVID Rules & Policies CHECKLIST FOR RETURN TO CAMPUS BEFORE RETURN TO CAMPUS you must: Sign the Yale Community Compact >> Complete Student Return to Campus COVID-19 Training on Canvas >> Schedule a gateway COVID screening >> Must be conducted after Aug. 1, 2021. UPON RETURN TO CAMPUS you must: Complete your scheduled COVID arrival screening ALWAYS you must: wear a mask when in shared spaces maintain a six-foot distance from others refrain from gathering in groups indoors only gather outdoors in groups of 10 or less while wearing masks and maintaining a six-foot distance IT IS RECOMMENDED that you: Continue to be screened for COVID-19 throughout the semester—graduate students can be tested up through the University testing program up to one time per week More information >> Full requirements from Yale Environmental Health & Safety >> Full list of requirements for Fall 2021 return to campus >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody In-Person Gatherings On Campus • Adhere to all protocols Yale establishes for in-person class attendance. Find the most recent guidelines here > • Following health and safety protocols for indoor and outdoor group events, gatherings or meetings organized for either academic or social purposes, whether or not university sponsored. • Neither hosting nor participating in any event, gathering or meeting that does not follow the protocols, including limits on number of participants whether on or off campus. • Neither hosting nor inviting to campus anyone who is not authorized to be on campus without advance permission from my school’s Health and Safety Leader (HSL) or their designee. • Following protocols to limit exposure established by the State of Connecticut or the City of New Haven. Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Safe Campus Practices + Visitor Policies SAFE CAMPUS PRACTICES Find information about miscellaneous safety practices at Yale, including water fountains, cleaning shared surfaces, running, self-service beverage stations, and more on the EHS website here >>](https://ehs.yale.edu/safe-campus-practices) This page provides an alphabetical list of miscellaneous topics that are peripheral to our academic and operational policies, procedures, and guidelines. Please see Yale’s COVID-19 website and Workplace Guidance Page for important information on returning to work, daily health checks, physical distancing, occupancy guidance and more. Please also refer to Occupancy Requirements and Limits for campus spaces. VISITOR POLICIES To protect the health and safety of faculty, staff and students, the university has established an approval process and minimum requirements for any visitors (see definition below). At this time and effective until further notice visitors are permitted on campus only after approval. Find Yale’s full Visitor Policy listed here > For additional information, please see the CDC guidance on personal and social activities >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody REQUIREMENTS FOR UNVACCINATED STUDENTS While all students who plan to return to campus for the fall semester are required to be fully vaccinated, those who have received an exemption must fulfill the following requirements: Ongoing Testing Requirements If you are not fully vaccinated or are exempted from vaccination: Twice weekly asymptomatic testing is required. Your testing pattern (Monday/Thursday, Tuesday/Friday) will be assigned in August and will be available on Yale Hub. Testing reminders will go out via text and email if you are late for a test. Failure to meet testing requirements may result in your access to campus being restricted. If you are fully vaccinated: At this time, there is no requirement for routine testing following arrival testing outlined above, however, this could change. Testing is available for anyone who wishes to do so. Monitor your health for COVID-19 symptoms, completing the health check survey daily before you go to campus or leave your on-campus residence Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody COVID Testing Gateway Testing & Requirements (Fall 2021) Yale is providing free viral testing for all faculty, staff, and graduate and professional students who will be returning to campus for the fall semester. For graduate and professional school students, testing is required upon arrival to the University, and all students must quarantine in their residences until a negative arrival test result is received. Every student, regardless of vaccination and enrollment status, has a minimum of one required COVID test in August to be cleared for campus activity (more may be required for unvaccinated/exempt students and those who have traveled outside the US). Additionally, students arriving from one of the states included in the State of Connecticut Travel Advisory must quarantine for a total of 14 days upon arrival, regardless of test results, and must complete a Connecticut Travel Health Form. Failure to abide by this quarantine could result in a $1,000 fine from the state. Keep in mind that the Connecticut Travel Advisory list is updated regularly. Schedule a screening >> More about Yale’s COVID Screening Program >> Read Yale’s Health & Safety Guidelines >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Asymptomatic COVID Screening Program One helpful way students can keep the School of Art community safe is by continuing twice weekly asymptomatic COVID screening tests as a preventative measure. On campus, asymptomatic screening is free and conveniently located at 150 York Street, just around the corner from Green Hall. Due to the close working quarters throughout SoA studio spaces, the School of Art recommends its students continue to be screened for COVID-19 throughout the semester. Students who test positive through the university testing program will be referred for contact tracing and will be required to isolate in their residences until released by Yale Health. Medical monitoring and advice will be provided by Yale Health during isolation. Schedule a screening >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Mental Health Resources Wellness Tools Formulated by the Yale School of Public Health, its Wellness Committee, and Peer Wellness Cultivators, a shared document containing wellness tools for social distancing, including general tips, meditation apps, podcasts, live videos, and helplines can be accessed here >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Drop-in meditation sessions The Yale Stress Center offers free drop-in meditation sessions at 12:15PM on Mondays and Fridays, remotely via Zoom. Discover the benefits of meditation in a casual group environment; perfect for beginners and experienced practitioners alike. Mondays on Zoom >> Fridays on Zoom >> Full information on Yale Community Drop-In Mediation >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Counseling Services Students should refer to Yale Health’s Mental Health & Counseling page for information on what services are available to them >> Faculty and staff should refer to Yale Health’s Behavioral Health page >> Those experiencing prolonged or unreasonable wait times to be assigned a mental health care provider should contact Taryn Wolf. Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Meet with SoA Non-Clinical Counselor, Krista Dobson With the Spring 2021 semester, Krista Dobson has officially begun her new role as a full-time non-clinical counselor for the Schools of Art, Architecture, and Drama. Her typical office hours are Monday – Friday, 10AM-6PM, during which time Krista is supports students with short term mental health and wellness needs including, but not limited to, development of strategies related to time and stress management, conflict resolution, social and cultural belonging, and self-care. Because this counselor position is non-clinical, Krista will partner both with Yale Mental Health to refer students with immediate and long-term clinical needs, as well as each School’s Title IX Coordinator to refer students to the appropriate Yale resources for these concerns. Please note that these check-ins are not intended as a substitute for clinical therapy, sessions with the SHARE Center, or Chaplain’s office. These check-ins are a non-clinical resource, which means she is a mandatory reporter for Title IX concerns, and cannot offer the same level of confidentiality as Yale’s Mental Health and Counseling, SHARE, or the Chaplain’s Office. Appointments to meet with Krista can be scheduled via this link >> Or students are welcome to reach out to her directly via email at krista.dobson@yale.edu >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody University Resources Find the wiki’s new “Resources” page here >> For more resources offered by the University visit the Yale University Resources & Services wiki page >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Digital Resources IMPORTANT NOTE: In most cases, to access the digital resources made available by the University below, off-campus access will require installing and logging into Yale’s VPN (Cisco AnyConnect). How to connect via VPN >> University Library information on off-campus VPN access >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Subscriptions Yale provides graduate students with a wide variety of online educational materials. Students have unlimited access to Yale’s Library Resources. In addition, free subscriptions to online news publications (such as The New York Times, Wall Street Journal, and Washington Post) are available with your university email address. Find a list of all the major newspapers students have access to here >> Learn more about to access the New York Times here >> Students also receive a free subscription to LinkedIn Learning, (previously known as Lynda) providing access to instructional skill-building video courses taught by industry experts in software, creative, and business skills. For full information on the subscriptions and services that students have access to, visit the Library’s “Do I have access to?” FAQ page >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody JSTOR & Research Databases To find a research database made accessible by the University Library, search by title here >> Direct links: Access JSTOR >> Search Articles+ >> Access the Art & Architecture archive >> Access Art and architecture in video >> Access Art Source >> Access ARTbibliographies modern >> Access Artifex >> Access the Artnet price database >> Access to ArtNet is limited to authorized users of Yale University who are on-site at the YCBA Reference Library. Access ARTstor >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Streaming Video Collections Yale University Library provides access to streaming video in multi-disciplinary and subject specific video collections and part of multi-format collections. Some streaming video content is owned and other content is leased on an annual basis. Access this guide for more information on the streaming video content that can be viewed on and off campus and embedded into Canvas >> Highlights include: Kanopy >> Academic Video Online (Alexander Street), with BBC, PBS, Sony Pictures Classics, Filmakers Library, & more >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Emergency Temporary Access Service (ETAS) via HathiTrust The Emergency Temporary Access Service (ETAS) via HathiTrust is live for Yale University faculty, students, and staff. This service provides the Yale community with access to both public domain digitized books in HathiTrust as well as in-copyright and copyright-undetermined volumes that match Yale’s print holdings (which may be inaccessible in library buildings). Pro-tips for using HathiTrust ETAS: Link to Hathi via the library catalog by clicking “Access to Resource” while connected to VPN. Once you’re in, you MUST log in using the large yellow “LOG IN” button at the top right of the site. Choose “Yale University” in the partner institution box and click CONTINUE. Enter your Yale netID and password when prompted. Using ETAS content: To search for the title of a book, click on “catalog” below the search box and choose “title” from the pulldown menu. When you locate an eligible book, you will see a link that says “temporary access”. Click on that link. You will then see a page noting the work is provided through ETAS. Click the “Check Out” button. Your check-out period will display in the orange banner across the top of the screen (a 1-hour period that will extend with active use). You receive read-only access to the book online in your web browser; you cannot download the work in full but may download a single page. Please use the “Return Early” button if you are done using the title to make it available for other users. Things to keep in mind: Yale has access to as many simultaneous user copies as we have print copies in our physical collections; if Yale has one copy of a title on our shelf, we have single user access to the digital copy; if we have two copies, we have two concurrent user access to the digital copy, etc. This service will be available to Yale users for as long as the current emergency situation continues. Soon, the library catalog will display records for HathiTrust digitized materials with the status “temporary access”. Please send any questions to Ask Yale Library. Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Library Stack Yale students and faculty have full access to Library Stack, a collection of digital ephemera from the contemporary art, architecture and design worlds. www.librarystack.org Library Stack collects: ebooks, zines, podcasts, exhibition pamphlets, serial PDF journals, field recordings, experimental lectures, museum publications, downloadable typefaces and software made by artists and designers from around the world. Browse the Open Stacks page for a general overview, use Search to look for something specific, or organize the entire collection by format, subject or keyword. Access is open on Yale’s network. Register for a Library Stack account and enable the Bookshelf feature, which lets you save, organize, annotate and share items from the collection. Use Library Stack to find new things, investigate new concepts, share course readings, augment syllabi, research collaboratively and borrow unique artists’ ebooks. Send any questions to admin@librarystack.org Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Silliman Textbook Library (SMTL) The Silliman Textbook Library (SMTL) is an initiative built by Silliman students to combat educational inequity on Yale’s campus. The SMTL was founded on the acknowledgement that textbooks and other educational resources are often prohibitively expensive for many students, especially those of first generation and low-income (FGLI) backgrounds. On top of increasing costs of a college education, affording textbooks can heighten financial and academic stress for some students. Such a system can even affect some students’ course choices if books are inaccessible, meaning that a lack of access to textbooks can become a lack of access to career skills, opportunities, intellectual exploration, test prep, and more. The Silliman Textbook Library is located in the backroom of the Silliman Library, on the 3rd floor of Byers Hall. This is located one floor above the Silliman Dining Hall. The Library is designed for students to use the books for reference within the Silliman Library. Students cannot take books outside of the Silliman Library space. Full information >> Access the SMTL Database >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Copyright & Fair Use What is fair use? An exception in copyright law that allows you to use another person’s copyrighted work without permission under some (but not all) circumstances. Section 107 of the Copyright Act states that “fair use” can be applied for purposes such as criticism, comment, news reporting, teaching (including multiple copies for classroom use), scholarship, or research. In determining whether the use of a copyrighted work is a fair use, the following factors should be considered: the purpose and character of the use, including whether such use is of a commercial nature or is for nonprofit educational purposes; the nature of the copyrighted work; the amount and substantiality of the portion used in relation to the copyrighted work as a whole; and the effect of the use upon the potential market for or value of the copyrighted work. A more friendly acronym for remembering these factors is PANE: P urpose and character of the use A mount used N ature of the copyrighted work E ffect on the potential market for the copyrighted work (Acronym by Ellen Duranceau, librarian at MIT. Source: Episode 38 of the podcast Radio Free Culture.) When it comes to sharing art that may include appropriated or copyrighted material, a case for “fair use” must be made. The guiding principles, when it comes to creating art that contains copyrighted or non-original imagery is this: Artists may invoke fair use to incorporate copyrighted material into new artworks in any medium, subject to certain limitations: Artists should avoid uses of existing copyrighted material that do not generate new artistic meaning, being aware that a change of medium, without more, may not meet this standard. The use of a preexisting work, whether in part or in whole, should be justified by the artistic objective, and artists who deliberately repurpose copyrighted works should be prepared to explain their rationales both for doing so and for the extent of their uses. Artists should avoid suggesting that incorporated elements are original to them, unless that suggestion is integral to the meaning of the new work. When copying another’s work, an artist should cite the source, whether in the new work or elsewhere (by means such as labeling or embedding), unless there is an articulable aesthetic basis for not doing so. For more information on fair use in art, read: Yale University Library’s Guide: “Art, Design, Copyright and Fair Use” The College Art Association’s “The Code of Best Practices in Fair Use in the Visual Arts” Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Yale Shuttle Social distancing on Yale shuttles is critical to the health and safety of the Yale community. As a result, based on new social distancing guidelines, shuttle passenger capacity and routes will extremely limited. Shuttles will operate at approximately 25% of normal rider capacity to ensure social distancing, and additional temporary changes to existing shuttle routes may be required. Routes currently in operation include: Daytime: Blue, Orange, Red, and VA Nighttime: Blue and Orange West Campus: Green and Purple You can track your ride in real-time on DoubleMap or view the DoubleMap text version. You can also sign up for critical shuttle announcements. Visit the Yale Shuttle website >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Public Safety The Yale Police Department has primary responsibility for patrolling the Yale campus and also serves in a supportive role to the New Haven Police Department as an extended patrol area. View the campus boundary map >> Safety services and resources include: Safe Rides >> Lost and Found >> Safety Tips >> View Yale’s Public Safety website >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Libraries & Facilities CCAM (Center for Collaborative Arts & Media) CCAM’s plans for Fall 2020 were released in July, and include: REMOTE LAB ACCESS: CCAM will offer remote access to the CCAM computer lab workstations for curricular use. REMOTE PROGRAMMING: All CCAM programming will be conducted remotely. This includes lectures, exhibitions, workshops, and performances. A full calendar of events will be announced at the end of August. LONG-TERM EQUIPMENT CHECKOUT: As conditions permit, the CCAM Lending lab will offer long-term equipment check-out for curricular use. Loans will be available by the beginning of the semester. Available equipment can be reserved here at that time: reservations.yale.edu/ccam ZOOM ROOM: A Zoom room will be available for faculty to conduct high-production-value online sessions. The Zoom room will be equipped with cinema style lighting, a video camera, and a microphone for professional recording and streaming. STUDIO FELLOWSHIPS: CCAM will offer six studio fellowships for the 2020-2021 academic year, subject to Student Employment regulations. Applications will open the first week of September and will be posted on the CCAM website. The paid fellowship is open to upper level students and graduate students and can be conducted remotely. STUDENT EMPLOYMENT: CCAM will hire student workers (a.k.a. temporary experts) for the 2020-2021 academic year, subject to Student Employment regulations. The application to become a CCAM temporary expert will open the first week of September. The work can be conducted remotely. CASE BY CASE REQUESTS: Please reach out to ccam@yale.edu to inquire about a specific request or to book an appointment to discuss an idea with one of the CCAM team members. Visit CCAM’s website >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody University Libraries On January 25, 2021, the University Libraries provided the following update: Most library locations, including contactless pickup in the Sterling Library nave, are currently open to graduate students, professional students, and faculty (including emeriti), who are authorized to be on campus. See the Library Reopening FAQ for location-specific details >> At this time, in compliance with the University’s COVID-19 guidelines, we are unable to extend access to other patron groups, including retired staff and faculty without emeritus status, alumni, family members, other Yale affiliates, and general public. We regret any inconvenience, and we look forward to welcoming our extended community when public health conditions improve. Please contact Ask Yale Library if you have questions about your status to access the library >> Check library hours before coming to campus >> Hours, including for contactless pickup, may change on short notice due to COVID-19. Library staff continue to provide research consultations, workshops, library instruction, and access to electronic resources online. Current students, faculty, and staff may request to have library materials, including BorrowDirect and interlibrary loan materials, scanned or mailed to U.S. addresses. Access library guides by subject >> Get research help from University librarians >> Use links in QuickSearch and Orbis to request contact-free pickup at Thain Cafe at Bass Library or at Cushing/Whitney Medical Library Thain Cafe for circulating materials from these libraries: Bass Library Cushing/Whitney Medical Library Gilmore Music Library Haas Arts Library Library Shelving Facility Sterling Memorial Library Use scanning request links in QuickSearch and Orbis to request chapter and article scans from these libraries: Bass Library Cushing/Whitney Medical Library Gilmore Music Library Haas Arts Library Library Shelving Facility Reference Library, Yale Center for British Art Sterling Memorial Library For the latest updates from the libraries, visit bit.ly/YaleLibraryCovid19 >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Galleries & Museums Yale University Art Gallery (YUAG) https://artgallery.yale.edu/ 203-432-0600 (recorded message) 203-432-0601 (staffed during Gallery hours) artgalleryinfo@yale.edu 1111 Chapel Street | New Haven, CT The Gallery’s Virtual Information Desk offers real-time online assistance and is available each weekday afternoon through Zoom. Schedule: Monday through Friday, 1:00 pm–4:00 pm EST Join from PC, Mac, Linux, iOS, or Android: https://yale.zoom.us/j/93881461797 Download Gallery Backgrounds for Use with Zoom >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Yale Center for British Art https://britishart.yale.edu/ ycba.info@yale.edu Toll free: 1 877 BRIT ART (274 8278) (within the United States) International: +1 203 432 2800 1080 Chapel Street | New Haven, CT Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Schools & Departments Yale School of Architecture (YSOA) https://www.architecture.yale.edu/ arch.info@yale.edu 180 York Street | New Haven, CT Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Department of the History of Art https://arthistory.yale.edu/ Jeffrey Loria Center for the History of Art 190 York Street | New Haven, CT Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Yale School of Drama https://www.drama.yale.edu/ Yale School of Drama’s central office is located at 149 York Street, New Haven, CT. Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Department of African American Studies https://afamstudies.yale.edu/ afamstudies@yale.edu 81 Wall Street | New Haven, CT Related: Yale’s Afro-American Cultural Center >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Yale School of Engineering and Applied Science https://seas.yale.edu/ 203-432-4200 17 Hillhouse Avenue | New Haven, CT Departments include: Applied Physics Biomedical Engineering Chemical & Environmental Engineering Computer Science Electrical Engineering Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Yale School of Management https://som.yale.edu/ Contact the School of Management through this online form >> 165 Whitney Avenue | New Haven, CT Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody See a full list of University departments and schools here >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody External Arts Resources Submitted by faculty & members of the SoA community Apps & software Mural — App where students can “pin-up” pictures, links and post-it notes etc .   Here.fm — free and allows you to screen share, have video, create large canvases and images. For instance all students can post images throughout and the crit can move around to discuss. (Requires Chrome.) Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Resources, Virtual Tours, & Open Access Databases gez.la — a collection of virtual tours (currently more than 140 from across the world), created by Yale Digital Services Prod and Dev Specialist Furkan Teke MCN (Museum Computer Network)‘s Virtual Museum Resources — a list of virtual museum resources, e-learning, and online ollections Art21 Library — includes every film produced by Art21 since its first broadcast in 2001 Library of Congress’ Open Access Book Collection — growing online collection of contemporary open access e-books Museums with Open Access collections: Art Institute of Chicago >> Metropolitan Museum >> Cleveland Museum of Art >> The Smithsonian >> National Gallery of Art >> Yale Digital Commons >> The Rijksmuseum, Amsterdam >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody FAQs Can I still get mail delivered to the school? Yes, but only mail sent via the United States Postal Service (USPS). Currently, no other carriers are able to deliver mail to the School. Because of this, we recommend that students direct all personal correspondence to their residential addresses. Packages and mail sent via UPS, FEDEX, DHL, Laser Ship, and other carriers cannot be delivered to the School, and students will not have access to the mailroom. It’s possible that packages and mail sent via UPS may be able to be received by the School in the coming weeks, but check with Facilities Supervisor Alex Adams for confirmation. Packages and mail not sent through the United States Postal Service (and potentially UPS later in the semester) will be returned to sender. Only packages sent by USPS can be delivered, and those will be stored in the corridor outside the mailroom. Student mailboxes are located in the first floor corridor of Green Hall. Please note: The School of Art and its staff will not be responsible for packages delivered to students at the school. Students who have packages delivered to them at the School of Art do so at their own risk. Students are responsible for knowing when their packages are being delivered and must pick them up as soon as possible. Tracking information: The School of Art is only able to receive parcels delivered by the United States Postal Service (and possibly UPS) during the 2020-2021 academic year, and these are rerouted to Yale’s central receiving facility before being delivered to Green Hall. Because of this, tracking information will be incorrect and delivery will be delayed by one day. Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody What legal resources regarding housing does the University offer? A shared document containing legal resources related to housing, lease and landlord issues, as well as evictions and collective housing concerns can be accessed here >> For School of Art-specific housing resources, visit the “Housing” page on the wiki >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody I have a tech question that's not answered here—what should I do? Read the School’s Online Teaching and Learning FAQ >> If your question still remains unanswered, email art.help@yale.edu to schedule a remote support session. Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Background image by Igor Bastidas on GIPHY. Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody © 2022 Support the School Visiting Instagram Facebook YouTube Contact Sitemap Accessibility at Yale This website exists as an ongoing collaborative experiment in digital publishing and information sharing. Because this website functions as a wiki, all members of the School of Art community—graduate students, faculty, staff, and alums—have the ability to add new content and pages, and to edit most of the site’s existing content. Content is the property of its various authors. When you contribute to this site, you agree to abide by Yale University academic and network use policy, and to act as a responsible member of our community. Visitor: Log in Edit this page Page history Page last changed by: Lindsey Mancini Background changed by: Lindsey Mancini