Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Coronavirus COVID-19 right arrow down arrow COVID-19 Data Dashboard Academics right arrow down arrow Academic Calendar Off Campus Learning Campus Life right arrow down arrow Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Campus Recreation & Athletics Transportation Testing & Quarantine right arrow down arrow Quarantine & Isolation COVID Check App Self-Administered Wellness Check Self Reporting Campus Safety Measures right arrow down arrow Visitors Events Travel & Study Abroad Research Facial Masks Social Distancing Vaccines Home » Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) » Campus Life » Housing & Dining Set Navigation title in component COVID-19 Data Dashboard Academics Academic Calendar Off Campus Learning Campus Life Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Campus Recreation & Athletics Transportation Testing & Quarantine Quarantine & Isolation COVID Check App Self-Administered Wellness Check Self Reporting Campus Safety Measures Visitors Events Travel & Study Abroad Research Facial Masks Social Distancing Vaccines Housing & Dining Dining centers are open and meal plans are active. UC Food Services will focus on providing the best food and service experience possible, while adhering to health and safety protocols. Students wishing to return to on-campus housing that are currently positive with COVID-19 and/or are currently in isolation or quarantine must complete their Q/I period before returning to campus. Submit vaccination status Fully vaccinated incoming or current students can submit vaccination status via email to uccovidcheck@ucmail.uc.edu or the UC COVID Check app. Additional information Quarantine and Isolation: Given that broad access to vaccines is available, on-campus quarantine and isolation housing is on reserve for resident use but may be limited depending on events. Thus, on-campus Q&I housing cannot be guaranteed. All residents should have individual plans for isolation and quarantine housing in the event they are required to do so. Let’s remember that vaccination is currently the best way to prevent the need to quarantine or isolate. If you have questions, please contact us at 513-556-6461 or via email at uchousing@uc.edu Please continue to check this Public Health website for general updates and the Housing website. University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-6000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-6000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top