Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open the search panel Open the main menu Search Go Close the search panel Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers News Events Alumni Giving About Library Login Open the Search panel Admissions Admissions Why Columbia J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics Academics J.D. Program and Curriculum LL.M. Program and Curriculum Executive LL.M. Program and Curriculum J.S.D. Program and Curriculum Dual and Joint Degrees International Programs Public Interest and Public Service Experiential Learning Courses Registration Services Academic Calendar Executive Education Areas of Study Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Criminal Justice Data Analytics Environment and Energy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Intellectual Property and Technology International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace Leadership Legal History Litigation and Dispute Resolution National Security and Privacy Social Justice and Human Rights Faculty & Scholarship Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Directory Research Centers and Programs Scholarship Archive Workshops, Lectures, and Colloquia Careers Careers Private Sector Careers Public Interest and Public Service Careers Academic Careers Judicial Clerkships Employment Statistics Employment Policies Community Life Community Life Visit Campus Dean’s Welcome Your Campus, Your City Student Life Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Strategic Initiatives Law of the Workplace We live in the age of the gig economy and globalized labor. Questions surrounding regulations that govern the interaction between an individual and their workplace and even the very definition of “employee” significantly impact society and quality of life. Labor and employment law are central to these conversations. How can the law adapt to and anticipate the evolving nature of employment? In her book Philosophical Foundations of Labour Law, Gillian Lester, Columbia Law School Dean and Lucy G. Moses Professor of Law, notes that work has changed so dramatically that it can be difficult to connect it to traditional concepts on which labor law has been based. Columbia Law School gives students the opportunity to immerse themselves in this rapidly changing field via courses, clinics, research, and other experiential learning opportunities. Why Columbia Law? Explore the significant legal and philosophical questions about consent, power, and participation in employment relations. Investigate debates about the minimum wage, sexual harassment, discrimination, labor unions, pensions, privacy, health, and safety as well as the historical developments that still impact those debates. Seek answers to new questions facing the world’s workplaces and workforce (for example, is Uber a workplace or technology?), including issues arising from labor movements, labor law, trade, transnational labor rights, immigration, employee rights, and multinational corporations’ social responsibility. Advocate for the rights of workers on the national and global scale through the Human Rights Clinic and Immigrants’ Rights Clinic. “Most people don’t have a choice about whether to participate in the market for labor. So making sure that the laws are fit for the conditions of people’s working lives is critically important for ensuring the basic minimum standards of civil society. There can be real vulnerabilities to exploitation given that people need to put bread on the table. So we need to be especially vigilant.” —Gillian Lester, Columbia Law School Dean and Lucy G. Moses Professor of Law and co-editor of Philosophical Foundations of Labour Law Related Links Explore Courses Related Faculty All Faculty Kate Andrias Professor of Law Mark Barenberg Isidor and Seville Sulzbacher Professor of Law Elizabeth F. Emens Isidor and Seville Sulzbacher Professor of Law Gillian Lester Dean of the Faculty of Law and Lucy G. Moses Professor of Law Lance Liebman William S. Beinecke Professor of Law Emeritus and Dean Emeritus Justin McCrary Paul J. Evanson Professor of Law All Faculty Listing Related Experiential Learning Opportunities All Experiential Learning Externship Civil Litigation Externships Areas of Study Social Justice and Human Rights Litigation and Dispute Resolution Family, Gender, and Sexuality Law of the Workplace Clinic Community Advocacy Lab Clinic Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Criminal Justice Social Justice and Human Rights Clinic Entrepreneurship and Community Development Clinic Areas of Study Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Intellectual Property and Technology Leadership Social Justice and Human Rights Externship Multinational Externships Areas of Study Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Law of the Workplace Externship Social Change and Community-Based Lawyering Externships Areas of Study Social Justice and Human Rights Criminal Justice Law of the Workplace All Experiential Learning at Columbia Law Public Interest/Public Service No matter what your area of interest, find ways to incorporate public interest and public service into your academic program and career. Academics Careers Related Student Groups and Journals Society for Immigrant and Refugee Rights Columbia Business Law Review Related News and Stories Read All Stories More in The Press Research and Scholarship News Workplace Law in the Age of Uber “Philosophical Foundations of Labour Law,” a new book co-edited by Dean Gillian Lester, examines how moral values can and should underlie labor law. In The Press Jackson on Brink of History and Stunning Union Win Kate Andrias | Bloomberg Law Podcast In The Press Starbucks’ Legal Tack Slowing Results in Union Blitz Kate Andrias | Law360 In The Press Your Time Is Valuable: Here Is How to Negotiate for More at Work Alexandra Carter | Reuters Admissions Why Columbia Visit 435 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 212-854-2640 Contact Us Social Media (Administrative Title) Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Instagram Admissions Academics Areas of Study Faculty & Scholarship Careers Community Life Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers Login News Events Alumni Giving About Library Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Donate © Copyright 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York.