Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Entertainment Industry Studies Certificate (Undergraduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Entertainment Industry Studies Certificate (Undergraduate) Apply Request More Info Entertainment Industry Studies Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Entertainment Industry Studies Undergraduate Certificate Immerse yourself in the entertainment industry and explore the range of career paths it offers through the Entertainment Industry Studies Undergraduate Certificate from Temple’s School of Theater, Film and Media Arts. The Entertainment Industry Studies Undergraduate Certificate requires four courses, two of which must be taken through the Los Angeles Study Away Program. Students experience Hollywood firsthand in this program, which operates out of the historic Raleigh Studios. Soundstages, backlots and executive offices are the backdrop for your classes and the foundation for building your film and media career. The Los Angeles Study Away Program provides real-world opportunities to explore filmmaking, acquire professional work experience and build a network of industry contacts. The backbone of the Los Angeles program is an 11-week internship with job opportunities spanning film, television, advertising, public relations and entertainment management. Join the close-knit group of Temple students and alumni working together in the entertainment industry and see what it’s like to live and work in Los Angeles. Back on Main Campus in Philadelphia, you'll learn to translate your vision into audio and video projects. Introductory film coursework, paired with your Los Angeles experience, will deepen your understanding of Film and Media Arts. Course offerings examine the role of film, video and media arts within American culture; film, television and video from a range of critical perspectives; writing for film as well as working from a script; and personal work in the context of larger aesthetic theories. Culminating assessments are based on creative media arts projects, written scripts, papers, your internship performance and examinations. Classes & Curriculum The certificate requires four courses, two of which must be taken in the Los Angeles Study Away Program. This 14- to 16-credit certificate must be completed within three semesters including a summer term. Coursework includes 11-week Internship in Los Angeles and Topics in Film Study (Entertainment Industry Perspectives). Students choose two of the following courses to take on Main Campus. Introduction to Film and Video Analysis Media Arts I Media Arts II Media and Culture Learn more about the coursework for the Entertainment Industry Studies Undergraduate Certificate. Related Graduate Degrees Documentary Arts and Visual Research PhD Film and Media Arts MFA MediaXarts: Cinema for New Technologies and Environments MA Tuition & Fees The tuition for this Certificate Program is based on school or college of your major, program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Academic Advisors The School of Theater, Film and Media Arts academic advisors will guide you through choosing electives and registering for courses. Contact Dariq Cobb is an academic advisor for the Undergraduate Certificate in Entertainment Industry Studies. Phone: 215-204-2227 Email: dariq.cobb@temple.edu Leanna Arnold is the senior academic advisor for the Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts. Phone: 215-204-2227 Email: leanna.arnold@temple.edu Program Contact Alison Crouse is the associate program director of the Los Angeles Study Away program. Phone: 215-204-5910 Email: crousea@temple.edu Accreditation The Film and Media Arts program is associated with the University Film and Video Association, an international organization of university and industry professionals working in the field of media production. CA-EIS-CERT Additional Program Information Visit School Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Entertainment Industry Studies Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info