Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Early Childhood Development and Education (BS) – Education: Pre-Kindergarten-Primary (PK-3) Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Community Innovation and Education Department(s) Teacher Education, Schl of In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. EDUCATION: PRE-KINDERGARTEN-PRIMARY (PK-3) TRACK Early Childhood Development and Education majors take a variety of courses related to young children and their learning, development, and family environment. Students in the Education: Pre-Kindergarten-Primary (Pre-K-3rd) Track are working toward teacher certification in Pre-Kindergarten-Primary (PK-3) with ESOL Endorsement and Reading Endorsement. Students in this track take a series of core and specialization courses to prepare them to teach in the schools and to demonstrate mastery of the Florida Educator Accomplished Practices (FEAP). Early and continuous field experiences are provided to enhance the students in this track with an integration of theory and practice in school settings. This degree culminates in a semester-long internship. This Pre-Kindergarten-Primary (PK-3) track has potential ties to professional licensure or certification in the field. For more information on how this program may prepare you in that regard, please visit https://apq.ucf.edu/files/Licensure-Disclosure-CCIE-Early-Childhood-PK3-BS.pdf Admission Requirements Complete the University General Education requirements or its equivalent, i.e. an AA degree from an approved Florida College System or State University System institution. Have a minimum 2.75 overall GPA, with provisional acceptance for one semester if GPA is 2.5 (GPA must be 2.75 by the second semester). Complete all Education Common Program Prerequisite courses with a minimum grade of "C" (2.0) or better. Pass all four parts of the General Knowledge Test. Meet the Gordon Rule Requirement. Meet Foreign Language Admission Requirement. Degree Requirements Students must seek advising through the Early Childhood Development and Education staff in the Education Complex, Suite 122 or by email ([email protected]) prior to registering for classes. The courses designated in 1. (General Education) and 2. (Education Common Program Prerequisites) should be completed prior to admission to the major and upper division education courses. Students must earn a "C" (2.0) or better in each required Early Childhood Development and Education course. However, a minimum overall 2.75 GPA in all courses within the major is required. Passing scores on ALL three sections of the Florida Teacher Certification Examination (FTCE). See http://www.fldoe.org for available test dates and test sites. FTCE General Knowledge Test (GKT)-passing scores on the GKT is required prior to admission to the major. FTCE Professional Education Test (PEd) and Subject Area Examination (SAE-Prekindergarten/Primary PK-3) are required prior to entry into Internship. FTCE General Knowledge Test (GKT) - passing scores on the GKT are strongly recommended prior to semester 1 of the junior year and required for admission into the Early Childhood Development and Education, Track 1-Education: Pre-Kindergarten-Primary (Pre-K-3rd). FTCE Professional Education Test (PEd) and Subject Area Examination (SAE-Prekindergarten/Primary PK-3) are required prior to entry into Internship. This is a state-approved, initial teacher preparation program designed in compliance with Florida Statutes and State Board of Education Rule 6A-5.066. Degree requirements are subject to change based on state mandates. View Full Description Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Career Opportunities UCF prepares you for life beyond the classroom. Here, you’ll experience a wide range of opportunity, like learning diverse skills from world-renowned faculty to networking with top employers across Central Florida to gaining first-hand experience in internships nearby. Achieve your degree and more as a Knight. 3rd Grade Reading Teacher 4th Grade Math Teacher Bilingual Kindergarten Teacher Counselor Education Professor Early Childhood Teacher Elementary School Band Director Elementary School Teacher Head Start Teacher Kindergarten Teacher Literacy Education Professor Mathematics Education Professor Nursery School Teacher Nursery Teacher Pre-K Teacher Pre-Kindergarten Teacher Preschool Teacher Primary Education Professor Science Education Professor Secondary Education Professor Special Education Professor Show More Career Opportunities Degree Search College of Community Innovation and Education programs Bachelors Early Childhood Development and Education (BS) - Education: Pre-Kindergarten-Primary (PK-3) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management × EDUCATION: PRE-KINDERGARTEN-PRIMARY (PK-3) TRACK Early Childhood Development and Education majors take a variety of courses related to young children and their learning, development, and family environment. Students in the Education: Pre-Kindergarten-Primary (Pre-K-3rd) Track are working toward teacher certification in Pre-Kindergarten-Primary (PK-3) with ESOL Endorsement and Reading Endorsement. Students in this track take a series of core and specialization courses to prepare them to teach in the schools and to demonstrate mastery of the Florida Educator Accomplished Practices (FEAP). Early and continuous field experiences are provided to enhance the students in this track with an integration of theory and practice in school settings. This degree culminates in a semester-long internship. This Pre-Kindergarten-Primary (PK-3) track has potential ties to professional licensure or certification in the field. For more information on how this program may prepare you in that regard, please visit https://apq.ucf.edu/files/Licensure-Disclosure-CCIE-Early-Childhood-PK3-BS.pdf Admission Requirements Complete the University General Education requirements or its equivalent, i.e. an AA degree from an approved Florida College System or State University System institution. Have a minimum 2.75 overall GPA, with provisional acceptance for one semester if GPA is 2.5 (GPA must be 2.75 by the second semester). Complete all Education Common Program Prerequisite courses with a minimum grade of "C" (2.0) or better. Pass all four parts of the General Knowledge Test. Meet the Gordon Rule Requirement. Meet Foreign Language Admission Requirement. Degree Requirements Students must seek advising through the Early Childhood Development and Education staff in the Education Complex, Suite 122 or by email ([email protected]) prior to registering for classes. The courses designated in 1. (General Education) and 2. (Education Common Program Prerequisites) should be completed prior to admission to the major and upper division education courses. Students must earn a "C" (2.0) or better in each required Early Childhood Development and Education course. However, a minimum overall 2.75 GPA in all courses within the major is required. Passing scores on ALL three sections of the Florida Teacher Certification Examination (FTCE). See http://www.fldoe.org for available test dates and test sites. FTCE General Knowledge Test (GKT)-passing scores on the GKT is required prior to admission to the major. FTCE Professional Education Test (PEd) and Subject Area Examination (SAE-Prekindergarten/Primary PK-3) are required prior to entry into Internship. FTCE General Knowledge Test (GKT) - passing scores on the GKT are strongly recommended prior to semester 1 of the junior year and required for admission into the Early Childhood Development and Education, Track 1-Education: Pre-Kindergarten-Primary (Pre-K-3rd). FTCE Professional Education Test (PEd) and Subject Area Examination (SAE-Prekindergarten/Primary PK-3) are required prior to entry into Internship. This is a state-approved, initial teacher preparation program designed in compliance with Florida Statutes and State Board of Education Rule 6A-5.066. Degree requirements are subject to change based on state mandates. Degree Requirements Core Requirements: Basic Level: Other Program Prerequisites 15 Total Credits Complete all of the following A grade of "C" (2.0) or better is required. Note for EDF2130: Courses taken at Florida College System institutions may substitute for select courses in Other Program Requirements with the permission of the department Complete the following: EDF2130 - Child and Adolescent Development for Educators (3) EEC2732 - Health, Safety, and Nutrition for Young Children (3) MAE3310 - Elementary Mathematics for Teaching I (3) Earn at least 3 credits from the following types of courses: Elective Complete at least 1 of the following: ARE2000 - Early Childhood Art and Creativity (3) MUE2211 - Early Childhood Music and Movement (3) Core Requirements: Advanced Level 0 Total Credits All methods/specialization/foundations courses must be completed with a letter grade of "C" (2.0) or better before registering for Internship. However, a minimum GPA of 2.75 is required in the education core/professional, specialization and overall for admission to Internship. A grade of "C" (2.0) or better is required. Semester I 15 Total Credits Complete all of the following Passing score on the General Knowledge Test portion of the Florida Teacher Certification Examination (FTCE) is required prior to application to admission to the major. Complete the following: EEC3700 - Social and Emotional Development of Young Children (3) EEC4661 - Early Childhood Education Theory and Practice: (3) EEX4751 - Parent Involvement in Education (3) TSL4080 - Theory and Practice of Teaching ESOL Students in Schools (3) EEC4268 - Curriculum Activities in Early Childhood (3) Semester II 15 Total Credits Complete all of the following Passing score on the Professional Education Test portion of the Florida Teacher Certification Examination (FTCE) is strongly recommended to be taken prior to Semester III, and it is required to be taken and passed during Semester III. Complete the following: EEC4604 - Classroom Management and Guidance of Young Children (3) EEC4207 - Assessment and Evaluation of Young Children (3) TSL4240 - Issues in Second Language Acquisition (3) EEX3450 - Young Children With Special Needs (3) RED3310 - Early Reading, Writing and Language Arts (3) Summer 6 Total Credits Complete all of the following Passing scores on all sections [General Knowledge, Professional, and Subject Area (Pre-kindergarten/Primary PK -3)] of the Florida Teacher Certification Examination (FTCE) are required prior to entry into Internship. Complete the following: EEC4303 - Planning Creative Activities in Early Childhood Education (3) RED3012 - Basic Foundations of Reading (3) Semester III 12 Total Credits Complete all of the following Based on recommendations below, the student should achieve a passing score on all applicable sections of the Florida Teacher Certification Examination prior to entry into Student Teaching (EEC 4943 - Student Teaching). Students must apply and be approved for Internship. Deadline dates and placement application are available through the Office of Clinical & Field Experiences at https://ccie.ucf.edu/clinicalexp/. A fee may be required as part of the placement application process Complete the following: MAE4300 - Math Curriculum and Assessment in Early Childhood (3) SCE4304 - Teaching Science and Technology to Young Children (3) RED4311 - Primary Reading, Writing, and Language Arts Curriculum and Assessment (3) EEC4235C - Early Childhood Education Seminar: Bridging Theory to Practice (3) Semester IV 12 Total Credits Complete all of the following Satisfactory completion of Internship requires the student to demonstrate proficiency in all Florida Educator Accomplished Practices in accordance with State Board of Education Rule 6A-5.066. Deadline dates and placement application are available through the Office of Clinical & Field Experiences at https://ccie.ucf.edu/clinicalexp/. A fee may be required as part of the placement application process Complete the following: EEC4943 - Student Teaching (12) Grand Total Credits: 75 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida