Disciplines African Studies American Studies Ancient World (Classics) Anthropology Art Asian Studies Communication Criminology & Criminal Justice Economics Environmental Studies Film & Media Studies Food & Wine Gender & Sexuality Global Studies Health History Language Latin American Studies Legal Studies Literary Studies & Poetry Middle Eastern Studies Music Philosophy Politics Psychology Religion Sciences Sociology Technology Studies Courses Products Books Journals Resources Support Us About Blog Contact Us Stay informed: Sign up for eNews Subscribe Disciplines African Studies American Studies Ancient World (Classics) Anthropology Art Asian Studies Communication Criminology & Criminal Justice Economics Environmental Studies Film & Media Studies Food & Wine Gender & Sexuality Global Studies Health History Language Latin American Studies Legal Studies Literary Studies & Poetry Middle Eastern Studies Music Philosophy Politics Psychology Religion Sciences Sociology Technology Studies Courses Products Books Journals Resources Support Us About Blog Contact Us Disciplines Sociology Gender Download cover image > Create a flier for this title > The Meanings of Macho Being a Man in Mexico City, Tenth Anniversary Edition, With a New Preface by Matthew C. Gutmann (Author) October 2006 First Edition Paperback $34.95, £27.00 eBook $34.95, £27.00 Courses Sociology of Gender People & Cultures of North America Series Men and Masculinity Title Details Rights: Available worldwide Pages: 362 ISBN: 9780520250130 Trim Size: 6 x 9 Illustrations: 20 b/w photographs, 2 maps, 3 tables Share Request  an Exam or Desk Copy Recommend to Your Library (PDF) RightsLink Rights and Permissions Read an Excerpt Buying Options Amazon Barnes & Noble Bookshop IndieBound Powell’s UC Press Skip To About the Book About the Author Reviews Table of Contents Related Books The pandemic has created major supply chain challenges for publishers, manufacturers, warehousing facilities and shipping companies. Please allow for a minimum of 15 business days to receive your order. If you need your order sooner, consider purchasing from one of our retail partner links in the buying options. Thank you! About the Book About the Author Reviews Table of Contents Related Books Skip To About the Book About the Author Reviews Table of Contents Related Books About the Book In this compelling study of machismo in Mexico City, Matthew Gutmann overturns many stereotypes of male culture in Mexico and offers a sensitive and often surprising look at how Mexican men see themselves, parent their children, relate to women, and talk about sex. This tenth anniversary edition features a new preface that updates the stories of the book's key protagonists. About the Author Matthew Gutmann is Professor of Anthropology, Ethnic Studies, and Latin American Studies at Brown University and is the author of The Meanings of Macho: Being a Man in Mexico City (Tenth Anniversary edition, 2006) and The Romance of Democracy: Compliant Defiance in Contemporary Mexico (2002), both from UC Press. Reviews “In what may be the most fitting tribute to Gutmann’s ability to study human beings rather than subjects, the preface to the new edition mostly consists of epilogues on what has happened to the main characters rather than updated ethnographic data. This is a book about people.”—The Herald MexicoPraise for the first edition: "Gutmann has done the hithertofore seemingly unthinkable. [A] wholly other vision of Mexican gender relations emerges."—José Limón, American Anthropologist "This book does for the study of men what two generations of feminist anthropologists have done for the study of women."—Lynn Stephen, author of Zapotec Women Table of Contents Acknowledgments Preface to the Tenth Anniversary Edition Maps Introduction: Gender Conventions I. Real Mexican Machos Are Born to Die 2. The Invasion of Santo Domingo 3. Imaginary Fathers, Genuine Fathers 4. Motherly Presumptions and Presumptuous Mothers 5. Men's Sex 6. Diapers and Dishes, Words and Deeds 7. Degendering Alcohol 8. Fear and Loathing in Male Violence 9. Machismo IO. Creative Contradictions Notes Glossary Bibliography Index Related Books Global Latin America Matthew C. Gutmann, Jeffrey Lesser Fixing Men Matthew C. Gutmann The Romance of Democracy Matthew C. Gutmann Provocations Susan Bordo, M. Cristina Alcalde, Ellen Rosenman Bananas, Beaches and Bases Cynthia Enloe On Becoming a Teen Mom Mary Patrice Erdmans, Timothy Black Reproductive Justice Loretta Ross, Rickie Solinger Other, Please Specify D'Lane R. Compton, Tey Meadow, Kristen Schilt Motherload Ana Villalobos Gender in the Twenty-First Century Shannon N. Davis, Sarah Winslow, David J. Maume Stay Informed Sign up for eNews. Visit the UC Press Blog Disciplines Ancient World Anthropology Art Communication Criminology & Criminal Justice Film & Media Studies Food & Wine History Music Psychology Religion Sociology Browse All Disciplines Courses Browse All Courses Products Books Journals Resources Book Authors Booksellers Instructors Journal Authors & Editors Librarians Media & Journalists Support Us Endowments Membership Planned Giving Supporters About UC Press Careers Location Press Releases Seasonal Catalog Contact Us Acquisitions Editors Customer Service Exam/Desk Requests Media Inquiries Print-Disability Rights & Permissions Royalties UC Press Foundation © Copyright 2022 by the Regents of the University of California. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy