Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Our Organization About Columbia Health Who We Serve Who We Serve Columbia Health serves the University community by providing a range of programs and services for students, and by providing support for affiliate institutions, Columbia University Medical Center, and the K-8 School. Sexual Violence Response Services provided by the Sexual Violence Response program are available to all Columbia students, including students at Barnard College, Union Theological Seminary, Jewish Theological Seminary, and Teachers College. Sexual Violence Response can also provide referrals for affiliate students to on-campus, community-based, or national support services. All students are encouraged to volunteer with our programs. See the peer education application and peer advocacy application. Who Can Use Columbia Health Expand all Collapse all Barnard College Students During the academic year, Barnard students receive services through Barnard College Student Health Service. Counseling services are provided by the Rosemary Furman Counseling Center, and disability services are provided by the Barnard Office of Disability Services. During the summer, Barnard students may receive care for acute medical conditions at Columbia Health Medical Services. A fee is assessed and payable at the time of service, and is subsequently reimbursed to the student through the Barnard College medical insurance plan. The Columbia Barnard Rape Crisis/Anti-Violence Support Center is a joint program of Barnard College and Columbia University and is located in the Barnard Quad (105 Hewitt Hall). Teachers College Students Once enrolled, Teachers College students receive services through Columbia Health. Full-time students are automatically enrolled in Columbia Health and in the Gold level of the Columbia Student Health Insurance Plan. Students may request enrollment in the Platinum level of the Columbia Plan, or request a waiver of automatic enrollment if documentation of comparable insurance coverage is provided. Part-time students can elect enrollment in Columbia Health and in the Columbia Student Health Insurance Plan. Enrollment is coordinated by Teachers College Office of Insurance and Immunization Records. Once enrolled in Columbia Health, Teachers College students receive the same services provided for other Columbia students, with the exception of disability services. At Teachers College, these services are provided through the Office of Access and Services for Individuals With Disabilities. Teachers College students provide documentation of their compliance with immunization requirements to the Office of Insurance and Immunization Records at the college. Jewish Theological Seminary Students Jewish Theological Seminary students receive services provided by Columbia Health after enrollment. Full-time students are automatically enrolled in Columbia Health, and in the Gold level of the Columbia Student Health Insurance Plan. Seminary students may upgrade to the Platinum level of the Columbia Plan or request a waiver of automatic enrollment if documentation of comparable insurance coverage is provided. Part-time students can elect enrollment in Columbia Health and in the Columbia Student Health Insurance Plan. Enrollment is coordinated by the Jewish Theological Seminary Office of Human Resources. Once enrolled in Columbia Health, students receive the same services provided for Columbia students, with the exception of assistance provided through Disability Services. At JTS, these services are provided through the dean's offices in the individual schools. The JTS Student Counseling Center, under the auspices of the Office of Student Life, is committed to the delivery of psycho-social counseling services to students. Seminary students also have access to Counseling and Psychological Services at Columbia Health. Jewish Theological Seminary students provide documentation of their compliance with immunization requirements to the JTS Office of the Registrar. Union Theological Seminary Students Union Theological Seminary students receive services provided by Columbia Health once enrolled. Full-time students are automatically enrolled in Columbia Health, and in the Gold level of the Columbia Student Health Insurance Plan. Union students may upgrade to the Platinum level of the Columbia Plan or request a waiver of automatic enrollment if documentation of comparable insurance coverage is provided. Part-time students can elect enrollment in Columbia Health and in the Columbia Student Health Insurance Plan. Enrollment is coordinated by the Union Theological Seminary Office of Student Life. Once enrolled in the Columbia Health program, UTS students receive the same services provided for Columbia students, with the exception of disability services. At the seminary, these services are provided through the Office of Student Life. Students provide documentation of their compliance with immunization requirements to the seminary’s Office of Student Life in Room 108 of the administrative building. Columbia University Medical Center Students at Columbia University Medical Center may utilize medical services at the Medical Center Student Health Service and are eligible to enroll in the Columbia Student Health Insurance Plan. Two Columbia Health resources are available to Medical Center students, Disability Services and Sexual Violence Response. Disability Services facilitates equal access for students with disabilities by coordinating accommodations and support services, cultivating a campus culture that is sensitive and responsive to the needs of students. Sexual Violence Response has a location at the Medical Center campus. Drop-in hours and phone consultations are available at designated times. Sexual Violence Response works with the Center for Student Wellness to provide educational and skill-building workshops on the Medical Center campus. Students are encouraged to volunteer with our programs. Sexual Violence Response can also provide referrals for Medical Center students to on-campus, community-based, and national support services. Study Abroad Students Students participating in study abroad programs who are enrolled in the Columbia Health program may wish to review the CU on the Road Travel Medicine program at Medical Services to obtain advice about a health problem before traveling abroad. They should be aware that enrollment in the Columbia Student Health Insurance Plan will also provide students will On Call International insurance coverage. In addition, they should meet with their Columbia Health primary care physician before leaving if they need to discuss a chronic illness and prescription medication. International Students We know you may have questions about how to handle health concerns here, and it can be challenging to understand the way health care is provided in the United States. As a first step, it is important to talk with a student affairs adviser at your school or an advisor at the International Students and Scholars Office to discuss your eligibility for enrollment in Columbia Health and the Columbia Student Health Insurance Plan. Certain requirements or restrictions may apply depending on the visa-type you have and your designated status at Columbia (self-funded student, funded student, exchange student, visiting scholar, etc.). If you are enrolled in Columbia Health, you may make an appointment to see a provider in Medical Services or a clinician at Counseling and Psychological Services. Clinicians and other professional staff members can provide advice and help with many kinds of health issues, both serious and routine. We are happy to answer questions by phone or to meet with you to talk about more complex issues. Remember that we follow professional standards for protecting the confidentiality of students’ health information. Other sections of this website provide important information about the on-campus services provided through the Columbia Health program and the Columbia Student Health Insurance Plan. We encourage you to become familiar with the health resources available to you both on-and off-campus. The K-8 School The School at Columbia supports a dynamic and nurturing community of learners in grades K-8. Columbia Health advises The School at Columbia on community-wide public health issues, but it cannot provide direct medical care or counseling services for students except in emergencies. Need help with weekend or late night distress? Check out our Coping Tools page for various digital services, mobile apps, and online resources outside our regular hours of operation. Our limited podcast series, Invisible and On Stage, provides an open conversation around racism-related stress, identity, and community, and the way they impact mental health. Listen now! The entire Columbia Health team, photographed in Lerner Hall. Click the image to see a larger version. Columbia Health Alice! Health Promotion Disability Services Counseling and Psychological Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Immunization Compliance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response All Columbia Health offices are closed on University Holidays. Annual Report Columbia Health Annual Report Stay Connected Receive important news and event info from Columbia Health Columbia Health Events Join us for workshops, panel discussions, skill-building opportunities, and other events! Accessibility Accommodations Columbia Health makes every effort to accommodate individuals with disabilities. If you require disability accommodations to attend an event sponsored by Columbia Health, or by the University, contact Disability Services at 212-854-2388 at least 10 days in advance of the event. 212-854-2284 [email protected] Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close