Skip to Main Content Brown University Global Brown International Students and Scholars Secondary Navigation Navigation About Search Menu Site Navigation Home International Students Planning for Brown Arriving at Brown Currently at Brown International Scholars Before You Arrive Once You Arrive J-1 Scholars J-1 Student Interns H-1B Scholars O-1 Scholars NAFTA TN Scholars B-1/Visa Waiver for Business Working and Living Moving to Providence Health and Safety Social Security Driver's License or State I.D. Taxes Banking and Finance Legal and Immigration Resources Resources for Dependents Food, Shopping and Recreation Transportation and Hotels Traveling What to Bring When Traveling Important Travel Updates I-94 Record Travel Outside the U.S. Travel Within the U.S. Announcements Search Global Brown International Students and Scholars Traveling Sub Navigation In This Section What to Bring When Traveling Important Travel Updates I-94 Record Travel Outside the U.S. Travel Within the U.S. Traveling Know what required documents to carry with you when traveling as an international Brown student or scholar outside the U.S. with plans to return and resume J-1 or F-1 status. Advice for special circumstances. What to Bring When Traveling Know what required documents to carry with you when traveling as an international Brown student or scholar outside the U.S. with plans to return and resume J-1 or F-1 status. Important Travel Updates Important travel updates are linked for reference. I-94 Arrival and Departure Record The I-94 is the Arrival / Departure Record, in either paper or electronic format, issued by a Customs and Border Protection (CBP) Officer to foreign visitors entering the United States. Travel Within the United States OISSS strongly recommends that students and scholars carry a valid passport, I-94 printout or card, a properly endorsed I-20 or DS-2019 (F-1 or J-1)/I-797 approval notice (H-1b or O-1) and proof of current student enrollment or continuation of scholar appointment when traveling away from the Providence/Boston area. Travel Outside the United States Confirm visa requirements with the embassies or consulates of other countries and territories before you travel there from the U.S. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home International Students Planning for Brown Arriving at Brown Currently at Brown International Scholars Before You Arrive Once You Arrive J-1 Scholars J-1 Student Interns H-1B Scholars O-1 Scholars NAFTA TN Scholars B-1/Visa Waiver for Business Working and Living Moving to Providence Health and Safety Social Security Driver's License or State I.D. Taxes Banking and Finance Legal and Immigration Resources Resources for Dependents Food, Shopping and Recreation Transportation and Hotels Traveling What to Bring When Traveling Important Travel Updates I-94 Record Travel Outside the U.S. Travel Within the U.S. Announcements Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Traveling Open details for Traveling Bookmark this Page