Skip to content Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information and Resources Penn Home Calendar Directory Maps Offices & Services A-Z Webmail Search for: Search Menu About Charter and Mission Leadership Organization Charts Audit Audit 101 Operational Audit IT Audit Construction Audit Tools & Resources About Compliance About Compliance Resources Other Compliance Contacts Penn Privacy Protecting Penn Data Protecting Your Own Data Policies & Guidance Tips & Training Contact Us Office of Privacy Protecting Penn Data You can find almost any type of personal data somewhere on campus. This is because at Penn, we work with personal data about students, faculty, staff, alumni, parents, visitors, patrons, patients, research subjects and so many others to provide premier education, cutting edge research, service locally and globally and more. To serve our community and to serve Penn, it is critical that we properly use and protect that personal information. Eliminating Unnecessary Data Too often we read about data breaches that were avoidable because the data stolen was being kept by an institution unnecessarily. So, securely delete confidential information that is no longer needed for teaching, research, service, operations or any other Penn-related function. Before securely deleting information, make sure that this is permissible according to Penn Guidance. Use Identity Finder Software to locate Social Security numbers, credit card data and other sensitive data you may not know you have. Don’t just put sensitive data in the electronic “trash,” make sure to use effective, Electronic File Deletion Tools and Shred Paper Records with unnecessary confidential information. When, Disposing of Computers and other devices, make sure to securely wipe them of existing data. Finally, for you and your organization, Host a Records Cleanup Day. Appropriate Use of Penn Data Make sure you are using Penn Data in keeping with community expectations and law and policy. See Penn resources on protecting student privacy under FERPA, health records under FERPA, HIPAA, Social Security Numbers, and Credit Card Data. Strong Security Protections Protecting the security of information is a critical part of protecting the privacy of that information. Penn’s Office of Information Security (OIS) makes it easy with its Top 10-Security Tips for faculty, staff and students. Also check out OIS’s education on high risk areas Combating Malware and Phishing. Finally, make sure to use Penn’s Secure Share service to send confidential information and Secure Space to store it. Transparency One very important best practice in privacy is to be transparent regarding what information is collected, for what purposes it is used and shared, how it is protected and what control if any individuals have. See Penn’s Guidance on Website Privacy Policies and Penn’s FERPA Notice for example. Assessing and Remediating Risk in IT Systems Take advantage of the Penn-developed highly-recognized Security and Privacy Impact Assessment (SPIA) program — a transformative initiative — to reach a far deeper and more effective level of data protection in Penn systems and databases. Evaluating Third Parties Google Docs, Survey Monkey, Dropbox, Basecamp — These and countless other hosted services empower individuals to get more done, faster. But, putting Penn data in the hands of a third party also creates risks of, for example, data loss, service outages, foreign government access, inadequate technical support, non-compliance. Know the Risks Review Penn’s Guidance – Cloud Computing: Opportunities Used Safely. Use Due Diligence in Selecting Vendors Consult the Penn Data Risk Classification, including the V-STAR Assessment, and “vet” the third party and the agreement appropriately based on the sensitivity of the data. Asking Questions and Reporting Incidents There are many resources at Penn to help answer questions and concerns related to privacy. You may contact the Privacy Office at privacy@upenn.edu. You may also contact Penn’s Reporting and Help Line at 215-PComply (215-726-6759) or www.upenn.edu/215pcomply. Information security incidents should be reported to security@isc.upenn.edu. Protecting Penn Data Eliminating Unnecessary Data Identity Finder Software Shredding Paper Records Disposing of Computers Host a Records Cleanup Day Appropriate Use of Penn Data FERPA HIPAA Social Security Numbers Credit Cards Strong Security Protections Transparency Assessing and Remediating Risk in IT Systems Evaluating Third Parties Asking Questions and Reporting Incidents Protecting Your Own Data Sharing Academic and Financial Information PennCard Access Code Online Directory Alumni Directory Identity Theft National Do Not Call List Pre-Approved Credit Card Offers Policies & Guidance Tips & Training Hot Topics Privacy Resources Entity Privacy Officer Resources Privacy Officers Principles of Responsible Conduct We urge you to read these Principles closely and familiarize yourself with both the expectations and the resources provided. 215-P-Comply If you have questions or concerns about possible violations of policies or legal requirements, contact Penn's Reporting and Help Line at 215-P-Comply (215-726-6759) or www.upenn.edu/215pcomply. University Policies General, Student and Academic Life, Research and Sponsored Programs, International, and Administrative About Charter and Mission Leadership Organization Charts Audit Audit 101 Operational Audit IT Audit Construction Audit Tools & Resources About Compliance About Compliance Resources Other Compliance Contacts Penn Privacy Protecting Penn Data Protecting Your Own Data Policies & Guidance Tips & Training Contact Us ©2020 University of Pennsylvania OACP Only Copyright Disclaimer Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Translate English English Afrikaans Shqip አማርኛ العربية Հայերեն Azərbaycan dili Euskara Беларуская мова বাংলা Bosanski Български Català Cebuano Chichewa 简体中文 繁體中文 Corsu Hrvatski Čeština‎ Dansk Nederlands Esperanto Eesti Filipino Suomi Français Frysk Galego ქართული Deutsch Ελληνικά ગુજરાતી Kreyol ayisyen Harshen Hausa Ōlelo Hawaiʻi עִבְרִית हिन्दी Hmong Magyar Íslenska Igbo Bahasa Indonesia Gaelige Italiano 日本語 Basa Jawa ಕನ್ನಡ Қазақ тілі ភាសាខ្មែរ 한국어 كوردی‎ Кыргызча ພາສາລາວ Latin Latviešu valoda Lietuvių kalba Lëtzebuergesch Македонски јазик Malagasy Bahasa Melayu മലയാളം Maltese Te Reo Māori मराठी Монгол ဗမာစာ नेपाली Norsk bokmål پښتو فارسی Polski Português ਪੰਜਾਬੀ Română Русский Samoan Gàidhlig Српски језик Sesotho Shona سنڌي සිංහල Slovenčina Slovenščina Afsoomaali Español Basa Sunda Kiswahili Svenska Тоҷикӣ தமிழ் తెలుగు ไทย Türkçe Українська اردو O‘zbekcha Tiếng Việt Cymraeg isiXhosa יידיש Yorùbá Zulu