Skip to main content Skip to main content Give Give Schedule a Visit Lyle Visit SMU Tour Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content MADI Apply Curriculum People People Jessica Burnham Justin Childress Rickey Crum Christina Donaldson Seth Orsborn Caroline Harms Harrison Tassopoulos Kenedy Kundysek Projects Partnerships Partnerships Designer-in-Residence Program SMU Design Council MADI Events ☰ M.A. in Design and Innovation supported by the Lyle School of Engineering and the Meadows School of the Arts M.A. in Design and Innovation supported by the Lyle School of Engineering and the Meadows School of the Arts M.A. in Design and Innovation supported by the Lyle School of Engineering and the Meadows School of the Arts M.A. in Design and Innovation supported by the Lyle School of Engineering and the Meadows School of the Arts M.A. in Design and Innovation supported by the Lyle School of Engineering and the Meadows School of the Arts Previous Next pause play hide show A Graduate Degree in Human-Centered Design What We Are MADI is a two-year, full-time graduate program in Human-Centered Design that teaches the value of the design process in any field, enables the practicing of empathy with and for clients, and explores ambiguity to find meaningful solutions rooted in evidence. MADI is a non-traditional program that attracts students from all walks of life. What We Do We research through design and design through research. Our goal is to provide active and engaged learning environ-ments that encourage students to learn by doing and foster a bias to action. Our curriculum is primarily focused on rigorous projects and group work. Every semester, students work with new, real-world clients in both the private and public sectors to gain first-hand experience. Who We Are MADI is a mix of design professionals and novices who want to grow skill-sets in order to foster a new mindset toward innovation. A degree or background in design is not required for admission. However, a desire to learn design and its ability to effect change is a prerequisite. Why We Do It We believe that a design approach can be used in any field. By applying a mastery of the Human-Centered Design process, supported by various professional and educational experiences, we further the field of design in new and unexpected ways that are established through evidence. In Person Open House: May 20th! For more information and to register to attend, please click here. Apply Curriculum Stay Connected Core Values Bias to Action We train students in the Human-Centered Design process and then quickly move to applying this new knowledge in exercises and projects. Students quickly jump into action to practice new methods, immerse themselves in field research, and quickly build and test prototypes in order to further develop their designs. Designed Rooted in Research We believe that the most equitable, sustainable, and viable design is rooted in research. We use and teach qualitative research methods in order to understand the problem we're designing for and to accurately account for the audience we're designing with. Multidisciplinary Collaboration True innovation can be achieved through pushing boundaries and surfacing assumptions. We do this through our intentional effort to bring together multidisciplinary student groups that work on projects that are not always in a familiar field. Intentional Industry Partners We strive to be an academic program with open doors to professional practice and a space where our professional partners are fully welcome in our academic spaces. Students work on real-life projects from the beginning of the program as well as opportunities for other projects as they become available. Problem Definition Recognizing the importance of asking the right questions is no easy task. We train our students in seeing that the best solution is determined by having the best questions. Developing Design Craft Human-Centered Design incorporates several different design crafts and relies heavily on clearly and cleverly communicating our design stories. We approach all phases of the design process with great attention to detail and execution. Everything from low-fidelity prototypes to refined reports, craft is everything! Iterative Prototyping The first design idea is never the only option. We work to answer questions through building, testing, and learning from every prototype. Our assumptions are put to the test and lead to continuous improvement through these iterative steps. The MADI Book Hello and welcome to the Master of Arts in Design and Innovation (MADI) five-year book: The MADI Book! We have taken great care to truly design a graduate program like no other, and in the same way we expect our students to be great storytellers, we are excited to share our own story as well. Read More Get in touch: Hours: Mon - Fri, 8:30 am - 5:00 pm Phone Number: 214-768-1386 Email: madi@smu.edu Mailing Address: P.O. Box 750356 Dallas, TX 75275 School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube search-plus