Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of the Arts Main Navigation About Us Show Extended Contact Dean's Message Facilities Visitor Information Students Show Extended Advising (Current Students) Advising and Registration (New Students) Assistant Dean for Student Affairs First Generation College Students Get Involved! Scholarships Student Success Center University Catalogue (2022-2023) Events & Visitor Information Show Extended PERFORMANCES & EXHIBITIONS College of the Arts Events & Activities Calendar Grand Central Art Center Exhibitions Digital Program Booklets BOX OFFICE & VISITOR INFORMATION Clayes Performing Arts Center Box Office Visitor Information Alumni Spotlights & Arts Titans in the News Show Extended Alumni: Share Your Story! Featured Alumni Titan of Tassel Titan of Winds Arts Titans in the News Art Dance Music Theatre Nicholas & Lee Begovich Gallery Grand Central Art Center Support Groups Show Extended Art Alliance Alliance for the Performing Arts/MAMM Music Associates Donate Now Purchase Tickets Get Connected College of the Arts Student Advising Our students' academic success is our priority, which is why mandatory advising is part of our college practice each semester. The information below is for current students, not for prospective or newly admitted students. Quick Questions: If you have a question not related to major advising, email the Student Success Center at cotassc@fullerton.edu and staff can help answer general questions and/or identify the right individual or office that can assist you. Advising Holds (C01): If you have a department advising hold on your student portal, this means that you must satisfy your major advising requirement before you can register for classes. Holds will be removed within 3-5 business days after completing the advising requirement. Graduation Candidates: If you have a concern regarding your Titan Degree Audit (TDA) or to verify that the graduation term you have applied for is correct, please schedule an appointment with the Graduation Specialist after registering for the courses for your graduation term. Approval of your intended graduation term is based on the verification that you are enrolled in all remaining course requirements. For more information about graduation requirements, visit the Office of Registration and Records . Major Advising Faculty advisors help students plan and select a class schedule and answer questions specific to major requirements. Connecting with your faculty advisor is important to your success, so plan to meet with your advisor once per semester. Click on your major below to schedule an appointment with a faculty advisor or complete your advising requirement. Dance Music Theatre Visual Arts Specialized Advising Graduation Advising: The Graduation Specialist provides advising to juniors (60-89 units) and seniors (90+ units). Meet with the Graduation Specialist if you have questions about graduation requirements, need help to determine when to apply for graduation or the graduation term you applied for is no longer the appropriate term based on your remaining requirements. The Graduation Specialist does not provide major advising. Academic Success Advising: The Retention Specialist provides advising to students on academic notice and provides all students with the necessary tools and resources to succeed academically. Meet with the Retention Specialist if you need help navigating the registration system or need information on University/College academic policies (stop-out, petitions, withdrawals, change of grade, etc.). The Retention Specialist does not provide major advising. Student Success Advising: The Student Success Center supports students experiencing complex/sensitive issues or concerns related to their college experience. Meet with the Center if you need help getting connected to campus resources or student support services. Contact the Student Success Center. General Education Advising The Academic Advisement Center provides academic advising to current students related to General Education (GE) requirements and the policies/procedures associated with GEs. Visit the Academic Advisement Center to schedule an appointment. Career Advising The COTA Career Specialist provides career advising. Students seeking help and resources for finding jobs and internships, creating resumes, writing cover letters, interview preparation, graduate school planning may schedule an in-person or virtual appointment through the Career Center’s Titan Connection . Virtual Drop-In Hours are also available Wednesdays, 9:00 am-11:30 am via Zoom . How do I schedule an appointment in TitanNet? You can book a virtual or in-person advising appointment through your portal or the Navigate Student app. View the instructions on how to download the Navigate Student app and how to schedule your appointment. This site is maintained by College of the Arts. Last Published 5/13/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact jbussell@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.