Skip to main content Skip to main content my.SMU News & Events Library Master Calendar Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Contact Us Contact Us Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Google+ Follow Us Twitter Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us Tumblr Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Social SMU Facebook SMU Google Plus SMU Twitter SMU LinkedIn SMU Tumblr SMU YouTube SMU Instagram Skip to main content Law About About Dean's Welcome Diversity and Inclusion Fast Facts Living & Studying in Dallas Why SMU Dedman Law? Academics Academics Academic Advising Academic Calendar Registrar's Office Academic Success Program (ASP) Bar Exam Resources Course Schedules and Registration Information Degree Programs Experiential Learning Externship Programs Forms Law Journals Planning Your Academic Program Study Abroad in Oxford Admissions Admissions Costs and Financial Aid FAQs J.D. Programs Graduate Programs How to Apply Meet Our Students Visiting SMU Virtual Tour of SMU Contact Admissions Alumni & Giving Alumni & Giving 2022 Alumni Happy Hours 2022 Reunion Weekend Alumni Chapters Career Services Class Notes Community Fellows Contact Alumni Relations Distinguished Alumni Awards Emerging Leader Board Executive Board Get Involved Law Firm Challenge Publications Update Alumni Information Career Services Career Services Students Employers Alumni Employment Statistics Career Services Team Contact Office of Career Services Reciprocity Centers & Initiatives Centers & Initiatives Jennifer M. Collins Women's Leadership Initiative Judge Elmo B. Hunter Legal Center For Victims of Crimes Against Women Robert B. Rowling Center for Business Law & Leadership Tsai Center for Law, Science and Innovation W. W. Caruth, Jr. Institute for Children's Rights Deason Criminal Justice Reform Center Clinics Clinics W.W. Caruth, Jr. Child Advocacy Clinic Civil/Consumer Clinic COVID-19 Legal Helpline Criminal Clinic Family Immigration Detention Clinic Federal Tax Clinic First Amendment Clinic Judge Elmo B. Hunter Legal Center for Victims of Crimes Against Women Innocence Clinic Patent Law Clinic Small Business and Trademark Clinic VanSickle Family Law Clinic Faculty Faculty Conferences, Symposia & Lecture Series Faculty Expertise Faculty in the News Faculty Profiles Research Public Service Public Service Completing Your Public Service Graduation Requirement Pre-Approved Placements Forms FAQs Planning a Public Service Career Internships & Fellowships Public Advocate Day Contact Public Service Program Staff Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) - Overview for law students only Students Students Office of Student Affairs Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Financial Frequently Used Resources Graduation Information Inns of Court Program Mustang Exchange Scholarships and Writing Competitions Student Code of Professional Responsibility Student Organizations ☰ Law Academics Experiential Learning Experiential Learning Go beyond the classroom. Legal education at the SMU Dedman Law goes beyond the classroom and gives students opportunities to gain real-world experience through our legal clinics, academic externships, internship programs, and moot court and mock trial competitions. Through rigorous and engaging practical courses, students learn inside and outside the classroom in ways that help them succeed in law school, in the job market, and in their careers. Clinics The Program encompasses ten specialized clinics where, under the supervision of clinic directors, our students serve as advocates on behalf of the community in many areas of the law. Dedman Law’s clinical education program is central to our mission of providing outstanding legal education and public service, along with developing professional responsibility. Learn more. Externships SMU’s Externship Program provides students with the opportunity to gain practical experience by working in legal settings under the supervision of a mentor-attorney and a member of the law faculty. With three distinct programs, nearly 200 students each year are able to participate in our Corporate Counsel, Federal Judicial, and Government & Public Interest Externships, allowing students to gain legal work experiences in non-profits, courtrooms, local and federal government agencies, and corporate counsel offices. Learn more. Moot Court Practical experience in written and oral advocacy through a variety of competitions throughout the school year. Learn more. Public Service We have a robust public service graduation requirement that encourages hands-on learning and professional development by giving students the opportunity to build their skills while helping to meet the desperate need for free legal services in our community. With relationships with over 90 different public interest organizations in the metroplex for students have ample opportunity to coordinate their pro bono service around their personal interests. Learn more. Simulated Learning Our simulation courses, such as trial advocacy, contract drafting, real estate practice, small business representation, patent prosecution, and patent litigation, provide opportunities to hone students’ litigation and transactional skills. Learn more. Experiential Learning Clinics Moot Court Public Service Simulation Courses Apply Request info Library Business Office Get Help Now News Media Emergency / Safety Admissions Office / FAQs Department Directory Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © SMU Dedman School of Law 3315 Daniel Avenue, Dallas, TX 75205 facebook google twitter linkedin tumblr youtube instagram