Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions Research Associates Who We Are What We Do Pre-Doctoral RAs Benefits & Compensation Apply …→ Harvard Business School→ Research Associates→ As a Research Associate (RA) you'll have the unmatched opportunity to work closely with world-renowned faculty on the research, case studies, and coursework that shape the world’s leaders. On any given day, you might analyze data; delve into the resources of our world-class library; or write the story that brings a business situation to life. You may travel across town— or around the world— to conduct field interviews with senior-level executives or spend time on the factory floor. Investigation, discovery, and analysis make for a rich and rewarding experience that supports the HBS mission to educate leaders who make a difference in the world. Apply Now Who We Are Video Embed As a Research Associate, you’ll find yourself meeting people and exploring issues and topics that open up new worlds, both professionally and personally. Research Associates have the time and resources to dig deep into research, with the guidance of faculty who are thought leaders in fields ranging from entrepreneurship to finance to organizational behavior. What We Do Video Embed As a Research Associate at HBS you'll have the unmatched opportunity to work closely with world-renowned faculty on the research, case studies, and coursework that shape the world's leaders. Pre-Doctoral Research 13 Dec 2018 Harvard Business School Pre-Doctoral RAs As a Research Associate, you'll find yourself meeting people and exploring issues and topics that open up new worlds, both professionally and personally. Benefits & Compensation RAs enjoy an extremely competitive salary for the field, substantial benefits package, and other benefits. HBS is home to a community of enthusiastic, motivated individuals who believe in what they do. Why Become a Research Associate? “This is a job for people who like to go after detail, who like to go after specifics, who like to think and research broadly but then be able to extract very specific, very clear recommendations, information, trends out of very broad, diverse literature.” Manjari Raman “This is a job for people who like to go after detail, who like to go after specifics, who like to think and research broadly but then be able to extract very specific, very clear recommendations, information, trends out of very broad, diverse literature.” Manjari Raman There is no typical Research Associate “A broad range of people make up the RA community. Some of us are just out of college, but there are also people who have law degrees, some who have Ph.D.s, and others who have taught in the past or worked in consulting. It’s a very interesting, diverse group.” Nicole Bennett “A broad range of people make up the RA community. Some of us are just out of college, but there are also people who have law degrees, some who have Ph.D.s, and others who have taught in the past or worked in consulting. It’s a very interesting, diverse group.” Nicole Bennett ǁ Research Staff Services Harvard Business School Baker Library Bloomberg Center Suite 80 Boston, MA 02163 Phone: 1.617.495.6932 Email: rss@hbs.edu →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College