Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Vice Provost for Undergraduate Education Menu Baylor>Vice Provost for Undergraduate Education>Resources for Faculty >FAQs - Curriculum Changes FAQs - Curriculum Changes Frequently Asked Question Curriculum Changes I have developed this page in response to frequently asked questions regarding curriculum changes at Baylor. Please send me an email if your question is not answered here. Who can propose a new undergraduate course and what is the process for doing so? Any faculty member can propose a new course. The first step is a discussion between the faculty member and the appropriate department chair. Following feedback at the department-chair level, faculty then must use the Electronic Course Action System to submit the course and have it reviewed by the appropriate curriculum committees. Once a new course has been approved by a department chair, it then moves to the departmental-level curriculum committee (not all departments have such a committee). If approved by the department curriculum committee, that course is then reviewed by the appropriate school or college-level curriculum committee. If the course is approved by the appropriate school/college level curriculum committee, it is then reviewed by the University Undergraduate Curriculum Committee (graduate course proposals are reviewed by the Graduate Curriculum Committee at this point). If approved there, the course is then reviewed by the vice provost for undergraduate education. Following approval at the provost office level, the course is entered into the university’s academic records system and can be offered during the next most appropriate semester. How does the university determine how many credit hours are offered with each course? The question of how much academic credit should be offered for each proposed new course (or a change to an existing course) is a topic that is discussed at each level of curriculum review. Such reviews occur at the department level, the school/college level, and at the university-wide level within the University Undergraduate Curriculum Committee. To make such determinations, individual faculty members and curriculum committees should consider the following factors: 1) the subject matter covered in the course, 2) the number (and nature) of required assignments, 3) the number of contact hours each week, 4) the amount and level of work required, and 5) the structure/content of similar courses currently being offered within the department and throughout the University. Who can propose a new degree, major, program, or concentration? Any faculty member can work with his or her department chair to propose a new major, minor, concentration, or degree. The most successful proposals have strong support at the department and dean’s office level. Establishing support across disciplinary and school/college boundaries is beneficial. Does Baylor have a standard proposal format for a new major, degree, program, or concentration? Baylor does not have a standard format for proposing a new major, minor, concentration, or degree. However, proposals must follow the Guidelines for Submitting New Majors and Minors document found at this link: Guidelines for Submitting New Majors & Minors Which curriculum proposals must be approved at what level? Any new major, minor, or concentration requires approval by the dean, provost, and president. New degrees require approval by the Regents (allow 6-8 weeks lead time before a Regent meeting to get on the agenda). Careful consideration of the Curriculum Change Request (CCRs) found at this link will answer many additional questions related to who must approve what curriculum proposals. Vice Provost for Undergraduate Education Resources for Faculty Curriculum Management Curriculum Documents University Undergraduate Curriculum Committee General Education Assessment Committee Academic Appeals Committee FAQs - Curriculum Changes Resources for Students Message for New Students Baylor in Four: Partnering with Us New Student Experience Undergraduate Research Opportunities Student Achievement Awards General Education Outcomes Academic Appeals Policy and Procedure General Information Articulation Agreements Internship Form Contact Information Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Resources for Faculty Curriculum Management Curriculum Documents University Undergraduate Curriculum Committee General Education Assessment Committee Academic Appeals Committee FAQs - Curriculum Changes Resources for Students Message for New Students Baylor in Four: Partnering with Us New Student Experience Undergraduate Research Opportunities Student Achievement Awards General Education Outcomes Academic Appeals Policy and Procedure General Information Articulation Agreements Internship Form Contact Information