Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. International Services International Services right arrow down arrow Admissions and Arrival right arrow down arrow Cost and Finances Apply to UC right arrow down arrow Transfer to UC Exchange and Visiting Student Programs DACA Students Next Steps to Enroll Orientation & Check-in Visas and Immigration right arrow down arrow Students right arrow down arrow F-1 Students J-1 Students Faculty, Staff and Interns right arrow down arrow J-1 Scholars J-1 Interns H-1B Workers E-3 Status O-1 Status TN Status Permanent Residency Dependents Change Your Status Government Updates Visa Fees Life at UC right arrow down arrow Student Experiences Essential Resources right arrow down arrow Housing and Dining Transportation Finances Healthcare and Insurance Law and Safety Academics Student Employment right arrow down arrow On Campus Off Campus OPT (F-1 Students) right arrow down arrow OPT Seminar CPT (F-1 Students) Fellowships and Assistantships (J-1) Academic Training (J-1) Social Life Hiring, Hosting and Admitting right arrow down arrow Hiring International Workers right arrow down arrow Students Hosting Visitors and Delegations Admitting Students Using iBearcatsGlobal Credential Evaluation Taxes right arrow down arrow How to File right arrow down arrow Non-Resident with US Income Non-Resident with No Income Resident Alien with No Tax Treaty Resident Alien with a Tax Treaty SSN & ITIN right arrow down arrow Social Security Tax Refund Contact Us iBearcatsGlobal Home » About UC » International Services » Admissions and Arrival » Apply to UC Set Navigation title in component Cost and Finances Apply to UC Transfer to UC Exchange and Visiting Student Programs DACA Students Next Steps to Enroll Orientation & Check-in Apply to the University of Cincinnati Here at the University of Cincinnati, you can choose from some of the most highly-ranked programs in the United States, all with opportunities for real-world learning. I'm interested in... undergraduate programs graduate programs transferring to UC coming on an exchange or visiting program Take a virtual tour Search programs Undergraduate Admissions If you are interested in an undergraduate program at the University of Cincinnati, our International Admissions staff is ready to help you. Take a look at our brochure for more information about UC's world-class education. Apply for admission Apply as a DACA student Graduate and Postgraduate Admissions Admissions requirements for UC's graduate and postgraduate programs vary by college and department. The Graduate School, College of Law and College of Medicine websites will help you find out more about admissions requirements, policies, and costs for various degree offerings. Apply to a graduate program Apply to the College of Law Apply to the College of Medicine Transfer Student Admissions Students who have attended a college or university after secondary school are considered transfer students. If you want to transfer to the University of Cincinnati, our advisors are here to help you. Undergraduate transfer student admissions Transfer student instructions Exchange and Visiting Student Programs Students from our exchange partners or other institutions can apply to spend a semester or academic year studying abroad at the University of Cincinnati. Apply for an exchange program UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 international.students@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top