Skip to main content Go to site search Go to primary navigation Go to resources navigation Penn COVID-19 Response » Penn Home Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Site Search Academics More Academics Undergraduate Graduate Schools Global Initiatives Interdisciplinary Online Learning Off-campus Learning Libraries Admissions & Aid Athletics Research & Innovation More Research & Innovation Research Enterprise Research News Life at Penn More Life at Penn Arts & Culture Community Involvement More Community Involvement Penn & Philadelphia Diversity Groups & Organizations Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Safety & Security More Safety & Security Emergency Contacts Emergency Preparedness Spirituality & Religion About More About Introduction to Penn History Facts News, Media, & Communication Services Sustainability FAQ Penn’s Interim President, Wendell Pritchett Trustees & Administration Policies Toggle Site Search Resources Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Visitors A-Z Directory Webmail Services Give to Penn Search Search Close Breadcrumb Home / Services / Student Services Student Services Information about all aspects of student life, from housing, health, and wellness to student organizations and employment. Health & Wellness Academic Resources Communities Health & Wellness Penn is committed to helping students take full advantage of the campus’ dynamic academic and social environment. Toward that end, a wide variety of services and programs have been put in place to collectively create a culture of well-being, equal access, and security in our community. Counseling and Psychological Services CAPS offers confidential free professional mental health care for all Penn students. Available services include individual and group therapy, crisis intervention, structured workshops, psychological testing, medication reviews, and more.CAPS offers confidential free professional mental health care for all Penn students. Available services include individual and group therapy, crisis intervention, structured workshops, psychological testing, medication reviews, and more. Wellness at Penn The Wellness at Penn initiative affirms wellness as a core priority and necessary driver of life on campus. It offers opportunities to reflect and engage on issues of wellness, stress, mental health, resilience, happiness, personal and academic goals, and the meaning of success. And it defines wellness as an ongoing holistic process with multiple dimensions. Division of Public Safety A central source for information about police, fire, and emergency services, security services, including walking escorts, and special victim services. Public safety also manages the University’s extensive electronic security infrastructure. Student Health Service Schedule appointments online and learn about health services available at Penn, including emergency care, insurance, vaccines, and women's health. Penn Violence Prevention PVP provides a variety of confidential, safe resources and comprehensive educational programs to engage Penn community members in the prevention of sexual violence, relationship violence, and stalking on campus. Office of Student Disabilities Services SDS ensures that students with self-identified disabilities have equal access to all University programs, activities, and services. Learn about available accommodations and services and the procedures for requesting them. Academic Resources Penn provides students with numerous ways to access its exceptional intellectual resources. From academic support and immigration assistance to the convenience of managing academic information online, students have all the resources they need to realize their highest academic aspirations here at Penn. University Registrar Register for classes and order transcripts; access information about course offerings, finals, and more. Academic Support Connect with tutors, advisers and mentors, and learn about Penn’s academic services and programs that meet the needs of a widely diverse student population. International Student & Scholar Services ISSS provides comprehensive immigration assistance and serves as a gateway to the many programs, activities, and resources available to international students and scholars. Office of Learning Resources The Weingarten Learning Resources Center offers a variety of services and programs to help members of the Penn community develop skills such as academic reading, writing, study strategies, and time management. Student Conduct The Office of Student Conduct handles alleged instances of academic dishonesty and other student misconduct. Penn InTouch Penn InTouch is the University's student gateway to academic, financial, and profile information. Workday@Penn The cloud-based Workday@Penn gives student workers a single touchpoint that’s simple and transparent for managing time entry. Communities Social, political, artistic, and multicultural groups abound on campus. Whether Students are looking to connect with others who share their interests, meet others from different backgrounds, advance social change, or get involved in Student government, there is a group at Penn that will expand their horizons in new and inspiring ways. African-American Resource Center AARC offers numerous services, programs, information sessions, and workshops that support all members of the Penn community, with a particular focus on those of African descent. Civic House Learn about the many community service and social advocacy opportunities led by Penn students, from weeklong Alternate Spring Break programs to sustained four-year experiences. Family Resource Center A welcoming place where student and post-doc parents can find information, resources, activities, and advocacy, as well as family friendly spaces to read, play, socialize, and relax. Graduate Student Center Located in the heart of campus, the Grad Center hosts a variety of activities for graduate and professional students, including trips, dissertation support workshops, film nights, and more. Greenfield Intercultural Center The Albert M. Greenfield Intercultural Center offers programs, advising, and advocacy to help students across the University enhance their intercultural knowledge, competency, and leadership. La Casa Latina Penn's Center for Hispanic Excellence offers numerous programs and resources that promote a greater awareness of Latino issues, culture, and identity at Penn and beyond. Lesbian Gay Bisexual Transgender Center Serving undergraduate, graduate, and professional students as well as staff, faculty, and alumni, the Center provides education, support, and advocacy as well as peer mentoring, events, and spaces to study, socialize, and politicize for Penn’s LGBT communities. All are welcome. The Black Cultural Center Learn about the academic, cultural, and social support MAKUU provides, as well as the myriad resources and opportunities it makes available to students and student groups at Penn. Pan-Asian American Cultural House PAACH offers advising, leadership development, advocacy, and social and cultural programming that expands Asian-American and Pacific-Islander student access to the University's resources. Penn Student Agencies Apply for jobs or purchase products and services from the numerous student-run agencies on campus. Penn Women's Center The PWC sponsors programs that advance women's personal and professional development and also provides advocacy in matters relating to gender equity and women's health and wellness. Platt Student Performing Arts House Learn about Platt programs and events and discover the opportunities for campus and community engagement that Platt provides. Performing Arts Council The central source for student performing arts at Penn, PAC is made up of more that 45 student-run performance groups. Find out how to join a group or attend one of their performances. Student Activities Council Learn about the branch of student government responsible for funding, supervising, and promoting cooperation among undergraduate organizations. Student Clubs & Organizations A definitive source for information about Penn’s many and diverse registered student organizations. Division of the Vice Provost for University Life VPUL provides diverse academic, personal, and professional development experiences that enhance the abilities of Penn students and other community participants to reach their fullest potential. Tutoring and Academic Support Administration Campus Compact Facilities Visit VPUL Jobs & Financial Resources Career Services Career planning and placement services for students and alumni; resources for campus recruiters. Student Employment Search for work-study and non-work-study jobs on campus, sign up for direct deposit, and access relevant forms and pay schedules. Student Registration & Financial Services Information about financial aid, student account billing, payment options, and loans. Penn Law Career Planning and Professionalism Career planning and placement services for law school students and alumni, including student recruitment opportunities, information about clerkships, and programs for professional skill development. MBA Career Management Resources to help Wharton students explore and refine their career aspirations and to help Wharton alumni navigate and advance their careers. For Graduate Students Graduate Student Center Get involved in Penn’s diverse community of graduate and professional students and take advantage of the intellectual, social, and professional development services the Center provides. Graduate Student Resource Guide Descriptions of the many resources available to graduate and professional students at Penn. Graduate Student Groups Homepages of school-specific and University-wide groups open to graduate and professional students. Residential Services Learn how Residential Services supports Penn residents in their academic endeavors, personal growth, and daily life on campus. Penn Alumni Hundreds of thousands of Penn alumni reside across the globe. The team at Penn Alumni Relations has made it their mission to seek to engage with all the University’s graduates to support lifelong connections to each other and their schools, and to encourage alumni guidance to advance Penn’s eminence for future generations. Penn Libraries Explore Penn’s extensive library collection, research guides and support, special collections, online exhibits, and more. Offices & Services A complete directory of the administrative offices and services that keep the Penn community moving. Human Resources & Employment Questions about benefits, career opportunities, professional development, and more, all answered here. Human Resources Student Services Information about all aspects of student life, from housing, health, and wellness to student organizations and employment. Student Services Residential Services A comprehensive overview of the residential resources and services Penn provides. Residential Services Retail Penn offers a host of convenient retail options on and around campus and online. Look for special discounts for Penn students, faculty, and staff. Retail Transportation & Parking There are numerous convenient and sustainable ways to travel to, from, and around the Penn campus. Transportation & Parking Event Planning Your online resource for planning an event or reserving a space on campus Event Planning Offices & Services Landing Page A complete directory of the administrative offices and services that keep the Penn community moving. Services Philadelphia, PA 19104 Telephone: (215) 898-5000 Contact Us Maps Parking Navigate Alumni Athletics Diversity Health Care Libraries Online Learning Penn Global Penn's Heritage As America’s first university, Penn has a history that dates back to 1740 and shares many ties with the colonial city of Philadelphia and the birth of our nation. Our History Disclaimer Emergency Services Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement Back To Top