Georgetown University Open Search Form Who We Are The Whole Person Our Catholic & Jesuit Heritage Our History Student Stories Faculty Stories Alumni Stories Campus & City Living in DC Opportunities Getting Around Service & Action Campus Life Housing On-Campus Dining Clubs & Organizations Arts & Culture Community & Diversity Student Life Blog Wellness & Safety Sports & Fitness Health Center Safety & Emergency Preparedness Athletics External Link Academic Life Restless Inquiry Our Schools Areas of Study Study Abroad Research Centers and Programs Global Initiatives External Link Library System Admissions & Aid Undergraduate Admissions External Link Graduate Admissions Financial Aid External Link Commitment to Access News Events Giving Alumni Info For Students Faculty Staff/AAP Alumni Parents Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Content Skip to Footer News Events Giving Alumni Info For Students Faculty Staff/AAP Alumni Parents Georgetown University Who We Are The Whole Person Our Catholic & Jesuit Heritage Our History Student Stories Faculty Stories Alumni Stories Campus & City Living in DC Opportunities Getting Around Service & Action Campus Life Housing On-Campus Dining Clubs & Organizations Arts & Culture Community & Diversity Student Life Blog Wellness & Safety Sports & Fitness Health Center Safety & Emergency Preparedness Athletics External Link Academic Life Restless Inquiry Our Schools Areas of Study Study Abroad Research Centers and Programs Global Initiatives External Link Library System Admissions & Aid Undergraduate Admissions External Link Graduate Admissions Financial Aid External Link Commitment to Access Open Search Form Georgetown University Home Who We Are Student Stories Student Stories Meet your future friends, roommates, teammates and collaborators. Our students hail from all over the globe, and their diverse passions and experiences shape our community. The bonds forged through midnight study sessions in Lauinger Library, service trips abroad and the rush of a breakthrough will last a lifetime. A Testimonial “At Georgetown, you will be surrounded by some of the best professors and most driven peers a university can offer. Seize every opportunity that comes your way, reach out to alumni, attend guest speaker series and love every moment.” Bayley’s Story 350+ Student Groups Representing a wide variety of interests 135 Countries Represented by our students 48 States That our U.S. students call home A Testimonial “When I first came to Georgetown and heard about the Jesuit traditions, I didn’t realize how important this is — to understand and care for the whole person. It is a message that transcends any barrier.” Camille’s Story Student Voices “A lot of my research has been shaped by my own experiences of being an immigrant. I was born in India, but my family moved to Singapore when I was two, which made me very aware of how language shapes society and how it has shaped me.” Helen’s Story “I was in the GSP office every day. When I was with that community, it felt like Georgetown was built for us. It’s the most robust support system that I’ve seen specially designed for first-generation and low-income students.” Andy’s Story “I oftentimes forget I even transferred to Georgetown, and I think I’ve been here all along because it feels that way. All the resources you have to take advantage of at Georgetown are really helpful in making transfer students feel like they belong.” Danya’s Story Previous Story Next Story News Student News Senior, Racial Justice Advocate Sets Sights on Nonprofit Work, Law School Record Number of SFS Students and Alumni Receive Prestigious Fellowships To Pursue Careers in Diplomacy The Payne and Pickering fellowships fund two years of graduate study for historically underrepresented participants, offering internship and professional development opportunities and providing unique paths to the foreign service corps. Student Cancer Researcher Launches Medical Career at Georgetown A biology major, professional baker and former taekwondo athlete, Jordan Kramer (C’22) started studying cancer at 16, continuing her research while at Georgetown and now at Oxford next fall. Play Youtube Video One Day at Georgetown Our Storytellers chronicle their daily lives on campus – from a casual lunch on Chicken Finger Thursday to presenting to policymakers on the hill. Get a behind the scenes look at life as a Georgetown student. Student Life Blog Contact Us Directory Visit Maps About Academic Calendar Careers Media Resources FacebookFacebook TwitterTwitter InstagramInstagram LinkedInLinkedIn YouTubeYouTube Georgetown University 37th and O Streets, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20057 P. 202-687-0100 Georgetown University Privacy Policy Copyright Web Accessibility Notice of Non-Discrimination © 2022 Georgetown University Search Georgetown Search Close the Search Dialog