Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Student Affairs Main Navigation Our Story Show Extended Division of Student Affairs Welcome Leadership Team Organizational Chart Our Purpose Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Assessment Programs Professional Development Staff of the Month Program Publications Faculty Resource Page Student Employment University Employment Contact Us California State University, Fullerton 2018-2023 Strategic Plan Branding Campus News Donate Facts & Figures College Access and Career Pathways Engagement and Well-Being Identity and Belonging Virtual Student Services Associated Students Inc., CSUF Titan Athletics Academic Appeals Title IX and Gender Equity Show Extended Notice of Non-Discrimination on the Basis of Gender or Sex Hispanic-Serving Institution Initiatives Engagement and Well-Being The area of Engagement and Well-Being consists of departments dedicated to helping students navigate through their own challenges to be successful in their curricular and co-curricular activities. The area provides a personalized approach to supportive services to make certain students are able to enhance their personal and academic experiences. Each department strives to make a significant difference in a student’s life and help them reach their potential at Cal State Fullerton and beyond. Dean of Students Office The Dean of Students Office assists students in navigating the university and resolving educational, personal, and other concerns that impact the quality of their Titan experience. Disability Support Services Disability Support Services at CSUF is a civil rights office committed to providing students with disabilities access and an equal opportunity to demonstrate knowledge and abilities. Student Conduct Student Conduct is responsible for investigating alleged violations of the Student Conduct Code and for adjudicating complaints in a fair and consistent manner. Care Services Created by the Dean of Students Office, Care Services supports students who may experience distress that negatively impacts them academically, emotionally, behaviorally, or physically. Tuffy's Basic Needs Services Tuffy’s Basic Needs Services Center identifies and serves students who are experiencing an unforeseen hardship, emergency, crisis, or catastrophic life event. The resources offered by this comprehensive endeavor are designed to promote wellness and enable students to complete their education. Counseling & Psychological Services Counseling and Psychological Services strives to help students achieve their academic, professional, and personal goals. Counselors can help students improve coping skills, strengthen personal relationships, navigate the college transition, recover from traumatic experiences, and engage in self-exploration. Housing & Residential Engagement Cal State Fullerton currently provides residence hall and apartment style living for approximately 2,000 students that is safe, clean and very convenient. Living on campus is an excellent way to enhance your educational experience, strengthening both your personal growth and academic success. Student Life & Leadership Student Life & Leadership offers multiple involvement opportunities for students including: Campus Activities; Fraternity & Sorority Life; Clubs & Organizations; Club Sports; Community Service & Leadership Programs; and Venue Reservations. Student Health Center Student Wellness provides the advocacy, environment, services, accessibility and resources for students to achieve their greatest potential. TitanWell TitanWell is responsible for the promotion of healthy choices and behaviors amongst our diverse Titan community. This site is maintained by Division of Student Affairs. Last Published 4/12/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact danielramirez@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.