Skip to main content Clemson University Degrees Home Degree Programs MENU Sociology (B.S./B.A.) LEARN MORE ABOUT As a sociology major you’ll delve into topics such as social class and poverty, race and ethnicity, gender, criminal justice, marriage and families, culture, religion, education and developing societies. We offer both a Bachelor of Science and a Bachelor of Arts in sociology. Whichever degree path you opt to follow, your courses will give you tools to understand the social causes and consequences of interpersonal and group behavior. Our faculty members are from the sociology, anthropology, criminal justice and social work disciplines, but all are interested in studying the social dimensions of human behavior and developing ways to improve and enrich quality of life. FAST FACTS Clemson offers both a Bachelor of Science and Bachelor of Arts in sociology. A combined five-year B.S./M.S. program is also available. We offer a minor in anthropology, which is ideal for students wishing to increase their understanding of cultural diversity and globalization. Employers often seek sociology majors to fill positions in administration, supervision, management, public relations, social services, law enforcement and research. Students enjoy many opportunities for faculty-led study abroad in Peru, the Czech Republic, Dominica and South Africa. Our department offers individualized advising for every student, guiding each along the way to his/her ultimate career path. The Sociology Honors Program is available to exceptional students who desire an in-depth research or investigative experience. WHAT YOU'LL STUDY Students who choose to receive the Bachelor of Science degree in sociology will take additional science and math electives. Students who choose the Bachelor of Arts degree will take more foreign language courses. With either option, students will graduate with a broad-based education with a focus in a chosen concentration area, which will contribute to proficiencies in communications and interpersonal skills — necessary attributes in any occupation — as well as in methodological training. General Sociology Concentration A focus on social institutions and social processes allows you to take courses covering the broad range of topics addressed in the discipline. Social Services Concentration This concentration includes an internship component that introduces you to local social service institutions. Community Studies Concentration Take courses that hone your insight into the social forces and processes that shape and affect small and large, rural and urban communities. You will also take on an internship that puts you into communities and gets you involved in community issues. Curriculum Sociology, B.A. Sociology, B.S. Popular Minors Anthropology Business Administration Political Science Psychology Public Policy Religion Similar Majors Anthropology (B.S./B.A.) History (B.A.) Political Science (B.S./B.A.) Psychology (B.S./B.A.) EXPERIENCES BEYOND THE CLASSROOM As a sociology major you’ll have ample opportunities to enrich your classroom education by participating in study abroad trips that allow you to work on projects in other countries; by working alongside peers in community service projects; and by engaging in research activities with faculty members. Research Participate in intensive faculty-directed research experiences, such as our undergraduate class on gender, sexuality, campus culture and sexual violence. Collect data, offer input on intervention strategies and develop awareness campaigns. Dominica Travel to Dominica with professor Brenda Vander Mey to study issues surrounding food security, youth, and community and environmental sustainability. Sociology Club The Sociology Club provides the opportunity to explore career options and engage in community service with organizations such as Coaches4Character, which focuses on teaching at-risk youth the value of education and character development. CONNECT WITH OTHER STUDENTS Lambda Alpha Epsilon National Criminal Justice Society Alpha Kappa Delta National Honor Society AFTER GRADUATION Your college decision isn't really about the next four years. We get it. It's about what doors are opened by your degree and whether those opportunities are what you had envisioned for yourself. Here's a snapshot of what life after graduation looks like for some of our most recent students. WHERE OUR RECENT GRADUATES HAVE GONE KEY 41-100% 21-40% 11-20% 0-10% RECENT EMPLOYERS Human Services Specialist II, Foster Care S.C. Department of Social Services Behavioral Scientist/Evaluation Officer U.S. Centers for Disease Control Program and Financial Compliance Officer Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids Account Manager Sprouthouse Agency Public Relations Firm Manager, Impact and Investments United Way of Greenville County RECENT POSTGRADUATE STUDIES MSW Columbia University Master of Public Administration/Policy American University M.S. Secondary Education and Teaching Johns Hopkins University Ph.D. Sociology University of California, Los Angeles Ph.D. Health Policy and Management University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill COMMON CAREER AREAS Human Services Case Management Advocacy Mental Health Services Administration Criminal Justice Corrections Rehabilitation Law Enforcement Education Teaching Research Government Public Administration Policy Analysis Research Program Development City Planning Social Science Research Business Human Resources Training and Development Recruiting Management Sales Marketing Public Relations Office Administration Used with permission from the University of Tennessee. FIND OUT MORE Have more questions or want more information? Fill out the form below, which goes directly to the following department contact. If you’d also like to receive general University information from Clemson’s admissions office, please follow the link to the right and sign up to join our mailing list. Kristin Goodenow Director of Academic Advising kristig@clemson.edu Department Website College Website Loading... Department Website College Website Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2015 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on Google+ Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on YouTube Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram Search Clemson University degrees Clemson Degree Programs Search Alphabetical List Schedule a Visit Campus Life Admissions Costs & Financial Aid Similar Majors To Sociology (B.S./B.A.) Anthropology (B.S./B.A.) History (B.A.) Political Science (B.S./B.A.) Psychology (B.S./B.A.)