SMU Cox Display Navigation and Site Search SMU Cox School of Business SMU Cox Utility Navigation Students Companies Alumni Apply Contact Us smu.edu Display Navigation Display Search Search SMU SMU Cox Main Navigation At SMU Cox Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu An exceptional school in the heart of a vibrant, global, business-friendly city. Collins Center Cox News Cox Events Graduate Outcomes CoxToday Magazine Academic Departments Career Growth Global Programs Degrees & Programs Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Rigorous programs within a truly customized academic experience. Master of Science MS in Accounting MS in Business Analytics MS in Finance MS in Management MS Health Promotion Management MS in Sport Management MBA Full-Time Two-Year MBA Full-Time One-Year MBA MBA Direct Professional MBA Online MBA Executive MBA Joint Degrees JD/MBA MA / MBA MS Engineering / MBA Undergraduate Bachelor of Business Administration Non-Degree Executive Education Summer Business Institute Diversity & Inclusion Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Shaping Leaders for a Changing World. Diversity at Cox Latino Leadership Initiative I Am Latino in America Subiendo Academy at SMU Cox School Dean’s Message Executive Education Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Meet your career challenges head-on by mining the expertise of the nation's top business leaders. Programs for Individuals Custom Solutions Latino Leadership Initiative HR Roundtable Graduate Certificates Collins Center Learning Culture Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu An innovative learning culture influences the way the world does business. Centers and Institutes Academic Departments Research Business Library NextGen Cox Curriculum People & Community Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu A community where professors know students by name and help them create powerful networks. Students Alumni Faculty Companies Cox Executive Board Cox100 Press Releases Display Search Utility Navigation Students Companies Alumni Apply Contact Us smu.edu Cox News Find An Article Enter search and SUBMIT Select a year Year 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 Select article type News Insights CoxToday Faculty Research War Games are Preparing MBA Students for Stategic Battles Mon, May 23, 2022 Students are learning skillsets for "volatile, uncertain, and complex environments," says an SMU Cox School of Business professor. Learn More SMU Cox Honors Alumni Business Success Fri, May 13, 2022 The SMU Cox School of Business presented this year’s Distinguished Alumni and Outstanding Young Alumni Awards at a special luncheon in the Collins Executive Education Center on the SMU campus on May 13. The event celebrated two Distinguished Alumni Award honorees and two Outstanding Young Alumni Award honorees. Learn More Best & Brightest Undergraduates Thu, May 12, 2022 Two SMU Cox undergraduate students, Petar Bozhilov and Greta Felten, are included in the just-released "Best & Brightest Business Majors of 2022" feature, published by Poets and Quants for Undergrads. Learn More SMU is celebrating the future of the Cox School of Business and its role as a driver of Dallas innovation Fri, May 6, 2022 “We are retooling the Cox School to create a more collaborative environment – to give students and faculty easier access to collaborate, to gather and share ideas and gain inspiration from one another.” Dean Matthew B. Myers. Learn More Igniting the future of business education on the Hilltop Fri, Apr 29, 2022 Join us in celebrating the groundbreaking of the renovation and expansion project for SMU Cox School of Business. Friday, May 6, 2022 11:30 a.m. Lunch to follow Learn More William S. Spears strengthens entrepreneurial leadership in Dallas and beyond Thu, Apr 28, 2022 The William S. Spears Institute for Entrepreneurial Leadership – made possible by the largest gift by a non-alumnus donor in the history of SMU – will spark business creation, leadership and growth. Learn More SMU Cox Commercial Diplomacy Initiative: Toward a "Center for Commercial and Corporate Diplomacy" Thu, Apr 7, 2022 SMU Cox will host U.S Representative Mike McCaul, ranking member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, and retired Ambassador David C. Miller, Jr., President of the U.S. Diplomatic Studies Foundation, for a discussion about how the United States Government should better help U.S. businesses compete overseas and about the progress toward establishing the national home for the proposed “Center for Commercial and Corporate Diplomacy at SMU Cox.” Learn More Women’s Path to Leadership and the Power of the MBA Wed, Mar 16, 2022 Women hold just six percent of CEO roles at F500 companies (that’s 31 women vs. 469 men); of those 31 women, nearly half have MBAs. To talk about what’s happening on the ground level, Jill Melton and Annie Cadigan Dunlap join host Graham Richmond. Learn More Women of Color: Shaping the Future Conference Thu, Mar 3, 2022 SMU Cox to sponsor and host second annual Women of Color: Shaping the Future Conference. With more equitable opportunities, women can boost the economy exponentially. For this reason, the Cox School is dedicated to supporting LiftFund's Dallas/Fort Worth Women's Business Center's Women of Color: Shaping the Future Conference on March 24th in the Colllins Center. Learn More Consumer Marketing Math: Even the Numerate are “Off by 100%” Tue, Mar 1, 2022 In new research, Marketing Professors Matthew Fisher and Milica Mormann of SMU Cox shed light on a surprising persistent mistake consumers make that can have important consequences. The “off-by-100%” bias the authors observe impacts purchase decisions, with implications for every-day shopping decisions and even on trading on platforms like Robinhood and E-Trade. Learn More SMU Cox Commencement 2022 Tue, Mar 1, 2022 Commencement Day is set for Saturday, May 14. The All-University ceremony will be outdoors at 9:00 a.m. at the Gerald J. Ford Stadium. Later the same day, Moody Coliseum will the site for both the Cox Undergraduate Ceremony at 1:00 p.m. and the Cox Graduate Ceremony at 3:00 p.m. Learn More Post-COVID Recovery of Arts Organization Prediction Models Tue, Feb 22, 2022 Professor Glenn Voss, Professor Emeritus of Marketing and Research Director at SMU DataArts, and Karthik Kannan, Assistant Professor of IT and Operations Management and Donna Wilhelm Research Fellow at SMU DataArts, recently presented a webinar on prediction models for post-COVID recovery of arts organizations. Learn More ClearAdmit Podcast Highlights the Cox School's Big Picture Approach Thu, Feb 10, 2022 Host Graham Richmond welcomed Lisa Tran and Jason Rife from SMU Cox to explore the symbiotic relationship between corporate relationships, admissions and career services that propels MBA graduates’ success. Learn More Professor Ulrike Schultze Examines How Technology Affects Organizations Tue, Feb 1, 2022 Who are we becoming — as individuals and as members of society — the more we engage in technology-mediated spaces that are increasingly populated by robots and AI? These are the kinds of questions that have fascinated Ulrike Schultze, a professor in information technology and operations management (ITOM) at SMU Cox, for years. Learn More Cox Active Duty Military and Veterans Are Allies for the School Tue, Feb 1, 2022 Our active duty military and veterans — students, alumni, faculty and staff members — are truly allies in every sense of the word and Allies for Cox. Learn More The Supply Chain Crunch: Lessons from Girl Scout Cookie Sales Tue, Feb 1, 2022 The objective of the research was to understand the implications of operational policies on a firm’s ability to manage demand and supply uncertainty. Learn More Hal Brierley Reflects on the Brierley Institute’s Growth on Its Fifth Anniversary Wed, Jan 12, 2022 Diane and Hal Brierley donated $10 million to start the Brierley Institute. Five years later, he reflects on his vision and how it's being realized. Learn More The Kitt Investing and Trading Center Turns 10 Wed, Jan 12, 2022 To commemorate, Barry Kitt taught a class to finance students, who will take what they’ve learned into the real world. Learn More SMU Cox Professor Marcus Butts Researches Work-Life Balance Wed, Jan 12, 2022 SMU Cox Associate Professor Marcus Butts researches topics including workday social media usage and inter-team dynamics. Learn More Dallas 100™ Applauds North Texas Entrepreneurial Strength Through Pandemic MTX Group Named Area’s Fastest-Growing Entrepreneurial Company Fri, Nov 19, 2021 Frisco-based cloud technology company MTX Group is the fastest-growing entrepreneurial company in the Dallas area, according to the SMU Cox School of Business’s Caruth Institute for Entrepreneurship. The company and all 100 companies honored in this year’s event managed to achieve impressive growth, especially in light of the challenges of the pandemic. The Institute’s annual Dallas 100™, a celebration of the fastest-growing, privately held businesses in the Dallas area, revealed the area’s top entrepreneurial companies in rank order from 100 to one at the annual Dallas 100 Awards Ceremony, held at the Omni Dallas Hotel, Thursday, Nov. 18. Learn More Cox Associate Professor and Corrigan Research Professor, Sreekumar Bhaskaran hosts panel discussion Tue, Nov 16, 2021 At the event, North Texas leaders talked about the disruptions they’ve encountered, changes they’ve made along the way and what they have their eyes on in the future. Learn More Two New Initiatives Honor Active Duty & Veterans’ Military Service Thu, Nov 11, 2021 SMU and Cox Veterans Clubs to host Veteran's Day ceremony. And, Cox School Increases Yellow Ribbon Funding for Active Duty and Military Veterans. Learn More Making Customers Pay Up May Backfire: Beware of Unintended Congestion Tue, Nov 2, 2021 In new research by ITOM Professor Sreekumar Bhaskaran of SMU Cox and co-authors, they re-think the congestion challenge and offer a new perspective about the traditional approaches of using the levers of price and quality. Rather than solely using higher prices to reduce traffic, the authors offer more nuance with the idea of “consumption control.” Learn More Igniting the Future of Business Education Fri, Oct 15, 2021 The Cox School of Business has announced two bold initiatives that will propel us into our next era of innovation: an extensive renovation and expansion project for the Cox School’s buildings and a drive to endow MBA scholarships, empowering the next generation of business leaders to meet grand challenges with meaningful solutions. Learn More Connecting the next generation Thu, Oct 14, 2021 A $5 million gift from Katy A. and Kyle Miller ’01 to SMU’s Edwin L. Cox School of Business will create a place that will kindle productive partnerships and cultivate meaningful connections to fuel the success of the Cox community. Learn More Cox Graduate Admissions Hosting In-Person Preview Day Mon, Oct 4, 2021 Join us on campus, and learn which top-rated SMU Cox graduate business program is right for you. Learn More Kim and Bill Shaddock, MBA ‘74, Commit $6 Million to SMU Cox School of Business for Shaddock Hall Fri, Oct 1, 2021 A gift from Kim and William (Bill) Shaddock ’74 will establish Shaddock Hall as part of the building renovation project of the Cox School of Business. The $6 million contribution will foster educational excellence through dedicated spaces for learning, research and collaboration. Learn More SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow Fri, Oct 1, 2021 Delivering on the promise of partnership with the city it calls home, SMU is launching a $1.5 billion fundraising campaign focused on the opportunities created through scholarships, meaningful research and teaching and community. Learn More Supply Chain Players’ Generosity Pays Off Amidst Climate Risk Fri, Oct 1, 2021 Professor Ruidi Huang of SMU Cox and his coauthors show how firms react to natural disasters and what actions can help supply chains stay resilient. Learn More Two Class Of 2021 EMBAs Named Best And Brightest Fri, Sep 10, 2021 “Poets and Quants” released its long-anticipated list of the "Best & Brightest Executive MBAs of 2021" this week. Two SMU Cox Class of ’21 EMBAs, Caitlyn Maddox and Javi Virk, made the list. Learn More New Approach to Identifying Bellwether Firms: How They Influence the Future Wed, Sep 1, 2021 In new research, Accounting Professor Sean Wang of SMU Cox and his co-authors identify a group of firms that move in tandem with the VIX and find that these firms essentially act as bellwether firms, microcosms of the market itself. Learn More Re-thinking Physical Spaces: Co-Location Helps Solve a Growing Mental Health Crisis and Workplace Issues Post-Pandemic Tue, Jul 27, 2021 In new research by ITOM Professor Vishal Ahuja of SMU Cox and co-authors Alvarez and Staats, they show that proximity of physical spaces, that they refer to as co-location, matters. Learn More SMU Cox Students Participate in International Virtual Competitions Thu, Jul 22, 2021 Dubbed “The Battle for the Cloud,” this virtual competition, designed to give MBA students real-world insights into what it means to compete in today’s marketplace, was part of a newly launched program implemented to continue the Cox School’s global business offerings in spite of COVID-19 limitations. Learn More Preston Bryant, Founder of Momentum Technologies, Is Changing the Battery-Recycling Industry Wed, Jul 7, 2021 Bryant’s upbringing shaped his journey as an entrepreneur in ways he could have never imagined. Years later, far from the oil fields in Texas, his recent work earned him a spot in the latest class of Forbes 30 Under 30. Learn More SMU Golfer Katie James Is Poised for Success as a Student-Athlete Wed, Jun 30, 2021 SMU golfer and Cox management major Katie James, BBA ’22, feels support from SMU Cox both in the classroom and on the green. Learn More SMU Cox’s Career Coaches Help Students Thrive Wed, Jun 23, 2021 The Career Management Center is a critical facet of a well-rounded experience within SMU Cox School of Business. The center serves all Cox students, from BBA and MS students to full-time and professional MBA candidates. There’s even a dedicated coach for alumni. Learn More Financing Crypto Firm’s Projects: An Unlimited Token Offering? Tue, Jun 15, 2021 With mature crypto projects in short supply, new research from Cox ITOM Assistant Professor Rowena Gan sheds light on the optimal design of “uncapped” initial coin offerings. Learn More SMU Cox Alumni and Corporate Partners Discuss Recruiting the Next Generation Mon, Jun 7, 2021 The value of the alumni network at SMU Cox School of Business can’t be underestimated. Cox graduates support their fellow alums all over the world — whether providing recruiting opportunities or professional and personal connections. Learn More SMU Cox’s New Career Management Center Facility: Designed for Success Mon, Jun 7, 2021 This emphasis on career services goes hand-in-hand with Cox’s goal of making sure students are not just job-prepared but future-ready. Learn More Cox Online MBA Program Enhances Virtual Learning Wed, May 12, 2021 “We’re not watering down; we’re not filtering. The content is the same content [that is delivered in face-to-face instruction]. It’s just delivered with different modalities.” Learn More Poets and Quants Names Two Cox MBA Best and Brightest Mon, May 10, 2021 Congratulations to two members of the Cox Full-Time MBA Class of ’21, Bailey Bennett and Stacy C. Tubonemi, listed among the Poets and Quants "100 Best & Brightest MBAs: Class of 2021”, published today. Learn More Cox School Celebrates 2021 Alumni Honorees Fri, May 7, 2021 The SMU Cox School of Business honored four alumni at its annual Distinguished Alumni and Outstanding Young Alumni Awards Luncheon Friday, May 7. Learn More SMU Cox MBA Degree Programs Now STEM-Designated Fri, May 7, 2021 The Cox School of Business at Southern Methodist University (SMU Cox) distinguishes itself once again by joining top-ranked business schools to offer a STEM-designated MBA program. Learn More Business Law at Cox Is Crucial to a Well-Rounded Business Education Wed, May 5, 2021 Professors with real-world experience offer invaluable expertise to their students, and in the business law department at SMU Cox School of Business, there is no shortage of that firsthand experience among faculty members. Learn More Students Win Big in Annual EMBA Business Plan Competition Mon, May 3, 2021 Executive MBA students went head-to-head in the Cox School’s annual EMBA Business Plan Competition Friday, April 23. Learn More Adjunct Professor Rogge Dunn Names Classroom in Collins Center Fri, Apr 23, 2021 The long-time adjunct professor for the Executive MBA program announced a gift to support SMU Cox by naming a classroom: the Rogge, Cathy, and Ross Dunn Classroom in the James M. Collins Executive Education Center. Learn More Cox BBAs Win National Negotiation Competition Mon, Apr 19, 2021 The SMU Cox BBA Negotiation Team emerged victorious last Friday in the National Undergraduate Negotiation Competition, hosted by Baylor University’s Hankamer School of Business. Learn More Free Market Action Can Best Prepare Texas’ Energy Grid for the Future Wed, Apr 14, 2021 Texas' February winter storm drew national and international attention. The Cox School’s Bruce Bullock, director of the Maguire Energy Institute, and Robert Lawson, director of the Bridwell Institute for Economic Freedom, noticed a couple of concerning patterns in the coverage. Learn More Emissions Disclosures by U.S. Manufacturers Shows Reductions: The Reasons Why Surprise Tue, Apr 13, 2021 This study is one of the first to quantify the effects of disclosing GHG emissions when the bulk of emitters transition from no disclosure to public disclosure. Learn More Sharoll and Bryan S. Sheffield Commit $15 Million To SMU Cox School of Business Mon, Apr 12, 2021 A $15 million gift from Sharoll and Bryan S. Sheffield ’01 to SMU’s Edwin L. Cox School of Business will empower future entrepreneurs by creating new technology-equipped collaborative spaces. Learn More Poets & Quants Names Two Cox BBAs Best & Brightest Tue, Apr 6, 2021 Congratulations to Cox BBA students Aysegul Ates and Cameron Police, included among 2021’s “100 Best & Brightest BBA Students,” published this week by Poets & Quants for Undergrads. Learn More Takeaways from the GameStop Stock Saga Wed, Mar 31, 2021 To help make sense of what occurred behind the scenes as well as the implications the event might have on the future market, three SMU Cox Professors share their top takeaways. Learn More What Can We Do In One Day? Thu, Mar 25, 2021 April 13 is SMU Giving Day – the one day of the year for all Mustangs to come together in support of the SMU causes and students we care about most. Giving day is not about how much we each give, it’s about the impact we can make as a collective. The more Mustangs who give, the more positive change we can create. Learn More Simon Mak Wants to Cultivate Dallas’ Startup Scene Wed, Mar 17, 2021 Recently named to the Mayor’s Task Force on Innovation and Entrepreneurship, SMU Cox Professor of Practice Simon Mak wants Dallas to be at the top of the startup scene. Learn More Working to Make Business Education More Inclusive Wed, Mar 10, 2021 Led by SMU Cox Assistant Dean of Diversity Steve Denson, the School works with diversity officers campus-wide to recruit students from all backgrounds, welcome new faculty members, support student clubs, and more. Learn More SMU Cox Is Planning For The New Future Of Business Education Wed, Mar 10, 2021 As SMU Cox reflects on its first century and how it adapted with the pandemic, the School is innovating and adapting for the future of business education. Learn More New NextGen Cox Curriculum Prepares MBA Students to Be Leaders Fri, Feb 26, 2021 The SMU Cox School of Business’ new cutting-edge NextGen Cox Curriculum focuses on leadership, analytics and experiential learning to prepare MBA students for fulfilling, successful careers. Learn More SMU Cox Dallas 100™ Names Clavis Capital Partners Area’s Fastest Growing Entrepreneurial Business Thu, Feb 18, 2021 The event marks the Caruth Institute’s 30th Dallas 100 awards ceremony. It was live-streamed this year because of COVID-19. The online presentation was facilitated by business-to-business media provider MarketScale, one of this year’s Dallas 100 honorees. Learn More SMU Cox To Be Presenting Sponsor Of Inaugural Leaders In Diversity Awards Fri, Feb 12, 2021 SMU Cox School of Business announces it will be a presenting sponsor of the first-ever Dallas Business Journal’s Leaders in Diversity Awards on Thursday, March 4. Dallas-based law firm Bell Nunnally & Martin LLP is also a lead sponsor. Learn More SMU Cox Receives $15 Million Gift from the Bridwells Wed, Feb 10, 2021 A $15 million gift from Gina L. and Tucker S. Bridwell, BBA ’73, MBA ’74, to SMU Cox School of Business will generate transformational economic research and cutting-edge business education for generations to come. Learn More COVID-19 Pandemic Shines Spotlight on Coworker Compassion and Reforms Tue, Jan 26, 2021 SMU Cox management and organizations associate professor Marcus Butts and his co-authors discover that coworkers are displaying more concern for and less mistreatment of ill colleagues rather than self-interested behavior in this time of COVID-19. Learn More SMU Basketball Player Everett Ray Excels On The Court And In Cox Finance Program Wed, Jan 13, 2021 It makes for a busy junior year, but the balancing act is nothing new for Ray, who’s always been determined to succeed on and off the court. We asked him about this season. Learn More 11 SMU Cox Student Leaders Advocating For Workplace Diversity Tue, Jan 12, 2021 Workplace diversity and inclusion efforts only work when everyone has a seat at the table. These student-led organizations are creating space for these efforts at SMU Cox School of Business and beyond. Learn More Spatial Landscape Helps Determine Loyalty Programs’ Success Tue, Jan 5, 2021 Starting in the airline industry in the 1980s, loyalty programs have been adopted in businesses such as hotels, casinos, retailers, grocery stores, and restaurants. In novel research, Marketing Professor Wayne Taylor of SMU Cox and co-author Brett Hollenbeck analyze the competitive “spatial” landscape surrounding the customer and identify actionable marketing insights. Learn More SMU Cox Public Firms a Fraction of Borrowers from Government Stimulus During Pandemic Fri, Dec 18, 2020 New research by SMU Cox finance professor Anna Cororaton and Samuel Rosen of Temple University sheds light on which public firms applied for and received stimulus funds, in one of the first empirical studies of the unprecedented fiscal programs to help keep American businesses afloat during the pandemic. Learn More SMU Cox’s Vishal Ahuja Improves Patient Care Fri, Dec 18, 2020 An assistant professor of information technology and operations management (ITOM) at SMU Cox and an adjunct professor of clinical sciences at UT Southwestern Medical Center, Ahuja leans on his years of experience in the corporate world to apply principles of operations management and data analytics to local healthcare data and improve patient outcomes and efficiency of care. Learn More A New Gift Announced for Bolin-Bridwell Hall Fri, Dec 18, 2020 A $7.5 million gift will allow SMU Cox School of Business to build the new Bolin-Bridwell Hall, which will support innovative teaching practices and build the collaboration skills that top companies seek and that entrepreneurs need. Learn More SMU Cox’s New Heppner Family Commons Will Foster Collaboration Fri, Dec 18, 2020 An $11.5 million gift from Aurelia and Brad Heppner, BBA, BS, BA ’88, and their family to SMU Cox School of Business will strengthen the School’s commitment to fostering the leadership skills of tomorrow’s executives and to investing in groundbreaking research that impacts the business world. Learn More SMU Cox To Build A New Facility For Its Second Century Fri, Dec 18, 2020 The new facility could provide classrooms that feature a more seamless integration of technology and more collaborative workspaces. The School’s location on campus means that a new Cox building design could facilitate greater interaction, not only between faculty and students within the Cox School, but also between other colleges and faculties at the University. Learn More National Security Law Deters Foreign Investment in the U.S. Wed, Dec 16, 2020 SMU Cox Finance Professor Darius Miller examines the effects of the Foreign Investment and National Security Act on shareholder wealth and the U.S. economy. Learn More Edwin L. Cox, Sr. Wed, Dec 16, 2020 SMU and the Cox School mourn the passing of renowned Dallas business leader, entrepreneur, public servant, educational pioneer and longtime University supporter and trustee emeritus Edwin L. Cox, Sr. ’42, who died Thursday, November 5, 2020. We are grateful to Edwin L. Cox, Sr. for a lifetime of working together with SMU and the Edwin L. Cox School of Business. Learn More Brierley Institute Research Analyzes The Pandemic’s Effect On Retail, Travel And Entertainment Tue, Dec 15, 2020 “Our biggest challenge is to spread the word from what we’re learning beyond the classroom to reach today’s marketers.” Learn More Women in Leadership – Leading with Strength & Impact to Change Bias Against Women Leaders Tue, Dec 15, 2020 Dr. Candice Bledsoe and Ana Rodriguez join Ivy Exec to review specific examples of bias, discuss research-backed recommendations for what to do to combat these biases and propose actionable steps toward a more equitable (and profitable) workplace. Learn More Visual Finance 101: Red Color Influences Investor Behavior Wed, Dec 9, 2020 New research by SMU Cox marketing professor Milica Mormann and coauthors Bazley and Cronqvist reveals how the visual presentation of financial information impacts important financial decisions. Learn More Meet SMU Cox’s New Executive Education Professor of Practice: Lt. Col. Jason Galui Wed, Dec 2, 2020 Seeking opportunities to share his experiences and expertise beyond the uniform, he joined the Cox School in August as an Executive Education Professor of Practice, working with leadership training for corporate partners. Learn More Women Pursuing MBAs Is Important for Representation in Leadership Tue, Dec 1, 2020 Business schools can play a large role in improving those odds and in helping companies diversify and strengthen by introducing more women into the C-suite. Learn More Graduate Programs Must Adapt Today for Tomorrow’s Business Leaders Wed, Nov 18, 2020 In the spring, the Cox School’s graduate admissions teams took special note of a trend among applicants for the SMU Cox Online MBA program. SMU Cox has always been a magnet for highly motivated, ambitious young professionals — but this was different. Learn More SMU Cox’s Newest Professor Zhen Zhang Goes Beyond the Numbers Thu, Nov 12, 2020 Meet professor Zhen Zhang, SMU Cox School of Business’ newest faculty addition. Zhang brings his substantive expertise in leadership and analytical methods to the School. Learn More MBA Energy Club Takes First Place Fri, Oct 30, 2020 A team of two second years and three first year SMU Cox MBA students representing the MBA Energy Club claimed first place and an $11,000 top prize at this year’s National Energy Finance Challenge (NEFC) hosted by the University of Texas’ McCombs School of Business. Learn More Who Fared Better or Worse After Wright Amendment Repeal? Deciphering Dallas’ Southwest Airlines Network Changes Wed, Oct 21, 2020 Dallas Love Field and Southwest airline passengers received multiple boons when the Wright Amendment was repealed in late 2014. There were more nonstop flights and destinations, more gates at Love Field and reduced fares. Media stories reported that this policy reversal was a positive development. However, in new research, ITOM Professor Vishal Ahuja of SMU Cox and co-authors show that the repeal had some unintended consequences. Learn More Celebrating a True Visionary: Edwin L. Cox, Sr. Fri, Oct 16, 2020 On October 15, 2020, as part of celebrating 100 years of business education at SMU, the SMU Cox School of Business honored Edwin L. Cox, Sr. ’42 with the inaugural Cox Visionary Award for his extraordinary leadership and contributions to the business community. Mr. Cox, for whom SMU’s business school was named in 1978, exemplifies the vision, civic engagement and can-do spirit that inspire the best in all of us today and shape the business world changers of tomorrow. Learn More Investing in a culture of collaboration Wed, Oct 14, 2020 An $11.5 million gift from Aurelia and Brad Heppner ’88 and family to SMU’s Edwin L. Cox School of Business will strengthen the school’s commitment to fostering the leadership skills of tomorrow’s executives and investing in groundbreaking research that impacts the business world. Learn More Breaking down barriers and reversing the trend for Latino leaders Mon, Sep 21, 2020 Passionate. No other word is used more frequently to describe Ana Rodriguez, (BBA ’03), managing director of the SMU Cox Latino Leadership Initiative. Learn More Fueling the Future of Business: Gina L. and Tucker S. Bridwell ’73, ’74 Commit $15 Million to the Cox School Fri, Sep 18, 2020 A $15 million gift from Gina L. and Tucker S. Bridwell (BBA ’73, MBA ’74) to SMU’s Cox School of Business will generate transformational economic research and cutting-edge business education for generations to come, through the creation of the new Bridwell Institute for Economic Freedom. Learn More Cox School Honors Four Exceptional Alumni Fri, Sep 18, 2020 SMU Cox will honor four alumni at its annual Distinguished Alumni and Outstanding Young Alumni Awards Luncheon on Friday, September 25. This year’s Distinguished Alumni Awards honorees are Kelly H. Compton, BBA ’79 and William (Bill) A. Hall, BBA ’67 and MBA ‘68. The 2020 Outstanding Young Alumni honors go to Mark A. Lau, BBA ’06 and Courtney N. Naudo, BBA ’01. Learn More SMU Cox MBA & Specialized Master’s Virtual Preview Week Tue, Sep 8, 2020 Join SMU Cox for a week of virtual events to learn about our MBA and Specialized Master’s programs. Virtual sessions will feature Cox leadership, current students, alumni, and admissions representatives. Learn More How Business Schools Can Help Make Accounting More Diverse Wed, Aug 26, 2020 Securing diverse mentorship and generating an early interest in the profession have been barriers to increasing the number of Black accounting professionals, according to The CPA Journal. Learn More Graduate Programs Must Adapt Today for Tomorrow’s Business Leaders Wed, Aug 19, 2020 Cutting-edge instruction depends not only on developing students in the new technical skills that will play an increasingly important role in the world of business but also on teaching the principles — flexibility, intellectual curiosity, critical thinking — that leaders need to make key decisions and to, well, lead. Learn More SMU Names Campus Leader Maria Dixon Hall as Chief Diversity Officer Mon, Aug 17, 2020 Dixon Hall to convene University Diversity Council, supervise ombudsperson Learn More Two Class Of 2020 EMBAs Named Best and Brightest Tue, Aug 11, 2020 Congratulations to SMU Cox EMBA Class of 2020 graduates Saadia Sheikh and Adam Tunks. Both were just named to this year’s slate of “EMBA Best & Brightest” by Poets & Quants. Learn More SMU Cox School Of Business Launches NextGen Cox Curriculum Mon, Aug 3, 2020 The Cox School of Business announced today the launch of the NextGen Cox Curriculum, grounded in three foundational pillars: Leadership, Analytics, and Experiential Learning. Incoming MBA students will be the first to experience the school’s new NextGen Cox Curriculum, and benefit from the enhanced rigor and practical application to ensure they are not just “job ready” but “future-prepared” as “21st century leaders for jobs to come later in an ever changing world.” Learn More Uncertainty Is a Constant: Leadership and Crisis Management Wed, Jul 22, 2020 Leaders can count on many certainties during the lifetime of their businesses. Many of these inevitable events are positive, but others, such as a large-scale crisis, can strike fear into the hearts of people overseeing an organization. Learn More Why Most Startups Fail — and the Skills Needed for Their Success Tue, Jul 21, 2020 Bhaskaran has studied what makes startups successful, with an emphasis on how entrepreneurs find a balance between their businesses’ short-term survival and their long-term profitability. It’s a trade-off at the heart of a research paper he co-authored in 2019 entitled, “Sequential Product Development and Introduction by Cash-Constrained Start-Ups.” We spoke with him about why most startups fail and the skills needed to facilitate their success. Learn More Caruth Institute Celebrates 50 Years of Training Entrepreneurs Thu, Jul 16, 2020 The Caruth Institute at SMU Cox distinguishes itself by providing students with experiential learning opportunities in non-traditional business settings. Learn how they are taking entrepreneurship to new and exciting places. Learn More August 2020 Commencement Update Fri, Jul 10, 2020 On Saturday morning, August 15, 2020, the All-University Commencement Convocation will assemble graduates and candidates from all of SMU’s schools and professional programs for an outdoor ceremony at Ford Stadium. Commencement speakers will offer their congratulations to our newest class of graduates, an Honorary Degree will be bestowed on Mr. Max Glauben, and President Turner will re-confer your degrees. Graduates and candidates will cross the stage and have their names announced. SMU Cox will not host a separate ceremony. Face coverings are required while inside Ford Stadium and social distancing guidelines must be maintained. For guests who are unable to attend, the ceremony will be streamed live at smu.edu/live. Learn More The Benefits of Telemedicine as a Form of Continuity of Care Wed, Jul 8, 2020 Vishal Ahuja's empirical study examined the impact of maintaining continuity of care in a primary care setting. For Ahuja, the research was personal, and a goal was set: Capture the value. Learn More ACAP And Cox School Award First Scholarship To Incoming MSA Student Fri, Jun 26, 2020 Incoming Master of Science in Accounting student Ashlee Jones is the first recipient of the newly announced Nora O’Garro/Odell Brown Scholarship for alumni of the SMU Accounting Career Awareness Program (ACAP). Learn More SMU Cox Establishes New Scholarship to Enhance Diversity Outreach and Recruitment Thu, Jun 25, 2020 At a time in our national discourse when many of us are asking what we can do to make a difference, SMU Cox Dean Matthew B. Myers has announced the creation of a new Cox School scholarship fund that will give the Cox Community an opportunity to contribute to a tangible need. Learn More The Scientific Pros and Cons of Virtual Meetings — and How They Affect Business Wed, Jun 17, 2020 The COVID-19 stay-at-home orders have created a dependence on the use of videoconference platforms and telepresence. We spoke to Professor Amit Basu, who conducted an empirical study on the effectiveness of such technologies, for his insights. Learn More Cox MBAs Receive Texas Business Hall of Fame Scholarships Wed, Jun 17, 2020 Two-year MBA students Jenkins Bender (MBA '21) and Stacy Tubonemi (MBA '21), were among 32 business students across Texas to be recipients of the Texas Business Hall of Fame (TBHF) Scholar Award. Jenkins received The Robert H. Dedman Scholar Award, while Stacy received the Signor Family Scholar Award. Learn More SMU Cox Undergraduate Spotlight Fri, Jun 12, 2020 SMU Cox students have access to amazing opportunities. Last year, several undergraduate students were awarded top honors and traveled the world pursuing higher education opportunities. Learn More How Struggling Businesses Can Rebound After Running Out of Money Tue, Jun 9, 2020 Running out of money can cause a business to fail. Professors Simon Mak and John Terry share their insights for avoiding this situation altogether — and what options remain to businesses when the cash is gone. Learn More Doug Parker, American Airlines CEO and Cox Executive Board Member, experiences “chance encounter and emotional discussion on race.” Wed, Jun 3, 2020 Read the full story from the Dallas Morning News: ‘Bring people together, not apart:’ Chance encounter on a Southwest Airlines flight turns into an emotional discussion on race. American Airlines CEO Doug Parker took the flight on competitor Southwest Airlines Friday that turned into an exchange about race in the midst of nationwide protests. Learn More A Message From Matthew B. Myers, Dean of the Cox School of Business Wed, Jun 3, 2020 I invite you to read the message below, offered by Dallas resident and our campus neighbor at the Bush Presidential Center, President George W. Bush. These thoughts are representative of the Cox School’s philosophy and our dedication to diversity and to the disenfranchised, including at this particularly difficult time in history, our students, friends, and colleagues in the African-American community. Learn More SMU Cox Alumnus Earns Prestigious CPA Exam Honor Thu, May 28, 2020 SMU Cox School of Business alumnus Michael Bianez (BBA ’17, MSA ’18) has earned the Elijah Watt Sells Award, the highest award on the CPA exam. Of the 75,000 individuals taking the CPA Exam in 2019, Bianez was among only 137 (0.2%) people to earn the esteemed award. Bianez is only the third Cox School alumnus ever to earn the honor. Learn More Southwest Venture Forum Raises $4K for Prison Entrepreneurship Program Thu, May 28, 2020 Despite COVID-19, the same kind of connections were made during the most recent Southwest Venture Forum on May 21, when the event went virtual. The Caruth Institute of Entrepreneurship took it a step further and used the opportunity to raise donations for the Prison Entrepreneurship Program. Learn More SMU Cox 1920-2020: Celebrating 100 Years of Business Education Thu, May 28, 2020 From its modest start in 1920 to becoming a world leader in business education, we have an enduring connection with the city of Dallas. Learn More Leading in Unprecedented Times: A Mandate to be Bold ― and Remain Bold Thu, May 7, 2020 Today, we need to be agile as we encounter unforeseen obstacles — student learning outcomes in the virtual classroom, staff and faculty shortages, and other operational challenges — that drastically alter the scope of our roles and priorities. All the while, our teams are navigating health and safety concerns, working remotely, and supporting their families through the pandemic. Learn More SMU Cox Undergrads Take High Honors at the Villanova University Real Estate Case Competition Thu, Apr 23, 2020 The persistence of four Cox School of Business undergraduates paid off in a strong finish this month, despite the unexpected challenge of COVID-19 forcing them to do an online presentation at Villanova University’s coveted real estate-focused 2020 Mulroy Challenge. Learn More Maintaining Continuity in Challenging Times Mon, Apr 13, 2020 In his paper “An Empirical Study of the Effectiveness of Telepresence as a Business Meeting Mode,” Information Technology and Management Journal, 2016, Professor Amit Basu reported on a large-scale empirical study of the use of various virtual meeting technologies in business meetings. Learn More Dillon Baxter honored by Poets&Quants 100 Best & Brightest Business Majors of 2020 Tue, Apr 7, 2020 Congratulations Dillon Baxter, Cox BBA Class of 2020, for being recognized among the 100 Best & Brightest Business Majors in 2020 by Poets&Quants For Undergrads! “Dillon represents the best of what we have to offer in the Cox School: brilliant in the classroom, caring of others, resilient, and determined.” Learn More Layal Zalkout honored by Poets&Quants 100 Best & Brightest Business Majors of 2020 Tue, Apr 7, 2020 Congratulations Layal Zalkout, Cox Scholar and BBA Class of 2020, for being recognized among the 100 Best & Brightest Business Majors in 2020 by Poets&Quants For Undergrads! “Layal excels in the classroom, shows complete respect to her peers and faculty, and uses her free time to give back to her community.” Learn More SMU Cox ITOM Students Lead in Case Competitions Tue, Mar 3, 2020 Congratulations to the winning teams and a heartfelt ‘thank you’ to all the students from the various Cox Masters’ program who participated in the ITOM case competition this year! Learn More March 24 is SMU Giving Day Mon, Mar 2, 2020 This challenge isn’t about how much you give, but about the impact we can make when we join as a collective. Let’s show the world what Mustangs can do it one day. Learn More SMU Cox Alumnus Inducted into Arkansas Business Hall of Fame Thu, Feb 13, 2020 Congratulations to SMU Board of Trustee and SMU Cox Executive Board member Gerald Alley MBA ‘75, inducted into the Arkansas Business Hall of Fame on Feb. 7 Learn More SMU Cox MBAs place 3rd in Energy Innovation Case Competition Tue, Feb 11, 2020 Last week four SMU Cox MBAs competed and placed 3rd in the inaugural TCU Energy Case Competition at the NAPE Conference in Houston, Texas. Mark Avioli, Travis Little, Emily Mallon and Morgan Mitchell, all 2nd year MBAs, analyzed the implications of the wide performance of U.S. E&P equities in 2019 to create innovative real-world solutions. Learn More SMU Cox Associate Dean Shane Goodwin Recognized as an NACD Board Leadership Fellow Tue, Feb 4, 2020 “I am honored to join the distinguished and diverse group of individuals who make up the NACD Fellow community and who are committed to advancing the highest standards of boardroom excellence,” said Dr. Goodwin. “The resources, insights, and connections I’ve made through NACD Fellowship will be key assets to the companies I serve, as well as to my professional growth as a director.” Learn More Congratulations Super Bowl LIV Champions, Kansas City Chiefs and CEO, Clark Hunt! Mon, Feb 3, 2020 Learn More Larger Banks Lead to Less Economic Mobility Fri, Jan 31, 2020 Over the last several decades, consolidation in the banking industry has created larger banks, according to new research by SMU Cox Finance Professor Erik Mayer, leading to some negative effects for low-income households. Learn More Meet the Mustangs: Everett Ray, SMU Cox Finance Major Fri, Jan 31, 2020 "That's why I love SMU so much," Ray said. "Because I have a chance to be academically challenged and take advantage of a full scholarship and to be in one of the best business schools in the world and play for one of the best teams, I feel like, in the country." Learn More Bob Begert (BBA '67) Named 2019 Silver Anniversary Mustang Honoree Sun, Jan 19, 2020 The SMU Lettermen's Board of Directors and its Silver Anniversary Mustang (SAM) Award Committee honored Bob Begert (BBA '67) as the recipient of the 2019 SAM Award at halftime of Saturday's SMU Men's Basketball's victory over Temple. Learn More Accounting in the Age of Knowledge: Making Intangibles Tangible Wed, Dec 18, 2019 In ambitious research, SMU Cox Accounting Professor Sean Wang and his co-authors develop a new way to measure intangible assets that has been lacking for decades. Learn More Digital Supply Chain Institute holds 8th Executive Leadership Forum at SMU Cox Wed, Dec 11, 2019 This fall, SMU Cox was pleased to welcome to campus the eighth Executive Leadership Forum for the Digital Supply Chain Institute (DSCI) of the Center for Global Enterprise. Learn More Digital Piracy in the Age of Knowledge: Innovation the Key Tue, Dec 10, 2019 In a new study, strategy professors Julian Kolev and Wendy Bradley analyze the link between digital piracy and innovation for technology firms in the software business. Learn More In Broad Daylight: Where the Smart Money Shorts Stocks Mon, Nov 4, 2019 Mystery and speculation shrouds short sellers, also known as the “smart money.” Who are they? Where do they trade and why? In new research, Finance Professor Mehrdad Samadi of SMU Cox and co-authors provide the first evidence of short sellers, or informed traders, trading venue of choice. Learn More Largest alumni gift in University history transforms business education Fri, Oct 18, 2019 Learn More Breaking Ground on the Second Century Tue, Oct 1, 2019 As we launch our second hundred years, SMU Cox continues to strive for excellence in the business education we offer and in the future leaders we help develop. We are committed to further growth by concentrating on academic excellence and collaboration among faculty members, the SMU campus, the City of Dallas and the global community. Learn More Internet Learning: Are We Outsourcing Our Memory? Tue, Oct 1, 2019 Vast amounts of knowledge are at our fingertips owing to the Internet. As we continually immerse ourselves in the online world of information, what are the cognitive effects of it? This fundamental question is on the mind of Marketing Professor Matthew Fisher of SMU Cox in new research about Internet learning and its consequences. According to Fisher, little research about the subject has occurred to date in understanding this phenomenon. Learn More Future of Online Markets: Increasing Mobile Channel Differs From PC Channel Tue, Sep 3, 2019 The mobile channel is poised to be the future of online markets, according to ITOM Professor Tom Tan of SMU Cox. And, retail operations managers should not blindly treat the mobile channel like the conventional PC channel. In a working paper, Tan and co-author Nitish Jain make important contributions to innovative retail practices and operational decisions. Learn More Cross-border Investing: Increasingly Important for Start-Ups and Growth Wed, Jul 24, 2019 Cross-border venture capital investments play an important role in the scaling up of high growth companies, according to Strategy Professor Wendy Bradley. Foreign capital, expertise, and the networks that accompany cross-border investments are welcome by start-up ventures. However, a concern is that they transfer the majority of economic activity to the investor country. In new research, Bradley of SMU Cox and her co-authors examine cross-border venture capital (VC) investments and its implications for public policy. “There is a need for cross-border investments and partnerships for the advancement of science and economic growth,” says Bradley. Learn More Informed Investors Crucial for Shareholder Democracy Thu, Jun 27, 2019 Firms with strong corporate governance are like democracies, according to Finance Professor Nickolay Gantchev. Through their proposals and votes, shareholders can determine the broad direction of a company. In new research, Nickolay Gantchev of SMU Cox and Mariassunta Giannetti study the effectiveness of this low-cost form of shareholder activism. “Like a democracy, if you have more informed shareholders, when they vote, they can figure out which are good proposals, and prevent the bad ones from passing,” says Gantchev. Learn More From Honduras to Texas, With Love Thu, May 23, 2019 Jennifer Pérez, BBA '19, grew up in Tela, on Honduras’ Caribbean coast, near a popular botanical garden and nature preserve. Like many of her peers, she dreamed of going to college in the United States, but faced obstacles – a complicated college application process, academic preparation and tuition. Learn More SMU Homecoming & SMU Cox Reunions Tue, May 14, 2019 It will soon be time to reconnect with your fellow SMU Cox alumni and faculty at Homecoming 2019. In addition to SMU’s homecoming and reunion events, Cox is starting a new tradition of hosting class reunions just for our MBA and MS alumni. For 2019, we’ll have a weekend of reunion activities for MBA and MS alumni from the classes of 2014, 2009, 2004, 1999, 1994 and so on! Learn More SMU Cox Honors Alumni Business Success Mon, May 13, 2019 SMU Cox Distinguished Alumni Award winners are: Steven J. Lindley and Bruce Robson, both BBA ‘74. The Cox School’s 2019 Outstanding Young Alumni honorees, also alphabetically, are: Courtney Caldwell, BBA ’00, and Ryan Dalton, BBA ’01. Learn More Two Class of ’19 BBAs Selected as “Best and Brightest” Undergraduate Business Majors Tue, Mar 26, 2019 Neha Husein and Samuel Jacobson, both SMU Cox BBA ’19, are listed among 100 of this year’s “Best and Brightest” BBA students in the nation. Poets and Quants for Undergrads profiles students from the top 50 business schools in this annual feature. Learn More SMU Cox Announces New BBA Direct Admit Program Wed, Mar 20, 2019 Business-minded high school graduates now have a better shot at entering Cox as freshmen than ever before. Earlier this year, in preparation for the class entering in Fall 2020, SMU Cox launched the Direct Admit enrollment program. Learn More How to Navigate Today’s Multi-Teaming Organization Mon, Jan 28, 2019 Learn More Ambiguous Texas Shoplifting Laws May Be Applied Inconsistently By Police Fri, Dec 7, 2018 For more than three years, ambiguous wording in the Texas Penal Code led to inconsistent treatment of black and white arrestees for low-value shoplifting, according to a new study by a professor at Southern Methodist University. Learn More Shoppers Changed Up Retail Store Choice in Hard Times Mon, Dec 3, 2018 SMU Cox Marketing Professor Chaoqun Chen analyzes how consumers shop around various retail formats and how their behavior changed during the Great Recession. Her findings uncover truths about how consumers from different income levels adjusted to a new normal in their weekly treks. Learn More Insurers' Product Evolutions a Source of Systemic Risk Thu, Nov 8, 2018 Just when “simple" worries about the economy and the elections were on our minds, a new source of risk to the financial system emerges… Learn More Solving the Billion Dollar Challenge of High Drug Development Costs Mon, Oct 8, 2018 What if clinical trials could be conducted faster, required fewer patients, cost less, and led to improved health? "Our approach is good for patients, companies, and the public health at large, which would come from needed drugs being on the market sooner," states Vishal Ahuja, ITOM professor at SMU Cox. Learn More Too Many Loyalty Programs Miss the Point Mon, Oct 1, 2018 From the mundane to the sublime, points-based loyalty programs are ubiquitous today. But are they driving real loyalty? Marketers who use points to build behavioral loyalty may drive incremental sales, but they’re missing an opportunity to foster far more profitable attitudinal loyalty. Learn More Mary Kay Inc. Names Deborah Gibbins (Cox BBA '87) Chief Operating Officer Fri, Sep 28, 2018 Learn More Financial Protectionism Deters Investment and Costs Shareholders Mon, Aug 27, 2018 At a time when capital has never been more mobile and available, financial protectionism is on the rise. The costs of these economic nationalistic policies are little known however. In new research, SMU Cox Finance Professor Miller and co-authors reveal the important consequences of government-related incursions in deals between foreign and domestic companies and the resulting decline in shareholder value for a wide range of industries. Learn More Navigating the intersection of commerce and compassion Fri, Aug 24, 2018 Learn More Commencement 2018: A Record-Breaking Year for Cox Graduates Mon, Jun 4, 2018 Learn More SMU Cox Honors Four Alumni Wed, May 16, 2018 Learn More The Economics of Attention: A Valuable Commodity That's Hard to Measure Tue, May 1, 2018 The new scarce resource is attention, notes Marketing Professor Milica Mormann of SMU Cox. "We live in an attention economy, and our attention is limited." Through a multi-disciplinary approach, Mormann and co-author Cary Frydman reveal how attention is operating to influence economic choices in their novel research. "Attention is the step that leads a manager or consumer toward an action," she states. "We know we have about eight seconds to deliver a message on social media, in a TV ad, or for an investing decision or health care choice. But we do not know exactly how attention operates, in spite of the industry performing studies to gauge attention." Learn More New SMU Incubator Part of Area-Wide Emphasis on Technology, Innovation, Big Data and Entrepreneurship Wed, Apr 18, 2018 Learn More Hedge Fund Activism Shows Firms a Better Path Mon, Apr 2, 2018 When it comes to corporate governance, hedge funds are the new sheriffs in town. That’s the take-away of “Do Activists Turn Bad Bidders into Good Acquirers?” Associate Professor of Finance Nickolay Gantchev and his co-authors reveal new insights about the mergers and acquisitions strategy of firms that shareholder activists target. Learn More CEOs "Style" of Information Processing Reflected in Growth Strategies Mon, Dec 4, 2017 Getting inside the mind of the chief executive officer is a difficult research avenue. Knowledge about how CEOs process information, their cognitive style, has been relatively sparse. Strategy Professor Daniel Zyung of SMU Cox and co-authors unpack the cognitive mechanisms of CEOs in new research — and reveal how and why it matters. "Basically, this is a study about CEOs’ information processing style," Zyung says, "with many important implications, including their firm’s growth strategies." Learn More U.S. Shale Oil is Plentiful and Competitive, New Research Suggests Mon, Oct 30, 2017 The emergence of U.S. shale oil has expanded the global supply of oil. New research notes that the long-run impact of shale oil will depend on how much can be produced and how much it will cost. Few have good answers. In recent research, finance professor and energy expert James Smith of SMU Cox with co-author Thomas Lee determine what portion of known shale resources are economically viable at various price points and how many wells are likely to be drilled. So far, only a small portion of drilling sites have factored into the shale oil boom, according to Smith, and we have only depleted a fraction of U.S. shale resources. Learn More Gatekeepers Hold Key to Lower Costs in Health Care Tue, Oct 24, 2017 The U.S. healthcare system is the most expensive system in the world. Identifying ways to lower costs and have better health outcomes is a primary goal for health care managers and providers, policymakers and consumers. In new research, ITOM Professor Vishal Ahuja of SMU Cox and co-authors show that better continuity of care lowers costs and wasted effort, reduces time to see specialists, and produces significant savings in hospital system resources. They identify how "gatekeepers" are key to a more optimal and healthier system. Learn More Saving Retirement: Government Subsidy to Investment Industry Shortchanges Savers, Taxpayers Wed, Oct 18, 2017 As policymakers around the globe continue to debate options to incentivize retirement savings, new research uncovers some game-changing facts. The two main competing options consist of traditional tax-deferred savings vehicles like 401(k)s and IRAs, in which savers contribute pretax money and pay tax on withdrawals, or Roth-type plans, whereby savers pay taxes first and withdraw funds tax-free upon retirement. Which type of scheme is better depends on which side of the table one sits. In their paper, SMU Cox Finance Professor Mattia Landoni and co-author Zeldes discover that under a Roth-type regimen, government fares better, largely because of the investment fees that government implicitly pays in traditional tax-deferred accoun Learn More Avoiding the Next Liquidity Crunch: Bond Mutual Funds May Save the Day Thu, Sep 7, 2017 Regulators of financial markets, including the Federal Reserve Bank and the Securities and Exchange Commission, worry about a liquidity crisis in the corporate bond market. The financial market crisis of 2008-2009 involved domino-like liquidity shocks and regulators wish to steer clear of them if they can help it. In new research, SMU Cox Finance Professors Venkataraman and Jotikasthira show that some bond mutual funds are filling the role of a liquidity supplier, alongside a decline in dealer participation in market-making activities. Learn More Is Crowdsourced Investment Research Here to Stay? Fri, Jun 2, 2017 Today, many crowd-sourced investment research venues and platforms co-exist on the Internet, with new competitors continuing to arrive on the scene. These new entrants are becoming a source of information for investors and capital markets that rival the incumbent sell-side analyst research model. Technological innovation is making it so, along with smart entrepreneurs identifying market opportunities. In new research, SMU Cox Accounting Professor Stanimir Markov and co-authors examine how this increased competition is shaking up the status quo. Learn More who is moving modern markets Mon, Apr 3, 2017 The findings will help inform policymakers’ rulemaking to prevent future crashes and better design market structures. Learn More SMU Cox Dallas 100™ announces the No. 1 entrepreneurial company in Dallas Metroplex at 25th anniversary awards banquet Wed, Nov 30, 2016 Learn More ExxonMobil CEO Rex Tillerson Honored with Pitts Energy Leadership Award Fri, Jan 15, 2016 Event Proceeds Benefit Energy Student Scholarships Learn More SMU COX STUDENTS GAIN NEW ENERGY INVESTMENT LEARNING RESOURCE Fri, Oct 16, 2015 The state-of-the-art Sheffield Lab will give students a unique experiential learning opportunity as they prepare to enter the energy industry. The hands-on learning space is dedicated solely to the advancement of energy investment-related education. Learn More Big Data: Using Data Analytics to Enhance Drug Safety Tue, Sep 29, 2015 The use of big data in the health care industry, the largest sector of the economy, offers many benefits for the overall economy, businesses, and the health and well-being of people. In a first-of-its-kind study, SMU Cox ITOM Professor Vishal Ahuja and co-authors show how the use of data can validate life-changing health care findings. Additionally, this new approach using big data demonstrates how regulatory agencies can advance their governance missions by monitoring public safety with more robust, real-time analytical methods. Learn More Analyst/Investor Days Recognized as Important Corporate Communications Thu, Sep 24, 2015 With literally troves of corporate information available online for analysts to sift through, how can firms differentiate their message and convey complex, meaningful information to those who need it? The increasing number of analyst days, a long-form presentation by publicly-listed companies, indicate a trend toward a greater demand for face time with management. In novel research, Accounting Professor Stan Markov of SMU Cox and co-author Marcus Kirk study analyst/investor days as a disclosure medium that large firms with complex operations use to deepen stakeholders' understanding about the firm's outlook and valuation. Learn More Deal or No Deal: Are People Hard-Wired to Agree? Mon, Aug 31, 2015 Are people hard-wired to reach agreement, even when a deal is less than optimal or below a bottom line? According to new research by Management Professor Robin Pinkley and co-authors, as if force of habit, when faced with an offer people are reaching agreements and sealing deals when not agreeing might be a more rational choice. This phenomenon is based on the tendency of people being averse to impasse and attracted to agreement. Learn More Rational Investment Decisions: Shale Gas Not Over-Drilled Mon, Aug 17, 2015 The oil and gas industry has received a bad wrap about drilling for shale gas. Since late 2008, when prices collapsed owing to demand destruction from the economic crisis and an abundance of supply, prices of natural gas have remained low. From an all-time high of $14 per mcf (thousand cubic foot) they have fallen to under $3 today. Critics have charged that too many gas wells have been drilled given the low prices, and that the gas boom is unsustainable. SMU Cox Finance Professor James Smith's new research says the facts do not support that claim. Learn More Outdated Convention Distorts Oil and Gas Firms' Bottom Lines: Valuing Barrels Better Fri, Jul 31, 2015 The conventional method used by the oil and gas industry to report on upstream operations and results distorts profitability and valuations. Industry practice is to use "barrels of oil equivalent" or BOE— a measure that combines oil and gas volumes based on thermal parity, or the energy content of the source. Research by Finance Professor James Smith, the Maguire Chair of Oil and Gas Management, shows why and how the BOE convention has overstated the cost of adding reserves, the principal asset held by these firms. This comes at a time when the industry can scarcely afford miscalculations to their detriment. Learn More Why Do Some Firms Announce Stock Buybacks But Not Follow Through? Wed, Jul 1, 2015 Companies buy back stocks for a variety of reasons. One rationale is a key motive for a new study: Managers of undervalued firms use stock repurchases as a mechanism to signal firm value. Curiously, Finance Professor Stacey Jacobsen of SMU Cox and co-author Utpal Bhattacharya find a large number of firms announce share repurchases but do not actually follow through with the buyback. The stock market tends to view repurchase announcements as good news, according to its reaction. Learn More Shareholder Voting and Activism Influences Foreign Firms' Governance Thu, Oct 2, 2014 In the U.S., shareholder voting and activism is increasingly used to influence firm policy. New research by SMU Cox Finance Chair Darius Miller and co-authors suggests that shareholder voting can be an effective governance mechanism in countries outside the U.S. "This is important," says Miller, "since in many countries outside the U.S., the need for governance is greatest." The authors set out to test shareholder activism in global markets in a first-of-its-kind, large-scale study. Prior to this paper, there was not any evidence on whether shareholder voting in other countries was effective or not. Learn More SMU Cox Footer Utility Nav Give Contact Us Apply © Cox School of Business Southern Methodist University PO Box 750333 Dallas, Texas 75275-0333 214-768-2000 SMU Cox Legal Home SMU Cox on Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter