Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Research Menu About News Our Research Commitment Research Contacts Find A Researcher White Eye Detector: How Baylor Research Fights Pediatric Eye Disease Meals-to-You Baylor University Celebrates Four 2020 CAREER Grant Winners Baylor Celebrates National STEM Day Highlights Health Data Sciences Materials Science Human Flourishing, Leadership & Ethics Baylor in Latin America Other Research Initiatives Facilities, Centers & Institutes FAQ Priorities Industry Professionals Baylor Researchers R1 Impact Baylor>Research>Highlights>Other Research Initiatives Other Research Initiatives Baylor faculty share historic strengths in areas such as business, religion, education, family and consumer sciences, education and more. Learn more about Baylor research across a variety of disciplines that enriches understanding of the ways individuals and societies work, play, learn and worship. Apr. 26, 2022 The Power of Power Distance Belief Success in the education industry partly hinges on successful marketing, and the global reach of the internet presents vast opportunities. Baylor researchers analyze strategic approaches to reaching different cultures. Read More Apr. 11, 2022 Baylor Researchers Contribute on the Most Precise Ever W Boson - Particle Physics Measurement Baylor’s Experimental High Energy Physics group among scientists with significant contributions to the successful maintenance and operation of the experiment measuring one of nature’s force-carrying particles Read More Apr. 6, 2022 The Meaning of R1 Baylor's R1 status is far more than an elite club or glossy résumé item. It positions Baylor to have a significant impact around the world. Baylor faculty explain what that means to them in Baylor Magazine. Read More Feb. 23, 2022 Baylor Materials Testing and Characterization Laboratory Earns ISO Accreditation The Baylor Materials Testing and Characterization Core (MTACC) has earned ISO-17025 certification, a key validation for MTACC's services in imaging, materials characterization, fabrication and processing and more. Read More Jan. 23, 2022 NSF-funded Study Finds Dust Systems in Texas and New Mexico Impact Cardio-Pulmonary Health Baylor University paleoclimatologist Steven Forman analyzed gypsum- and quartz-dominated dune systems for possible fine, breathable dust fluxes detrimental to human health. Read More Dec. 16, 2021 Baylor University Earns Prestigious Research 1 Status Baylor University has been named a Research 1 university by the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education, joining the nation’s top-tier research institutions as a doctoral university with very high research activity and elevating Baylor as a preeminent Christian research university. Read More Nov. 5, 2021 100 New Faculty Hires to Advance Next Five-Year Framework for Illuminate During its regular fall meeting, the Baylor University Board of Regents affirmed the framework for the next five years of Illuminate, the University’s strategic plan, including hiring 100 new faculty to accelerate the University toward Research 1 status as the preeminent Christian research university. Read More Nov. 2, 2021 Pinniped Craniofacial Musculature Provides Insight on its Role in Aquatic Feeding Baylor biology researcher Sarah Kienle leads a foundational study in comparative craniofacial anatomy of pinnipeds, such as seals, sea lions and walruses Read More Other Research Initiatives News Archive Highlights Health Data Sciences Materials Science Human Flourishing, Leadership & Ethics Baylor in Latin America Other Research Initiatives General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About News Our Research Commitment Research Contacts Find A Researcher White Eye Detector: How Baylor Research Fights Pediatric Eye Disease Meals-to-You Baylor University Celebrates Four 2020 CAREER Grant Winners Baylor Celebrates National STEM Day Highlights Health Data Sciences Materials Science Human Flourishing, Leadership & Ethics Baylor in Latin America Other Research Initiatives Facilities, Centers & Institutes FAQ Priorities Industry Professionals Baylor Researchers R1 Impact