Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Events Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Schedule a Visit SMU Tour Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Twitter Follow Us YouTube Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Home Academics Academics Departments Undergraduate Majors Undergraduate Minors and Programs Graduate Studies Why Study Here? Why Study Here? The Dedman Edge Heard on The Hilltop Research and Fellowships Research and Fellowships Undergraduate Students Graduate Students National Student Fellowships Institutes and Centers Faculty Dean's Research Council Resources Resources Current Students Faculty and Staff Prospective Students Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate About About Dean's Welcome Administrative Directory Executive Board Department Chairs Department Faculty Directory Dedman Diversity Publications Facilities Connect Connect Make a Gift Contact Us Prospective Student Visit Alumni Connection and Events ☰ Academics Interdisciplinary Studies International and Area Studies Major and Minor Major and Minor International Studies, B.A. The major in International Studies requires 33 hours of coursework (in addition to prerequisites for certain courses). The 33 hours includes 15 hours of study from the Basic Curriculum or Core Curriculum and 15 hours in a regional specialization. At least 18 hours from the Basic Curriculum or Core Courses and Area Studies Curricula must be in courses at the 3000 level or above. The final three-hour requirement for the B.A. in international studies is the seminar; access to the seminar is normally reserved for students in their senior year. The Senior Seminar (INTL 4388), must be taken on campus by all students. The Senior Seminar is offered ONCE per academic year, in Fall semester. All International Studies Seniors need to enroll for the Seminar in Fall semester in order to graduate. A co-curricular requirement for the B.A. degree in International Studies is two years of college-level study of a foreign language or equivalent. Courses for the language requirement do not count toward the 33 hour requirement. The language requirement may be met through examination, the transfer of language study credit from another university, or by taking courses on campus. Latin does not count as a second language, because the intent is to prepare the student for employment in the contemporary world. Effective Fall 2019, curricular changes were made to the International Studies major. For students who began matriculation at SMU in Fall 2019 or after the new requirements are as follows. For students who began matriculation prior to Fall 2019, the previous requirements are in effect. Learn more International Studies Minor The minor in International Studies requires 15 credit hours of coursework, nine hours of which must be advanced courses at the 3000 level and above. The ﬁrst nine credit hours (three courses) must be chosen from the Core Courses. The next six credit hours (two courses) must be chosen from "The Global Perspective." A co-curricular requirement is one year of college-level study or equivalent of a world language. Note: Latin does not count as a second language. Courses taken in language study do not count toward the 15 credit hours of required coursework. Learn more Major and Minor Current Courses Internship and Departmental Distinction Courses Requirements for Pre-Fall 2019 Matriculation Apply Visit Academics Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Minors and Programs Research Centers and Institutes Connect Administrative Directory Department Directory Alumni Make a Gift Dedman College of Humanities & Sciences P.O. Box 750235 | Dallas, Texas | 75275-0233 214-768-2440 © Southern Methodist University Legal Disclosures facebook twitter youtube