Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu School of Social Work About Programs Apply Now Students Faculty & Staff Research Community Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Undergraduate About the Bachelor of Arts in Social Work HandbookSchool Social Work Licensure ProgramDCS Tuition Assistance & Certification Programs Prospective Social Work Majors BrochureProgram RequirementsApplication to Declare SWRK Major Current Students Degree Planning Sheet Course Sequence Semester Schedules Academic Advising Humanities Requirement Field Field HandbookField AgenciesField FormsField Powerpoint Financial Aid & Scholarships UofM Undergraduate Catalog Access UofM Campus Appointment Calendar Virtual Career Center Take Action Learn more about Social Work Explore the School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy Support Social Work Education Contact Us Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Home Social Work Undergraduate Academic Advising Undergraduate Advising SWRK Minors and Non-Majors asking for SWRK elective course permits please do the following: Send an email to swrkpermits@memphis.edu. Be sure to include the following information: Name U# Major Telephone Number CRN for the course(s) you're requesting PLEASE READ BEFORE SCHEDULING YOUR ADVISING APPOINTMENT! As of fall, 2013, any student who has not completed both SWRK 2010 and SWRK 2911 (with a grade of at least a C-) is considered a Pre-Social Work (PSWK) major. Danielle Seeman advises all PSWK majors. Danielle Seeman also advises all students who are thinking of changing their major to Social Work or who are interested in transferring to the University of Memphis from another institution of higher learning. Only students who have completed both SWRK 2010 and SWRK 2911 are recognized as Social Work (SWRK) majors. Permits are required to enroll in all SWRK classes. Use the table below to determine the name of your advisor: Faculty Member SWRK Advisees Additional students to be advised: How to Schedule an Appointment Prof. Kenya Anderson SWRK students who have begun their Field Placement -- Use Navigate Danielle Seeman SWRK students who have not yet started Field All Pre-Social Work (PSWK) majors and all students interested in transferring into the major. Use Navigate Prof. Veronica Morrow ALL Lambuth students: Both SWRK and PSWK Use Navigate All advisors on the main campus of the School of Social Work prefer that you schedule your advising appointments via the online Navigate (formerly SSC Campus) System Access Navigate by clicking HERE Non-Social Work majors and Social Work minors requesting a permit for a Social Work course are requested to email swrkpermits@memphis.edu. Permit requests for students outside the major are processed via this email address. Questions? Call the School of Social Work at 901-678-2616. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/23/20 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.