Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Health Studies Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Health Studies Major Apply Request More Info Health Studies Major Accreditation Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Departmental Research Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Arts in Health Studies Learn to evaluate and understand the importance of environmental, ethical, political and social issues to the provision of health services with the Bachelor of Arts in Health Studies in Temple’s College of Public Health. This undergraduate program consists of 120 credits and prepares you to compare and contrast the approaches to maintaining, promoting or restoring health from the perspectives of various health professions. Due to its flexible nature, you can tailor the health studies bachelor’s program to your interests by focusing on specific areas such as health information management, psychology and public health, among others. The Health Studies program is intended for transfer students interested in pursuing graduate coursework or careers in the healthcare industry. As a graduate, you will be prepared to do the following in a professional setting. Describe the anatomy and physiology of the human body, its various systems and their functions. Demonstrate an understanding of culturally competent and holistic approaches to health services, including implications of health disparities. Discuss the opportunities and the potential barriers to team-based delivery of health services, including clinicians, health educators, researchers and social services providers. Recognize the interactions of mental, physical and social well-being and the implications for providing quality health services. As a student in the Health Studies program, you will take a wide range of courses in anatomy and physiology, healthcare, public health, and statistics. This interdisciplinary approach prepares you to become a professional who seeks innovative healthcare solutions focused on interdisciplinary approaches and upstream interventions. What sets apart our Bachelor of Arts in Health Studies? An innovative curriculum: Students take core courses from across the College of Public Health—giving them an interdisciplinary education that is invaluable in preparing to work as part of a healthcare team. Opportunities to customize your degree: Students can tailor the Health Studies Major program around their career goals and select courses that will make them most competitive when applying to professional programs. A unique approach: Intended for transfer students, you will work closely with an academic advisor to plan out a suggested minor or certificate to meet educational goals. While the minor or certificate is not required, it is strongly recommended due to the opportunities provided by the flexibility of the Health Studies BA. Minors The Bachelor of Arts in Health Studies is intended for students who wish to pursue a graduate program that does not require the same level of bench sciences as the BS in Health Professions. However, students in the Health Studies BA can add a minor that will assist them in developing knowledge in health information management, nutrition, psychology and more. Program Format & Curriculum The Health Studies Major is a 120-credit undergraduate program that students can complete in eight semesters. Core courses include Disease Prevention and Control, Human Anatomy and Physiology I and II, Introduction to Psychology, and Medical Terminology. Learn more about the courses you will take as part of the Bachelor of Arts in Health Studies. Related Graduate Degrees Environmental Health MPH Health Informatics MS Health Policy and Health Services Research PhD Health Policy and Management MPH Related Graduate Certificates Clinical Health Services Research Global Health Health Informatics Health Outcomes and Measurement Science Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Arts offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $20,184.00 per year Out-of-state: $35,016.00 per year Our Academic Advisors The College of Public Health offers extensive, personalized advising services to students in each department. Our advising staff will work with you to set goals and help you reach your academic potential. Meet our academic advisors. Program Contact Wendy Cheesman is the program contact for the Health Studies Major. Email: wendy.cheesman@temple.edu Phone: 215-204-2789 Student Clubs & Organizations You can engage with peers and find leadership opportunities in student-led clubs and organizations in the College of Public Health. Learn more about student clubs and organizations. Study Away Become an informed, active global citizen and enrich your education by studying away. Explore Temple’s study abroad opportunities, including information about specific programs and visas, as well as resources on cultural adaptation, diversity matters, and health and safety. Learn more about studying away. HP-HLST-BA Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Health Studies Major Accreditation Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Departmental Research Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info