Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth The William Jewett Tucker Center Contact Us Facebook YouTube Instagram tucker.center@Dartmouth.eduContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home About About the Center Pastoral Counseling Ceremonial Services Support the Center Student Employment People Back to Top Nav Spiritual Life About Spiritual Life Religious Accommodations Holy Day Calendar Recognized Student Groups Buddhist Christian Hinduism Jewish Muslim United Campus Ministry Campus Ministers Grants Fellowships & Internships CROSS Fellowship Summer Internship Mindfulness Programs Tucker Center Mindfulness Groups Additional Mindfulness Opportunities Off-Campus Houses of Worship Buddhism Christianity Hinduism Islam Judaism Sikhism Resources Grief Resources Racial Justice Resources Back to Top Nav Multifaith Programs On-Campus Experiential Learning Programs Interfaith Living and Learning Community Multifaith Conversations Speed Stories Walks Clamantis Humans of Dartmouth Off-Campus Experiential Learning Programs Alternative Spring Break Project Preservation Back to Top Nav Sacred Spaces Rollins Chapel Renovations Prayer Services History Art & Architecture Labyrinth Hindu Temple The Roth Center Prayer and Meditation Rooms Back to Top Nav Events Upcoming Events Special Events Twilight Ceremony Voices of Faith MLK Multifaith Celebration Baccalaureate Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search 2022 Baccalaureate This year the multifaith, multicultural service for graduates and their families will be held on Saturday, June 11, 2022 at 2pm in the Life Sciences Center Lawn Tent. Our guest speaker is Christena Cleveland, PhD., '03. Dr. Cleveland is a social psychologist, public theologian, author, and activist. Click here for more information. Video of Meet the Tucker Center&amp;#039;s New Director and Chaplain An Equal Amount of Conscience and Heart - Nancy Vogele '85 returns to Dartmouth to lead the Tucker Center. To read the article about Reverend Nancy Vogele - click here. To watch the interview with Reverend Nancy Vogele - click here. Spring Holy Days 2022 For information regarding Passover, Holi, Easter and Holy Week, Ramadan and other sacred times and resources, please visit our Holy Days calendar page. PreviousNext Student, Faculty and Staff Support Confidential counseling with the College Chaplain or one of our ordained United Campus Ministers. Contact us via email to set up an appointment.learn more Spiritual Resources on Racial Justice and Anti-Racism Change begins with us. To learn more about the ways contemporary faith communities and movements can serve as a foundation and support of justice, equity and anti-racism, click here for a wide span of books, podcasts and organizations. We welcome your suggestions to add to the list for all to share. Multifaith Conversations These weekly dinner conversations are open to all students interested in spirituality and ethics. Starting April 5th from 5:30-6:30pm in 105 South Fairbanks Hall. For more information, please email Multi-Faith.Conversations@dartmouth.edu. learn more events view all Jun 11 2:00PM Baccalaureate Service Life Sciences Center Lawn The Tucker Center is excited to sponsor the Multifaith Baccalaureate Service, which will feature Christina Cleveland Ph.D. '03, as well as student speakers and the Rockapellas. Main menu Dartmouth College The William Jewett Tucker Center About About the Center Pastoral Counseling Ceremonial Services Support the Center Student Employment People Spiritual Life About Spiritual Life Religious Accommodations Holy Day Calendar Recognized Student Groups Buddhist Christian Hinduism Jewish Muslim United Campus Ministry Campus Ministers Grants Fellowships & Internships CROSS Fellowship Summer Internship Mindfulness Programs Tucker Center Mindfulness Groups Additional Mindfulness Opportunities Off-Campus Houses of Worship Buddhism Christianity Hinduism Islam Judaism Sikhism Resources Grief Resources Racial Justice Resources Multifaith Programs On-Campus Experiential Learning Programs Interfaith Living and Learning Community Multifaith Conversations Speed Stories Walks Clamantis Humans of Dartmouth Off-Campus Experiential Learning Programs Alternative Spring Break Project Preservation Sacred Spaces Rollins Chapel Renovations Prayer Services History Art & Architecture Labyrinth Hindu Temple The Roth Center Prayer and Meditation Rooms Events Upcoming Events Special Events Twilight Ceremony Voices of Faith MLK Multifaith Celebration Baccalaureate Ribbon Footer People The Rev. Dr. Nancy A.G. Vogele '85 Chaplain and Director Find Us Address The Tucker Center 6154 South Fairbanks Hall Hanover, NH 03755http://m.dartmouth.edu/map/ Phone: 646-3780 HB: HB 6154 Email: tucker.center@Dartmouth.edu More Contact Information Connect with Us Facebook YouTube Instagram Close Contact Us My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback