Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home All Services Survivor Advocacy Survivor Advocacy The SVR Lerner 700 office is available for in-person walk-ins during business hours. We also continue to offer virtual appointments. Please call 212-854-3500 to schedule a virtual appointment. For urgent or after-hours support, please call the 24/7 helpline (212-854-HELP/4357) to speak with an advocate. Advocates provide intervention on behalf of a specific individual or on behalf of all survivors. Intervention may take the form of interactions with individuals, agencies, organizations, or groups that focus on promoting responses and services that address the needs and rights of survivors. Sexual Violence Response advocates for survivors of stalking, harassment, and sexual, domestic, intimate partner, and gender-based violence. Examples of advocacy: Empowering every client to make their own informed and personal decisions Providing nonjudgmental, trauma-informed support and information Explaining to medical and legal proceedings to a survivor and explaining why procedures, tests, or exams might be requested Discussing a survivor's rights and options regarding medical, legal, and University adjudication procedures Sexual Violence Response advocates are available 24/7 year-round by calling 212-854-HELP (4657). Advocates provide confidential services to survivors and co-survivors of sexual violence, intimate partner violence, stalking, relationship abuse, family violence, and other types of harassment. Survivor Advocates Survivor advocates are confidential, professional staff members certified through the New York State Department of Health to provide crisis intervention and safety planning to survivors of violence. The survivor advocate’s role is to help the survivor consider their options and provide them with the information necessary to make informed decisions. Once a decision is made, the advocate is responsible for supporting the survivor in the implementation of that decision. The primary role of an advocate is to provide objective, empathetic, knowledgeable, and supportive intervention that will assist a survivor, co-survivor, or bystander in securing the necessary information, services, referrals, and follow-up care that may be required based on the individual’s experience. Advocates can accompany student survivors to the New York City Police Department, local hospitals, University departments, or other relevant agencies. They can provide support and information about filing a complaint with Columbia's Student Conduct and Community Standards Office, local law enforcement, or civil courts. Peer Advocates Peer advocates are confidential student volunteers who have gone through extensive training and have been certified through the New York State Department of Health to provide crisis intervention to survivors of violence. The peer advocate’s role is to help the survivor consider their options and provide the survivor with the information necessary to make informed decisions. Peer advocates participate in the on-call support of the Sexual Violence Response Helpline (212-854-HELP/4357) and also sign up for office shifts offering peer-to-peer support. Peer advocates can provide accompaniment during on-call hours to local hospitals, law enforcement, and campus public safety, and connect the campus community to resources (both on and off-campus) and maintain their confidentiality. Peer advocates can also provide advocacy support to student groups hosting events surrounding sexual or gender-based violence. Apply to be a Peer Advocate here! Learn more about the Quick Escape button. Make an Appointment Closed Sorry, we are closed. Open Now edit location Check out our office locations and hours Health Unit Sexual Violence Response Clinical Specialty Sexual and Reproductive Health Counseling Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close