HOME Make a Gift Clemson Home Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift Toggle navigation ABOUT FAQ CONTACT US Conduct Reports Tucker Hipps Transparency Act. The following organization is on Disciplinary Probation for violations of the Student Code of Conduct. While on Disciplinary Probation, the organization is considered to be “not in good standing” with the University and may face specific restrictions on behavior and University privileges. This organization is allowed to participate in their council's recruitment process. Currently no organizations are under disciplinary probation. Notice of Suspended Organizations Students who are considering joining a fraternity or sorority should be aware that there are Greek organizations that have been suspended by the university and are not permitted to recruit new members. The organizations are: Phi Kappa Tau (IFC)– suspended until August 2022. Delta Tau Delta (IFC) - suspended through the end of the summer 2024 semester. Pi Kappa Phi (IFC) - suspended through the end of the summer 2025 semester. Sigma Chi (IFC) - permanently dismissed Organizations under suspension are not permitted to hold any organized activities, recruit new members or participate in official university activities as an organization. These organizations must petition Clemson University for re-recognition once their suspensions have expired in order to return as a recognized student organization. Status of Previously Affiliated Organizations Sigma Phi Epsilon (IFC) - suspension expired December 2019. The national headquarters has not petitioned Clemson University or the Interfraternity Council about reinstatement. Sigma Pi (IFC)– suspension expired December 2020. The national headquarters has not petitioned Clemson University or the Interfraternity Council about reinstatement. Lambda Chi Alpha (IFC) - suspended indefinitely by Lambda Chi Alpha Headquarters. Fraternity and Sorority Life was notified on Oct. 6, 2017 that Lambda Chi Alpha's national board had closed the chapter at Clemson University for failure to meet written, expressed terms of the chapter's at-risk status. Lambda Chi Alpha expelled all undergraduate students who were initiated members and released the fall 2017 new members of their membership obligation so they could join another fraternity. A date to return to Clemson University has not been set by Fraternity and Sorority Life and Lambda Chi Alpha Headquarters. CONTACT DIVISION OF STUDENT AFFAIRS 202 Sikes Hall, Clemson, SC Copyright 2020 Webmaster