Skip to main content Search Cornell Cornell Video Explore Home Browse Recent Trending Playlists Series Speakers Topics Contributors Submit MyPlaylist Play all in MyPlaylist Ask a Question tbd Name Email Address Question Send or cancel × Ask a Question Successful Thanks, ! Your question has been submitted. × Ariel Ortiz-Bobea explores links between weather and agricultural productivity Posted on December 12, 2018 Video Platform Video Management Video Solutions Video Player facebook twitter share interactive transcript request transcript/captions live captions download HD video SD video audio | MyPlaylist start: now end: now reset copy link copy embed X ARIEL ORTIZ-BOBEA: United States agriculture is one of the most productive in the world. Since the 1950s, agricultural productivity has more than doubled. At the same time, agriculture remains inherently dependent on climate. Our research team wanted to know whether the massive transformation of the sector over the past half century have also made it more resilient to climatic shocks. With a changing climate, this is a critical question, not only for the US, but for other nations around the world who look up to agricultural development in the US as a blueprint for their own future. We linked detailed weather information with agricultural productivity for each of the lower 48 states to quantify the relationship between productivity and weather. That includes both crop production and animal production. We found a clear connection between productivity and temperature. Exposure to hot summers are associated with lower productivity in most parts of the US. One of our key findings is that the relationship has changed over time, particularly in Midwestern states. Prior to the 1980s, a 2-degrees-Celsius-warmer summer was associated with a drop in productivity of about 10%. Since then, the same environmental conditions are associated with a 30% drop in productivity. We wondered why this was happening. So we dug deeper to see whether animal production or crop production was driving this pattern. We found two distinct but compounding sources. First, we found that these patterns seem more closely linked to changes in how we produce crops than to changes in how we produce animals. Second, the Midwest has become more specialized in crop production as opposed to animal production. Our work reveals a trade-off between higher productivity and higher sensitivity to climate in US agriculture. We don't take a position on whether this trade off is undesirable, but it is important to realize we are making this trade-off, and we encourage policymakers to consider these patterns as they address how we can adapt to climate change. Transcript Request Form Name Email Address Disability Accommodation? Disability Accommodation? Yes No Affiliation -Select- Faculty Staff Student Alumni Other Send Request Cancel X We've received your request You will be notified by email when the transcript and captions are available. The process may take up to 5 business days. Please contact cornellcast@cornell.edu if you have any questions about this request. Ariel Ortiz-Bobea, assistant professor of applied economics and management, discusses the impact of climate change on agricultural productivity in the United States. More About climate change agriculture extreme weather climate science geography What to watch next 3:52 MyPlaylist McEnroe Organic Farm - Climate Smart Farming Story 3:48 MyPlaylist Stein Farms - Climate Smart Farming Story 3:55 MyPlaylist Common Thread Farm - Climate Smart Farming Story surprise me Subscribe Submit Content Contact us RSS Cornell on YouTube Give Feedback Name Email Comments Send or cancel × Feedback Thanks for writing. We will be in touch shortly to address any questions, concerns, or technical difficulties you may have. × Schedule of Future Events There are no live broadcasts scheduled. × Email Updates See what's new on CornellCast and find out what's coming up next — and how you can take part. Subscribe to receive weekly CornellCast updates via email. Email address Subscribe or cancel × Subscribe Our hamsters have processed your subscription request and advise that the weekly update messages will contain details on unsubscribing in case you need them. × List Sent Our hamsters have processed your request and advise that a summary has been sent to the email address entered. × RSVP to this Live Event tdb tbd Enter your email below to be notified when this event begins Name Email Address Set reminder for Set reminder for 5 minutes 15 minutes 30 minutes 1 hour 1 day before the event starts. RSVP or cancel × RSVP Successful You should receive an email confirmation shortly. We will send you an email reminder before the show begins. You may request additional reminders for other times if you wish. You can also add this event to a calendar of your choice iCal/Outlook/other Google calendar For iCal, an .ics file will be downloaded to your computer or device. You may need to take additional steps to add the event to your personal calendar. × Settings Let us know your preferences and our accommodating hamsters will snap to it! Autoplay: on off Update or cancel × Follow this tbd tbd Enter your email below to be notified when new related videos become available. Name Email Address Follow or cancel × Thanks for Your Interest You should receive an email confirmation shortly. We will send you an email message when new related videos are posted. ×