Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries MediaXarts: Cinema for New Technologies and Environments MA You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs MediaXarts: Cinema for New Technologies and Environments MA Apply Request More Info MediaXarts: Cinema for New Technologies and Environments MA Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid MediaXarts: Cinema for New Technologies and Environments MA Take your cinematic endeavors to new heights and prepare for a professional future in a changing artistic world with the innovative one-year Master of Arts in MediaXarts: Cinema for New Technologies and Environment in Temple’s School of Theater, Film and Media Arts. This 30-credit-hour graduate program positions students for careers in the fields of design and cinema, bridging the divide between a wide array of disciplines including creative design, interactive cinema, media installation, user experience design, design for mobile media, net art and social media. Operating within a collaborative workshop environment, you’ll peel back the layers of emerging artforms and challenge artistic norms as you stretch cinematic conventions to fit new media and an ever-changing world. The curriculum offers interdisciplinary studies in a variety of forms, all within the city of Philadelphia’s thriving arts scene, as well as Temple’s Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts. At the core of your experience will be the search for understanding forms of new media, including design, digital animation, game design, interactive installation, mobile media apps, new media studies, and projection design for performance and architecture. You’ll work on your own and together with other students to discover what lies at the intersection of arts and applied technologies, gaining skills for creative engagement. You’ll even collaborate across Temple’s schools and colleges, seeking out new artistic forms within Boyer College of Music and Dance, the School of Theater, Film and Media Arts, Tyler School of Art, and other programs within the university. Classes & Curriculum The Master of Arts in MediaXarts curriculum is structured so that students operate at the convergence of several Media Arts programs, all within the interdisciplinary context of Temple's Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts. Core courses include Art-Culture-Technology Seminar, Media Arts Theory-Practice and Videography. Upon completion of their core courses, students customize their own course of study for the remainder of the program. Learn more about MediaXarts: Cinema for New Technologies and Environments MA courses. Related Graduate Degrees Film and Media Arts MFA Documentary Arts and Visual Research MFA/PhD Related Graduate Certificates Documentary Arts and Ethnographic Research Certificate Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Arts offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,078.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,441.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors Advisors in the School of Theater, Film and Media Arts help you chart your course through your degree program and are available to answer any questions you may have about your preferred area of study. Sarah Drury, associate professor and director of Film and Media Arts graduate studies, is the advisor for MediaXarts students. Phone: 215-204-3468 Email: sarah.drury@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Student clubs and organizations give you the opportunity to gain stage performance or production experience, express yourself without classroom restrictions, and network with other film and theater professionals. In addition, you can make friends and enhance your social life. Consider joining one or more of the following clubs. Delta Kappa Alpha is a selective national organization whose mission is to foster lifelong character, collaborative and creative storytelling, ethical and productive business practices, philanthropic action, and fraternal bonds by and between students of the cinematic arts. Film in Color is an organization geared toward creating a welcoming space for students of color within Temple’s Film Department, affording the opportunity to come together to create, discuss, learn from and network with one another. The Greater Philadelphia Film Office Next connects Philadelphia-area students, recent graduates and rising content creators with industry leaders. Mise-en-Femme is a production organization aimed at encouraging women to work together to gain knowledge and hands-on experience in the art of filmmaking. They also run Temple Women’s Fest, which is a showcase of the efforts of some of the most influential female filmmakers. The Queer Film Collective’s mission is to empower queer filmmakers and explore queer film both in theory and practice. Both queer and straight students are welcome to join. Temple Film Collective is a group of Temple student independent filmmakers who produce their own films and host an online film festival. The University Media Screening Society meets once a week to screen a film from Temple's Media Library. Sometimes, screenings are substituted with special events. Wandering Studios is a student film organization focused on helping students create short films throughout the semester. Learn more about Film and Media Arts student clubs and organizations. Study Away Graduate students, who can find the time within their programs to participate, are welcome to study abroad. Temple offers opportunities to study in Japan, London, Rome and Venice. Students can also opt to spend a semester or summer in Los Angeles. Learn more about Temple’s study away programs. Accreditation The Film and Media Arts program is associated with the University Film and Video Association, an international organization of university and industry professionals working in the field of media production. CA-MXAR-MA Additional Program Information Visit School Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in MediaXarts: Cinema for New Technologies and Environments MA Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info