Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Earth Sciences About Programs Faculty Research Student Resources Career Path Make a Gift Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Earth Sciences Programs Undergraduate Students About the BAMinorCoursesAdvising4 year sequence Graduate Students About the ProgramCertificatesCoursesApplication ProcessGraduate CoordinatorProspective Students GIS Certificate About Frequently Asked Questions SAGE Laboratory Testimonials Minor in Earth Sciences Take Action Apply Now! News and Colloquium Field Activities Contact Us Home Earth Sciences Earth Sciences Programs GIS Certificate Earn a Graduate Certificate in Geographic Information Systems (GIS) Quick Links: About | Credit for Prior Learning | Curriculum | Apply | Request Info Our certificate in Geographic Information Systems (GIS) will develop your geographic awareness and geospatial technology skills, while expanding your career opportunities. We combine research with extensive hands-on experience using the latest data sourcing and online GIS learning techniques, leveraging the best GIS software and working with spatial data in a real-world context. Graduates will be able to go beyond basic analysis of GIS data and be able to develop solutions for some of the industry’s most complex problems. By completing this certificate, you'll be able to: Create map apps to communicate geographic information Use cutting-edge GIS software Apply GIS analysis to real-world situation Accredited _________ Only online graduate GIS certificate degree offered in the Mid-South + only online graduate GIS certificate taught by an accredited university in Tennessee. Accessible _________ Choose the program path that best fits your schedule. Complete coursework in a classroom and lab setting, fully online through UofM Global, or a hybrid of both. Earn Credit for Prior Learning _________ Only program in the country to accept or offer experiential learning credit for GISPs. Learn More > The GIS Certificate is intended for students currently admitted to a graduate program at the University of Memphis or another university, or for students holding a graduate degree with an interest in using GIS as a problem-solving tool. Experiential Learning Credit We are the only program in the country to accept or offer experiential learning credit for GISPs. We count 9 credits of experiential learning credit towards completion of our GIS certificate program if applicant has GIS Professional status. GISPs can complete the certificate program by taking the capstone GIS project course (ESCI 7998) and execute a comprehensive capstone project at the end of their program. GISP® recognition is a method of showing competence as professionals to employers in the GIS profession. The GIS Certification Institute (GISCI) is a non-profit organization that provides the GIS community with a complete certification program, leading to GISP® recognition. Curriculum GIS certificate can be taken completely online, or you can enroll in hybrid program and come to campus for instruction. Required courses are offered online as well as face-to-face. 12 Credit Hours Required Required Courses (9 hours): ESCI 6515 | Geographic Information Science ESCI 6525 | Advanced Geographic Information Science ESCI 7998 | Capstone GIS Project Elective Course (3 hours): For the hybrid program, the electives could come from a variety of related earth science fields with approval of the Director of GIS Certificate Program. Possible elective courses include: Modular GIS, GIS and Human Health, Urban Geography, Transportation Planning, Remote Sensing of the Environment, Quantitative Methods, Field Methods, Automation Process In GIS, Archeological Spatial Analysis, Seminar in Geographic Information Science, Visual Basic, Advanced Visual Basic, Land Use Planning. Modular GIS for an elective course (ESCI 6535- 3 credits): This online course is elective course for the fully online GIS certificate program. All content, learning activities and assessments are delivered online. Students will be able to access a wide variety of modules by applying GIS technology to the needs within their disciplines and topics of interest. The overall goal of this course is to provide students with modular learning content within the various GIS domains (i.e., mapping and visualization, analytics, web sharing etc.). Internship course for an elective course (ESCI 6700- 3 credits): This elective internship course represents the culminating experience for students in the GIS certificate program. This course is designed to provide practical experience in the application of GIS Certificate course content in real world professional settings. Students will select a professional project in consultation with their internship supervisor and GIS certificate director and will then design, implement and report on their activities as internship course deliverables. Review the Course Catalog > SAGE Laboratory The SAGE Laboratory supports and facilitates the teaching and research activities of the GIS Certificate in the areas of geographic information systems, remote sensing, geospatial web visualization and geospatial data management. Learn more about the lab, view live dashboard examples and more > Advance Your Career GIS Technology is used in thousands of careers: Earning a Certificate in GIS could open the door to many opportunities and give you the edge you need to land the internship or job you desire. Potential career areas include: Precision Farming Academics Archaeology Architecture Urban & Community Planning Natural Hazard & Risk Management App Development Computer Science Business & Marketing Self-Driving Cars Criminal Intelligence Crime Mapping Civil/Environmental Engineering Community Sustainability Earth Sciences Transportation Oil & Gas Industry Utilities Industry Public Health Apply to the Program To apply, complete the Graduate School's online application. You will need to include a letter of intent in your application submission. Request Information If you see this don't fill out this input box. First Name Last Name Email Address Submit Contact Us Explore Frequently Asked Questions > Follow Us on Facebook > Dr.Esra Ozdenerol GIS Certificate Program Coordinator Department of Earth Sciences 236 Johnson Hall, Memphis, TN 38152 eozdenrl@memphis.edu Telephone: 901.678.2787 Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/17/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.