Menu Close Menu Skip to content Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters A to Z index Search for: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Email People Departments Calendar Careers my.harvard Giving About Faculty & Research Admissions & Aid Academics Executive/Continuing Ed News News > News > Featured News Stories > 2022 > A better antibiotic for tuberculosis treatment News Menu Search for: News Home Press Releases 2020 Releases 2019 Releases 2018 Releases 2017 Releases 2016 Releases 2015 Releases 2014 Releases 2013 Releases 2012 Releases 2011 Releases Search the press releases archive Features In the News Multimedia 2021 Multimedia 2020 Multimedia 2019 Multimedia 2018 Multimedia 2017 Multimedia 2016 Multimedia 2015 Multimedia 2014 Multimedia 2013 Multimedia 2012 Multimedia HPH Magazine Faculty Stories Faculty News, Notes, and Accolades Student Stories Student News, Notes, and Accolades Alumni Stories Explore Research by Topic Office of Communications Make a Gift A better antibiotic for tuberculosis treatment Harim Won May 12, 2022 – Over the past few years of his PhD research, Harim Won has been laying the groundwork to develop a new type of antibiotic to treat tuberculosis (TB), addressing the long-standing problems of lengthy treatments and antibiotic resistance. Won is using a new approach to turn a normal protein system in the bacterial cell against itself. Won, who works in the lab of Eric Rubin, adjunct professor of immunology and infectious diseases at Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, is completing a degree in biological sciences in public health. In January, Won was named a 2022 Harvard Horizons Scholar by the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. Selected for his promising research, he had the opportunity, along with the seven other Horizons Scholars, to share his work at a mid-April public symposium. Because TB treatment ranges from six months for typical cases up to two years for multidrug-resistant cases, health care workers travel to patients’ homes each day to ensure that antibiotics are taken consistently. The COVID-19 pandemic disrupted this process, particularly in low- and middle-income countries with limited resources. As a result, after years of steadily declining deaths due to TB, the trend has reversed. The conventional strategy of finding more effective antibiotics has shown limited success over the past few decades. “If you think of a bacterial cell like an electric pencil sharpener, one of the bacterial proteins could be likened to the sharpener’s blades,” Won explained. “If you took Silly Putty and jammed it right in the blades, it would stop that component from working and the sharpener wouldn’t work, like how the bacterial cell would die if an antibiotic molecule jammed up the protein. Instead, what if we could somehow get the pencil sharpener to chew up its own wiring?” Since a traditional antibiotic molecule fits into one specific site of the protein, a single mutation there can prevent binding and lead to drug resistance. Won has turned to other fields for inspiration, taking an approach called targeted protein degradation that has been used to create cancer drugs. Adapting the strategy for bacteria, instead of one antibiotic molecule sticking to one bacterial protein, the method uses a two-headed molecule that binds to both a target protein and a protein system called a protease. “We can think of a protease like a garbage disposal in the cell. Its jobs include chewing up old proteins or ones that are messed up for one reason or another. With targeted protein degradation, you’re taking a normal system in cells and redirecting it to destroy proteins that are causing disease,” he said. Compared to a traditional antibiotic, the two-headed molecule can theoretically attach anywhere on the target protein and protease, not just at one site—giving researchers more options for designing the drug and combatting antibiotic resistance. In proof-of-concept experiments, Won used genetic engineering techniques to modify potential target proteins and the protease. He added tags that brought the two parts close to each other inside the cell, mimicking the role of the two-headed molecule. He found that the protease could indeed degrade the target proteins and affect the bacteria, either by reducing bacterial growth or making the bacteria more sensitive to an existing antibiotic. Won performed the experiments in a petri dish using a bacterial strain that models TB, so the next steps include testing using TB bacteria and animal models of the disease. Once the experiments identify the best target proteins, the lab will collaborate with chemists to find a molecule that binds to the proteins and the protease. “Our approach to developing new antibiotics is largely to try to figure out ways to gum up the works in the organism that is causing an infection,” said Rubin. “Harry is taking a very different way, turning an essential bacterial system against itself. It opens up a completely new path toward developing anti-infective medications.” More broadly, Won views antibiotic development as a matter of justice. “Exposure is not equal in infectious diseases, and accessibility of treatments is also not equitable. The best way I can think of to make our world healthier is being involved in the process of making new medicines that help people,” he said. Watch a video clip from Harim Won’s Harvard Horizons Symposium presentation – Jessica Lau Photo: Kent Dayton Share this:FacebookTwitterLinkedInReddit Subscribe The COVID-19 Update Our researchers are on the front lines of the global response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Sign up here to receive our weekly newsletter highlighting their efforts. Join mailing list Additional newsletters and mailing lists Related Articles drug resistance infectious diseases tuberculosis ‘The infectious disease that nobody ever thinks about’ Threat of antibiotic resistance looms large Climate in the clinic More on this topic ‘Ebola hunter’ Jean-Jacques Muyembe receives Harvard honorary degree The latest on the coronavirus Clearer guidance needed for risky pathogen experiments More on this topic Both rich and poor countries saw essential health services decline during COVID ‘The infectious disease that nobody ever thinks about’ Eric Rubin, Renee Salas elected to National Academy of Medicine More on this topic Explore HSPH research by topic Harvard Chan School News on Twitter In the wake of a May 24 mass shooting at a Uvalde, Texas, elementary school that left 19 students and two teachers… https://t.co/x8GHo0fMZS RT @dengdiit: This week,I had the honor and responsibility of receiving a master’s degree in public health with concentration in health pol… RT @Harvard: “Don’t let your generation be defined by the pandemic. Let it be defined by public service,” said Attorney General Merrick Gar… RT @HarvardCCHANGE: Looking for ways to take action on #climate? The Climate Health Organizing Fellowship trains health professionals to u… RT @HarvardCCHANGE: Creativity is turning coal mines, landfills, and toxic waters into opportunities for #CleanEnergy. Your lights yearn to… RT @HarvardCenterHH: What is the relationship between #technology and #happiness? This @Forbes article offers potential considerations, wit… Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters About Key Facts Renaming the School Office of the Dean Location and Facilities Administrative Offices Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty and Researcher Directory Academic Departments, Divisions and Centers International Research Postdoctoral Research Fellows Office of Faculty Affairs Faculty Searches Office of Diversity and Inclusion Admissions & Aid Why Harvard Chan Degree Programs Non-Degree Programs Financial Aid Student Experience Career Advancement Apply Academics Academic Departments Divisions Research Centers Flagship Initiatives International Research Research Administration and Support Degree Programs Fellowships and Residencies Summer Programs Continuing Professional Education Interdisciplinary Concentrations Academic Calendar Harvard Chan Viewbook Executive/Continuing Ed Program Offerings Custom Programs Request Information News and Resources About ECPE Contact News Featured News Press Releases Student Stories In the News Newsletters HPH Magazine Why Public Health? Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College