Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Office of Interdisciplinary Programs Menu About Us Directory and Contacts Events Area Studies Humanities+ Programs Humanities+ Research Initiatives Undergraduate Programs Interdisciplinary Majors Interdisciplinary Minors Interdisciplinary Certificates Office of Interdisciplinary Programs The Office of Interdisciplinary Programs provides Baylor students with vital interdisciplinary curricular options and incubates innovative interdisciplinary faculty research and teaching collaborations. Explore Area Studies Area Studies are interdisciplinary programs focusing on specific geographic regions or culturally defined areas. Baylor offers four such programs: Asian Studies; Latin American Studies; Middle East Studies; and Slavic and East European Studies. Read More Arts & Sciences Humanities+ Programs Arts & Sciences Humanities+ Programs: Humanities+ Programs are curricular explorations rooted in the humanities that extend beyond disciplinary boundaries to engage critically the fullness of human flourishing. Of these, the College of Arts & Sciences offers the Humanities Fellows Program, Medical Humanities, Military Studies, and Women’s and Gender Studies. Read More University Humanities+ Research Initiatives Humanities+ Research Initiatives are University-wide, faculty-driven collaborations that foster cutting-edge interdisciplinary research, such as the Baylor Ethics Initiative and the Digital Humanities Initiative. The Office of Interdisciplinary Programs is happy to work with faculty interested in additional collaborations. Read More Events See More Events Interdisciplinary Programs 207 Burleson (254) 710-6327 Paul_Martens@baylor.edu Certificates Majors Minors General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Us Directory and Contacts Events Area Studies Humanities+ Programs Humanities+ Research Initiatives Undergraduate Programs Interdisciplinary Majors Interdisciplinary Minors Interdisciplinary Certificates