Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of Nationally Competitive Awards NCA right arrow down arrow About NCA right arrow down arrow Programs and Events Understanding Fellowships Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us News Awards right arrow down arrow Core Awards right arrow down arrow Fulbright U.S. Student Program Gaither Junior Fellows Program right arrow down arrow Gaither Info Session Goldwater Scholarship right arrow down arrow Goldwater Info Session Marshall Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Mitchell Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Rhodes Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Truman Scholarship right arrow down arrow Truman Info Session Udall Scholarship right arrow down arrow Udall Info Session Priority Awards right arrow down arrow Boren Awards right arrow down arrow Boren Info Session Critical Language Scholarship right arrow down arrow CLS Info Session Fulbright UK Summer Institutes right arrow down arrow Fulbright UKSI Session Gates Cambridge Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Knight-Hennessy Scholarship National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship Paul & Daisy Soros Fellowships for New Americans Schwarzman Scholarship right arrow down arrow Schwarzman Scholarship Info Session Other Awards right arrow down arrow International Studies International Students Underrepresented and Minority Students Specific Interests or Disciplines Applying right arrow down arrow Deciding to Apply Preparing Your Application right arrow down arrow Recommendation Letters Essay Strategies Developing as a Candidate The Leadership Essay Student Spotlight right arrow down arrow 2021–22 Award Winners 2020–21 Award Winners 2019–20 Award Winners 2018–19 Award Winners NCA Ambassadors Fulbright@UC right arrow down arrow Info Session Recordings UC Fulbright Winners Fulbright Boot Camp Aspire Scholars For Faculty Home » Campus Life » Office of Nationally Competitive Awards » Awards » Priority Awards » Knight-Hennessy Scholarship Set Navigation title in component Core Awards Fulbright U.S. Student Program Gaither Junior Fellows Program Gaither Info Session Goldwater Scholarship Goldwater Info Session Marshall Scholarship UK Awards Info Sessions Mitchell Scholarship UK Awards Info Sessions Rhodes Scholarship UK Awards Info Sessions Truman Scholarship Truman Info Session Udall Scholarship Udall Info Session Priority Awards Boren Awards Boren Info Session Critical Language Scholarship CLS Info Session Fulbright UK Summer Institutes Fulbright UKSI Session Gates Cambridge Scholarship UK Awards Info Sessions Knight-Hennessy Scholarship National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship Paul & Daisy Soros Fellowships for New Americans Schwarzman Scholarship Schwarzman Scholarship Info Session Other Awards International Studies International Students Underrepresented and Minority Students Specific Interests or Disciplines Knight-Hennessy Scholarship The Knight-Hennessy Scholars program at Stanford University aims to prepare a new generation of leaders with a deep academic foundation and the broad skill set to develop creative solutions to effect positive change. Each year, the program provides full funding to 100 exceptional students from around the world, making it the largest fully endowed graduate fellowship in existence. The world needs leaders in government, business, and nonprofits who think beyond silos to creatively address society’s thorniest problems. Stanford University—with seven world-class graduate schools that foster service, collaboration, innovation, and entrepreneurship—is uniquely positioned to fill this need. The Knight-Hennessy Scholars program will empower an exceptional cohort of graduate students to effect large-scale positive impact across the globe. This award does not require university endorsement. However, the Knight-Hennessy Scholarship is exceptionally competitive. We strongly recommend that you work closely with NCA as you prepare your application. Deadlines National Deadline: October 2022 Award Details right arrow down arrow Funding is available for any graduate program at Stanford. This includes the JD, MA, MBA, MD, MFA, MS, and PhD programs, as well as joint- and dual-degrees. The program funds up to the first three years of graduate education. If the degree program exceeds three years — such as an MD or PhD program, or a Stanford dual- or joint-degree program — then the Stanford home department(s) will fund the remainder of your education to the extent consistent with its standard funding commitment for that program. Who Should Apply right arrow down arrow Eligibility Criteria To apply, you must: have completed your bachelor’s degree before enrolling at Stanford and be within five years of graduating (graduated 2016 or later) submit a separate application to a full-time graduate program at Stanford (this includes joint- and dual-graduate degree options), which includes any standardized tests that it requires and separate letters of recommendation There are no restrictions for citizenship, age, or GPA. Please refer to the Knight-Hennessey website for a detailed list of the eligibility criteria. Selection Criteria Knight-Hennessy Scholars are united by their shared potential for leadership, their belief in positive change, and their humility and kindness. They can out-think, out-work, and out-care others. In addition to academic excellence, Scholars will have a record of meaningful, impactful leadership and impressive engagement and service. The core selection criteria reflect this Independence of Thought Purposeful Leadership Civic Mindset Please carefully review the detailed descriptions of the selection criteria on the Knight-Hennessy website. Application Components right arrow down arrow Background information One-page résumé Transcripts Short-answer responses (3) Essay 1: Connect the dots. How have the influences in your life shaped you? Essay 2: How will your Stanford education and your Knight-Hennessy Scholars experience prepare you to realize your intentions? Recommendation letters (2): candidates should provide this page to their recommenders. Note: if you seek UC endorsement, your endorsement letter will be ones of those recommendations Standardized test scores appropriate to your program Video (post-application submission): Teach something to your cohort of fellow Knight-Hennessy Scholars in two minutes or less Visit the website for more detailed information on each of these components. How to Apply right arrow down arrow In the spring, attend an NCA Learning Series session on the Knight-Hennessy Scholarship Complete two NCA forms: Intake form Records Release Form and submit to nca@uc.edu Launch your online application (application opens August 2022) Complete and submit application by National Deadline: October 2022 If not applying through university, then application only need to be completed by national Helpful Links, Tips, and Reminders right arrow down arrow Attend a webinar (filter by Online Events) Remember that you must also submit your Stanford graduate program application. It is up to you to keep track of key deadlines and take the necessary standardized test scores. Competition for this program is keen. To give yourself the best chance of being a competitive applicant, allow yourself time to work through multiple drafts of your materials. Information on this page is intended to supplement, not supplant, your own careful review of the official Knight-Hennessy website. If you find any discrepancy between the two, the Knight-Hennessy website takes precedence. Though you should seek out others’ advice and feedback on your application, the essays should be your original work (no one should be writing your essays for you). UC’s Student Code of Conduct applies. Recent Awardees right arrow down arrow Mohamed Elzarka - Scholar, 2020. Office of Nationally Competitive Awards 707A Swift Hall 513-556-1003 nca@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Office of Nationally Competitive Awards 707A Swift Hall 513-556-1003 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top