SMU Cox Display Navigation and Site Search SMU Cox School of Business SMU Cox Utility Navigation Students Companies Alumni Apply Contact Us smu.edu Display Navigation Display Search Search SMU SMU Cox Main Navigation At SMU Cox Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu An exceptional school in the heart of a vibrant, global, business-friendly city. Collins Center Cox News Cox Events Graduate Outcomes CoxToday Magazine Academic Departments Career Growth Global Programs Degrees & Programs Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Rigorous programs within a truly customized academic experience. Master of Science MS in Accounting MS in Business Analytics MS in Finance MS in Management MS Health Promotion Management MS in Sport Management MBA Full-Time Two-Year MBA Full-Time One-Year MBA MBA Direct Professional MBA Online MBA Executive MBA Joint Degrees JD/MBA MA / MBA MS Engineering / MBA Undergraduate Bachelor of Business Administration Non-Degree Executive Education Summer Business Institute Diversity & Inclusion Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Shaping Leaders for a Changing World. Diversity at Cox Latino Leadership Initiative I Am Latino in America Subiendo Academy at SMU Cox School Dean’s Message Executive Education Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Meet your career challenges head-on by mining the expertise of the nation's top business leaders. Programs for Individuals Custom Solutions Latino Leadership Initiative HR Roundtable Graduate Certificates Collins Center Learning Culture Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu An innovative learning culture influences the way the world does business. Centers and Institutes Academic Departments Research Business Library NextGen Cox Curriculum People & Community Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu A community where professors know students by name and help them create powerful networks. Students Alumni Faculty Companies Cox Executive Board Cox100 Press Releases Display Search Utility Navigation Students Companies Alumni Apply Contact Us smu.edu PMBA Graduates Earn 40% Median Salary Increase Learn more Rigor, energy, connection. Feel sparks fly. Join the nation's top business minds in the heart of Dallas and build your lifelong global network. See your life at the Cox School Dynamic, connected professors and a worldwide alumni community make Cox a powerful ally for your future. Get to know the SMU Cox community Innovative learning built on small-class teamwork puts you in the driver's seat of a life-changing experience. Explore learning culture at SMU Cox You're making an investment. We give you the support to push past your career goals — and keep growing. See how we support your career growth The William S. Spears Institute for Entrepreneurial Leadership – made possible by the largest gift by a non-alumnus donor in the history of SMU – will spark business creation, leadership and growth. "Through the Spears Institute, Dallas and SMU can expand our thriving partnership and make our city an even more dynamic hub for entrepreneurial activity. " Eric Johnson, Mayor of Dallas Read More > Play Video "My journey to SMU Cox started when I was in the U.S. Army, deployed in Afghanistan. SMU Cox really opened doors." Dan Keefe PMBA '19 7-Eleven The Cox School faculty: Your connection to the Dallas business hub At SMU Cox, your classroom is on the same energy circuit as Dallas's Global 500 hub. Cox teachers are real-world experts who advise business leaders — and they'll connect you. # 1 metro area for jobs Forbes #11 most high-tech city in the world Business Insider #3 largest arts economy Business Council for the Arts Top 10 cities for hiring recent grads LinkedIn At this momentous time in the history of SMU Cox, we are grateful for your support and eager to launch our next 100 years of business education. Matthew B. Myers Dean, SMU Cox School of Business, Tolleson Chair of Business Leadership My journey to SMU Cox started when I was in the U.S. Army, deployed in Afghanistan. SMU Cox really opened doors. Dan Keefe, Professional MBA, 2019 7-Eleven Dallas' economy is booming. This is where jobs are, where companies are moving. Christopher Haseltine, MS in Business Analytics, 2019 Southwest Airlines A lot of what we do at Cox is team based, and our students and alumni tell us over and over again how important their peers were to their learning. Marci Armstrong Brierley Endowed Professor Director of the Brierley Institute for Customer Engagement After I completed the PMBA program, almost immediately a position opened up for me within my company. Jessica Groshek, Professional MBA, 2019 Vistra Energy The Executive Education program gave me immediate practical use in my daily job. David Williams, Executive Education 2018 Village Tech Schools A lot of companies came on campus with women representation. It made me think, "Oh, she did it. I can do it." Femi Olamolu, Two-Year Full-Time MBA, 2018 AT&T Making news See More News William S. Spears strengthens entrepreneurial leadership in Dallas and beyond The William S. Spears Institute for Entrepreneurial Leadership – made possible by the largest gift by a non-alumnus donor in the history of SMU – will spark business creation, leadership and growth. Learn More SMU is celebrating the future of the Cox School of Business and its role as a driver of Dallas innovation “We are retooling the Cox School to create a more collaborative environment – to give students and faculty easier access to collaborate, to gather and share ideas and gain inspiration from one another.” Dean Matthew B. Myers. Learn More SMU Cox Honors Alumni Business Success 2022 Distinguished Alumni and Outstanding Young Alumni Awards Presented The SMU Cox School of Business presented this year’s Distinguished Alumni and Outstanding Young Alumni Awards at a special luncheon in the Collins Executive Education Center on the SMU campus on May 13. The event celebrated two Distinguished Alumni Award honorees and two Outstanding Young Alumni Award honorees. Learn More Cox Upcoming Events See All Events Stay Connected Next Steps Questions? Not sure which program fits your needs? Reach out to our team. Contact Us SMU Cox Footer Utility Nav Give Contact Us Apply © Cox School of Business Southern Methodist University PO Box 750333 Dallas, Texas 75275-0333 214-768-2000 SMU Cox Legal Home SMU Cox on Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter