Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home All Services Learning Specialists Learning Specialists Students must first register with Disability Services to determine eligibility for this accommodation. Eligible students work with learning specialists to develop compensatory strategies and academic skills. Our learning specialists work with students on an individual basis to meet each student’s specific needs and determine areas to be addressed. Learning specialists do not help with content-based work; they are not tutors. Rather, they work with students to help them compensate for difficulties in several areas. Students registered with Disability Services should contact us to schedule an appointment with a learning specialist. Learning specialists are not available during drop-in hours. Expand all Collapse all Frequently Asked Questions I'm having difficulty with a couple of my classes. What can Disability Services do to assist me? Disability Services offers a variety of support services to Columbia students, including individual consultation and skill-building workshops that address time management and organizational skills. Learning specialists are available to meet with students with disabilities on an individual basis. Work with a learning specialist focuses on developing compensatory strategies and skills related to global learning concerns. If you are interested in meeting with the learning specialist, contact Disability Services and a staff member will be in touch to further address your needs. Disability Services does not provide content-based tutoring or evaluations for learning disabilities. However, Disability Services can provide information about on- and off-campus services to address these concerns. Students are also encouraged to speak to their program or academic advisor to discuss their concerns. For how long can I work with a Learning Specialist? Students work with our learning specialists to establish priorities and determine a personalized agenda for their time together. Related Resources CU Tutoring Service Academic Resource Center Math and Physics Help Rooms Writing Center Make an Appointment Closed Sorry, we are closed Open Now edit location Check out our office locations and hours Staff Directory Check out our list of staff at the office department page. Health Unit Disability Services Clinical Specialty Accessibility Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close