Skip to main content Faculty Research Clusters Learning Sciences Skip to Section About the Cluster News Projects and Publications Degree Programs Faculty Cluster Leads: Roger Azevedo, Ph.D. Professor in the School of Modeling Simulation and Training [email protected] Charlie Hughes, Ph.D. Pegasus Professor of Computer Science [email protected] Technology is constantly changing and so is the way we use it to learn. UCF’s Learning Sciences cluster not only develops new technology to improve learning outcomes but also explores how we interact with and learn using machines. Unlocking the human potential within every learner will result in harnessing intellectual capital for solving society’s most challenging problems and saving billions of dollars. This cluster focuses on how people learn across their lifespan in formal and informal settings and leverages theory, research and applied knowledge from the fields of education, cognitive psychology, computer science, philosophy and design. UCF Learning Sciences Co-Lead, Roger Azevedo, served as a guest presenter on the College of Engineering and Computer Science’s Virtual Faculty Research Talk, held on February 5th, 2021. UCF Colleges Involved with Learning Sciences Research: College of Arts and Humanities College of Community Innovation and Education College of Engineering and Computer Science College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Sciences School for Modeling, Simulation and Training In The News $1 Million Grant to help Strengthen UCF’s Modeling and Simulation Program A national grant helps position UCF as a leader in educating and training the workforce of tomorrow through the School… New UCF Project Will Explore Using AI to Improve Telehealth Not seeing a doctor face-to-face brings challenges, such as a chance that an illness could be missed or misdiagnosed, but… UCF Researcher’s AI Tutoring Tool Targets Improving Student Studying Skills The tutoring tool developed by a UCF researcher uses artificial intelligence to help students learn more effectively by monitoring their… Learning Sciences Research Projects CAREER: Reinforced Imitative Graph Learning: Bridging the Gap between Perception and Prescription in Graph Sequences EAGER: SaTC: EDU: Improving cybersecurity education for adolescents with autism through automated augmented self-monitoring applications RAISE: Robots and Artificial Intelligence to Improve Social Skills for Elementary Students Symbiosis: The Center for Augmented Intelligent Human-Machine Symbiosis for Solving Societal Grand Challenges The Science of Learning and Augmented Intelligence in Consumer Decision Making! Retraining Built Environment Retrofitting Problem Solving Skills with Augmented Reality A Project to Investigate Decentralized Spatiotemporal Interpolation Model in Mobile Crowdsensing of Human Activities in Edge Computing Environments A Project to Investigate How Social Interaction Impact Urban Vibrancy A Project to Investigate Mining Crowdsourced Geo-Tagged Human Mobility Data for Understanding Urban Vibrancy Simulated Practice: Using Socially-Responsive Avatars to Prepare STEM GTAs for Student-Centered Instruction Examining the Use of Self-Regulatory Processes During Game-Based Learning Among Students with Cognitive or Learning Disabilities Enhancing Engagement and Conceptual Understanding of Fractions for Students with Learning Disabilities using the Model Mathematics Education Curriculum Tablecraft, A Next Generation Introductory STEM Platform Investigating the Impact of Emotions and Metacognitive Awareness On Writing STEM Teachers’ Capacity to Teach Self-Regulated Learning: Effectiveness of Extended Reality TeachLivE: Teaching and Learning in a Virtual Environment Publications “Integrating Representation and Imitation in Reinforcement Learning for Mobile User Profiling: An Adversarial Training Perspective”, Charlie Hughes, Ph.D., Yanjie Fu, Ph.D., Dongjie Wang, Ph.D., Pengyang Wang, Ph.D., Kunpeng Liu, Ph.D., Yuanchun Zhou, Ph.D., Proceedings of Thirty-Fifth AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence (AAAI-21), Feb, 2021 “Analyzing multimodal multichannel data about self-regulated learning with advanced learning technologies: Issues and challenges”, Roger Azevedo, Ph.D., Computers in Human Behavior , 96, 207-210: May, 2019 Self-regulation in computer-assisted learning systems, Roger Azevedo, Ph.D., Michelle Taub, Ph.D., Handbook of cognition and education (pp. 587-618) Cambridge University Press: 2019 “The agency effect: The impact of student agency on learning, emotions, and problem-solving behaviors in a game-based learning environment”, Michelle Taub, Ph.D., Roger Azevedo, Ph.D., Computers & Education 147: Dec, 2019 “Circle of trust: A new approach to mobile online safety for families”, Charlie Hughes, Ph.D., CHI '20: Proceedings of the 2020 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems Pages 1-14: Apr, 2020 “Using digital puppetry to prepare physicians to address non-suicidal self-injury among teens”, Charlie Hughes, Ph.D., Lisa A. Dieker, Ph.D., Lecture Notes in Computer Science vol 11572, 555-568: Jul, 2019 Learning Sciences Degree Programs The Learning Sciences track in the Education PhD program will expose students to key components of research on learning with training on using big data for research on learning analytics and data science for focus on learning for humans and machines. For more programs, search UCF programs below. Search Programs Education PhD, Learning Sciences Track Learning Sciences Faculty Roger Azevedo, Ph.D. Professor in the School of Modeling Simulation and Training Email [email protected] Charlie Hughes, Ph.D. Pegasus Professor of Computer Science Email [email protected] Yanjie Fu, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Computer Science Email [email protected] Johnathan Mell, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Computer Science Email [email protected] Michelle Taub, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Learning Sciences and Educational Research Email [email protected] Malcolm B. Butler, Ph.D. Professor of Teacher Education Email [email protected] Lisa A. Dieker, Ph.D. Pegasus Professor of Exceptional Student Education Email [email protected] Ivan Garibay, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Industrial Engineering and Management Systems Email [email protected] Maria Harrington, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Digital Media Email [email protected] Matthew Marino, Ph.D. Professor of Exceptional Student Education Email [email protected] Megan Nickels, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Mathematics Education Email [email protected] Ben Noel Executive Director, Florida Interactive Entertainment Academy Email [email protected] Erik Sand Director of Strategic Partnerships, Florida Interactive Entertainment Academy Email [email protected] Eleazar Vasquez, Ph.D. Associate Professor of Exceptional Student Education Email [email protected] Annie Wu, Ph.D. Associate Professor of Computer Science Email [email protected] Shibu Yooseph, Ph.D. Professor of Computer Science Email [email protected] Vassiliki “Vicky” I. Zygouris-Coe, Ph.D. Professor of Reading Education Email [email protected] Yogesh Singh Rawat, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Computer Science Email [email protected] Varadraj Gurupur, Ph.D. Associate Professor of Health Management & Informatics Email [email protected] Joseph LaViola, Ph.D. Professor of Computer Science Email [email protected] Ryan McMahan, Ph.D. Associate Professor of Computer Science Email [email protected] Gregory Welch, Ph.D. AdventHealth Endowed Chair in Healthcare Simulation in the UCF College of Nursing; Co-director for UCF Synthetic Reality Laboratory Email [email protected] Mary Jean Amon, Ph.D. Assistant Professor in Modeling, Simulation and Training (IST) Email [email protected] Carolina Cruz-Neira, Ph.D. Professor of Computer Science Email [email protected] Pamela Douglas, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Modeling, Simulation, & Training Email [email protected] Joseph Kider, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Modeling, Simulation, & Training Email [email protected] Dirk Reiners, Ph.D. Associate Professor of Computer Science Email [email protected] UCF Research Clusters Faculty Clusters Home Biionix Cyber Security and Privacy Disability, Aging and Technology (DAT) Genomics and Bioinformatics Learning Sciences Renewable Energy and Chemical Transformation (REACT) Resilient, Intelligent and Sustainable Energy Systems (RISES) Sustainable Coastal Systems Violence Against Women (VAW) Additional Research Links World-class Faculty Research Technology Transfer Ethics and Compliance Research Development Areas of Excellence 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816