Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary SCHOOL OF DENTISTRY DENTISTRY DENTAL CLERKSHIP Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 DENTCL 605 Foundations of Interprofessional Education ([0/1]-) IPE prepares students to collaborate with other health professions in interprofessional patient care practice (IPP), to improve patient care and health outcomes. Students will experience co-learning, working in teams with faculty and students from other health professions, to understand the roles of members of the healthcare team, and have clinical experiences that involve working with other healthcare professional students and practitioners. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: DENTCL 605 DENTCL 607 Ethics and Jurisprudence ([0-1]-, max. 1) The ADA Ethical Code and state laws governing the practice of dentistry. Students evaluate both ethical dilemmas systematically through online didactic and small group learning and the ethical and legal aspects of case-based scenarios and real-life examples. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: DENTCL 607 DENTCL 609 Practice Management 3 ([0-1]-, max. 1) Application of business and leadership concepts, regulatory requirements, and information technologies for dentistry. Involves working with staff as leader of a dental practice and assessing financial aspects of dental practitioners. Provides 'hands on' experience. Includes interactive class sessions concurrent with patient care experiences. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: ASp. View course details in MyPlan: DENTCL 609 DENTCL 620 Introduction to Clinical Practice (15) Students perform patient examinations, risk assessments, consultations and referrals, diagnosis, treatment planning, informed consent, patient counseling, emergency care. Students learn to utilize Teledentistry, schedule appointments, use the electronic health records, order diagnostic tests; stage/sequence treatment plans; perform Post-Treatment Assessments, End-Of-Treatment Assessments, Recall Examinations. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: DENTCL 620 DENTCL 631 Prosthodontics Clerkship - SR (2) Builds on preclinical training. Enables student dentists to understand the prosthodontic needs of patients and design and deliver prosthodontic treatment. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: DENTCL 631 DENTCL 632 Periodontics Clerkship - SR (2) Treating patients, including diagnosis, treatment planning, and periodontal therapy of minimal-moderate difficulty level. Determination of when to refer to a periodontal specialist. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: DENTCL 632 DENTCL 633 Endodontics Clerkship (8) Prepares dental students to provide endodontic therapy within the scope of general dentistry. In the seminar component, students expand their didactic knowledge in preparation for clinical experiences. In the clinical component, student treat patients, including diagnosis, treatment planning, and endodontic therapy of minimal-moderate difficulty level. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: DENTCL 633 DENTCL 634 Operative Dentistry Clerkship - SR (2) Diagnosing and treating conditions of human dentition, with emphasis on preventive therapies for caries, using patient assessment and treatment planning to ensure preventive and restorative procedures are appropriate for a patient's comprehensive care. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: DENTCL 634 DENTCL 635 Oral Diagnosis and Treatment Planning Clerkship - SR (2) Patient examination and development of comprehensive, multi-disciplinary, person-centered treatment plans, considering patients' desires, expectations, and financial limitations. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: DENTCL 635 DENTCL 636 Oral Medicine Clerkship - SR (2) Provides clinical experience and develops competency in the diagnosis and management of acute and chronic orofacial pain, diseases of the oral mucosa, salivary dysfunction, oral manifestations of systemic diseases, dental management of patients with developmental or other disabilities, and taking interpretation of radiographs. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: DENTCL 636 DENTCL 637 Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery Clerkship (8) Introduces students to the specialty of oral and maxillofacial surgery. An equally important goal is to supply students with the knowledge base and clinical skills necessary to practice general dentistry in our communities. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: DENTCL 637 DENTCL 638 Pediatric Dentistry and Orthodontic Clerkship (8) Didactic and clinical educational experiences in comprehensive care of pediatric dental patients in the areas of prevention, diagnosis, treatment planning, and restorative dentistry. In addition, recognition, analysis and treatment planning of malocclusions as well as introduction to limited tooth movement. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: DENTCL 638 DENTCL 641 Prosthodontics Clerkship - AN (2) Builds on preclinical training. Enables student dentists to understand the prosthodontic needs of patients and design and deliver prosthodontic treatment. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: DENTCL 641 DENTCL 642 Periodontics Clerkship - AN (2) Treating patients, including diagnosis, treatment planning, and periodontal therapy of minimal-moderate difficulty level. Determination of when to refer to a periodontal specialist. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: DENTCL 642 DENTCL 644 Operative Dentistry Clerkship - AN (2) Diagnosing and treating conditions of human dentition, with emphasis on preventive therapies for caries, using patient assessment and treatment planning to ensure preventive and restorative procedures are appropriate for a patient's comprehensive care. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: DENTCL 644 DENTCL 645 Oral Diagnosis and Treatment Planning Clerkship - AN (2) Patient examination and development of comprehensive, multi-disciplinary, perso--centered treatment plans, considering patients' desires, expectations, and financial limitations. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: DENTCL 645 DENTCL 646 Oral Medicine Clerkship - AN (2) Provides clinical experience and develops competency in the diagnosis and management of acute and chronic orofacial pain, diseases of the oral mucosa, salivary dysfunction, oral manifestations of systemic diseases, dental management of patients with developmental or other disabilities, and taking interpretation of radiographs. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: DENTCL 646 DENTCL 650 Integrated National Board Dental Exam Preparation (1-, max. 2) Provides practice Integrated National Board Dental Exam (INBDE) questions and supplementary study materials. Students take mock INBDE exams, including a baseline pre-test. Prerequisite: third-year predoctoral student in UW School of Dentistry. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: WSp. View course details in MyPlan: DENTCL 650 DENTCL 651 Prosthodontics Clerkship - WR (2) Builds on preclinical training. Enables student dentists to understand the prosthodontic needs of patients and design and deliver prosthodontic treatment. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: DENTCL 651 DENTCL 652 Periodontics Clerkship - WR (2) Treating patients, including diagnosis, treatment planning, and periodontal therapy of minimal-moderate difficulty level. Determination of when to refer to a periodontal specialist. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: DENTCL 652 DENTCL 654 Operative Dentistry Clerkship - WR (2) Diagnosing and treating conditions of human dentition, with emphasis on preventive therapies for caries, using patient assessment and treatment planning to ensure preventive and restorative procedures are appropriate for a patient's comprehensive care. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: DENTCL 654 DENTCL 655 Oral Diagnosis and Treatment Planning Clerkship - WR (2) Patient examination and development of comprehensive, multi-disciplinary, person-centered treatment plans, considering patients' desires, expectations, and financial limitations. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: DENTCL 655 DENTCL 656 Oral Medicine Clerkship - WR (2) Provides clinical experience and develops competency in the diagnosis and management of acute and chronic orofacial pain, diseases of the oral mucosa, salivary dysfunction, oral manifestations of systemic diseases, dental management of patients with developmental or other disabilities, and taking interpretation of radiographs. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: DENTCL 656 DENTCL 661 Prosthodontics Clerkship - SG (2) Builds on preclinical training. Enables student dentists to understand the prosthodontic needs of patients and design and deliver prosthodontic treatment. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: DENTCL 661 DENTCL 662 Periodontics Clerkship - SG (2) Treating patients, including diagnosis, treatment planning, and periodontal therapy of minimal-moderate difficulty level. Determination of when to refer to a periodontal specialist. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: DENTCL 662 DENTCL 664 Operative Dentistry Clerkship - SG (2) Diagnosing and treating conditions of human dentition, with emphasis on preventive therapies for caries, using patient assessment and treatment planning to ensure preventive and restorative procedures are appropriate for a patient's comprehensive care. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: DENTCL 664 DENTCL 665 Oral Diagnosis and Treatment Planning Clerkship - SG (2) Patient examination and development of comprehensive, multi-disciplinary, person-centered treatment plans, considering patients' desires, expectations, and financial limitations. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: DENTCL 665 DENTCL 666 Oral Medicine Clerkship - SG (2) Provides clinical experience and develops competency in the diagnosis and management of acute and chronic orofacial pain, diseases of the oral mucosa, salivary dysfunction, oral manifestations of systemic diseases, dental management of patients with developmental or other disabilities, and taking interpretation of radiographs. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: DENTCL 666 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022