Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. International Services International Services right arrow down arrow Admissions and Arrival right arrow down arrow Cost and Finances Apply to UC right arrow down arrow Transfer to UC Exchange and Visiting Student Programs DACA Students Next Steps to Enroll Orientation & Check-in Visas and Immigration right arrow down arrow Students right arrow down arrow F-1 Students J-1 Students Faculty, Staff and Interns right arrow down arrow J-1 Scholars J-1 Interns H-1B Workers E-3 Status O-1 Status TN Status Permanent Residency Dependents Change Your Status Government Updates Visa Fees Life at UC right arrow down arrow Student Experiences Essential Resources right arrow down arrow Housing and Dining Transportation Finances Healthcare and Insurance Law and Safety Academics Student Employment right arrow down arrow On Campus Off Campus OPT (F-1 Students) right arrow down arrow OPT Seminar CPT (F-1 Students) Fellowships and Assistantships (J-1) Academic Training (J-1) Social Life Hiring, Hosting and Admitting right arrow down arrow Hiring International Workers right arrow down arrow Students Hosting Visitors and Delegations Admitting Students Using iBearcatsGlobal Credential Evaluation Taxes right arrow down arrow How to File right arrow down arrow Non-Resident with US Income Non-Resident with No Income Resident Alien with No Tax Treaty Resident Alien with a Tax Treaty SSN & ITIN right arrow down arrow Social Security Tax Refund Contact Us iBearcatsGlobal Home » About UC » International Services » Life at UC » Student Employment » CPT (F-1 Students) Set Navigation title in component Student Experiences Essential Resources Housing and Dining Transportation Finances Healthcare and Insurance Law and Safety Academics Student Employment On Campus Off Campus OPT (F-1 Students) OPT Seminar CPT (F-1 Students) Fellowships and Assistantships (J-1) Academic Training (J-1) Social Life Curricular Practical Training (CPT) Curricular Practical Training (CPT) is designed to provide eligible students with employment experience that is part of an established curriculum. Training must be a requirement or an integral part of your degree, as determined by your academic advisor or department. A qualifying CPT involves employment experience that carries academic credit, is listed in UC's course offerings and has a faculty member assigned to it. This could include: alternate work/study internship cooperative education any other type of required internship or practicum which is offered by sponsoring employers through cooperative agreements with the school graduate student research for a thesis or dissertation A course offered for the primary purpose of facilitating employment authorization does not qualify for CPT. If you are a graduate student engaged in research that is integral to a thesis or dissertation, the research should involve innovative technology available only at a particular corporation’s research facilities or the collection of data or experience essential for your thesis or dissertation. All required coursework for the degree must be completed to use this form of CPT. You must be registered for at least 1 credit hour of thesis/dissertation research each semester (except summer) during the CPT authorization. Apply for CPT Authorization F-1 students are eligible for CPT if they have complete one academic year (two semesters) as a full-time student. Graduate students have an exception if they are required by their degree program to start a co-op or internship during their first two semesters. If you meet these qualifications, you may apply for work authorization. Application Process Receive an offer letter from your employer that establishes, at minimum, the title, job duties, dates of employment, name and address of employer, and salary. Submit a Curricular Practical Training eForm in iBearcatsGlobal. Receive certification by your academic/co-op advisor explaining how the work is necessary to complete your degree. After your advisor completes the certification, the authorization takes 5 business days to process. Receive authorization from UC International. With this authorization, you can begin your employment. You are not eligible to work until you receive this authorization from UC International Services. No other authorization is required for CPT. FAQ Am I limited in the amount of time I can work on CPT? right arrow down arrow You are not limited in the amount of Curricular Practical Training you may utilize. However, students who have engaged in a year or more of full-time CPT are ineligible for Optional Practical Training (OPT). How do I fill out the I-9 form on my first day of work with my employer? right arrow down arrow On your first day of work, you will complete an I-9 form with your employer. It certifies how you are authorized to work in the US. The two most common questions about this form are answered below: In Section 1, "An alien authorized to work", your Admission # is your I-94 card number. In Section 2, CPT falls under the category of "List A", document #4: Unexpired foreign passport, with Form I-94 indicating unexpired employment authorization. This section is to be completed by the employer, not the student. Can I make changes to my CPT employment (employer, location, hours, dates)? right arrow down arrow You are authorized to work with the company, at the location, during the dates stated clearly on page #3 of your I-20. If anything should change in any of the details, UC International will need to authorize such changes. For example, if you wish to work beyond the authorized period of employment, the employer is going to transfer you to another location, or you are going to work full-time instead of part-time, UC International will need to make these alterations to your authorization. How can I change or extend my CPT authorization? right arrow down arrow Your academic / co-op advisor will need to put any changes into writing and send them to UC International. If you wish to take part in a new period of CPT, submit the CPT Request eForm again or get a letter from your advisor explaining the changes. The advisor's letter must be received by UC International Services prior to you starting work under the changed conditions. Remember, it will take several business days to process your request. Plan ahead! Am I still in F-1 status on CPT? right arrow down arrow While on CPT you are still in F-1 status. Please make sure that you are following all of the rules to maintain your status. Am I allowed to travel on CPT? right arrow down arrow You can travel in and out of the United States while on CPT as long as you get your I-20 signed for travel authorization by UC International. Am I still covered by student health insurance on CPT? right arrow down arrow You are still covered under University Student Health Insurance during your period of CPT. Your employer may need to know this if you wish to waive their health benefits. Alternatively, if you wish to use your employer’s health benefits and wish to waive the University Student Health Insurance for the period you are on CPT, you will need to apply for a waiver prior to the deadline. UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 international.students@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top