Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open the search panel Open the main menu Search Go Close the search panel Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers News Events Alumni Giving About Library Login Open the Search panel Admissions Admissions Why Columbia J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics Academics J.D. Program and Curriculum LL.M. Program and Curriculum Executive LL.M. Program and Curriculum J.S.D. Program and Curriculum Dual and Joint Degrees International Programs Public Interest and Public Service Experiential Learning Courses Registration Services Academic Calendar Executive Education Areas of Study Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Criminal Justice Data Analytics Environment and Energy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Intellectual Property and Technology International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace Leadership Legal History Litigation and Dispute Resolution National Security and Privacy Social Justice and Human Rights Faculty & Scholarship Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Directory Research Centers and Programs Scholarship Archive Workshops, Lectures, and Colloquia Careers Careers Private Sector Careers Public Interest and Public Service Careers Academic Careers Judicial Clerkships Employment Statistics Employment Policies Community Life Community Life Visit Campus Dean’s Welcome Your Campus, Your City Student Life Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Strategic Initiatives Criminal Justice Any criminal justice system is complex and imperfect but also an essential part of creating a well-functioning civil society. Police, prosecutors, defense lawyers, judges, and policymakers all play a role in shaping this system to ensure public safety and fair policing, examine the causes and ramifications of mass incarceration, assess criminal statutes, explore alternatives to traditional punishment, reduce recidivism, and provide opportunities for the formerly incarcerated to rebuild their lives. How does criminal law help regulate individual behavior, protect the rights of victims’ and the accused, ensure fair trials, and determine appropriate punishment? Columbia Law faculty approach criminal justice issues holistically, from a multitude of perspectives—historical, political, philosophical, sociological, and intersectional—and raise questions about race, class, and geography. Columbia Law students have opportunities to work directly with faculty on timely cases that advance reforms in areas such as cash bail, mass incarceration, sentencing, juvenile justice, and capital punishment as well as on research projects that use data analytics to study crime rates and policing methodologies. Why Columbia? Learn from full-time and adjunct faculty who are active prosecutors, defense attorneys, and sitting state and federal judges. Collaborate with faculty on research for criminal appeals and on controversial policing practices. Develop oral advocacy and other litigation skills in simulated cases in the Trial Practice seminar. Experience the interplay between the law and its enforcement through externships with the district attorney’s offices in Brooklyn and Manhattan and federal prosecutors and judges. Explore contemporary issues in the federal prosecution of white-collar crime, with special attention to crimes committed within corporations and other large organizations. Advocate for clients in numerous externships and clinics, arguing in state and federal courts on behalf of incarcerated individuals and helping draft amicus briefs in support of death-sentenced individuals in state court. Produce A Jailhouse Lawyer’s Manual, a handbook of legal rights and procedures designed for use by people in prison who want to represent themselves. Related Links Explore Courses Related Faculty All Faculty Amber Baylor Associate Clinical Professor of Law Kimberle W. Crenshaw Isidor and Seville Sulzbacher Professor of Law Jeffrey A. Fagan Isidor and Seville Sulzbacher Professor of Law George P. Fletcher Cardozo Professor of Jurisprudence Kellen R. Funk Associate Professor of Law Philip M. Genty Everett B. Birch Innovative Teaching Clinical Professor in Professional Responsibility and Vice Dean for Experiential Education Bernard E. Harcourt Isidor and Seville Sulzbacher Professor of Law and Professor of Political Science James S. Liebman Simon H. Rifkind Professor of Law Debra A. Livingston Paul J. Kellner Professor of Law Justin McCrary Paul J. Evanson Professor of Law Kerrel Murray Associate Professor of Law Daniel Richman Paul J. Kellner Professor of Law Elizabeth Scott Harold R. Medina Professor Emerita of Law Sarah A. Seo Professor of Law Colleen F. Shanahan Clinical Professor of Law Brett Dignam Clinical Professor Emerita of Law Gerard E. Lynch Paul J. Kellner Professor Emeritus of Law All Faculty Listing Experiential Learning Opportunities All Experiential Learning Clinic Community Advocacy Lab Clinic Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Criminal Justice Social Justice and Human Rights Externship Criminal Defense Externships Areas of Study Criminal Justice Externship Criminal Prosecution Externships Areas of Study Criminal Justice Family, Gender, and Sexuality Externship Social Change and Community-Based Lawyering Externships Areas of Study Social Justice and Human Rights Criminal Justice Law of the Workplace All Experiential Learning at Columbia Law Public Interest/Public Service No matter what your area of interest, find ways to incorporate public interest and public service into your academic program and career. Academics Careers Related Student Groups and Journals American Civil Liberties Union Columbia Human Rights Law Review Columbia Journal of Law and Social Problems Columbia Journal of Race & Law Columbia Law Public Defender Students of Columbia Law School Criminal Justice Action Network Domestic Violence Project Prison Healthcare Initiative Rightslink Tenants’ Rights Project Related News and Stories Read All Stories More in The Press News The Path Forward: Columbia Law Confronts Criminal Justice Reform Mass incarceration is one of the defining civil rights issues of our time. With 2.2 million people in prisons and jails across the United States, it is imperative that we remediate bias and inhumanity when it encroaches on our system of criminal justice. In The Press The Deep Roots of Sexual Policing in America Sarah A. Seo | The Atlantic In The Press Cities Try to Turn the Tide on Police Traffic Stops Sarah A. Seo | The New York Times In The Press La Violencia Con Armas de Fuego Desborda Nueva York Jeffrey A. Fagan | El País Admissions Why Columbia Visit 435 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 212-854-2640 Contact Us Social Media (Administrative Title) Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Instagram Admissions Academics Areas of Study Faculty & Scholarship Careers Community Life Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers Login News Events Alumni Giving About Library Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Donate © Copyright 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York.