skip to Main Navigation skip to Main Content skip to Footer Accessibility feedback NC State Home COVID-19 Updates Resources Campus Directory MyPack Portal Campus Map Libraries Campus Resources University Housing NC State Dining Bookstores Wolfline Buses Calendar Diversity Academic Resources Undergraduate Admissions Academic Departments WolfWare/Moodle Global Engagement Distance Education Academic Calendar Other Resources Student Services Center Cashier's Office Registration and Records Scholarships and Financial Aid Career Development Center NC State Help Desk Outreach and Engagement Giving NC State News Graduate School Gmail Access NC State Social Media NC State University Libraries Logo Navigation Search Find & Borrow Search Books & Media Articles Databases Journals Theses and Dissertations NC State Publications Special Collections Our Website Find Course Reserves Newspapers Patents & Trademarks Standards Tests & Measurements Textbooks Ebooks Government Information Borrow & Request Borrowing & Access Privileges Tripsaver Technology Lending Suggest a Purchase Distance Services Help Ask Us Request a Research Consultation Request a Technology Consultation Get Data Science Help Study & Learn Assignment Help Choose a Topic Cite Sources Evaluate Sources Find Articles Find a Book Ask Us All Assignment Help Workshops Data and Visualization Digital Media Digital Scholarship Makerspace Research Strategy Virtual & Augmented Reality All Workshops Spaces Reserve a Room Academic Success Center Quiet Study Graduate Student Spaces Explore Spaces Sensory Friendly Maps How Busy is the Hill Library? Technology Technology Lending Software Print & Copy Scanning Wireless Access Working off campus Help Ask Us Request a Research Consultation Request a Technology Consultation Get Data Science Help Research & Teaching Research Support Citation Management Grants & Funding Research Impact & Metrics Publishing and Copyright Data Management Open Research Faculty Spaces All Research Support Teaching Support Request an Instruction Session Copyright in the Classroom Course Reserves Library Instruction Programs Open Education Videos and Tutorials All Teaching Support Workshops Digital Scholarship Research Strategy Data and Visualization Peer Scholars All Workshops Help Ask Us Request a Research Consultation Request a Technology Consultation Get Data Science Help Media & Making Digital Media Music & Audio Video Gaming Photography Scanning Virtual & Augmented Reality All Digital Media Makerspace 3D Printing 3D Scanning Cutting & Milling Electronics Textiles All Makerspace Workshops 3D Scanning Studio Orientation Digital Media Orientation Makerspace Orientation VR Studio Orientation All Digital Media Workshops All Makerspace Workshops All Virtual & Augmented Reality Workshops Spaces Hill Library Makerspace Innovation Studio VR Studio Digital Media Lab All Media & Making Spaces Help Ask Us Request a Technology Consultation Drop-In Help for Digital Media Data & Visualization Data & Visualization Finding Data Wrangling Data Analyzing Data Visualization Geographic Information Systems (GIS) Data Management Text & Data Mining All Data & Visualization Workshops Data & Visualization Workshops Digital Scholarship Workshops Research Strategy Workshops All Workshops Spaces Data Experience Lab (DXL) Dataspace Teaching & Visualization Lab Visualization Studio iPearl Immersion Theater Game Lab All Data & Visualization Spaces Help Get Data Science Help Data & Visualization Instruction Support About Contact Ask Us Staff Directory Subject Specialists Jobs Fellows Program Collections About the Collections Special Collections Chancellor's Faculty Excellence Program Memberships & Consortia Our Organization Mission & Vision Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion Service Philosophy Fact Sheet Rules & Guidelines Annual Reports & Strategic Plans Performance Measures Honors & Awards News & Events News Events Exhibits Workshops Videos from the Libraries Visit Hours Visit the Libraries Hunt Library Map Hill Library Map How Busy is the Hill Library? Directions & Parking Libraries D. H. Hill Jr. Library James B. Hunt Jr. Library Design Library Natural Resources Library Veterinary Medicine Library Campus Information Centers Get Involved Giving to the Libraries Friends of the Libraries Student Advisory Forum University Library Committee Academic Departmental Library Representatives Help Ask Us Request a Research Consultation Request a Technology Consultation Get Data Science Help FAQ Search Today's Hours Hours My Account Log Out Ask Us Chat Link You are here Home Explore Spaces Assistive Technologies Center (ATC) Assistive Technologies Center (ATC) Building: D. H. Hill Jr. Library Floor: First Floor, Tower Rooms: 1209 The Assistive Technologies Center (ATC) houses technologies to facilitate library research and alternate format access to library materials for users with a variety of vision, hearing, and/or mobility-related disabilities. Assistive Technologies in the ATC Screen Reading Software: JAWS, Read&Write, ZoomText Magnification Equipment: Enhanced Vision DaVinci Magnifier Scanning Equipment: HP Scanjet Pro 3500 flatbed scanner Braille Technology: VP SpotDot Braille Embosser Accessing the ATC The ATC is available whenever the Hill Library is open, and no appointment is required. The facility is kept locked for security reasons. Please ask staff at the entrance desk or the Ask Us desk for access. Staff Staff at the Ask Us center can provide general assistance in the use of ATC equipment and can help in selecting and using library resources. Library users who do not know how to operate independently the assistive technology in the ATC (particularly first-time users) can call in advance to schedule an appointment with a staff member (919-515-3364) for an orientation to the ATC. Other Services For information about other library services for users with disabilities, view the Accessibility Services page. What's inside? Furniture Work table and office chairs Computer pod Technology DaVinci HD/OCR Magnifier ScanJet Pro 3500 f1 Flatbed Scanner ScanPro 2000 ScanPro 3000 SpotDot Braille Embosser How do I get there? Brickyard Entrance Elevator Enter the Hill Library. Go through the library gates and turn right. Continue towards the reading room and the elevator bay will be on your left. Take the elevator to the first floor. Turn right after exiting the elevator bay and follow the balcony around to the first floor lobby. The Ask Us center is directly in front of you. Let the Ask Us staff know that you need access to the ATC. They will take you there (down the hallway to the right of Ask Us), unlock the door, and log in the equipment for you. Stairs Enter the Hill Library. Go through the library gates. Take the main stairs up to the first floor lobby. The Ask Us center is directly in front of you. Let the Ask Us staff know that you need access to the ATC. They will take you there (down the hallway to the right of Ask Us), unlock the door, and log in the equipment for you. Hillsborough St. Entrance Elevator or Stairs Enter the Hill Library. Go straight through the gates and turn left. Continue down the hallway until you reach the stairs and elevator. Take the stairs or elevator to the first floor (1U). Continue into the Tower. The Ask Us center is on the left. Let the Ask Us staff know that you need access to the ATC. They will take you there (down the hallway to the right of Ask Us), unlock the door, and log in the equipment for you. Who do I contact? Tim Mensa (pronouns: he/him) 919-515-3041 tmensa@ncsu.edu Top of page Contact D. H. Hill Jr. Library 2 Broughton Drive Campus Box 7111 Raleigh, NC 27695-7111 (919) 515-3364 James B. Hunt Jr. Library 1070 Partners Way Campus Box 7132 Raleigh, NC 27606-7132 (919) 515-7110 Libraries Administration (919) 515-7188 NC State University Libraries D. H. Hill Jr. Library James B. Hunt Jr. Library Design Library Natural Resources Library Veterinary Medicine Library Copyright Privacy Statement Accessibility at the Libraries Accessibility at NC State University Staff Confluence Login Staff Drupal Login Follow the Libraries Facebook Instagram Twitter Snapchat LinkedIn Vimeo YouTube Twitch Flickr Libraries' news ×