Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Music Education (BME) Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Arts and Humanities Department(s) Music In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. This program has potential ties to professional licensure or certification in the field. For more information on how this program may prepare you in that regard, please visit https://apq.ucf.edu/files/Licensure-Disclosure-CAH-Music-Ed-BME.pdf Admission Requirements Admission Requirements - Music Education Audition. To be accepted in to Music Education, a student must demonstrate advanced proficiency by performing compositions representing a variety of musical periods (baroque, classical, romantic, contemporary). Memorization is required for pianists and vocalists. Accompanists are provided for vocalists only. Each candidate must bring his/her own audition music. The department will only provide large instruments such as a tuba, string, bass, or timpani for these auditions. The audition will serve as a placement exam for accepted candidates. Refer to the UCF Music Department website for specific audition requirements. Prior to attending the first music class as a music major at UCF, all students will take a keyboard placement examination to determine the appropriate level of class piano. Interview. In addition to a performance audition, students must successfully complete an interview with Music Education faculty. Admission Requirements - Professional Program Application into the Professional Program must be made at the conclusion of 45 hours of course work. Students must complete a formal application for the Professional Program. (Deadlines: February 15 for Fall semester admission and September 15 for Spring semester admission). Transfers may be admitted on an individual basis at the discretion of the Music Education faculty. To apply for the Music Education Professional Program, students must: Complete 45 hours of coursework including: 15 hours of General Education Program courses, EDF 2005, MUT 2126, first semester of Performance II. Have a minimum overall GPA of 2.5 and a grade of "C" (2.0) or better in each performance, education, and music education course. Have on file in the University admissions office passing scores on the General Knowledge Test of the Florida Teacher Competency Examination. Provide satisfactory documentation and reflection on 15 hours of field experiences (See Music Education Coordinator for more information). To be accepted into the Music Education Professional Program students must: Demonstrate proficiency with aural skills (including the ability to match pitch with the voice) and communication skills (including the ability to write and speak effectively). Complete MVK 2122, MUT 2127, and two semesters of Performance II. Notes: (1) Students may not enroll in Performance III or Professional Program courses unless all requirements for admission are satisfied. (2) Students who change degree programs and select this major must adopt the most current catalog. (3) Common program prerequisites are subject to revision based on changes Section 1004.04, Florida Statutes, Public Accountability and State Approval for Teacher Preparation Programs, and State Board of Education Rule 6A-5.5.066, Approval of Pre-service Teacher Preparation Programs. (4) This Music Education B.M.E. program has potential ties to professional licensure or certification in the field. For more information on how this program may prepare you in that regard, please visit https://apq.ucf.edu/files/Licensure-Disclosure-CAH-Music-Ed-BME-June2020.pdf Degree Requirements A cumulative minimum GPA of 3.00 based upon all courses required in the major as well as all courses taken in music is required. Failure to maintain this standard may result in program probation or dismissal. Please refer to the SPA Student Handbook (http://performingarts.cah.ucf.edu/academics/student-resources) for details on program standards. View Full Description Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Career Opportunities UCF prepares you for life beyond the classroom. Here, you’ll experience a wide range of opportunity, like learning diverse skills from world-renowned faculty to networking with top employers across Central Florida to gaining first-hand experience in internships nearby. Achieve your degree and more as a Knight. 7th Grade Social Studies Teacher Ballet Professor High School Biology Teacher High School French Teacher High School History Teacher High School Math Teacher High School Teacher Mathematics Education Professor Middle School Science Teacher Music Professor Photography Professor Piano Performance and Pedagogy Professor Piano Professor Primary Education Professor Scene and Lighting Design Lecturer Science Education Professor Secondary Education Professor Stagecraft Professor Theatre Professor Voice Professor Show More Career Opportunities Degree Search College of Arts and Humanities programs Bachelors Music Education (BME) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management × This program has potential ties to professional licensure or certification in the field. For more information on how this program may prepare you in that regard, please visit https://apq.ucf.edu/files/Licensure-Disclosure-CAH-Music-Ed-BME.pdf Admission Requirements Admission Requirements - Music Education Audition. To be accepted in to Music Education, a student must demonstrate advanced proficiency by performing compositions representing a variety of musical periods (baroque, classical, romantic, contemporary). Memorization is required for pianists and vocalists. Accompanists are provided for vocalists only. Each candidate must bring his/her own audition music. The department will only provide large instruments such as a tuba, string, bass, or timpani for these auditions. The audition will serve as a placement exam for accepted candidates. Refer to the UCF Music Department website for specific audition requirements. Prior to attending the first music class as a music major at UCF, all students will take a keyboard placement examination to determine the appropriate level of class piano. Interview. In addition to a performance audition, students must successfully complete an interview with Music Education faculty. Admission Requirements - Professional Program Application into the Professional Program must be made at the conclusion of 45 hours of course work. Students must complete a formal application for the Professional Program. (Deadlines: February 15 for Fall semester admission and September 15 for Spring semester admission). Transfers may be admitted on an individual basis at the discretion of the Music Education faculty. To apply for the Music Education Professional Program, students must: Complete 45 hours of coursework including: 15 hours of General Education Program courses, EDF 2005, MUT 2126, first semester of Performance II. Have a minimum overall GPA of 2.5 and a grade of "C" (2.0) or better in each performance, education, and music education course. Have on file in the University admissions office passing scores on the General Knowledge Test of the Florida Teacher Competency Examination. Provide satisfactory documentation and reflection on 15 hours of field experiences (See Music Education Coordinator for more information). To be accepted into the Music Education Professional Program students must: Demonstrate proficiency with aural skills (including the ability to match pitch with the voice) and communication skills (including the ability to write and speak effectively). Complete MVK 2122, MUT 2127, and two semesters of Performance II. Notes: (1) Students may not enroll in Performance III or Professional Program courses unless all requirements for admission are satisfied. (2) Students who change degree programs and select this major must adopt the most current catalog. (3) Common program prerequisites are subject to revision based on changes Section 1004.04, Florida Statutes, Public Accountability and State Approval for Teacher Preparation Programs, and State Board of Education Rule 6A-5.5.066, Approval of Pre-service Teacher Preparation Programs. (4) This Music Education B.M.E. program has potential ties to professional licensure or certification in the field. For more information on how this program may prepare you in that regard, please visit https://apq.ucf.edu/files/Licensure-Disclosure-CAH-Music-Ed-BME-June2020.pdf Degree Requirements A cumulative minimum GPA of 3.00 based upon all courses required in the major as well as all courses taken in music is required. Failure to maintain this standard may result in program probation or dismissal. Please refer to the SPA Student Handbook (http://performingarts.cah.ucf.edu/academics/student-resources) for details on program standards. Degree Requirements Core Requirements: Basic Level 5 Total Credits Complete all of the following 6 total hours of major ensemble (MUN XXXX) required; 4 hours are reflected in the CPP and 2 hours are reflected in the Core: Basic Level. Earn at least 5 credits from the following: MUS1010 - Music Forum MUT1121 - Music Theory and Musicianship I (4) MUT1122 - Music Theory and Musicianship II (4) MUT2126 - Music Theory and Musicianship III (4) MUT2127 - Music Theory and Musicianship IV (4) MVK2122 - Class Piano IV (1) MUH3633 - Music in the United States (3) MUL2720 - Music of the World (3) MUN XXXX - Major Ensembles (2 semesters) Credit Hours: 2 MVX 141X - Performance I ( 2 semesters) (CPP) MVX 242X - Performance II (2 semesters) (CPP) CPP Courses: MUT 1121, MUT 1122, MUT 2126, MUT 2127, MVK 2122, MVK 141X and MVX 242X GEP Course: MUL 2720 Core Requirements: Advanced Level 29 Total Credits Complete all of the following Earn at least 29 credits from the following: MUG3104 - Basic Conducting (2) MUH3211 - Music History and Literature I (3) MUH3212 - Music History and Literature II (3) MUE3942 - Music Internship I (3) MUE3333 - Music Learning Theory and Assessment (3) MUE4311 - Elementary School Music Methods (2) MVX 343X - Performance III Credit Hours: 4 (2 Semesters) MUS 1010 - Music Forum Credit Hours: 0 (2 semesters) Education Core 12 Total Credits Complete the following: EDG4410 - Teaching Strategies and Classroom Management (3) TSL4080 - Theory and Practice of Teaching ESOL Students in Schools (3) EDF4603 - Analysis and Application of Ethical, Legal, and Safety Issues in Schools (3) RED4043 - Content Reading in Kindergarten through Grade 12 (3) Grand Total Credits: 46 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida