Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu FedEx Institute of Technology About Research Innovation Engagement Emerging Tech Training Tech Transfer Impact Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Take Action Emerging Tech Training Research Collaborations News & Impact Distinguished Guests Follow Us FacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedIn Home FedEx Institute of Technology Coronavirus_Updates FedEx Institute of Technology COVID-19 RESEARCH GUIDELINES The Division of Research & Innovation has developed a series of guidelines for research labs to reopen and restart their on-going research. Coronavirus COVID-19 Updates The FedEx Institute of Technology remains open to assist researchers, corporate clients and the Memphis tech community. Our staff members are available to assist you Monday-Friday from 8:00 am to 4:30 pm. Please contact us at 901.678.1596 or fedex@memphis.edu to schedule and conduct a meeting via telephone or BlueJeans/Zoom/Skype for Business video conferencing. Being mindful of the current situation, we are practicing "social distancing" to minimize interpersonal contact and deter face-to-face meetings. For questions specifically related to training or cluster research projects, contact Raminder Lotay at rslotay@memphis.edu or Mary Ann Dawson at mdawson@memphis.edu. For outreach with the local tech community (including meetups, hackathons, etc.) that have partnered with the Institute, contact Raminder Lotay at rslotay@memphis.edu. Budgetary Inquiries for Grants I received funding (e.g. FIT Development Grant, Gap Funding, etc.) to conduct my research project, however the situation surrounding COVID-19 response may interrupt or delay the work being performed. Will an extension be granted to utilize the funds beyond the deadline? Answer: The nature of these funds is such that they must be spent by the designated deadline so extensions are unlikely and unused funds have to be re-designated to other research needs. Please do your very best and consider alternate solutions (e.g. hiring additional students, ordering products from another vendor, etc.) to assist with the research project being completed on time. Training Programs/Meetups/Events How are training programs being delivered? Given the current situation surrounding the COVID-19 pandemic, the FedEx Institute of Technology has transitioned all of its emerging technologies training programs to virtual sessions. To learn more, contact Rami Lotay at rslotay@memphis.edu. Will the cost of a training remain the same? Costs associated with training remains consistent, as they relate to the costs for instructors and facilitation vendors. Do I receive a certificate upon completion of the training? Yes, you will receive a certificate of completion once training is complete. An electronic certificate will be sent to the email address listed/used for registration. Will meetups be hosted at the FedEx Institute of Technology, or can meetups be held here? While the building itself is open to faculty and staff, we are currently not hosting any events, as outlined by recommendations of the Centers for Disease Control. Can you help me move my meeting online? If you're a member of faculty or staff, the University of Memphis Information Technology Services has the information you need: memphis.edu/umtech. I still have a question... We can help! Contact us at fedex@memphis.edu. View all FAQs related to the coronavirus and the UofM> Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/27/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.