Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Army Reserve Officer Training Corps About Us Getting Started Campus Life Cadet Resources Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Living and Learning on Campus The ROTC program has been awarded space for up to 40 students in the residence hall recently constructed on Patterson Ave. Cadet Professional Training Army ROTC at the UofM offers several training opportunities for leadership, academic development, cultural understanding, and physical conditioning. Not your typical classroom UofM Ranger Company-Members develop skills associated with patrolling, mountaineering, survival training, and other similar activities. PreviousNext Take Action Cadet Professional Training News & Events Contact Us Make a Donation to Army ROTC Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Home Army Reserve Officer Training Corps Welcome The Department of Military Science provides a four-year program of instruction designed to provide qualified college men and women with practical experience in the art of organizing, motivating and leading others. The program is divided into two courses each of two years duration. The first, called the Basic Course, offers instruction in leadership skills, soldiering skills, and the role and use of armed forces. The second, called the Advanced Course, builds on the Basic Course, offers practical leadership experience, and prepares the student for commissioning as an Army officer. Students may apply for the four year program, which can be completed in three years with department permission, or for the two-year program. Army ROTC faculty are active duty Army personnel detailed by Department of the Army and approved by the University president. The Army officers are appointed by the University as Professor, Assistant Professor of Military Science, Senior Military Instructor and Military Science Instructors. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 7/1/20 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.