By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Life Groups & Activities Greek Life FAQ More from this Section Professional Fraternities Fraternities Sororities Greek Life FAQ What is a 'Greek' organization? What are the different fraternity and sorority chapters at Syracuse University? How do I join a fraternity and sorority? When can I join? How much does it cost to belong to a fraternity or sorority at Syracuse? What is a 'Greek' organization? Link There are several different types of fraternities and sororities, sometimes referred to as Greek-letter organizations; social, honorary, service, and pre-professional are all examples. Fraternities and sororities may be defined as a group of individuals joined together by common goals and aspirations. Fraternities and sororities were founded on, among many things, sisterhood/brotherhood, loyalty, and service. The Greek letters that represent these organizations' names are meant to remind members of their founding ideals. All of Syracuse University’s fraternities and sororities are chapters of national or international organizations. What are the different fraternity and sorority chapters at Syracuse University? Link All of the fraternities and sororities at Syracuse University are chapters of national or international organizations. Each chapter falls under one of the six governing councils: Interfraternity Council (IFC), National Association of Latino Fraternal Organizations (NALFO), Multicultural Greek Council (MGC), National Pan-Hellenic Council (NPHC), National Panhellenic Conference (NPC), and the Professional Fraternity Council (PFC). All Syracuse University recognized fraternities and sororities are a part of one of these councils and are held accountable to their policies, rules, and regulations. View a full listing of all councils and chapters at Syracuse University. How do I join a fraternity and sorority? Link There is a different process for joining organizations, depending on the governing council. National Panhellenic Conference (NPC) recruitment begins during the spring semester and consists of two weekends of organized activities through which 13 Panhellenic sororities introduce themselves to potential new members. The Interfraternity Council has a formal recruitment process during the fall and spring semesters, in which the fraternities provide formal information sessions. Brothers and alumni discuss the unique aspects of their chapter with prospective members, financial obligations, time commitments, and membership requirements. National Pan-Hellenic Council, National Association of Latino Fraternal Organizations, Multicultural Greek Council, and Professional Fraternity Council allows students to solicit membership through informationals. Based on mutual interest of the potential member, the chapter will then extend a membership offer. Those who accept the offer will then go through the new membership process to become fully initiated brothers and sisters. When can I join? Link Syracuse University operates under a "deferred recruitment" system, which means students are not eligible to join a fraternity or sorority until their second semester freshman year. Although each governing council has a different recruitment and membership process, all students participating in those processes must be at least a second semester freshman. All students, including transfer students, must have a minimum of 12 semester credit hours from Syracuse University or SUNY ESF and a minimum cumulative GPA of 2.5 to join any of the 50-plus chapters from Syracuse University. How much does it cost to belong to a fraternity or sorority at Syracuse? Link Each chapter’s dues are diverse and new member dues are often higher than annual dues because new members pay for their pins, national dues, and insurances. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy