Home Home Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni College of Arts and Sciences Drama 101 Hutchinson Hall 206- 543-5140 Website Faculty Website uwdrama@uw.edu The University of Washington School of Drama develops innovative and courageous artists and scholars poised to be the creative leaders of tomorrow. As our contribution to creating a more just, equitable, and empathetic society, the University of Washington School of Drama seeks to cultivate a community of highly-skilled artists, scholars, and citizens who are engaged with the world and invested in theatrical storytelling—in all its guises—as a means of elevating and celebrating our individual and collective voices, promoting understanding, and nurturing compassion. Undergraduate Programs Program of Study: Major: Drama Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Drama Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Drama: Design Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Drama: Performance Program of Study: Minor: Drama Minor in Design for Performance Minor in Drama (Acting) Minor in Drama (Theatre Studies) Graduate Programs Program of Study: Doctor Of Philosophy (Drama) Doctor Of Philosophy (Drama: Textual Studies) Doctor Of Philosophy (Drama: Theater History And Criticism) Program of Study: Master Of Fine Arts (Drama) Master Of Fine Arts (Drama: Acting) Master Of Fine Arts (Drama: Design - Costume) Master Of Fine Arts (Drama: Design - Lighting) Master Of Fine Arts (Drama: Design - Other) Master Of Fine Arts (Drama: Design - Scenery) Master Of Fine Arts (Drama: Directing) Undergraduate Programs Drama 129 Hutchinson Hall 206-543-4204 uwdrama@uw.edu Program of Study: Major: Drama Program Overview The Bachelor of Arts in Drama enhances and enriches the general bachelor's degree at the University of Washington with the specific study of the history, methods and applications in the dramatic arts. Students who graduate from the School of Drama with a bachelor's degree have evolved creative skills, are poised to become citizen leaders and possess a wide range of skills that are applicable to any career that requires collaborative skills, creative innovation, project realization, personnel organization and critical thinking. In addition, we have designed the major so that students can access the hundreds of diverse course offerings at the University of Washington. The Bachelor of Arts degree in Drama also allows students the opportunity to double major with another program at UW. This program of study leads to the following credentials: Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Drama Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Drama: Design Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Drama: Performance Admission Requirements DRAMA 201 No audition is required to enter the program. Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Drama Credential Overview With classes in theatre history, theory and criticism, performance, design, and production, we offer a range of educational opportunities that teach critical thinking, creativity, collaboration, entrepreneurship, and artistic excellence based on a thorough and rigorous study of theatre arts. Bachelor of Arts degree options include Drama, Drama Performance, and Drama Design. Completion Requirements 60-68 credits, depending on credential/option DRAMA 201, DRAMA 251, DRAMA 302, DRAMA 371, DRAMA 372, DRAMA 373 (30 credits) DRAMA 290 (2 credits), DRAMA 291 (2 credits), DRAMA 292 (2 credits) (6 credits) One choice/special studies course from DRAMA 365, DRAMA 416, DRAMA 494, or other adviser-approved course (5 credits) Additional requirements specified below Minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA in courses applied to the major Additional Completion Requirements 19 credits Two courses from DRAMA 215, DRAMA 221, DRAMA 222 (10 credits) 9 elective credits from approved list of 300- and 400-level courses on the department website Back to Top Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Drama: Design Credential Overview With classes in theatre history, theory and criticism, performance, design, and production, we offer a range of educational opportunities that teach critical thinking, creativity, collaboration, entrepreneurship, and artistic excellence based on a thorough and rigorous study of theatre arts. Bachelor of Arts degree options include Drama, Drama Performance, and Drama Design. Completion Requirements 60-68 credits, depending on credential/option DRAMA 201, DRAMA 251, DRAMA 302, DRAMA 371, DRAMA 372, DRAMA 373 (30 credits) DRAMA 290 (2 credits), DRAMA 291 (2 credits), DRAMA 292 (2 credits) (6 credits) One choice/special studies course from DRAMA 365, DRAMA 416, DRAMA 494, or other adviser-approved course (5 credits) Additional requirements specified below Minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA in courses applied to the major Additional Completion Requirements Option specific credits (23-27 credits) DRAMA 221, DRAMA 222 (10 credits) One course from DRAMA 213, DRAMA 319, DRAMA 414, DRAMA 415, DRAMA 419 (3-4 credits) One course from DRAMA 316, DRAMA 317, DRAMA 416, DRAMA 417, DRAMA 418, DRAMA 420, DRAMA 421 (2-5 credits) 2 credits from DRAMA 391 or DRAMA 466 (2 credits) Electives: See department website for approved list of 300- and 400-level courses (6 credits) Back to Top Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Drama: Performance Credential Overview With classes in theatre history, theory and criticism, performance, design, and production, we offer a range of educational opportunities that teach critical thinking, creativity, collaboration, entrepreneurship, and artistic excellence based on a thorough and rigorous study of theatre arts. Bachelor of Arts degree options include Drama, Drama Performance, and Drama Design. Completion Requirements 60-68 credits, depending on credential/option DRAMA 201, DRAMA 251, DRAMA 302, DRAMA 371, DRAMA 372, DRAMA 373 (30 credits) DRAMA 290 (2 credits), DRAMA 291 (2 credits), DRAMA 292 (2 credits) (6 credits) One choice/special studies course from DRAMA 365, DRAMA 416, DRAMA 494, or other adviser-approved course (5 credits) Additional requirements specified below Minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA in courses applied to the major Additional Completion Requirements Option specific credits (22-25 credits) Two courses from DRAMA 215, DRAMA 221, DRAMA 222 (10 credits) DRAMA 466 (2 credits) One course from DRAMA 351, DRAMA 352, DRAMA 353 (4 credits) One course from DRAMA 451, DRAMA 452, DRAMA 453, DRAMA 454, DRAMA 455 (2 or 3 credits), DRAMA 456 (3 credits), DRAMA 457 (4 credits) (2-4 credits) Electives: See department website for approved list of 300- and 400-level courses (4-5 credits) Back to Top Program of Study: Minor: Drama Program Overview A minor in Drama offers students a foundation in one of the following areas: performance studies, acting, or design. Students pursuing one of the Drama minors have an opportunity to experience a guided education on the art, design, and history of theatre. This program of study leads to the following credentials: Minor in Design for Performance Minor in Drama (Acting) Minor in Drama (Theatre Studies) Minor in Design for Performance Credential Overview Students who earn a Minor in Design for Performance will begin to develop the skills to work in the areas of costume design, set design, lighting design or sound design, as well as learning about being citizen leaders and developing skills that are applicable to any career that requires collaboration, creative innovation, project realization, personnel organization and critical thinking. Completion Requirements 25 credits DRAMA 221, DRAMA 222, DRAMA 290 (2 credits) (12 credits) 13 credits from the following: DRAMA 316, DRAMA 317, DRAMA 319, DRAMA 391, DRAMA 414, DRAMA 415, DRAMA 416, DRAMA 417, DRAMA 418, DRAMA 419, DRAMA 420, DRAMA 421, DRAMA 491, or DRAMA 498 Minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA for courses applied to the minor Back to Top Minor in Drama (Acting) Credential Overview Students who earn a Minor in Acting hone acting techniques and creativity, learn about being citizen leaders and develop skills that are applicable to any career that requires collaboration, creative innovation, project realization, personnel organization and critical thinking. Completion Requirements 25 credits DRAMA 251, DRAMA 252 (10 credits) 15 credits from the following: DRAMA 351, DRAMA 352, DRAMA 353, DRAMA 451, DRAMA 452, DRAMA 453, DRAMA 454, DRAMA 455, DRAMA 456, DRAMA 457, DRAMA 460, DRAMA 461, DRAMA 490, DRAMA 498 Minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA for courses applied to the minor Back to Top Minor in Drama (Theatre Studies) Credential Overview Students who earn a Minor in Theatre Studies will become familiar with theatre history and theories, as well as learning about being citizen leaders and developing skills that are applicable to any career that requires collaboration, creative innovation, project realization, personnel organization and critical thinking. Completion Requirements 25 credits DRAMA 201 (5 credits) 20 credits from the following: DRAMA 302, DRAMA 303, DRAMA 365, DRAMA 371, DRAMA 372, DRAMA 373, DRAMA 416, DRAMA 494, DRAMA 499 Minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA for courses applied to the minor Back to Top Additional Information Student Outcomes and Opportunities Learning Objectives and Expected Outcomes: The faculty of the School of Drama considers the optimum preparation for the theatre artist to be comprised of a liberal arts undergraduate major in drama and a graduate conservatory education. Learning objectives include enriched artistic expression, a foundation for further study, and cultivation of essential life skills: teamwork, communication, critical thinking, and imagination. Students earning the Bachelor of Arts in drama are prepared to seek employment in the theatre industry, apply for advanced degrees in a specific area of theatre (e.g., MFA in acting or design), or transfer the skills gained through the program to broader career opportunities. Recent graduates have pursued careers in acting, design, directing, technical direction, stage management, dramaturgy, playwriting, literary management, teaching, and in such non-theatre occupations as real estate agent, fund-raiser, public relations staff, politician, librarian, academic counselor, lawyer, nurse, translator of foreign films, admissions counselor, trade show/convention production assistant, talent agent, casting director, music promoter, special events coordinator, tour guide, human resources coordinator, wedding coordinator, aerobics instructor, music promoter. Instructional and Research Facilities: Rehearsal and performance spaces include the Glenn Hughes Penthouse Theatre (the first theatre-in-the-round built in the United States), the thrust-stage Floyd and Delores Jones Playhouse, the end-stage Meany Studio Theatre, and occasionally the proscenium in Meany Hall. Other spaces include the Cabaret Theatre and Hutchinson 218. School of Drama facilities include a design studio, costume shop, scene shop, and computer labs. The Drama Library houses reserve books, plays, sound effects, dialect tapes, local audition and job notices, and a special collection of acting editions. Also available are specialized indexes and theatre databases. The librarian assists in the use of reference materials and indexes, bibliographic searches of on-line databases, and offers reference service and bibliographic instruction sessions for groups and individuals. Honors Options Available: With College Honors (Completion of Honors Core Curriculum and Departmental Honors); With Honors (Completion of Departmental Honors requirements in the major). See adviser for requirements. Research, Internships, and Service Learning: Student participation in all aspects of dramatic art is provided through student productions, and faculty- and student-directed plays drawn from the full range of world dramatic literature and produced throughout the year. To enhance employability and gain hands-on experience, students are encouraged to participate in internships with regional theatres, and related organizations or businesses. Academic credit may be earned for internships under the course number DRAMA 493. Internship credits count toward drama elective credits to graduate. A resource guide to drama-related internships is available at the drama undergraduate advising website. Drama students are also encouraged to apply for undergraduate research, leadership, and/or fellowship grants available through the Mary Gates Endowment. Department Scholarships: School of Drama scholarships are awarded annually every spring for the following academic year to students who have demonstrated academic and/or artistic merit and contributed significantly to the School of Drama. Applications are distributed from the advising office. Student Organizations/Associations: There are a number of theatre-related RSOs including The Undergraduate Theater Society (UTS), Stage Notes, Chinese Theatre Club, Acting with Kindness, and others. The School of Drama recognizes such RSOs as a valuable resource for students interested in Drama and is supportive of them. Many of these RSOs have produced undergraduate theatre work in the Cabaret black-box performance space in Hutchinson Hall. Any UW student may audition for School and/or RSO productions. A volunteer elected group of drama students, the BA Council, meets with the School of Drama Executive Director, Undergraduate Advisor and Undergraduate Coordinator to discuss issues relative to the undergraduate program. Graduate Programs Drama 105B Hutchinson Hall 206-543-0714 uwdrama@uw.edu Program of Study: Doctor Of Philosophy (Drama) This program of study leads to the following credentials: Doctor Of Philosophy (Drama: Textual Studies) Doctor Of Philosophy (Drama: Theater History And Criticism) Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Doctor Of Philosophy (Drama: Textual Studies) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Doctor Of Philosophy (Drama: Theater History And Criticism) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Program of Study: Master Of Fine Arts (Drama) This program of study leads to the following credentials: Master Of Fine Arts (Drama: Acting) Master Of Fine Arts (Drama: Design - Costume) Master Of Fine Arts (Drama: Design - Lighting) Master Of Fine Arts (Drama: Design - Other) Master Of Fine Arts (Drama: Design - Scenery) Master Of Fine Arts (Drama: Directing) Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Master Of Fine Arts (Drama: Acting) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Master Of Fine Arts (Drama: Design - Costume) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Master Of Fine Arts (Drama: Design - Lighting) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Master Of Fine Arts (Drama: Design - Other) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Master Of Fine Arts (Drama: Design - Scenery) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Master Of Fine Arts (Drama: Directing) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © University of Washington | Seattle, WA