Skip to navigation Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Columbia College | Columbia Engineering GradZone Log In Search Enter a keyword Search GradZone Home Ceremonies & Celebrations Guest Tickets: Class Day and Commencement Graduating Students Day-of-Ceremony Instructions: Columbia College Day-of-Ceremony Instructions: Columbia Engineering Yearbook and Senior Portraits Order Regalia Columbia College Graduate Spotlights Families & Guests Travel to Campus Accommodations Gifts and Announcements Campus Accessibility Dining & Attractions Celebrations and Ceremonies Class of 2022, we look forward to celebrating your hard work and accomplishments at Class Day! To honor your achievements, we have an entire week of celebrations, ceremonies, and special events planned for you. We look forward to proudly marking this milestone with you, your family, your friends, your classmates, your faculty, your advisors, your dean, and the entire Columbia community. So many people are waiting to recognize this major accomplishment of yours. Graduation Events Columbia College Class Day Tuesday, May 17 at 8:00 a.m. South Lawns, Morningside Campus No capacity restrictions expected. A celebration of the accomplishments of all bachelor’s degree candidates of Columbia College. Graduating students will be individually recognized and addresses are given by the president, dean, a keynote speaker and other individuals. Columbia Engineering* Class Day Monday, May 16 at 12:15 p.m.| South Lawns, Morningside Campus No capacity restrictions expected A celebration of the accomplishments of all bachelor's, master's and doctoral degree candidates of the Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Sciences. Graduating students will be individually recognized and addresses are given by the president, dean, a keynote speaker and other individuals. *Columbia Engineering graduate students will receive information about celebratory events from Graduate Student Affairs. Columbia University Commencement Wednesday, May 18, 2022 at 10:30 a.m. Morningside Campus Ticket and guest limitations expected A University-wide commencement ceremony for all eligible April, May, and June 2022 degree candidates, and February 2022 and October 2021 graduates, from all schools and colleges affiliated with Columbia University, as well as family and friends. President Bollinger officially confers degrees to the graduating students en masse and addresses are made en masse. What is the Difference Between Class Day and Commencement? Class Day is the graduation ceremony hosted by your school, when your name will be read aloud by the dean and you and your classmates will be individually recognized for your outstanding achievements. You will hear remarks from President Bollinger, Dean Valentini, Dean Boyce and alumni and student leaders, specific to you and your fellow graduates. Columbia College and the Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Sciences each host their own Class Day, on separate days. All family members and guests are welcome to attend Class Day. Commencement is a University-wide ceremony in which President Bollinger officially confers degrees to the graduating students en masse. Graduating students from all of the schools of Columbia University participate. Attending the University Commencement ceremony is not required to graduate from the University and receive your diploma, but it is a rich, deeply symbolic tradition that graduates and their families have enjoyed for over a century. Other Services and Celebrations Baccalaureate Service Sunday, May 15, 2022, 10:00 a.m. at St. Paul's Chapel The Baccalaureate Service is a multifaith service celebrating the completion of each undergraduate's academic career from Columbia College, The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science, the School of General Studies, and Barnard College. Service highlights include hymns, musical selections, readings, reflections, and speeches by students. Registration will open in April. The Baccalaureate Service is believed to have originated at Oxford University in 1432 when each bachelor was required to deliver a sermon in Latin as part of his academic exercise. Columbia University began this tradition in 1897. Learn more about the Baccalaureate Service. Jewish Life Graduation Celebration Wednesday, May 18, 2022, Immediately following University Commencement (12:30 p.m.) The Kraft Center for Jewish Student Life (606 W 115th Street, between Broadway and Riverside Drive) Columbia/Barnard Hillel will celebrate the Class of 2022 at this annual Commencement Brunch. Family, friends, and loved ones are welcome. Jewish dietary laws will be observed. In compliance with Columbia University’s COVID-19 policies, all attendees will be required to show proof of booster. RSVP in advance or pay at the door. Multicultural Graduation Celebrations In honor of Columbia’s diverse student community and complementing the school- and University-wide graduation celebrations, we are proud to also offer Multicultural Graduation Celebrations, which provide a more intimate setting for students who self-identify in a variety of ways. These events invite community members to reflect on personal growth and community experiences that have impacted their time as students through to graduation. All students are invited to participate in these celebrations. Times are EDT. While the deadline to receive your community-specific regalia accessory (stole, medallion, pin, or tassel) has passed, graduates who wish to participate in these celebrations may still register! (Receipt of regalia accessory will be determined on availability and is not guaranteed.) Lavender Graduation Celebration (LGBTQIA+ community): Wednesday, May 4, 6:30–9:00 p.m. Asian Graduation Celebration: Thursday, May 5, 6:00–8:00 p.m. FLI Graduation Celebration (First-generation and/or low-income community): Monday, May 16, 6:30–8:30 p.m. Black Graduation Celebration: Tuesday, May 17, 2:00–4:30 p.m. Latinx Graduation Celebration: Tuesday, May 17, 6:30–9:00 p.m. Native Graduation Celebration: Wednesday, May 18, 2:00–4:00 p.m. Leadership and Excellence Awards Wednesday, April 13 at 6:00 p.m. At the end of each academic year, Undergraduate Student Life and partner offices recognize students with awards and honors for leadership, co-curricular accomplishments, and noteworthy contributions to the Columbia community. Department Receptions Dates will continue to be announced here in the upcoming weeks. From toasts and salutes to award presentations and fond farewells, almost every Columbia College and Engineering department hosts its own, unique end-of-year celebration to recognize their graduating seniors. Film and Media Studies Tuesday, May 17, 2:00–4:00 p.m., Dodge Hall 507 Families are welcome! Department of French Tuesday, May 17, 1:30–2:30, Maison Française (2nd floor of Buell Hall) Light refreshments will be served and friends and family are welcome! Middle Eastern, South Asian, and African Studies (MESAAS) Wednesday, May 18, 403 Knox Hall Students and families are invited to enjoy regional refreshments at a departmental graduation celebration! The celebration will immediately follow the conclusion of Commencement ceremonies. Please RSVP to mesaasworkstudy@gmail.com. International Senior Salute Friday, April 29 at 2:00 p.m. Low Library Faculty Room This inaugural celebration honors graduating international seniors from the Class of 2022 in Columbia College and Columbia Engineering. Register by April 15th, 11:59pm EDT at https://events.columbia.edu/go/ccseasinternationalseniorsalute. Hosted by International@Columbia | Multicultural Affairs. Countdown to Graduation We look forward to celebrating the Columbia College and Columbia Engineering Class of 2022! Engineering's Class Day ceremony will take place on Monday, May 16, followed by the College's ceremony on Tuesday, May 17. Learn more about this year's ceremonies and celebrations. COUNTDOWN TO CLASS DAY Fax: (212) 854-0470 Email the Class Day team (CC/SEAS Undergraduate Students) Email SEAS Graduate Student Affairs (SEAS Graduate Students) Email University Commencement Columbia College 208 Hamilton Hall, Mail Code 2805 1130 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 Phone: 212-854-2441 Follow on Facebook Follow on Twitter Follow on Instagram Columbia Engineering 510 Mudd Hall, Mail Code 4714 500 W. 120th St. New York, NY 10027 Phone: 212-854-2993 Follow on Facebook Follow on Twitter Follow on Instagram © 2022 Columbia University | Privacy | Terms of Use | Accessibility | Notice of Non-Discrimination |University Home Page