By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Academics Opportunities & Support Air Force & Army ROTC More from this Section Summer Programs Fellowship & Scholarship Advising FAQ Honors Program Air Force and Army ROTC Syracuse University's ROTC program gives you a jump on your future by earning an officer’s commission and a college degree at the same time. If you’re highly competitive, have a desire to serve your country, and want both certainty and flexibility in your future career, consider the Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC) program. You’ll simultaneously earn the commission of second lieutenant in the U.S. Army or Air Force and a Syracuse University degree. You’ll combine leadership training with a regular academic major—a combination that will prepare you for both military and civilian careers. Air Force ROTC The Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps (AFROTC) and Syracuse University have been producing leaders since 1918. Syracuse’s AFROTC is proud to offer you the opportunity to distinguish yourself as a student and a leader by becoming a cadet in the AFROTC program. The program offers camaraderie, valuable leadership and management experience, and various scholarship programs. Contact Air Force ROTC Air Force ROTC NVRC, 101 Waverly Ave, Ste 214 Syracuse, NY 13244-2300 315.443.2461 afdet535@syr.edu Army ROTC The Army Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC) is an elective providing proven leadership training to college students. Army ROTC goes beyond the typical classroom experience. Through personal development and unique opportunities, Army ROTC will encourage you to grow mentally, morally, and physically. The program includes a basic course focusing on management and leadership development taken during the freshman and sophomore years with no military service obligation. An advanced course taken during the junior and senior years centers on leadership, management, and ethics. Contact Army ROTC Army ROTC NVRC, 101 Waverly Ave, Ste 210 Syracuse, NY 13244-2300 315-443-2462 or 315-436-3759 armyrotc@syr.edu Related Pages Undergraduate Majors and Minors Choose from more than 200 majors and over 100 minors and embrace the interdisciplinary nature of Syracuse University’s academic options. Student Services and Support Syracuse University staff and faculty strive to create safe, inclusive, and engaging environments that are responsive to the community's needs. Institute for Veterans and Military Families IVMF is higher education’s first interdisciplinary academic institute, singularly focused on advancing the lives of the nation’s military veterans and their families. Join the ROTC Living Learning Community The ROTC living learning community is based in Lawrinson Residence Hall as part of a cluster of Leadership Development Communities. Visit and Apply Schedule a Visit How to Apply Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy