Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links AHANA Menu Main Nav Thea Bowman AHANA and Intercultural Center Contact Back Back Close About Overview BAIC History Sr. Thea Bowman Biography of Dr. Benjamin Mays AHANA Defined Meet the Staff Job Opportunities Get Involved Donate Contact Programs & Services Overview Promote Equity Build Community Support Opportunity Scholarships Community Contact Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Division of Student Affairs Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Build Community Home Programs & Services Build Community Build Community We believe that everyone should have a stake in ensuring that all individuals are empowered to reach their potential while participating fully in their communities. AHANA Summit Benjamin E. Mays Mentoring Program Bowman Advocates for Inclusive Culture Magis Civil Rights Immersion Trip Community Advocacy and Research Engagement Program Dialogues on Race Ethnic Heritage Months Football Tailgates Jamaica Magis Service Immersion Trip Racial Identity Development Experience Spiritual Engagement & Outreach Initiatives Lift As You Climb Mentorship Program AHANA Send Off Senior Toast Sr. Thea's Ladies AHANA Leadership Program The AHANA Male Leadership Program (AMLP) Register To Be a Participant Apply To Be a Lead AHANA Summit Join the BAIC for a retreat designed specifically for AHANA students! The goal of the AHANA Summit is to continue to build community among AHANA students, highlight resources on campus, and allow each student to share his or her unique story. AHANA Summit will take place on Friday February 4- Sunday February 6, 2022. Register today to secure your spot! Contact Danielle Date for more information. Learning Outcomes Below are the learning outcomes for student participants and student leaders at the Center for Student Formation. After engagement with the BAIC, students will be able to... Identify one reflective habit that they have integrated into their lives Pursue a mentoring relationship with an adult or older peer Demonstrate competence in one of the following areas: public speaking, small group facilitation, or mentoring peers What is an AHANA Summit Lead? An AHANA Summit Lead prepares over a four-week period to give a themed talk, facilitate a small group, and help build community. Who can apply to be an AHANA Summit Lead? All sophomores, junior and senior AHANA students are welcome to apply to lead. We also welcome AHANA sophomores, juniors and seniors who have not led retreats or other programs in the past. AHANA Summit Lead Application What's the committment? Four lead meetings during the four weeks leading up to the AHANA Summit A few talk coaching sessions in preparation for your AHANA Summit talk about a theme (past themes include: transitioning from home to Boston College, the challenge of academics, involvement at BC, and privilege) A participant recruiting event where you will help with recruiting efforts and meet AHANA students The AHANA Summit, Friday February 4th- Sunday February 6th, 2022. Participant Registration AHANA Summit Lead Application Why should I become an AHANA Summit Lead? You will have fun leading a great group of AHANA students and being a key player in enhancing the AHANA community here at Boston College. It will be an opportunity to be an upperclassman leader who younger AHANA students can look up to. You will also work with the BAIC Staff and develop small group facilitation skills, public speaking skills, and additional leadership skills. Please contact Danielle Date with questions. Benjamin E. Mays Mentoring Program The purpose of the Benjamin Elijah Mays Mentoring Program at Boston College is to assist undergraduate students in building solid foundations. The underlying objective of the program is to inspire students to strive toward excellence and to give them a steady advocate while they navigate through college. Students can benefit from the encouragement, sound advice, and ongoing support from those who have succeeded in reaching their goals. Students are able to better define educational, career and life goals with such resources at hand, particularly through obstacles they may face. Mentoring Program Navigating a large university campus can be challenging for any freshman, but AHANA (African American, Hispanic, Asian, Native American), multiracial, and OTE students at Boston College can find support through the Benjamin Elijah Mays Mentoring Program. This mentoring program, is named after the great educator Dr. Benjamin Elijah Mays, who served as a mentor to Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. and many others. It was established in 1991 by the Office of AHANA Student Programs under a Ford Foundation grant dedicated to improving campus diversity. The Mays Mentoring Program is designed to provide undergraduate students with an opportunity to have a personal connection with a faculty member, administrator, or staff who can guide them through the college environment. The Mays Mentoring Program also attempts to ameliorate potential isolation and loneliness that are often experienced by undergraduate students by pairing them with a mentor who is dedicated to developing a relationship with students througout their Boston College journey. There are currently over 67 mentors, including administrators, faculty members and staff, and over 100 students enrolled as proteges. Learning Outcomes By participating in the Benjamin Elijah Mays Mentoring Program, protégés will be able to: Seek support/guidance from their mentors Listen and critically examine the perspectives of their mentors Think critically and proactively with regards to their academic, social/personal and long-term career goals Articulate the value of a mentoring relationship and the importance of having mentors Learn and identify new resources available on campus, and how/when to utilize them Applications Students: Complete the protégés application Faculty/Staff: For New Mentors ONLY: Complete the mentor application Current Mentors ONLY: Update your Mentor Participation Form For more information about the Benjamin E. Mays Mentoring Program, please contact: Email: maymentoring@gmail.com Frequently Asked Questions How does the Mentoring Program work? Mentors and protégés each go through an orientation process that introduces them to the program. Mentors are required to participate in a Training Institute (details below). Protégés are required to have a one-on-one orientation sessions with the program’s coordinator. Mentor/protégé orientations are also meant to establish programmatic expectations before formally getting matched. For the protégés, it is also an opportunity for the program to get a better understanding of what he/she is looking for from a mentor and the program. Mentors and protégés are then paired according to students' academic and life interests and mentor's experiences. Once they meet, they develop a relationship by: Regularly meeting and keeping in communication with one another. Attending various program events sponsored by the Benjamin Elijah Mays Mentoring Program. How does the matching process work? Both new mentor and protégés are asked to complete a profile form. This form is used for the matching process. We try our best to get an understanding of what each party is looking for in a mentoring relationship (remember, mentoring is a two-way street!) and match a protégé to a mentor based on interests and experiences. Please note that the matching process is not an exact science and often can take some time in order to find the best match possible. If you do not immediately receive an e-mail from the program, it only means that we are continuing to actively and carefully identify the best match for you! What do I do once I am matched? We recommend that protégés and mentors to get in communication (e-mail exchange, phone call, etc.) to set up a first meeting. Many newly matched pairs will attend the next Mays Mentoring Program event as the first meeting. From there, an introduction and conversation about expectations are recommended and then both individuals take it from there! What if I have questions or concerns? One of the benefits of participating in a formal mentoring program is that you have a greater support system beyond your mentor/protégé. Mentors and protégés can contact the program administrator (Tiffany Zheng) for any questions or concerns. The Mays Mentoring Program serves as a facilitator and helps mentors and protégés to develop and build their mentoring relationship. For Protégés: Where do I start? Students need to complete the protégé profile form. Once you submit the form, the BAIC will contact with you to set up your one-on-one orientation session. From there, you will be contacted as soon as we find the right mentor match for you! Please feel free to contact the program administrator zhengti@bc.edu for more information. For Mentors: Where do I start? Dr. Benjamin E. Mays Institute for the Preparation of Faculty Members: Mentors attend an institute to prepare them for the mentoring role. Since mentors and students come from a variety of cultural and racial backgrounds, the institute offers sessions on cross-cultural communications, responsibilities of mentors and techniques for building relationships. All sessions are presented by experts in the field. Current protégés also participate in the institute sharing their stories and describing how mentors have helped them make the transition to university life. Where can I find the Mentor Profile Form? Here! Please e-mail zhengti@bc.edu once you have completed the form. You will be contacted as soon as we have found the right protégé match for you! Mentoring Resources: http://mentoring.org/ http://mentoringcentral.net/ http://umbmentoring.org/ Events The events coordinated by the Benjamin Elijah Mays Mentoring Program are opportunities for mentors and protégés to formally get together. The events are also a great opportunity to get to know other mentors and protégés in the program. Although these events are not required, we highly encourage mentors and protégés to attend and to attend together. Of course, if your mentor/protégé is unable to attend, please feel free to attend anyways. Again, there are plenty of other wonderful people to meet and get to know. Kick-Off Event The Kick-Off event is the first Mays Mentoring Program’s event. It usually occurs in October and is the first opportunity for mentors and protégés to officially meet. The Kick-Off usually has a nice sit-down dinner and provides a space for mentors and protégés to introduce themselves. Occasionally, the Kick-Off Event will feature a speaker or panel to speak about the mentoring relationship. Saturday Dim Sum Brunch The Dim Sum event is the only off-campus and weekend trip within the program. Like all the other events, it is an opportunity to further develop your relationship with your mentor/protégé over delicious food, in this case, dim sum! Additionally, it is an great opportunity to get to know downtown Boston (particularly Chinatown). Travel accommodations are provided (bus pick up on campus, bus drop off back to campus). Of course, if you are familiar with the area, you can meet the rest of us there! Holiday Dinner Somewhere between the end of the semester, the start of finals, and before the long winter break, there is the Mays Holiday Dinner. This dinner is a opportunity for mentors and protégés alike to take a break from all the end-of-the-semester chaos to have a nice warm meal with your mentor/protégé and the program. Ice-Cream Social The Ice-Cream Social is an informal event toward the start of the spring semester. Mentor and protégés are welcomed back from their winter break with ice cream, likely while we are still in the middle of winter (welcome to New England!). Mays Mentor Roundtable This is a mentor-only event where we provide brunch to mentors. The Mentor Roundtable is an opportunity for the mentors to provide the program with feedback about their experience throughout their participation as a Mays mentor. It is a great way for the program to continue to evolve and grow. We continually strive to improve the program for current mentors and protégés as well as for the future. Just as mentoring relationships learn and develop, so does the program! Closing Ceremony To finish off the spring semester and the year, the Mays Mentoring Program hosts our annual Closing Ceremony. The ceremony serves as an encouragement for mentors and protégés to finish their semesters strong, reflect on their mentoring experience, and is also a time to celebrate the Goldsmith Mentor of the Year. The George Goldsmith Mentor of the Year Award honors an outstanding Mays mentor (nominated by protégés and carefully selected by the program administrator and student coordinator) and is immortalized on the Goldsmith Award Plaque displayed in the Office of AHANA Student Programs. Mentor-Protege Activity List There are some great off-campus places to check out with your Mays mentor/protege. These are various locations of things-to-do, places-to-see, and good-eats in the Greater Boston area (listed by area). Have fun exploring a little bit of Boston! Have a recommendation that you do not see on the list? Tell us at: maymentoring@gmail.com. Cleveland Circle Bangkok Bistro: http://www.bangkokbistroma.com/ Eagle’s Deli: http://eaglesdeli.com/ Fins: http://finsboston.com/main.html Chipotle: http: Starbucks: http://www.starbucks.com/store/87273/ Coolidge Corner Otto’s Pizza: http://ottopizza.wordpress.com/tag/coolidge-corner/ Brookline Booksmith Events: http://www.brooklinebooksmith.com/ Naked Pizza: http://nakedpizza.biz/ Paris Crepes: http://pariscrepe.com/ Temptations Cafe: http://www.temptations-cafe.com/ The Clay Room Pottery Painting: http://clayroom.weebly.com/ Zaftigs: http://www.zaftigs.com/ Harvard Ave/Packard’s Corner Angora Care’ : http://www.angoracafe.com/ordereze/default.aspx Fish Market Sushi Bar: http://www.fishmarketsushibar.com/ Hanmaru Asian Cuisine: http://www.hanmaruboston.com/ Korean Garden: http://www.koreangardenboston.com/about.php Le’s Restaurant: http://www.lesallston.com/ Newton Center Bill’s Pizzeria: http://www.billspizzeria.com/index1.jsp Coconut Cafe: http://www.coconutcafenewtoncentre.com/ Johnny’s: http://johnnysluncheonette.com J.P. Licks: http://www.jplicks.com/find_us.html (for location, just click on Newton Center) Lee’s Burger Place: http://www.yelp.com/biz/lees-burger-place-newton Panera Bread: http://www.panerabread.com/find.php Peet’s Coffee & Tea: http://www.peets.com/fvpage.asp?rdir=1& Starbucks: http://www.starbucks.com/store/12565/ Union Street: http://taverninthesquare.com/union-street/union-street/ Washington Street Moogy’s Restaurant: http://moogys.com/ CafeNation: http://www.cafenation.com/ Tasca Tapas Restaurant: http://www.tascarestaurant.com/ Boston Boston Public Library Tours: http://www.bpl.org/central/tours.htm Huntington Theatre Company: (Plays) http://www.huntingtontheatre.org/season/subscribe/ Faneuil Hall Marketplace: http://www.faneuilhallmarketplace.com/ Institute of Contemporary Art: http://www.icaboston.org/ Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum: http://www.gardnermuseum.org/ JFK Library: http://www.jfklibrary.org/ Mapparium (The Mary Baker Eddy Library): http://www.marybakereddylibrary.org/visit/directions Museum of African American History: http://www.afroammuseum.org/ Museum of Fine Arts: http://www.mfa.org/ Museum of Science: http://www.mos.org/ New England Aquarium: http://www.neaq.org/index.php Paint Nite: http://paintnite.com/home Saturday Haymarket(Farmers’ Market): http://www.bostoncentral.com/events/farmer/p1152.php The Sports Museum of New England: http://www.sportsmuseum.org/ George Goldsmith Mentor of the Year Award Established in 2010, the Goldsmith Mentor of the Year Award is given upon the conclusion of each academic year to a committed and exemplary member of the Benjamin Elijah Mays Mentoring Program who has made significant contributions as a mentor to Boston College students. The award was established in honor of Dr. George Goldsmith (1923-2009), who was a professor in the Physics Department at Boston College for forty years. Besides being an exceptional teacher and scholar, Dr. Goldsmith mentored many undergraduate and graduate students over his long career and was one of the original Benjamin Mays mentors when the program began in 1991. Criteria: Selection of the Goldsmith Award winner will be based on two criteria: Protégé recommendation(s) Did the mentor go above and beyond in their effects? What impact did the mentor make in the protégé’s life? Quality of service to the Benjamin Elijah Mays Mentoring Program Was the mentor a committed member of the program? What was the record of service for this mentor? Process: Protégé will be contacted for their nominations by the student program coordinator in the spring semester. Protégés wishing to nominate a mentor should adhere to the specified deadline on the nomination form. The program administrator in collaboration with the student program coordinator will review and select the award winner. The award will be presented at the Closing Ceremony at the end of the spring semester. Bowman Advocates for Inclusive Culture Mission Statement Bowman Advocates for Inclusive Culture are student leaders who strive to support and empower the undergraduate student body in building a more inclusive Boston College community through cross-cultural dialogue. Who We Are Boston College sophomores, juniors, and seniors who have been trained by BAIC staff members to facilitate cross-cultural activities and dialogues with our peer community. What We Do Co-facilitate debrief sessions during the Diversity Edu program during Welcome Week along with Resident Assistants, FACES members, faculty, and staff Facilitate Cultural Competency workshops for students that focus on diversity and identity Facilitate small group discussions at BAIC events or Diversity Conferences Current Bowman Advocates Karen Aldana Kyannah DePina Indio Day Lizbeth Figueroa Sarah Findeisen Alicia Kang Ishaan Kaushal Karleni Martinez Serena Meyers Madison Miraglia Miladi Teo Najera Ricardo Ponce Sofia Rojas E'Sachi Smalls Jenifer Solorzano Ayan Wallace Yuk Chuen/Rick Wang Hear from previous Bowman Advocates Madison Miraglia, ‘22 “I was excited about the opportunity to be a Bowman Advocate because previously I did not have the skills to have peaceful conversations with people who did not agree with me. Becoming a BA gave me the facilitation skills to talk about race with peers. I have learned so much about examining my own privilege, being an advocate for change on campus, and being an ally.” Larry Zhang, ‘22 “After a year of being a BA, I have learned so much more than I could have possibly imagined. In addition to developing important facilitation skills, I have gained a greater understanding of how people are continually marginalized on BC’s campus and the rest of the world.” Kalah Thompson, ‘21 “Becoming a Bowman Advocate means being able to contribute to my BC community by promoting equity and inclusivity, and getting other students engaged as well. When I joined, I desired to be in a space in which I could address important issues, and be in a position to get others to do the same; I have been able to do exactly that.” Franciel, ‘22 “Being a Bowman Advocate for me led to a belief that I can educate those who are different than I am. Being a BA not only educated me in a field that I already knew, but it gave me the opportunity to be around different mindsets and be more open-minded on different topics.” Idris, ‘22 “I see value in the Bowman Advocates because it is a space for me to learn more about race, diversity, and so many other topics that need to be discussed. There is so much that needs to be educated not only to me but to those around me. I see value in challenging myself and others in a group setting where we all are vulnerable and cognizant of why these conversations are necessary.” Jack Bracher, ‘22 “The Bowman Advocates program has allowed me to engage in meaningful conversations with my peers. I have enjoyed the opportunity to lead those conversations and contribute to making our campus culture more welcoming through Dialogues on Race and the BRAVE Workshops.” Snapshot of Bowman Advocate Commitment Snapshot of Bowman Advocate Commitment Time Commitment: You will be expected to participate in the Bowman Advocate Leadership Program from the last week of August to March. The Fall commitment will be from Sunday, August 23 to November 19. The Spring commitment will be from January 21 to March 25. In the Fall Semester you will be expected to: Attend one week of training and a retreat the week of August 23, 2020 Facilitate one BRAVE Workshop from 7-9, each week for five weeks. Attend a weekly meeting every Thursday from 4:30 - 6 PM. Staff the Fall BRAVE Conference on November 7, 2020 In the Spring Semester you we be expected to: Staff the RIDE Retreat from January 23rd & 24th Facilitate one Dialogues on Race Session a week for three weeks. Attend a weekly meeting every Thursday from 4:30 - 6 PM. Staff the Spring BRAVE Conference on March 20, 2021 In addition to the leadership and facilitation experience, there are a number of extra perks of the program! You will be granted early move-in access! Opportunities to attend retreats as participants and leaders! Group outings! All meetings will have food! Weekly Meetings will offer a series of professional development opportunities. Fall Semster Spring Semester Public Speaking Workshop Guest Speaker: Working in a non-profit Guest Speaker: How to develop workshops and powerful presentations Guest Speaker: Conflict resolution Professional development personality tests Guest Speaker: Diversity education matters in academics Guest Speaker: Diversity education matters in STEM Successful Start presentation on personal finance Guest Speaker: Diversity education matters in business sector Guest Speaker: Community organizer or activist Guest Speaker: Resume writing If you have any questions or are interested in being part of the Bowman Advocate leadership program, please contact: Andy Petigny, Associate Director andy.petigny@bc.edu Sara Sprarks, Graduate Assistant sparkssb@bc.edu Applications are due April 10th! Apply Today The Magis Civil Rights Immersion Trip is a six-day tour through the South with stops at major sites related to the civil rights movement. The trip coincides with BC’s spring break, and encourages students to gain a deeper understanding of historic events, and of their own place within the continued battle for racial equality in the United States. Mission As part of the aim of the 360 degree development of our students, the facilitation of a healthy concept of self is crucial. Important to understanding who we are as individuals, as well as being culturally and racially diverse, is an appreciation of where we come from and the history of struggle by our forebears that allow us to experience the liberties we so take for granted these days. The civil rights movement is a pivotal part of this for many of us; white and black alike. Too many of our youngsters today think of the civil rights movement to be the stuff of which stories are told. For them, the movement belongs in history books and is as fantasy-based as Snow White and the Dwarfs, with their varied names. It needs to be made alive for them so that they can come to realize that the civil rights movement is part of our everyday experience because it is that struggles which continues for so many and which continues to develop a healthy tolerance for the variety that defines all humanity. This is part of what the educational program we provide at our Jesuit Catholic university aims to do through campus ministry. To have students find God in all things and come to terms with their place in the universe so that they can positively impact their world. Apply Here Contact For more information, visit the Thea Bowman AHANA and Intercultural Center, Maloney Hall Suite 455, or email bostoncollegejamaicamagis@gmail.com. Learning Outcomes To help students reflect critically and engage in the history by visiting the national monuments of the Civil Rights Movement To examine the Civil Rights Movement through the lens of faith and justice in order to learn about the lives and be in solidarity with the people who have been socially, economically and or politically marginalized through historical racism To help students understand who they are as individuals To help students find God in all things so that based on this experience of seeing history firsthand they can positively impact their world, respective communities at Boston College and at home, in order to find ways to integrate and reflect critically on issues of faith, respect, and justice. Community Advocacy and Research Engagement This is a two-semester program that offers leadership, research, and public policy training for students interested in working with Latino, Asian American, Native American, and/or African and African Diaspora communities in Massachusetts. In the Fall, students will participate in a seminar to study the process of community-based research and its methodologies, and begin to design a research proposal for an independent study with a faculty advisor for the Spring semester research project. The seminar will also include a Lecture Series where academic researchers and community professionals will discuss their current work and experiences on issues related to the four research-interest communities. Program Highlights Year-long research seminar, including research methods Opportunity to conduct independent research under faculty guidance Small classroom environment, personal support & guidance Opportunity to present in public forums 7 academic credits (may fulfill requirements for the Asian American studies concentration, African and African Diaspora studies program or Sociology) Latino, Asian American, Native American, African & African Diaspora tracks Designated for cultural diversity credit Program Components This is a two-semester program that offers leadership, research, and public policy training for students interested in working with African and/or African Diaspora, Asian, Latino, and Native American communities in Massachusetts. In the Fall, students participate in a seminar to study the process of community-based research, its methodologies, and begin to design a research proposal for an independent study. The seminar will also include guest speakers where academic researchers and community professionals will discuss their current work and experiences on issues related to the community of their research interest. In the Spring, students will work with a faculty advisor on their independent research projects. They will also attend a seminar once a week with the course instructor. View Past Community Research Program Abstracts Learning Outcomes As a result of participating in this program students will be able to: Gain an understanding of the uniqueness of community-based research in comparison to other forms of research Build upon knowledge of the issues affecting communities of color and those organizations Acquire methodological skills Learn the important components in designing a research proposal and conducting a study Be critical consumers and producers of knowledge Gain a deeper understanding of ethical and methodological issues related to community-based research Develop presentation skills Eligibility Requirements The program welcomes applications from students who meet the following criteria: Interest in social justice issues, leadership development, community involvement and scholarship To Apply Interested applicants should submit the following materials: A completed application - apply here A current resume A current unofficial transcript If you have any questions about the Community Research Program please contact: Tiffany Zheng, Assistant Director Email: zhengti@bc.edu Dialogues on Race Dialogues on Race (DOR) is a peer-led discussion group on issues surrounding race, identity, and racial justice. The program consists of four weekly meetings and takes place in various residence areas around campus. DOR is a safe space for students of all races to explore and expand on their knowledge of their own racial identities, speak about current issues, and support one another in building a more inclusive BC community. All students are encouraged to participate regardless of initial comfort, level of understanding, and/or previous experience with racial dialogue. The DOR is always open! How It Works Students meet for 3 consecutive weeks,1.5 hours each week on the same night via Zoom. Using articles, films, video, and their own experiences, participants discuss and reflect on issues related to race. Session themes include: race at BC, their identity and how it shapes them, institutional racism, race in the media, and more. All sessions are peer facilitated by Bowman Advocates for Inclusive Culture. What Students Are Saying “I’ve learned that it’s very important to share your experiences in order to connect with others and work to ease racial tensions.” “My favorite aspect of this program was that I could discuss topics about race outside of a classroom environment with people who were as equally interested as I was.” “What I really loved about DOR was talking to people from different racial backgrounds than me and just learning about their experience at BC. It is so refreshing to learn about other people’s lives and to examine firsthand what life in BC (or America!) is like for those who aren’t in the racial majority.” “It is important to learn about different experiences because it forces people to be more analytical and critical of the systems of power that may not always be directly present in their lives. Also, just knowing about other cultures in general makes for a more well-rounded and educated person who can try then to understand a variety of perspectives.” This year's discussion topics include: Race and Education Race and Healthcare Race and Film- Race, the Music Industry, and Theatre Race and Social Media Race and Sports Race and the Criminal Justice System Race, Fashion, and Beauty Standards Learning Outcomes As a result of participating in Dialogues on Race, students will be able to: articulate how others' racial identities may affect their experiences in society define institutional racism and explain how it impacts society. identify the relationship between past inequalities' and current social structures and conditions show a willingness to be open to new and challenging perspectives Sign Up Here Today! (Deadline to sign up is Saturday, February 26) Contact Us Sara Sparks, Graduate Assistant, sara.sparks@bc.edu Ethnic Heritage Months BAIC collaborates with student organizations and academic and student affairs departments to celebrate the contributions of AHANA communities. Hispanic Heritage Month is celebrated from September 15 through October 15; Native American Heritage Month is in November; Black History Month is in February and Asian Pacific American Heritage Month is celebrated in April. Asian Pacific American Heritage Month Introduction The current curriculum at Boston College and many other colleges and universities do not offer enough opportunities for students to learn about the Asian Pacific Islanders (API) in the history of the United States. When we do read or hear about the APIs, we are often given information about how they were victims to discriminatory acts and torture. On occasion, we learn about how some persevered. More commonly, we hear about these “aliens” or “foreigners” who have “acclimated” and learned to “fit in.” The implicit and maybe even explicit message is that the APIs are “outsiders” trying to “fit in” to the “American” way despite the fact that Asian Pacific Islanders have lived in the United States for well over a century and have contributed significantly to its economy, culture, and history. For this reason and more, the APAHM celebration at Boston College is an attempt to teach (or remind) every one of us that the APIs are not outsiders or “sojourners.” Further, their history in America should not be read as an “add-on” to American history. Instead, it is a large piece of American history. Without the APIs in United States, the America as we know it today will not be the same. A Brief History The idea of Asian Pacific American Heritage Month (APAHM) was introduced to the House of Representatives in June 1977 by Frank Horton of NY and Norman Mineta of CA. The resolution called for the president to establish the first ten days of May as Asian/Pacific Heritage Week. A month later, it was introduced in a similar bill to the senate by Daniel Inouye and Spark Matsunaga. In 1978, President Jimmy Carter signed a resolution designating that time period as an annual celebration. In 1990, President George Bush designated the whole month of May to be Asian Pacific American Heritage Month. May was chosen in order to commemorate the immigration of the first Japanese immigrants to the United States in 1843. The APAHM Committee Initiative Prior to 2003, Boston College Asian student culture clubs have hosted various events to commemorate Asian Americans. The students have not, however, collectively sponsored the celebration of Asian Pacific American Heritage Month (APAHM), which takes place annually in May. Realizing that the university does not celebrate this month, representatives from the Office of AHANA Student Programs, Center for International Partnerships and Programs, and the Career Center began to organize an event in honor of APAHM. At the same time, several Asian student clubs were making a similar effort. In collaboration with Asian student clubs, the three offices worked to coordinate the First Celebration of Asian Pacific American Heritage Month at Boston College in April 2003. Purpose Too often, the memories of and efforts made by Asian Pacific Americans (APA's) are forgotten or even unknown. Below is a very short list of such contributions. APA's have an incredible record in the US military. The Japanese Americans, in particular, played a great part during World War II in the 100th Infantry Battalion and the 442nd Regimental Combat Team. APA's have been instrumental in the construction of the western half of the transcontinental railroad. APA's were vital in turning the western deserts into fertile farmlands. In addition to their efforts, the suffering and struggles of Asian Pacific Americans have also been disregarded. Here are some examples: The Japanese Americans were placed in what we now call Internment Camps during World War II because both countries were at war. Innocent law-abiding Japanese American citizens were unjustly subjugated. During the construction of the railroad system, the Chinese Americans were paid the lowest wages to do the most dangerous parts of the work, i.e., detonate explosives. Those who died from the explosives were simply forgotten. Their families back in China did not receive any compensation for their loss. The Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882 was enacted because the "Government of the United States felt the coming of Chinese laborers to this country endangers the good order of certain localities within the territory." This was the first and only legal regulation that the US has ratified to preclude an ethnic group from entering this country. For centuries, APA's were discriminated against in this country because of the color of their skin. Reality is that all people of all races and ethnic backgrounds have endured pain and triumphs. But, humans often focus on the differences instead of the commonalities due to a lack of knowledge, understanding, and sometimes respect. This is why it is crucial to educate to foster that mutual understanding and respect for one another. In honor of the Asian Pacific Americans who have made contributions and sacrifices for the betterment of the United States and their citizens, and in an effort to educate each other, the APAHM Committee proudly organizes the celebration of Asian Pacific American Heritage Month. Mission It is the mission of the Asian Pacific American Heritage Month Committee to promote awareness, appreciation and understanding of Asian Pacific American culture and experience. Implicit in the mission is the Committee's commitment to encourage mutual respect for cultural diversity of all racial and ethnic groups. It is also in the interest of the Committee to foster the positive growth of APA youth in developing and establishing their identity. Check out information from previous APAHM celebrations. Black History Month Overview Not excluding any other time of the year, February hones in on the opportunity to celebrate a rich and diverse culture, tradition, the history, and acknowledge the important contributions of black people. Black history month is an opportune time to educate the general public, to raise awareness about the unique challenges black people have faced both historically and in the present, and to celebrate how far we’ve come and where we are going. In order to celebrate this rich culture the Thea Bowman AHANA Intercultural Center our Opening ceremony began with opening reamrks from Interim Vice President of Student Affairs, Joy Moore followed with prayer led by Assistant Director of BAIC, Danielle Date. Myia Coleman' 19 recited Maya Angelou's "Still I Rise" poem. The celebration focus on music with performances by B.E.A.T.S. (Boston College's only a cappella group that focuses on music that has shaped the black community in the United States) and Lovely Hoffman ’04 (New England urban music award winner, and multi-talented performer). BAIC also provided an interactive and guided paint experience hosted by Sanaa With Friends. Sanaa means art in Swahili, an east African language steeped in rich history and tradition. Lastly, closing ceremony focused on powerful and inspirational black women who have created success against all odds. Anawan Street Productions, a media house that brings forth visuals that both provoke and entertain audiences, headlined closing ceremony. The event opened by Phaymus (a Boston College all female hip-hop dance group) and transitioned into a film spotlighting 4 unique women who reached their career dreams amongst many obstacles. Events also included spoken word hosted by Black Student Association, dance performances by SC, kanta karaoke hosted by Cape Verdean Student Association, the annual fashion show hosted by African Student Association, discussion panel about black liberation effects hosted by Haitian Student Association, Chambers Lecture Series ft. Dr. Bennet Omalu hosted by the Winston Center, MLK scholarship ceremony honoring Akosua Opokua’18, and an art exhibit titled “My Black is Beautiful” ft. Jordan Barros’19 (located on the 1st floor of O’Neill library). The ultimate goal is to celebrate all forms of black culture whether it be through art, dance, music, fashion, or all of the above. Attendance of the programs ranged from 25 to 75 students depending on the event and RSVP requirement. Hispanic Heritage Month About Hispanic Heritage Month Boston College will celebrate Hispanic Heritage Month, held from September 15 through October 15, with a series of art presentations, lectures, discussions, and social events. Hispanic Heritage Month officially begins on September 15, the anniversary of independence for five Latin American countries: Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua. Mexico declared its independence on September 16, and Chile on September 18. The celebration of Hispanic Heritage Month educates both students and the community alike about Hispanic culture, language, and history. Boston College’s Hispanic Heritage Month events are free and open to all students, faculty, staff, alumni, parents, and the greater Boston community. Connect With Us Through Social Media www.facebook.com/HispanicHeritageMonthBC https://twitter.com/BC_HHM Native American Heritage Month About Native American Heritage Month Native American Heritage Month is obesrved in the United States during the month of November. In 1990, President George Bush declared the first National American Indian Heritage Month on August 3rd. For more information about the origins please click here. Football Tailgates Before each home football game, BAIC hosts a tailgate with music, burgers, hot dogs, and various ethnic foods! We collaborate with different clubs and campus partners to provide a space for everyone to have some fun! Jamaica Magis Service Immersion Trip Jamaica Magis allows Boston College students to live and serve in solidarity with people in Jamaica who have faced social, political, and economic oppression. Students gain a deeper understanding of social justice and spirituality by learning to recognize the face of God in all things. What We Do Be in solidarity with people who have been socially, politically, and economically marginalized. Learn aspects of Jamaican culture through a series of readings, discussions, speakers, and community projects. Share individual skills, resources, and gifts for the purpose of creating a more just society and world. Nurture and challenge faith lives through worship and daily encounters with Jamaicans in an ecumenical setting. View Slideshow of the 2019 Jamaica Magis Service Immersion Trip Overview Equipped with a semester of education about Jamaican culture, history, and current events, Jamaica Magis students arrive in Kingston with a deeper understanding of the people and the context in which they live. During their time in Jamaica, students will gain a deeper understanding of social justice and spirituality by learning to recognize the face of God in all things: in the hug of a child they serve at an impoverished primary school, in the smile of an elderly woman whose memory is failing, in the strength of the community, and in themselves. Jamaica Magis strives to build a community of students who truly embody Boston College’s call to become men and women for others. Students who participate on the Jamaica Magis Service Trip serve the Kingston communities primarily as teaching aides at Holy Family Primary School and Holy Trinity High School. In addition to teaching, students serve as aides alongside the Missionaries of the Poor and within several Mustard Seed communities. With spirits dedicated to living in solidarity and excited to embrace the Jamaican culture, the Boston College students who participate are introduced to several sides of Jamaican society to visualize the diversity the nation offers. Join The application process for the Summer 2022 trip to Jamaica is now open. Apply for Jamaica Magis Donate Thank you for considering a donation to Jamaica Magis. Your tax-deductible donation is a valuable investment in a learning experience that many Boston College students will carry with them for the rest of their lives. Donate Online Visit the Online Giving Form After Completing some brief info about yourself, indicate that you wish to make your gift to (Jamaica Magis) and indicate the name of the student you are donating to in the "in honor of" box. Click "Submit Gift" Mail a Check Danielle Date Thea Bowman AHANA and Intercultural Center 140 Commonwealth Avenue Maloney Hall, Suite 455 Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 If your corporation matches donations, please enclose the appropriate forms. Jamaica Magis, under the umbrella of the Trustees of Boston College, is a non-profit 501(c)3 with a federal tax exemption number of 04-2103545. Contact For more information, visit the Thea Bowman AHANA and Intercultural Center, Maloney Hall Suite 455, or contact: Danielle Date , Assistant Director date@bc.edu Learning Outcomes Learn about the lives of and be in solidarity with people who have been socially, economically and/or politically marginalized. Learn about aspects of Jamaican culture through a series of readings, discussions and speakers and community projects. Share individual skills, resources, and gifts for the purpose of creating a more just society and world. Nurture and challenge faith lives through worship and daily encounters with Jamaicans in an ecumenical setting. Reflect critically on issues of faith and justice in the world and finding ways to integrate it the experience when they return to Boston College and beyond What does Magis mean? St. Ignatius coined the term when he started "Ad Majorem Dei Gloriam" or "for the Glory of God." Magis in the vision of St. Ignatius was meant to mean the "more." It is meant to make us question where do we find more in our lives? Is there Magis in our relationships? Our faith and spiritual life? Is there Magis in our love and affection? We named our trip Magis because through the good works of service we remember to fuel our more. Racial Identity Development Experience (RIDE) What is the RIDE? The Racial Identity Development Experience (R.I.D.E), a weekend retreat that provides a safe space for undergraduate students to consider and discuss experiences of race and identity. On this retreat, participants will have the opportunity to engage in meaningful dialogue, reflect on their own personal experiences, and learn from other students. The impact of the RIDE cannot be overstated, and is probably best expressed by past R.I.D.E participants. In post-evaluation surveys, participants have described the retreat as “an amazing, formative experience that taught me how far I have come and how far I have to go,” “a life-changing experience” “I finally feel like I belong,” “surpassed my expectations because I learned so much more than I ever could have anticipated,” and “the highlight of my BC career so far!” Although the RIDE retreat is only limited to one weekend, the RIDE experience lasts throughout the year. Participants can sign up for the “Conversations Partner” program second semester, which pairs RIDE participants with graduate students mentors to continue discussions about race and identity. Additionally, this year the BAIC will launch RIDE 2.0: Intersecting Identities. RIDE 2.0 consists of three events where participants will further explore how race informs other aspects of their identity, such as gender, socioeconomic class, and sexuality. More information about the intersectionality series will be posted in January! Application Deadline is Sunday, December 1. Register Now! How can you help students learn more about the RIDE? Invite us to pitch the retreat to your classroom or organization! We can keep our pitch as succinct as 1 minute or as detailed as 5 minutes, and allow time for question & answer. Share our flyer and program description with your listservs! Nominate students you know to lead or attend this retreat! To nominate a student, email ride@bc.edu. We will follow up with the student to let them know about the nomination and give them all of the information they need to know to apply and/or register. For professors only: Offer extra credit for students who attend the retreat! If you identify with the mission of our office and/or the R.I.D.E retreat, or if the program may enhance your student’s learning experience inside the classroom, consider incentivizing the retreat with extra credit. If you do, please let us know so that we can confirm your students’ participation with you! Learning Outcomes As a result of participating in the RIDE, students will be able to: Recognize how they have been socialized to see race and identify areas where racial differences have been reinforced Articulate awareness of own racial identity and express why Demonstrate comfort-ability talking about race and identity Develop one way to discuss racial identity in the future Still have questions? Send us an email at ride@bc.edu. Spiritual Engagement & Outreach Initiatives Vision As a part of BAIC, we desire to promote the spiritual development of AHANA and multicultural students. We work to increase the awareness of spiritual diversity on campus by providing connections between multi-faith groups with students seeking to further their spiritual formation. Spirituality, Faith, and Religion ... What's the Difference? Spirituality: Broader concept that involves belief in a connection to something larger than ourselves, includes a search for meaning in life. Faith: A Belief based on complete confidence or trust Religion: Organized system of beliefs, views, and practices. Here at the BAIC’s SEOI, we want to be a resource for you. Students are encouraged to connect with us in order to have conversations about spirituality, interconnectedness, faith, justice, and everything in between in a safe, relaxed environment. Reach out and have a conversation! We can’t wait to meet you. Additional Resources Can be found here Student Faith Organizations On Campus Worship Centers Off- Campus Worship Centers The Gift of Giving—Charity In Religion Charity is a crucial building block in any society, and can go to support an endless variety of individuals, including the poor, homeless, orphans, refugees, and virtually every other marginalized population there is. Charity may be something tangible, such as food or clothes donations, monetary donations, or serving in a community. Most religions urge members to give from what they have been blessed with as a way of benefitting others as well as ourselves. Buddhism: Education is a guide, knowledge is key. (Buddha) Christianity: A wise man is strong, and a man of knowledge increases power. (Old Testament, Proverbs, 25:4) Hinduism: As long as I live, so long do I learn. (Sri Ramakrishna) Islam: Read! In the name of your Rabb (Cherisher and Substainer) who creatd man, out of a clot: Read! And your Lord is most bountiful who has taught (the use of) pen. He has taught man that which he knew not (Qur'an, 96:1-5) Judaism: For the protection of wisdom is like the protection of money, and the advantage of knowledge is that wisdom preserves the life of who has it. (Old Testament, Ecclesiastes 7:12) Lift As You Climb Mentorship Program Mission The Lift as You Climb Mentoring Program aims to introduce first-year OTE scholars toresources that can assist them with navigating their journey as members of the Boston College community; and to assist in their adjustment to college life by providing supportive communities through mentorship, peer connections, and opportunities for reflection and conversation. Goals After participating in the Lift as You Climb Mentoring Program as a first-year participant, scholars will be able to: ● Engage with at least one academic or social resource applicable to individual needs ● Recognize that social identities intersect and therefore, impact each other and interactions in social spaces ● Identify strategies to build positive peer and mentoring relationships After participating in the Lift as You Climb Mentoring Program as mentors, scholars will be able to: ● Demonstrate growth in facilitation and mentoring skills ● Examine and reflect on student issues related to social identities and transition Through this mentoring program, scholars and mentors attend an overnight retreat in the fall semester, participate in bi-weekly meetings with their small group throughout the fall and spring semester, attend one on one lunch/dinner dates with mentees, participate in small group outings and attend program wide events. AHANA Send Off The AHANA Send Off is an event that celebrates a great achievement in a students’ life—earning a college degree. It also acknowledges and celebrates the culture of our students of color. All graduating students of color are invited to participate in this event. This event takes place the Saturday prior to Commencement. Graduates receive a complimentary dinner and special stole at the event plus more surprises! View additional photos of the AHANA Send Off Senior Toast Following Commencement ceremonies, the BAIC hosts a toast to celebrate the accomplishments of our graduating seniors with food and company! Program Description To create a strong community among undergraduate AHANA women at Boston College and provide opportunities for them to develop intellectually, spritually and socially. Contact Danielle Date date@bc.edu Learning Outcome Establish a sense of community and create/strengthen support networks of peers and mentors. Develop Strategies for navigating a PWI as women of color. Strengthen academic and leadership skills and personal and professional development. The AHANA Male Leadership Program The AHANA Male Leadership Program (AMLP) provides support for freshmen and sophomore students by strengthening their academic & leadership skills, personal & professional development, and nurturing character enrichment. The purpose of AMLP is to develop and utilize leadership, communication and networking skills that engages and prepares AHANA men to emerge into tomorrow's men of competence, excellence, compassion, and social justice leaders. Learning/Operational Outcomes: Strengthen academic and leadership skills; Life skills. Students will develop a deeper understanding of themselves and their role in society; Team build, foster community and create/strengthen support networks of peers and mentors; Interpersonal Competence. Students will learn to practice team leadership through active group participation. Students will examine their own and others' intrinsic and extrinsic motivations as leaders. The contact person for this program is Richard Mapeza at mapeza@bc.edu. Back To Top Back To Top Thea Bowman AHANA and Intercultural Center Maloney Hall, Suite 455 Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-3358 | bowmancenter@bc.edu About Programs & Services Scholarships Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College