Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Hispanic Studies La Pluma Writing Center Hispanic Studies La Pluma Writing Center La Pluma Writing Center of the Department of Hispanic Studies at Brown provides confidential support to advanced students of Spanish. Only students registered in courses from HISP 0650 and above are welcome to take advantage of this service. The objective of the Center is to help students with their writing assignments with an emphasis on individual needs depending on the kind of assignment and the proficiency level of the student. Students should submit a copy (by attachment) of the assignment to La Pluma two days before the scheduled meeting. You should attend your appointment with the assignment instructions and a draft of your essay/piece of writing ready to share on the Zoom screen. Observations will be given on grammar, vocabulary, punctuation, structure, tense, and stylistic features. Meetings will last 30 minutes. The director of La Pluma in Spring 2022 is Berta García Faet. To make an appointment and send your assignment, please contact Berta directly ([email protected]). Meeting hours will be offered by appointment only. All appointments will be conducted via Zoom. If you are unable to attend your meeting, please let the tutor know as soon as possible so that your appointment slot can be used by another student. It is highly recommended that appointments be made a week or two ahead of time, depending on the assignment deadline. Please review your syllabus to confirm due dates for the written assignments. Students should submit a copy (by attachment) of the assignment to La Pluma two days before the scheduled meeting. It is highly recommended that appointments be made a week or two ahead of time, depending on the assignment deadline. Please review your syllabus to confirm due dates for the written assignments. At the end of each appointment you will be asked to fill out an anonymous survey about the assistance provided. These surveys will be used to measure the effectiveness and importance of the Writing Center as well as to make improvements to this service in the future. To make an appointment, please contact Berta García Faet at [email protected] Home Contact us Faculty Graduate Students Current Events News & Announcements Current Courses Course Placement La Pluma Writing Center Materiales y recursos de apoyo Periódicos/revistas/diarios Language Evaluations Undergraduate Graduate Program Transatlantic Project Print this Page Share this Page Hispanic Studies Brown University Box 1961 84 Prospect Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3517 Fax 401-863-1669 [email protected] Calendar There are no upcoming events. Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Other Resources Brown in Spain Library Resources