Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Laura Keohane Ph.D. ’16 Named 2022 Alumni Impact Awardee May 23, 2022 The competitive SPH Alumni Impact Award recognizes one exceptional Master’s or doctoral alum making a significant impact on their community and/or in their field. Laura Keohane, assistant professor of health policy at Vanderbilt University Medical Center, is recognized for “her stunning trajectory and increasing impact in research and policy related to aging.” In just six years since earning her Ph.D. in health services research at Brown, Keohane has had extraordinary impact as a health policy researcher focused on vulnerable older adults, particularly those dually eligible for Medicare and Medicaid. Applying rigorous and creative methods to critical research questions related to care and outcomes, she has established herself as a leader in the field with 30 peer-reviewed publications in leading health policy and medical journals. This important work has informed reports issued by the Office of Assistant Secretary of Planning and Evaluation in the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, the Medicare Payment Advisory Committee, and the U.S. Senate Finance Committee. Professor Keohane is “an obvious rising star in the growing field of health services research in aging,” say her nominators. Her commitment to the frail and poor population of older persons in America testifies to her strong sense of purpose. A passionate advocate for older and disabled adults, she is among the nation’s most creative and impactful early career aging/health services researchers. The 2022 SPH Alumni Impact Award is yet further testament to Professor Keohane’s growing national reputation and the impact her work is having at the state and national level to improve the lives of older, vulnerable adults. Recent news: May 23, 2022 Laura Keohane Ph.D. ’16 Named 2022 Alumni Impact Awardee May 12, 2022 At the Brown School of Public Health: Dynamic Change to Expand Impact May 4, 2022 Congratulations to the Winners of the 2022 Dean’s Staff Awards April 25, 2022 Postpartum insurance loss decreased during COVID-19 pandemic, study finds April 14, 2022 2022 Betty Marcus Women’s Health Endowment Awards April 13, 2022 For young adults, mindfulness habits for life and the promise of better mental, physical health April 12, 2022 Celebrating the 2022 Dean's Awards for Faculty Excellence April 7, 2022 Communicating for impact: Public health students get comfortable talking about why their work matters School of Public Health Admissions School of Public Health Admissions Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top