Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Spiritual Life Menu Who We Are Meet the University Chaplain Staff Dr. Burt Burleson Rebecca Kennedy John Maurer Dr. Erin Moniz Dr. Charles Ramsey The Bobo Spiritual Life Center Building Reservation Application What We Do Pastoral Care Meeting with a Chaplain Notifying Professors of a Crisis Getting Direction for your Spiritual Life Dealing with Grief and Loss How to Support Those Who are Grieving Campus Resources Spiritual Practices Chapel Global Missions Local Ministries Sports Ministry Faith & Deliberation The Good Neighbor Initiative Students Get Involved Religious Organizations Baptist Student Ministries Needing Prayer or Care? Chapel Information Find a Church Local Churches Transportation To Church Class of 2025 Class Hymn Faculty/Staff Notifications from the Chaplain's Office Reporting a Death in the Community Ministering to Your Staff Prayer Services & Worship Spiritual Direction Prayer Services for your Department Be a Missions Team Leader News FAQ Baylor>Spiritual Life>What We Do>Chapel Chapel Find Your People. Begin the Journey. When every student completes their time at Baylor, we want them to be able to identify a community of mentors, peers, and ministers who walked alongside them in their spiritual growth and development. Finding your people is about establishing yourself in a unique community that can support you in good and hard times, navigate the difficult questions, encourage and challenge you spiritually, and show you a picture of the flourishing Christian life. Chapel experiences are the start of this journey. Chapel experiences emerge from the communities here at Baylor that are already investing in the spiritual lives of our students. From academic cohorts, LLCs, athletics, campus ministries, residential colleges, and other programs, there is a chapel experience connected to the groups our students are already finding themselves. Chapels are an orienting experience where students select their section by identifying communities and connections that resonate with them. In these chapel experiences, each Baylor student will experience Christian discipleship and learning that exposes them to the flourishing Christian life within a supportive community that can continue this journey long after chapel credits are complete. While unique, these chapel experiences all share a continuity within Baylor’s mission for quality content from trained leaders. Chapel is the oldest tradition in American higher education. When Baylor was founded in 1845, Chapel was a part of life for students and faculty alike. Chapel has played an integral role in the life of Baylor University since its inception. What began as a single daily prayer service for all faculty, staff, and students has transformed over time to meet needs and respond to changes within the life of the university and the world at large. To help students find their people, the sections below organize each experience based on a unique community or interest. Our hope is that each student will see themselves reflected in some way in these experiences and choose accordingly with their continued spiritual development in mind: Chapel Prayers Morning or evening prayer services for 20 minutes daily, Mondays through Thursdays. Chapel Prayers are open to all but especially those who reside in the residential communities associated with our three campus chapels: Elliston, Robbins, and Memorial. Chapel Worship A service that is shaped by a historic understanding of Christian worship. It includes Scripture, prayer, preaching, and music intentionally crafted to include various church formats, languages and cultures. Chapel Studies Experiences designed to engage students at the intersection of faith and their academic discipline or in a more focused formational study or with a campus discipleship ministry. Fall 2022 Sections: Faith & the Healing Professions Faith & Sports Faith and Sports Community Faith & Nursing Faith & the Veteran Life Faith & Business Faith & the Arts Faith & the Arts: Design [For Interior Design Students Only] Beginning the Soulful Journey Gateway Chapel Campus Ministries Chapel: Vertical Campus Ministries Chapel: BSM Campus Ministries Chapel: Chai Alpha Christian Ministries Campus Ministries Chapel: Reformed University Fellowship Campus Ministries Chapel: Cru Campus Ministries Chapel: Facetime with God There are also special Directed sections available for anyone who would like to choose a minister or mentor to meet with one-on-one. This chapel credit is helpful for busy schedules that need more flexibility, or for students seeking a chapel experience more specific to their needs. There is a special Directed Chapel Experience for athletes that may not be able to participate in the Faith & Sports sections. Ask your Advisor about these sections for more details. What We Do Pastoral Care Meeting with a Chaplain Notifying Professors of a Crisis Getting Direction for your Spiritual Life Dealing with Grief and Loss How to Support Those Who are Grieving Campus Resources Spiritual Practices Chapel Global Missions Local Ministries Sports Ministry Faith & Deliberation The Good Neighbor Initiative Baylor Spiritual Life Corner of 5th & Speight Street 500 Speight Street Waco, TX 76798 (254) 710-3517 Spiritual_Life@baylor.edu Baylor Chapel Pastoral Care Missions & Public Life Baylor Student Life General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Who We Are Meet the University Chaplain Staff Dr. Burt Burleson Rebecca Kennedy John Maurer Dr. Erin Moniz Dr. Charles Ramsey The Bobo Spiritual Life Center Building Reservation Application What We Do Pastoral Care Meeting with a Chaplain Notifying Professors of a Crisis Getting Direction for your Spiritual Life Dealing with Grief and Loss Spiritual Practices Chapel Global Missions Local Ministries Sports Ministry Faith & Deliberation The Good Neighbor Initiative Students Get Involved Religious Organizations Baptist Student Ministries Needing Prayer or Care? Chapel Information Find a Church Local Churches Transportation To Church Class of 2025 Class Hymn Faculty/Staff Notifications from the Chaplain's Office Reporting a Death in the Community Ministering to Your Staff Prayer Services & Worship Spiritual Direction Prayer Services for your Department Be a Missions Team Leader News FAQ