Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Media and Communication PhD You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Media and Communication PhD Apply Request More Info Media and Communication PhD Admissions Careers & Opportunities Curriculum Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Doctor of Philosophy in Media and Communication Immerse yourself in a rigorous curriculum that has strong ties to the humanities and social sciences, with the Doctor of Philosophy in Media and Communication from the Lew Klein College of Media and Communication at Temple. Explore the relationship between media and people through a variety of lenses, including cultural, economic, historical and social-psychological. Receive the academic support of an R1-classified research university as you successfully propose, create and defend your dissertation. The advanced, multidisciplinary Media and Communication PhD provides access to individualized courses of study, faculty guidance and other opportunities that enable you to work with active scholars who boast international reputations; present at conferences and publish work in respected academic journals; and obtain experience in undergraduate teaching. Comprehensive coursework in communication theory and research characterizes the Media and Communication PhD program, endowing students with the breadth and depth of knowledge needed to make significant contributions in the academic and professional field of mediated communication. You will collaborate with mentors, develop your own research agenda, and graduate with a strong foundation in theory and methodologies that covers several areas of interest, including the following. Communication effects and psychological processes Emerging media and technology Global media, social change and activism Journalism studies Media, identity and representation The media industry, laws and policies Political communication Popular communication Graduates of this PhD program pursue administrative, research and teaching careers in universities and colleges. They also pursue research jobs in media industries, as well as senior-level policy and communications roles in government and nonprofit sectors. If you are hired to teach or conduct research, you will have access to the Temple University Graduate Student Association, the first recognized graduate employee union in Pennsylvania. You will also have the opportunity to request a travel award that provides funds to help cover the cost of presenting your research at scholarly symposiums. https://klein.temple.edu/academics/media-and-communication-doctoral-program/doct… Student Research Learn about the latest research conducted by current students in our program. https://klein.temple.edu/academics/media-and-communication-doctoral-program/doct… Student Research Program Format & Curriculum The 48-credit Doctor of Philosophy in Media and Communication is held on Temple’s Main Campus, and can be completed over four years of continuous, full-time study. The following courses are required. Communication Theory I and II Doctoral Colloquium I and II Researching Communication I and II Teaching in Higher Education: Communications The program also requires the completion of preliminary examinations and a doctoral dissertation. Learn more about requirements for the Media and Communication PhD. Related Graduate Degrees Communication for Development and Social Change MS Media Studies and Production MA Related Graduate Certificates Cultural Analytics Disability Studies Gender, Sexuality and Women’s Studies Teaching in Higher Education Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Doctor of Philosophy offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,078.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,441.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors Faculty advisors can help you navigate your program and discuss research opportunities, teaching assistantships and more. Learn more about Klein College of Media and Communication faculty. Program Contacts Contact the following faculty or staff members with questions about the Media and Communication PhD. Brian Creech is the program director. Email: brian.creech@temple.edu Phone: 215-204-1617 Nicole McKenna is the graduate office director. Email: nmckenna@temple.edu Phone: 215-204-1497 Student Clubs & Organizations Supplement your Media and Communication PhD coursework and enhance your graduate education experience through student clubs and organizations. You’ll meet and network with other like-minded students, gain invaluable knowledge and skills, and become involved with a community that helps you bring your personal and professional goals to fruition. Students in the Media and Communication PhD program are encouraged to join the Media and Communication Graduate Student Association (MCGSA), an organization that represents and advocates for the collective interests of students within the Media and Communication Department. The MCGSA also facilitates connections between students and faculty across disciplines, and works to optimize the personal and professional development of graduate students. Learn more about student clubs and organizations available to Klein students. Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. CO-MDCM-PHD Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Media and Communication PhD Admissions Careers & Opportunities Curriculum Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info