Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Department of Communication Menu About Us Faculty Profiles Ashley Barrett Blair Browning John Cunningham Jane Damron Hank DeHay Richard Edwards Jacob S. Ford Jessica L. Ford Matt Gerber Paige Gloeckner Leslie A. Hahner Lacy McNamee Kayla Rhidenour Raechel Russell Hank Sanderson David W. Schlueter Scott Varda Luke Winslow News Events Contact Us Undergraduate Majors Minors Secondary Majors Graduate Masters Program Degree Paths and Coursework Funding and Assistantships How to Apply Joint BA/MA Program Eligibility Requirements Degree Requirements How to Apply Research & Engagement Debate Program History of the Program Prospective Debaters Coaches Debate Alumni Public Debates Summer High School Debate Workshop Debate FAQs Community Engagement and Public Scholarship Student Experience What Students Say Lambda Pi Eta How to Apply Study Abroad Opportunities Alumni Alumni Information Form Baylor>Communication >Research & Engagement>Debate Program Welcome to Baylor Debate Baylor has a long and rich tradition in intercollegiate policy debate. We have had a competitive debate program at Baylor since 1865, and we have won the National Debate Tournament (NDT) three times since 1945 and have appeared in the Final Four 9 times. If you have any questions, please contact Dr. Matt Gerber. The Glenn R. Capp Debate Forum The Glenn R. Capp Debate Forum is committed to the promotion of argument and public advocacy. We believe that a well informed, articulate citizenry is crucial to the empowerment of the individual and the maintenance of a free society. Our program supports participation in intercollegiate competition, instruction in interscholastic competition as well as debates for the public forum. Learn more. Research & Engagement Debate Program History of the Program Prospective Debaters Letter from the Director Scholarship Information Coaches Debate Alumni Public Debates Summer High School Debate Workshop Debate FAQs Community Engagement and Public Scholarship Department of Communication One Bear Place #97368 Waco,TX 76798-7368 (254) 710-1621 Melanie_Ferguson@baylor.edu General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Us Faculty Profiles Ashley Barrett Blair Browning John Cunningham Jane Damron Hank DeHay Richard Edwards Jacob S. Ford Jessica L. Ford Matt Gerber Paige Gloeckner Leslie A. Hahner Lacy McNamee Kayla Rhidenour Raechel Russell Hank Sanderson David W. Schlueter Scott Varda Luke Winslow News Events Contact Us Undergraduate Majors Minors Secondary Majors Graduate Masters Program Degree Paths and Coursework Funding and Assistantships How to Apply Joint BA/MA Program Eligibility Requirements Degree Requirements How to Apply Research & Engagement Debate Program History of the Program Prospective Debaters Coaches Debate Alumni Public Debates Summer High School Debate Workshop Debate FAQs Community Engagement and Public Scholarship Student Experience What Students Say Lambda Pi Eta How to Apply Study Abroad Opportunities Alumni Alumni Information Form