Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Ramona E. Romero Vice President and General Counsel Website Office of the General Counsel Phone 609-258-2500 Bio Ramona Emilia Romero joined Princeton University as general counsel in December 2014. Before joining the University’s senior leadership team, Romero was the general counsel of the U.S. Department of Agriculture, a position to which she was nominated by President Obama and confirmed by the U.S. Senate. Earlier in her career, Romero worked at E.I. du Pont de Nemours and Company (DuPont) in a variety of legal roles, and as a commercial, white collar and government contracts litigator at Crowell & Moring LLP in Washington, DC. Throughout her career, Romero has been a volunteer leader in many professional and community organizations. She serves on the Board of Trustees of the McCarter Theatre Center and the Board of Directors of Greater Trenton, Inc. Her prior volunteer service includes the boards of the HNBA Legal Education Fund, The Justice at Stake Campaign, the American Red Cross of the Delmarva Peninsula, and the American Constitution Society for Law and Policy, as well as the Advisory Committee of The O’Connor Judicial Selection Initiative at the University of Denver. She is a former National President of the Hispanic National Bar Association (HNBA), and the founder of the HNBA’s Latina Commission. Romero’s leadership and contributions have resulted in numerous awards and recognitions, including the Virginia S. Mueller Outstanding Member Award from the National Association of Women Lawyers, the Platinum Award from the New Jersey Women Lawyers Association, The Hon. Sylvia H. Rambo Award from Dickinson Law School, the Lucero (“guiding star”) Award from Latino Justice PRLDEF, and twice being identified by Hispanic Business Magazine as one of the 100 most influential Hispanics in the United States. An immigrant from the Dominican Republic, Romero holds a B.A. from Barnard College and a J.D. from Harvard Law School. She, her husband and their two daughters live in Princeton. Our Leadership Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice