Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Driven by Doing Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Driven by Doing Success Stories Universal Research The Next Big Thing Tipping the Scales River Warriors Media Room UofM Magazine Virtual Tour Memphis Take a look inside some of our academic programs in our virtual tour of the campus. Home Driven by Doing River Warriors River Warriors A UofM student group works to put trash in its rightful place — and in the process becomes the largest student-led group of its kind. By Greg Russell Most members of the UofM student group the Memphis River Warriors aren't aware of the rich — and often quirky — history of McKellar Lake, but who can blame them? Most Memphians aren't. For instance ... In the summer of 1960, Elvis Presley (with his newfound wealth) purchased a powder blue ski boat and headed — where else? — to McKellar. "Hey, that's Elvis!" one young lady screamed as the speedboat whistled by. Thousands soon jammed the lake area, which had become an "in" spot for trendsetters in Memphis: sandy beaches, beauty pageants and fancy houseboats made this backwash of the Mississippi River near downtown the place to be and be seen. Even the self- proclaimed "mayor" of McKellar — Marv Shackelford — set a world record after he skied around the lake nonstop for 35 hours, totaling 818 miles. But like music changes over time, so has this once-popular spot — but for the worse. McKellar is now more closely associated with the hashtag #floatingtrash. But the Memphis River Warriors have taken aim at the heaping mounds of trash and in doing so, have become the largest college student-led cleanup organization in the nation. Its 2,200 volunteers have picked up an incredible 100,000 pounds of trash at the lake on selected weekends in the past four years. "The trash comes from all over Memphis," says River Warrior Lance Willinger, a UofM senior who is aiming for a career in sustainable development. "All litter, including what flies out of car windows, gets washed down the storm drains and into ditches and eventually makes its way to McKellar." Millions of gallons of storm water empty into the lake each year, bringing tons of trash that becomes trapped in the water. The litter makes its way into the lake's surrounding woods after flooding. "Once the water goes down, the trash just stays in the forest," says Honors student Rachel Waters, also a Warrior. Willinger says that means old tires, car parts, plastic containers — you name it — accumulate, creating an eyesore. A prosthetic leg even made its way downstream. For their work, the group recently received the prestigious "Mid-South Corporate Neighbor Award for Outstanding Project" from Volunteer Mid-South. "This award is impressive considering that some of the other nominees in this category were Baptist Memorial Hospital, Hilton Worldwide, First Horizon and International Paper," says group adviser Colton Cockrum, assistant director of the UofM's Center for Academic Retention and Enrichment Services. While returning the lake to its former glory is likely impossible, Willinger and the Warriors work to at least make it a more pleasant environment. "Picking up trash is an adventure," he says. "Personally, I really enjoy the hard work and getting a little dirty, but what keeps me coming back is the awesomeness of just being around people who share similar interests and concerns about the future of our planet." Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/5/20 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.