Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home Become a Student Career Services Students Resources Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. Big Interview Student Business Cards Admitted Students Global Resources Websites of Interest Big Interview Student Business Cards Admitted Students Global Resources Websites of Interest Resources Videos What should you do to your resume when you have been long-term unemployed? What should you do to your resume if your jobs are short-term? What should you do when most of your experience comes from volunteer opportunities or internships? What should you do with your resume if you don’t have relevant experience? What should you do to your resume if you are trying to switch careers entirely? What should you do if you have multiple interests but only one LinkedIn profile? How long should your resume be? What fonts should you use on your resume? How do you prioritize what is on your resume? Should you have a profile, summary, or objective at the top of your resume? Resumes aren’t everything Employer Research Employer research is critical to success in the job search process. Just as self-assessment helps you to identify your strengths and weaknesses, likes and dislikes, accomplishments and achievements, and needs and restrictions, employer research reveals whether a potential employer’s philosophy and values, work culture, demands, rewards, and other characteristics match your career goals and personality. Moreover, as your career progresses and you change employers, this in-depth research helps ensure that you move into environments where you will have the best chance of success. Your research should, at a minimum, help you to discover information on the employer’s size and locations (both domestic and international), its new initiatives and reputation, as well as its longevity, services and products, and competitors. Additionally, your research will help you to target cover letters and resumes and to develop probing questions to ask during your interviews. Finally, the knowledge you display in your interviews as a result of your research will demonstrate your interest and enthusiasm, and help you to appropriately tailor your responses to address the potential employer’s needs and concerns. Research Resources Some important resources for conducting your research include: The Careers Resources Courseworks page, which houses hundreds of links and resources, including tip sheets and industry guides, recorded videos and more The Office of Careers & Practice reference library (722 West 168th Street, Suite 1003) The Internet, including employer sites, career resources such as LinkedIn (specifically company pages and "insights”), and Glassdoor.com Faculty Peers Information sessions on the Medical Center and Morningside Campuses Fall and Spring Career Days at the Mailman School of Public Health and certain Morningside Campus Career Fairs Presentations by various employers on campus, as well as alumni panel discussions Professional journals Newspapers and blogs Public and specialized libraries Chambers of commerce Employer literature Employer directories like Guidestar (for nonprofits) and Hoovers Company Records (large corporations) Big Interview We are pleased to offer you a free training system that features a new and innovative way to help you prepare more effectively for a job interview. Big Interview is an online system that combines training AND video-based practice to help improve your interview technique and build your confidence. You have at your disposal a variety of tools including: Challenging, virtual mock interviews for all experience levels and dozens of industries A database of thousands of interview questions with tips on how to answer them The ability to rate and share your interview answers for feedback A comprehensive video training curriculum covering all aspects of landing a job A step-by-step interview Answer Builder for crafting answers to behavioral questions How to Register - Current Students STEP 1: Go to https://mailman.biginterview.com and click "Register Now". STEP 2: Complete registration process—enter your @cumc.columbia.edu in the “Organization Confirmation Email” and enter the rest of the information, then click “Create My Account” STEP 3: You'll then receive a confirmation email at your SCHOOL email address. Click "Verify" in the email, and you'll be able to start using Big Interview. How to Register - Alumni Alumni can create their Big Interview account here with Organization Code: cumc4708. Are You Prepared? When you have completed both your pre- and post-interview research, you should be able to answer the following questions: Do I support the employer’s mission? Is the work environment structured or unstructured? Is the organization large and formal or smaller and with cross-functional work encouraged? Is the environment fast-paced or is it calm and slow? How much autonomy will I have in this position? What type of administrative support will I have in this position? Is the culture a good match for my management style? Are salary increases tied to performance objectives? What are the work hours? Are hours flexible? Will I be required to travel? What provisions are made for initial training as well as ongoing career development? Will the position provide me with the skills and training I need to advance in my career? How is my prospective employer perceived within the industry? More to Explore Friday 03June COVID-19: From Causes to ConsequencesMay 27 2022 For Wetland Plants, Sea-Level Rise Stamps Out Benefits of Higher CO2May 18 2022 Survey Finds High Rates of Depression Among Latin American Health Care ProvidersMay 18 2022 Commencement Ceremony Celebrates Class of 2022May 17 2022 Sign up for Transmission Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers