Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Natural Sciences Chemistry Access Course Offerings CHM 201 General Chemistry I Professor/InstructorMichael H. Hecht, Robert Paul L'Esperance, Sonja Angelique Francis An introductory course. Principles of chemistry; understanding the world around us; structure and reactions of atoms and molecules; laboratory manipulations, preparations, and analysis. Fulfills medical school entrance requirements in general chemistry and qualitative analysis. Three lectures, one class, one three-hour laboratory. CHM 202 General Chemistry II Professor/InstructorAndrew Bruce Bocarsly, Robert Paul L'Esperance, Sonja Angelique Francis Continuation of 201. Principles of chemistry; introduction to chemical bonding and solid state structure; chemical kinetics, nuclear chemistry; descriptive inorganic chemistry; laboratory manipulations, preparations, and analysis. Fulfills medical school entrance requirements in general chemistry and qualitative analysis. Three lectures, one class, one three-hour laboratory. CHM 207 Advanced General Chemistry: Materials Chemistry Professor/InstructorRobert Paul L'Esperance, Andrew Bruce Bocarsly, Bruce E. Koel Introduction to the basic concepts of chemistry: stoichiometry, types of reactions, thermodynamics, quantum mechanics, and chemical bonding. Introduction to the structure, chemistry, and properties of technologically important materials: metals, semiconductors, ceramics, and polymers. Fulfills medical school requirements in general chemistry and qualitative analysis. Three lecture hours, one class, one three-hour laboratory. CHM 215 Advanced General Chemistry: Honors Course Professor/InstructorPaul J. Chirik, Robert Paul L'Esperance, Sonja Angelique Francis An intensive study of fundamental theoretical and experimental principles. Topics are drawn from physical, organic, and inorganic chemistry. For students with excellent preparation who are considering scientific careers. Fulfills medical school entrance requirements in general chemistry and qualitative analysis. Completion of 215 qualifies the student for 300-level courses and some 400-level courses after consultation with the instructor of the upper-level course. Three lectures, one class, one three-hour laboratory. ISC 231 / CHM 231 / COS 231 / MOL 231 / PHY 231 An Integrated, Quantitative Introduction to the Natural Sciences I Professor/InstructorThomas Gregor, Joshua Akey, Martin Helmut Wühr An integrated, mathematically and computationally sophisticated introduction to physics, chemistry, molecular biology, and computer science. Alternative to the combination of PHY 103-104, CHM 201-202, MOL 214 and COS 126. Students must enroll in ISC231 and ISC232 in the fall and ISC233 and ISC234 in the spring. Prerequisites: familiarity with calculus at the level of MAT103/104 or Advanced Placement Calculus BC, solid high school physics and chemistry courses. Five lectures, one three-hour laboratory, one three-hour computational laboratory, one evening problem session. ISC 232 / CHM 232 / COS 232 / MOL 232 / PHY 232 An Integrated, Quantitative Introduction to the Natural Sciences I Professor/InstructorThomas Gregor, Joshua Akey, Martin Helmut Wühr An integrated, mathematically and computationally sophisticated introduction to physics, chemistry, molecular biology, and computer science. Alternative to the combination of PHY 103-104, CHM 201-202, MOL 214 and COS 126. Students must enroll in ISC 231 and ISC 232 in the fall and ISC 233 and ISC 234 in the spring. Prerequisites: familiarity with the calculus at the level of MAT 103-104 or Advanced Placement Calculus BC, solid high school physics and chemistry courses. Five lectures, one three-hour laboratory, one three-hour computational laboratory, one evening problem session. ISC 233 / CHM 233 / COS 233 / MOL 233 / PHY 233 An Integrated, Quantitative Introduction to the Natural Sciences II Professor/InstructorJoshua William Shaevitz, Olga G. Troyanskaya, Martin Helmut Wühr An integrated, mathematically and computationally sophisticated introduction to physics and chemistry, drawing on examples from biological systems. Alternative to the combination of PHY 103-104, CHM 201-202, MOL 214, and COS 126. Students must enroll in ISC 231 and ISC 232 in the fall and ISC 233 and ISC 234 in the spring. Prerequisites: familiarity with the calculus at the level of MAT 103-104 or Advanced Placement Calculus BC, solid high school physics and chemistry courses. Five lectures, one three-hour laboratory, one three-hour computational laboratory, one evening problem session. ISC 234 / CHM 234 / COS 234 / MOL 234 / PHY 234 An Integrated, Quantitative Introduction to the Natural Sciences II Professor/InstructorJoshua William Shaevitz, Olga G. Troyanskaya, Martin Helmut Wühr An integrated, mathematically and computationally sophisticated introduction to physics and chemistry, drawing on examples from biological systems. Alternative to the combination of PHY 103-104, CHM 201-202, MOL 214 and COS 126. Students must enroll in ISC 231 and ISC 232 in the fall and ISC 233 and ISC 234 in the spring. Prerequisites: familiarity with the calculus at the level of MAT 103-104 or Advanced Placement Calculus BC, solid high school physics and chemistry courses. Five lectures, one three-hour laboratory, one three-hour computational laboratory, one evening problem session. AST 255 / CHM 255 / GEO 255 Life in the Universe Professor/InstructorChristopher F. Chyba, Edwin Lewis Turner, Michael H. Hecht This course introduces students to a new field, Astrobiology, where scientists trained in biology, chemistry, astrophysics and geology combine their skills to investigate life's origins and to seek extraterrestrial life. Topics include: the origin of life on earth, the prospects of life on Mars, Europa, Titan, Enceladues and extra-solar planets, as well as the cosmological setting for life and the prospects for SETI. AST 255 is the core course for the planets and life certificate. CHM 301 Organic Chemistry I: Biological Emphasis Professor/InstructorMartin F. Semmelhack, Henry Lee Gingrich, Todd K. Hyster This course is designed as the first part of a three-semester sequence, CHM 301 and CHM 302, and MOL 345 (biochemistry). CHM 301 will introduce the principles of organic chemistry, including the structures, properties, and reactivity of organic compounds. The emphasis will be on bonding and structure, structural analysis by spectroscopy, and an introduction to the mechanisms of organic reactions. Examples will be taken from biology when appropriate to illustrate the principles. For a complete presentation of the subject, the course should be followed by CHM 302 or CHM 304 in the spring. Three lectures, one class, one three-hour laboratory. CHM 302 Organic Chemistry II with Biological Emphasis Professor/InstructorMartin F. Semmelhack, Henry Lee Gingrich The concepts introduced in CHM 301 are extended to the structures and reactions of more complex molecules, with an emphasis on how organic chemistry provides the framework for understanding molecular processes in biology. The fundamental concepts of organic chemistry are illustrated, as often as possible, with examples drawn from biological systems. Appropriate for chemistry and engineering majors, premedical students, and students with an interest in organic chemistry and its central position in the life sciences. Prerequisite: CHM 301. Two 90-minute lectures, one class, one three-hour laboratory. CHM 304 Organic Chemistry II: Foundations of Chemical Reactivity and Synthesis Professor/InstructorErik J. Sorensen, Henry Lee Gingrich Continuation of CHM 301. The concepts introduced in CHM 301 will be extended to the structures and reactions of more complex molecules, with an emphasis on how organic chemistry provides the framework for understanding molecular processes in biology. The fundamental concepts of organic chemistry will be illustrated, as often as possible, with examples drawn from biological systems. Prerequisite: 301. Three lectures, one class, one three-hour laboratory. CHM 305 The Quantum World Professor/InstructorGregory D. Scholes An introduction to quantum mechanics for students interested in the relevance to chemistry, molecular biology, and energy science. A conceptual understanding is emphasized. Covers some of the historical development of the quantum theory to show how quantum theory was a step-change in thinking. Examines the (sometimes subtle) ways that quantum systems are different from classical systems. Includes the discussion of modern examples, including molecular electronic structure calculations, organic solar cells, photosynthesis, nanoscience, quantum computing, and quantum biology. Three lectures, one preceptorial. CHM 306 Physical Chemistry: Chemical Thermodynamics and Kinetics Professor/InstructorMichael T. Kelly Introduction to chemical thermodynamics, statistical mechanics, and kinetics. Special emphasis on biological problems, including nerve conduction, muscle contraction, ion transport, enzyme mechanisms, and macromolecular properties in solutions. Prerequisites: CHM 201 and CHM 202, or CHM 203 (or CHM 207) and CHM 204, or CHM 215; MAT 104; PHY 101 and 102, or PHY 103 and 104; or instructor's permission. Three lectures, one class. CEE 311 / CHM 311 / GEO 311 / ENE 311 Global Air Pollution Professor/InstructorMark Andrew Zondlo Students will study the chemical and physical processes involved in the sources, transformation, transport, and sinks of air pollutants on local to global scales. Societal problems such as photochemical smog, particulate matter, greenhouse gases, and stratospheric ozone depletion will be investigated using fundamental concepts in chemistry, physics, and engineering. For the class project, students will select a trace gas species or family of gases and analyze recent field and remote sensing data based upon material covered in the course. Environments to be studied include very clean, remote portions of the globe to urban air quality. GEO 363 / CHM 331 / ENV 331 Environmental Chemistry: Chemistry of the Natural Systems Professor/InstructorSatish Chandra Babu Myneni Covers topics including origin of elements; formation of the Earth; evolution of the atmosphere and oceans; atomic theory and chemical bonding; crystal chemistry and ionic substitution in crystals; reaction equilibria and kinetics in aqueous and biological systems; chemistry of high-temperature melts and crystallization process; and chemistry of the atmosphere, soil, marine, and riverine environments. The biogeochemistry of contaminants and their influence on the environment will also be discussed. Two 90-minute lectures. Prerequisite: one term of college chemistry or instructor's permission. MOL 345 / CHM 345 Biochemistry Professor/Instructor Fundamental concepts of biomolecular structure and function will be discussed, with an emphasis on principles of thermodynamics, binding and catalysis. A major portion of the course will focus on metabolism and its logic and regulation. Prerequisites: MOL 214/215 and either CHM 302, CHM 304, CHM 304B, CHM 337, or ISC 335. MOL 345 and CHM 302/304 may be taken concurrently. CHM 371 Experimental Chemistry Professor/InstructorMichael T. Kelly, Chia-Ying Wang This course addresses the principles of experimental design, data acquisition, analysis and interpretation, and the presentation of experimental results. Students are exposed to a broad range of quantitative laboratory methods in preparation for thesis work in the chemical sciences. Typical laboratory exercises include inorganic synthesis, physical characterization, spectroscopy, kinetics, thermodynamics, instrument design, and computational chemistry. Lectures on principles of physical analysis with varieties of instruments and statistical analysis of collected data. Two lectures and two three-hour laboratories per week. CHM 403 Advanced Biochemistry Professor/InstructorJohn Taylor Groves, Mohammad R. Seyedsayamdost Applies the principles of organic chemistry to biochemistry. Explores enzymology through the lenses of physical organic chemistry, bioinorganic chemistry, catalysis. Covers how proteins orchestrate the reactivity of functional groups, the range of cofactors employed to extend the scope and diversity of biocatalysis, enzymatic systems controlled by their kinetics, and how knowledge of enzyme reaction mechanisms enables modern drug design. Prerequisites: CHM 301 and CHM 302/CHM 304. Two 90-minute lectures, one preceptorial. CHM 405 Advanced Physical Chemistry: Quantum Mechanics Professor/Instructor Introduction to quantum theory, atomic and molecular structure, and spectroscopy. This course will emphasize the development of fundamental underlying principles and illustrative examples. Prerequisites: 202, 204, or 215; MAT 201 or 203 (required); MAT 202 or 204 (very helpful, even if taken concurrently); PHY 103 (may be taken concurrently) or AP Physics. Three lectures, one preceptorial. CHM 406 Advanced Physical Chemistry: Chemical Dynamics and Thermodynamics Professor/InstructorChia-Ying Wang, William M. Jacobs Statistical thermodynamics, kinetics, and molecular reaction dynamics. Prerequisites: background in thermodynamics as developed in CHM 202, CHM 204, or CHM 215; MAT 201 or equivalent. Two 90-minute lectures. CHM 411 Inorganic Chemistry: Structure and Reactivity Professor/InstructorSusan Killian VanderKam Structural principles and bonding theories are discussed for the various classes of inorganic and organometallic compounds. Includes an introduction to the electronic structure of transition elements and ligand field theory. Prerequisites: CHM 301 and 302 or CHM 301 and 304 or equivalent are required. Note: CHM 337 does not provide adequate preparation for this course. Three lectures, one preceptorial. CHM 412 Inorganic Chemistry: Structure and Materials Professor/InstructorJeffrey Schwartz, Susan Killian VanderKam Synthetic and mechanistic aspects of inorganic chemistry are presented; modern problems in inorganic chemistry are emphasized. Prerequisites: CHM 301 and 302 or CHM 301 and 304 or equivalent are required. Note: CHM 337 does not provide adequate preparation for this course. Three lectures, one preceptorial. CBE 415 / CHM 415 / MSE 425 Polymers Professor/InstructorRichard Alan Register Broad introduction to polymer science and technology, including polymer chemistry (major synthetic routes to polymers), polymer physics (solution and melt behavior, solid-state morphology and properties), and polymer engineering (overview of reaction engineering and melt processing methods). Two lectures. Prerequisites: CHM 301, which may be taken concurrently, and MAT 104, or permission of the instructor. GEO 418 / CHM 418 Environmental Aqueous Geochemistry Professor/InstructorAnne M. Morel-Kraepiel Application of quantitative chemical principles to the study of natural waters. Includes equilibrium computations, weathering and diagenetic processes, precipitation of chemical sediments, and pollution of natural waters. Two lectures. Prerequisite: one year of college chemistry. Previous or concurrent enrollment in CHM 306 recommended. Load More More in Academics Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice