Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Give Light Menu Give Light About the Campaign Foundation of the Campaign National Campaign Steering Committee Campaign Timeline Campaign Events Nashville - April 28, 2022 Atlanta - February 3, 2022 Denver - October 22, 2021 Give Light Denver Video Tidwell Ribbon Cutting Medal of Honor Statue Installation Ceremony Mark & Paula Hurd Welcome Center Groundbreaking Video Mark & Paula Hurd Welcome Center Groundbreaking Southern California - October 26, 2019 Dallas - September 14, 2019 Dr. Annette von Jouanne Video New York City - May 23, 2019 Benjamin Goff Video Jeff Theiss Video Houston - May 4, 2019 Dr. Dwayne Simmons Video Dr. Ann Mirabito Video Washington, DC - February 2, 2019 Dr. Lorin Matthews Video Dr. Byron Johnson Video Campaign Priorities Endowed Funds Faculty Chairs and Professorships Endowed Scholarships Endowed Funds for Growth Priorities Endowment Impact Capital Projects Mark & Paula Hurd Welcome Center Paul and Alejandra Foster Pavilion Fudge Football Development Center President's Excellence Fund Support Baylor Students Today Why I Give: Donor Testimonials Initiatives Health Data Sciences Materials Science Human Flourishing, Leadership and Ethics Baylor in Latin America Academic Units Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work Engineering & Computer Science George W. Truett Theological Seminary Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Mayborn Museum Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Music University Libraries Foster Academic Challenge Hord Scholarship Challenge Trailblazer Scholars Program Contact Make a Gift News Illuminate Ways to Give Foundation of the Campaign Baylor>Give Light>About the Campaign>Foundation of the Campaign Foundation of the Campaign We pursue bold dreams. We build on a remarkable legacy - with an unwavering commitment to academic excellence, Christian character, the pursuit of solutions and ideas that advance society, and opportunities that shape the whole person through arts and athletics. These pillars are the foundation upon which our future is built. Unambiguously Christian Educational Environment - Baylor's Baptist founders sought to establish an institution of higher learning that would "meet the needs of all ages to come." Now more than ever, Baylor has the opportunity to demonstrate how both faith and inquiry reveal God's truth; how scholarly discovery inspired by Christian commitment enlivens knowledge and wisdom; and how a preeminent Christian university, through its teaching, research, and service, might offer a distinctive voice and presence in the contemporary world. Transformational Undergraduate Education - Baylor undergraduate students are part of a dynamic community of accomplished, remarkably diverse men and women who come from all 50 states and around the globe. Within this environment, students are challenged and inspired to build lasting friendships and fulfill their dreams of personal growth, professional achievement, and faith-based service. But learning extends beyond the classroom at Baylor. Our students' educational experiences connect their academic and creative strengths to the surrounding world, providing learning opportunities in the local community and beyond that help prepare them to become leaders who can solve challenging problems in our state, nation, and world. Research and Scholarship Marked by Quality Impact and Visibility - Groundbreaking research and evidence based, capacity-building partnerships that address the critical issues of our time and create a foundation for future discoveries are at the heart of Baylor's commitment to research. Faculty who are active scholars, noted musicians, and creative artists bring their experience and knowledge into the classrooms, labs, and studios, augmenting undergraduate and graduate education. Baylor faculty members are eager to directly involve students in their research and provide the kind of inspiring mentorship that equips these accomplished men and women to pursue careers in fields across industry, academia, and the medical professions. These professionals serve as ambassadors for Baylor’s excellence across communities around the world. Nationally Recognized Programs in Human Performance Through the Arts and Athletics - Baylor's commitment to excellence encourages faculty and staff to approach the task of educating students from a holistic point of view. As they prepare students for future professions, faculty also nurture students' passions and help to shape the whole person. This commitment results in nationally acclaimed arts programs at Baylor, where faculty see the students in their classes not as majors and non-majors, but as performers and future patrons. It results in coaches who view their student-athletes as men and women who will leave the University with an appreciation for the highest levels of competition and with the character necessary for success in life after college. About the Campaign Foundation of the Campaign National Campaign Steering Committee Campaign Timeline Campaign Events Nashville - April 28, 2022 Atlanta - February 3, 2022 Photo Gallery Event Video Press Release Get Involved Denver - October 22, 2021 Give Light Denver Video Tidwell Ribbon Cutting Medal of Honor Statue Installation Ceremony Event Video Photo Gallery About our Honorees Press Release Mark & Paula Hurd Welcome Center Groundbreaking Video Mark & Paula Hurd Welcome Center Groundbreaking Southern California - October 26, 2019 Dallas - September 14, 2019 Dr. Annette von Jouanne Video New York City - May 23, 2019 Benjamin Goff Video Jeff Theiss Video Houston - May 4, 2019 Dr. Dwayne Simmons Video Dr. Ann Mirabito Video Washington, DC - February 2, 2019 Dr. Lorin Matthews Video Dr. Byron Johnson Video Each of us has been entrusted with a great light that can illuminate the path for future generations. When the Baylor Family gives financially to support University priorities, we give light to Baylor's bright future. Make a Gift Today Please select...Baylor Fund Make a Gift Contact Us (254) 710-2561GiveLight@baylor.edu General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About the Campaign Foundation of the Campaign National Campaign Steering Committee Campaign Timeline Campaign Events Nashville - April 28, 2022 Atlanta - February 3, 2022 Denver - October 22, 2021 Give Light Denver Video Tidwell Ribbon Cutting Medal of Honor Statue Installation Ceremony Mark & Paula Hurd Welcome Center Groundbreaking Video Mark & Paula Hurd Welcome Center Groundbreaking Southern California - October 26, 2019 Dallas - September 14, 2019 Dr. Annette von Jouanne Video New York City - May 23, 2019 Benjamin Goff Video Jeff Theiss Video Houston - May 4, 2019 Dr. Dwayne Simmons Video Dr. Ann Mirabito Video Washington, DC - February 2, 2019 Dr. Lorin Matthews Video Dr. Byron Johnson Video Campaign Priorities Endowed Funds Faculty Chairs and Professorships Endowed Scholarships Endowed Funds for Growth Priorities Endowment Impact Capital Projects Mark & Paula Hurd Welcome Center Paul and Alejandra Foster Pavilion Fudge Football Development Center President's Excellence Fund Support Baylor Students Today Why I Give: Donor Testimonials Initiatives Health Data Sciences Materials Science Human Flourishing, Leadership and Ethics Baylor in Latin America Academic Units Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work Engineering & Computer Science George W. Truett Theological Seminary Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Mayborn Museum Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Music University Libraries Foster Academic Challenge Hord Scholarship Challenge Trailblazer Scholars Program Contact Make a Gift News Illuminate Ways to Give