By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home About Partnerships City & Community More from this Section Corporate and Foundation Relations Industry & Government City and Community Syracuse University's partnerships with the city and surrounding communities provide a vital two-way street that benefits students and local citizens. Here are just a few examples. Our office is a liaison with neighborhood, community, business, and nonprofit organizations on matters pertaining to campus-community relationships. Learn more about Syracuse community relations Say Yes to Education Syracuse leads a precedent-setting partnership that serves as a national model for urban education reform. By providing support to all city school students, the initiative seeks to help more children succeed academically, graduate from high school, and pursue higher education. Connective Corridor The Connective Corridor is a civic engagement initiative led by Syracuse University, working with the City of Syracuse and Onondaga County. With upgrades like new bike lanes, sidewalks, streetlights, benches, curbs, and other streetscape improvements, the project combines research, scholarship, and civic entrepreneurship, in using the City of Syracuse as a “living laboratory” for urban revitalization. Center of Excellence From Lab to Market: The Syracuse Center of Excellence catalyzes research, development, and demonstrations to accelerate innovations for clean energy, healthy buildings, and resilient communities. Syracuse Stage Syracuse Stage is a global village square where renowned artists and audiences of all ages gather to celebrate our cultural richness and explore the transformative power of live theatre. Learn more about the Department of Drama at Syracuse Stage . Featured Stories Tutoring in a Time of Need Through virtual connections, a Syracuse University community initiative helps local students succeed in their schoolwork. Stage Presence Syracuse Stage and the Department of Drama are working together to build a vibrant and creative community of artists. Related Pages Office of Government and Community Relations Our office is a liaison with neighborhood, community, business, and nonprofit organizations on matters pertaining to campus-community relationships. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy