Tuck COVID-19 Information and Campus Updates Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth Loading... Menu Search Tuck About Why Tuck? Mission, Vision, & Strategy Tuck Leadership Meet the Dean Facts & Figures See Our Campus (Map) Accessibility Staff Directory Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Dartmouth Collaborations MBA Admissions Student Stories Alumni Stories Tuck 360: MBA Blog Academic Experience Life at Tuck Housing Options Partners and Families Clubs and Activities Tuck Student Board Centers Career Services Finance Your Degree Business Bridge Executive Education Faculty & Research How We Teach Faculty Directory Academic Groups Faculty Recruiting Research & Insights Faculty in the News Research Highlights News All News School News Research & Insights In the Media Events MBA Program Rankings Social Media For Journalists Recruiting Executive Education myTUCK Master of Health Care Delivery Science About Why Tuck? Mission, Vision, & Strategy Tuck Leadership Board of Advisors Tuck Asia Pacific Council Tuck Latin America and Caribbean Council Tuck Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA) Council TAG Executive Committee MBA Council Meet the Dean Meet Matthew J. Slaughter: Videos Bio & CV Contact the Dean's Office Facts & Figures History See Our Campus (Map) Accessibility Staff Directory Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Dartmouth Collaborations Master of Engineering Management Program Master of Health Care Delivery Science TuckLAB Undergraduate Business Training Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us MBA Student Stories Alumni Stories Tuck 360: MBA Blog Academic Experience Required Curriculum Elective Curriculum Management Science and Quantitative Methods Option First-Year Project Leadership Development TuckGO Centers Academic Calendar Life at Tuck Dartmouth College Diversity Military Veterans Hanover and the Upper Valley Admissions Applying to Tuck Class Profile Admissions Criteria Important Dates Visit and Interview Accessibility Attend an Event Admissions FAQs Connect with Our Community Housing Options Partners and Families Clubs and Activities Tuck Student Board Career Services Employment Statistics Meet Our Career Advisers Top Hiring Companies Recruit a Tuck Student Finance Your Degree Tuition and Costs Scholarships, Fellowships, and Sponsorships Loan Programs Online Resources Financial Aid Applications Financial Aid FAQs Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us Business Bridge Executive Education Advanced Management Program Diversity Business Programs Global Leadership Next Step Leadership and Strategic Impact Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us Faculty & Research How We Teach Faculty Directory Faculty Recruiting Research Groups Emeriti Faculty in the News Research & Insights Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us News All News School News Research & Insights In the Media Events MBA Program Rankings Social Media For Journalists Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us Search Search Tuck Cancel News Search School News Research & Insights Slaughter & Rees Report In the Media Tuck 360: MBA Blog Events For Journalists Social Media Knowledge in Practice: Research Insights from Tuck's Path-Breaking Faculty Subscribe to Knowledge in Practice Who Wins and Who Loses When IP Protection Gets Weaker? Intellectual property protection took a big hit with a landmark 2014 Supreme Court case. Tuck professor Gordon Phillips documents the impacts on large and small firms. May 06, 2022 The Self-Enhancement Bias and Why We Should Expect Rigidity After Failure In his research on organizational learning, Tuck professor Pino Audia has changed the way we explain firms’ inability to make timely changes in response to failure. Apr 28, 2022 How an Idea from Tuck Helped Launch Operation Warp Speed The United States’ effort to provide COVID-19 vaccines to the world was one of the greatest government achievements in modern history. Tuck Professor Ron Adner’s ecosystem strategy framework contributed to its creation. Apr 08, 2022 Better Decisions Through Science With uncertainty at an all-time high, the Operations and Management Science faculty, along with Tuck’s international trade economists, are helping a range of industries refine their practices and prepare for what might come next. Mar 23, 2022 The Nuances of Knowledge Transfer Tuck professor Constance Helfat studies what really happens when workers move to new units inside their firm. Mar 09, 2022 Slaughter & Rees Report: Norway, Aristotle, and Ukraine Norway flourishes in the Winter Olympics by focusing on application and effort—not on medals—say Slaughter and Rees, comparing that focus to Russia’s challenge to democracy through its invasion of Ukraine. Feb 28, 2022 Putting Models into Practice Tuck assistant professor Raghav Singal works at the intersection of machine learning and data-driven decision-making. Feb 07, 2022 Slaughter & Rees Report: Harness Globalization to Help Whip Inflation The challenge facing the Fed is daunting. Slaughter and Rees propose three steps policymakers can take to harness globalization and whip U.S. inflation. Jan 31, 2022 The Concrete Wall A conversation with Ella L.J. Bell Smith, professor of business administration, on the enduring relevance and re-release of her book Our Separate Ways: Black and White Women and the Search for Identity. Jan 26, 2022 Tuck Faculty Predictions for 2022 From corporate strategy to employee satisfaction, data analytics and e-commerce, Tuck faculty opine on the trends that will shape 2022. Jan 11, 2022 What Makes a CEO Effective? Inside the Mind of the CEO For 15 years, Tuck professor Morten Sørensen has been analyzing a unique dataset on top executives, uncovering the traits that make them effective and different from others. Dec 09, 2021 Slaughter & Rees Report: Two Long-Term Public-Policy Lessons of the Pandemic Dean Matthew Slaughter and coauthor Matthew Rees share two public-policy lessons of the pandemic related to globalization and public health—one optimistic, the other less so. Nov 30, 2021 Has the U.S.-China Trade War Hurt the Chinese Economy? Tuck professor Davin Chor analyzed night light data from satellite imagery to infer the impact of the new tariffs on China’s economy. Nov 09, 2021 Slaughter & Rees Report: What Will Help Resolve America’s Great Resignation? Jobs Connected to the... As the U.S. faces the Great Resignation, Slaughter and Rees remind policymakers that the strongest jobs in America have long been those connected to the world through international trade and investment. Oct 28, 2021 Findings: In Friendship, A Mirror to the Self Tuck professor Adam Kleinbaum shares his findings on the power of social networks to influence and reinforce beliefs and behavior. Oct 11, 2021 Ecosystem Disruption: When Industry Boundaries Collapse In his latest book, Winning the Right Game, Ron Adner uncovers a deep, unsettling truth about the nature of strategy and competition in the digital age. Oct 04, 2021 Drew Blake, M.D. T’20 and Professor Jim Smith Publish Paper on Hepatitis C Elimination Blake, an alumnus of the MD-MBA program at Geisel and Tuck, collaborated with Tuck professor Jim Smith on a paper modeling interventions that could eliminate Hepatitis C in people who inject drugs (PWID) in New Hampshire. Sep 21, 2021 Does the Profit Motive Make Nursing Homes Better or Worse? Tuck professor Lauren Lu examines what happens when nonprofit nursing homes are purchased by for-profit businesses. Aug 25, 2021 Using Wearable Sensors to Study Workplace Behavior Tuck’s Pino Audia and Dartmouth’s Andrew Campbell embarked on a three-year study of how wearable sensors may be used to gain a deeper understanding of behavior in the workplace. What they discovered holds both promise and peril for the future of work. Jul 30, 2021 Slaughter & Rees Report: How Might Student-Athletes Get Paid to Play? Three Key Questions Sensible reform for student-athlete compensation will first need to address three important questions informed by an accurate understanding of preexisting market structure, say Slaughter and Rees. Jun 30, 2021 Findings: What’s Your Goal, and What Gets in Your Way? Tuck professor Punam Anand Keller shares her years of research on barrier-based behavior change. Jun 01, 2021 Slaughter & Rees Report: The Lessons of Phil at 50 Phil Mickelson’s historic victory reveals lessons about making better decisions—and the value of older workers. May 27, 2021 Is COVID-19 Scary? Depends on Your Politics—And How You’re Asked In a new study of how people perceive risks from the coronavirus, Tuck professor Ellie Kyung finds patterns correlated with political identity. May 07, 2021 Slaughter & Rees Report: Data Is Power The surge in global flows of data holds great potential for the global economy, say Dean Matthew Slaughter and coauthor Matthew Rees. Yet big data remains largely ungoverned. Apr 22, 2021 Why Are Women Dropping Off the Corporate Ladder? Tuck professor Lauren Lu finds that inequitable distribution of workplace resources may be hampering women’s rise to upper management. Apr 15, 2021 Slaughter & Rees Report: Go Big on Skilled Immigration In their latest missive, Dean Matthew Slaughter and coauthor Matthew Rees underscore how unnecessarily costly America’s too-restrictive skilled-immigration policy is. Mar 31, 2021 Time Is Muscle Among her research findings, new Tuck professor Lauren Lu has found a way to reduce 40 minutes of time when transferring heart attack patients between hospitals. Mar 25, 2021 The Pandemic Has Boosted Homeownership and Home-related Spending Tuck professor Brian Melzer has studied the close connection between home buying and durable spending. The pandemic economy is proving his research right. Mar 22, 2021 Researchers from Tuck and Geisel Model COVID-19 Transmission in Retail Stores An interdisciplinary team of faculty and Ph.D. candidates collaborated on a study published recently in Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. Mar 11, 2021 Is There a Backlash Against Women in Negotiations? Tuck professor Jennifer Dannals finds that women entering a negotiation with a strong alternative underperform men in similar situations because they often face backlash. Mar 04, 2021 Slaughter & Rees Report: Batter Up Did President Trump eliminate America's trio of trade deficits? Dean Matthew Slaughter and coauthor Matthew Rees weigh in and look ahead to trade policy under the Biden administration. Feb 26, 2021 Why Do Firms Go Public? Tuck professor Gordon Phillips finds evidence that an IPO is good for the firm’s bottom line and helps promote commercialization. Feb 24, 2021 Laurens Debo Wins Research Award for Queueing Paper Debo, a professor of operations management, was honored for creating a model that could reduce wait times in restaurants and other service industries. Feb 03, 2021 Slaughter & Rees Report: The Biden-Harris Economic Scorecard This Inauguration Day, Dean Matthew Slaughter and coauthor Matthew Rees provide a scorecard for the heart of the American economy—workers and their families—to help clarify how to measure progress in the days ahead. Jan 20, 2021 Do Women CEOs Make Different Decisions Than Men? Tuck professor Katharina Lewellen studies hospitals run by female CEOs to better understand how they might differ from hospitals led by men. Jan 12, 2021 Slaughter & Rees Report: Puerto Rico and the Moon While the U.S. awaits COVID-19 stimulus packages and the distribution of vaccines, Dean Matthew J. Slaughter and coauthor Matthew Rees examine two scientific landmarks from earlier this month—an optimistic one for China and a disheartening one for the United States. Dec 15, 2020 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 100 Tuck Hall Hanover, NH 03755 USA Center for Business, Government & Society Center for Digital Strategies Center for Entrepreneurship Center for Health Care Center for Private Equity and Venture Capital Revers Center for Energy, Sustainability and Innovation Apply Admissions Financial Aid Application Deadlines Admissions FAQs Contact Directions Campus Map Accessibility Area Lodging Give to Tuck MyTuck for Alumni TuckStuff Store TuckConnect Intranet Employment For Recruiters For Journalists Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Back to Top © , The Trustees of Dartmouth College. All rights reserved. | Privacy