Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu School of Public Health About Programs Apply Students Research News & Events Faculty & Staff Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Programs Undergraduate BSPHPublic Health Minor Masters MHAEMHAMPHMS BiostatisticsDual Programs Doctoral PhD Epidemiology and BiostatisticsPhD Social and Behavioral Sciences Graduate Certificate Population HealthHealth AnalyticsHealth Systems Leadership Interpreter Course Take Action Apply Now Explore Programs News & Events Contact Us Follow SPH Online Facebooktwitter Home School of Public Health Programs MHA Frequently Asked Questions Frequently Asked Questions MHA Program FAQ How long is the program? The program is designed to be completed in two years for full-time students. If you desire to go part-time, you may complete the program in three to four years, but your graduation date will depend on the amount of courses you take per semester. All students, full- and part-time, are required to attend the Day One Professional Development Retreat the weekend before school begins. How many credit hours is the program? 53 hours How many admissions cycles does the MHA have each year? The MHA program accepts students only in Fall. What are the pre-requisite courses? There are no pre-requisites for the MHA program. What is your minimum GRE score requirement? We do not have a minimum GRE score as we review applications holistically. However, the GRE accounts for a substantial portion of the score that we use to determine which applicants to invite for interviews. Can the GRE be waived? Applicants who have completed a terminal degree such as JD, MD, PhD from an accredited institution are not required to submit GRE scores. Students currently enrolled in a medical, dental, optometry, business, or law school can submit their MCAT, DAT, OAT, GMAT, or LSAT scores, respectively, in lieu of the GRE. Other professional school exams will not be eligible as alternatives to the GRE exam. Applicants who have completed a MBBS degree, and have passed the Step 1 of the USMLE, are not required to submit GRE scores. To be eligible for the GRE waiver, copies of both official USMLE scores will be required to be uploaded with your application. What is the school code for sending my official standardized test scores or GRE scores? SOPHAS: 6980 HAMPCAS: 8838 What makes UofM's MHA program special? The UofM MHA program is the only CAHME-accredited program in the state of Tennessee. We offer an award-winning professional skills development and leadership experience for students throughout the program. Our classes are taught in the evenings (Mon-Thurs), except for the Day One Professional Development Seminar held one Friday each month. This allows our students to work in 20-hour per week, paid Administrative Residencies in local healthcare organizations. Our program is a great value, with a very reasonable cost of living in Memphis. What is an Administrative Residency and how do I apply? An Administrative Residency is a part-time (20 hours/week) position working with leaders in local healthcare organizations. All full-time MHA students are eligible to apply. After accepting an offer of admission, students must send their resumes to the Program Director. The Program Director distributes all resumes to organizations with Administrative Residency openings. Those organizations then decide who to interview and ultimately hire. Although we cannot guarantee that each student is offered an administrative residency, we average 90-95% placement within the student's first year of the program. How much does the program cost? Please visit University & Student Business Services' Fee Chart for more information. Our curriculum flyer shows a full-time credit breakdown by semester. Do I have to submit both SOPHAS and Graduate School applications? You are required to submit both the full SOPHAS application and the University of Memphis Graduate Admissions application. We require the SOPHAS application to be submitted by the deadline and paid in full for your application to be considered for review. I have already taken public health courses at another university. Can they be transferred? You can transfer up to 15 credits, if you have received a B or higher, and they were taken at an accredited School of Public Health. All transfer credits must be evaluated by the graduate school no later than the end of the second semester of enrollment. Who should I ask for Letters of Recommendations? Typically, we recommend you have at least two from a previous or current professor or instructor. Overall, it is in your best interest to have three letter writers who will best be able to attest to your academic and professional ability. How would you recommend I prepare my Statement of Purpose and Objectives? Your Statement of Purpose should explain what has brought you to pursue graduate training in Health Administration and your eventual career goals. It should also explain why you are pursuing this degree at University of Memphis. I have a question about my visa. Who can I contact? You may contact the International Student Services Office regarding your visa status: theworld@memphis.edu I am an international student. Do I need to have my transcript evaluated? Yes. If you received any of your degrees outside of the United States, they need to be evaluated by WES or by any members of the National Association of Credential Evaluation Services (NACES). As an international student, am I required to take the TOEFL? Yes, TOEFL scores are required for all applicants from countries in which the official language is not English. However, if you have completed at least one year of full-time (12 credits) academic coursework with grades of B or higher in residence at an accredited U.S. university, you do not need to take the TOEFL. Additionally, the TOEFL requirement may be waived if English is the Official Language of Instruction in Higher Education in the applicant's country of origin and it is documented on the WES evaluation that all courses were taught in English. Contact Us Shirl Sharpe, MS Academic Services Coordinator II ssharpe@memphis.edu 901.678.1710 M. Paige Powell, PhD, MHA MHA Program Director mppowell@memphis.edu Christie Rakestraw Graduate School Admissions Counselor crakstrw@memphis.edu 901.678.4489 Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/17/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.