Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Sports and Society Certificate (Undergraduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Sports and Society Certificate (Undergraduate) Apply Request More Info Sports and Society Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Undergraduate Certificate in Sports and Society Develop a thorough understanding of the role of sport in both U.S. and global societies with the Undergraduate Certificate in Sports and Society in Temple University’s College of Liberal Arts. This 12-credit undergraduate certificate allows students to explore the economic impact of sports, the social psychology of physical activity, and the role of media and communications in the sport and recreation industry. Students pursuing a Sports and Society Undergraduate Certificate will also become well-versed in the history of sport, both in the U.S. and abroad, with key competencies ranging from athletics administration to the connection between sports and religion. A global curricular approach allows graduates to grasp the impact of sport in contemporary society, and study how emerging technologies influence sport organizations and communities. The interdisciplinary curriculum comprises courses in the College of Liberal Arts; College of Public Health and the School of Sport, Tourism and Hospitality Management. Classes & Curriculum Courses you will take as part of the Sports and Society Undergraduate Certificate curriculum include Baseball and American History, Global Sports, History of Global Soccer, Media and Communications in Sport and Recreation, Professional and International Sport, Sociology of Sports, and Religion and Sports. Learn more about Sports and Society Certificate (Undergraduate) courses. Related Graduate Degrees Applied Sociology PSM Liberal Arts MLA Public Policy MPP Sociology MA Sociology PhD Sport Business MS* Sport Business Executive Program MS* *School of Sport, Tourism and Hospitality Management Careers The skills gained from a liberal arts degree are highly relevant in today’s rapidly evolving world. Apply the experience and knowledge acquired in the Sports and Society Certificate (Undergraduate) program to your professional pursuits across many organizations and industries, including academics, cultural institutions, government agencies or the social sciences. The versatility of this program’s curriculum helps you graduate with valuable skill sets sought by many employers. The Sports and Society Undergraduate Certificate is designed for students who are interested in careers in sports management, training or writing. Tuition & Fees The tuition for this Certificate Program is based on school or college of your major, program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Academic Advisors Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development Dedicated advisors at the Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development in the College of Liberal Arts are available to guide students through their academic careers and with their career paths beyond Temple. They can help you choose a major, navigate your curriculum, identify internship opportunities, explore career opportunities and determine your post-graduation plans. Learn more about the center. Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-SPSO-CERT Additional Program Information Visit College Site Go back to AcademicsMore in Sports and Society Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info