Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Academic Advising Center Main Navigation About Us Show Extended What We Do General Education General Grad Requirements Undeclared Academic Success Liberal Education Major and Minor Exploration Staff Faculty Development Certificate Faculty and Staff Training Videos Navigate Student App AAC Office Location Gordon Hall-123(formerly University Hall), 800 N State College Blvd, Fullerton, California 92831 Academic advising center hours Days Office Hours: Advising Hours: Monday 8 am — 12 pm; 1 pm — 3:30 pm 9:00 am —11:30 am; 1:00 pm — 3:30 pm Tuesday 8 am — 12 pm; 1 pm — 5 pm 9:00 am —11:30 am; 1:00 pm — 3:30 pm Wednesday 8 am — 12 pm; 1 pm — 5 pm 9:00 am —11:30 am; 1:00 pm — 3:30 pm Thursday 8 am — 12 pm; 1 pm — 5 pm 9:00 am —11:30 am; 1:00 pm — 3:30 pm Friday 8 am — 12 pm 8:30 am —11:30 am Phone : (657) 278-3606 Fax : (657) 278-7146 Contact Academic Advising Center Current Students Show Extended Freshmen Major Exploration Remediation Tutoring Services Undeclared Transfer Students New Student Transfer Workshop AAT/AST Assist.org GE breadth certification Seniors Graduation Requirements Applying for Graduation Graduation Specialists Mandatory Advising Workshops FAQs Continuing Students Undeclared Undeclared Students Show Extended Major Exploration Titan Major Exploration Program Exploring Majors Appointments Assessing Personal and Career Interests Exploring Careers Declare a Major Prospective Students Show Extended Transfer Students New Student Transfer Workshop Incomplete TDAs Returning Students Major Advising Re-enrollment Information Incoming First Time Freshman AP Scores and Transcripts Academic Success Show Extended IMPROVING GPA Repeats Grade Forgiveness Balanced Schedule Time Management Academic support resources University Learning Center English Department Writing Center CBE Tutoring Center OCSAMS CASECS Student Technology Services Academic Notice and Disqualification Academic Notice Academic Disqualification Fullerton Finish TitanNet Academic Planner Academic Notice and Disqualification Requirements Major Exploration GPA Calculator AAC Virtual Printable FERPA Release Form Repeats Grade Forgiveness Balanced Schedule Time Management Time Management Organization usually involves the use of lists, calendars and other strategies to help you to be aware of all of your tasks and responsibilities. Prioritizing usually involves understanding which tasks are the most important and should be handled first, versus which tasks can take a back seat or even be delegated to someone else. Scheduling usually involves a daily attempt to keep your tasks and responsibilities organized in a way that feels comfortable. Ask yourself some questions: How am I currently managing my time? Where do I really spend my time? Do I use my time wisely to focus on the things that are most important to me? What am I doing to reduce my stress and anxiety in how I manage my time? How am I attempting to use time wisely to balance my life? Work smarter, not harder. Here are some tips for managing your time: Be Productive - Determine the times of the day in which you do your best work and break large tasks into smaller, achievable ones. Be Realistic - Communicate your needs and goals to others and be prepared for things to not always go as planned. Protect Your Time - Learn to say "NO" when necessary and delegate tasks to people you trust when it is appropriate to do so! Take Control - Whether at home, work, on campus, or in a coffee shop, establish a conducive place for task involvement and completion. Taking Care of You Student Wellness Maintaining an optimal level of wellness is absolutely crucial for living a higher quality life and reaching your highest potential. As a student, how well you do at CSUF is directly related to how “well” you are in all areas of your life. Student Wellness provides the advocacy, environment, services and resources for students to achieve their greatest potential. STUDENT WELLNESS HOMEPAGE Student Health Services Basic medical care is delivered at the SHCC at no charge to students. Augmented care is offered at the SHCC at a minimal charge. Please see the SHCC cashier for more information and current prices for augmented services. A complete list of services provided at SHCC is below. Augmented services are marked with an asterisk. STUDENT HEALTH SERVICES HOMEPAGE Counseling and Psychological Services Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) strives to help students achieve their academic, professional, and personal goals. Counselors can help students improve coping skills, strengthen personal relationships, navigate the college transition, recover from traumatic experiences, and engage in self-exploration. CAPS offers brief counseling for individuals and couples, group counseling, psychiatric services, referrals, crisis intervention, and workshops to eligible CSUF students. CAPS counselors are also available to consult with faculty and staff about concerns related to student mental health. In addition, CAPS is home to an APPIC-member doctoral internship program, offering training in professional psychology for graduate students in counseling and clinical psychology. CAPS HOMEPAGE Health Education and Promotion The Health Education and Promotion department, within the Student Health and Counseling Center, is dedicated to training student “Peer Health Educators” to do meaningful programming that serves the Titan Community. These Peer Health Educators persist to graduation and become medical professionals who serve as responsible Health Educators in all client interactions. The Health Education and Promotion Department is responsible for promoting healthy choices and behaviors through individual health counseling, group presentations, outreach events, and peer-to-peer education. College can be an amazing adventure, but it can also be overwhelming. If you are simultaneously trying to manage studying, relationships, staying healthy and living on your own, it's normal to feel stressed and exhausted. But being thrown off balance from college overload presents as much of an opportunity as it does a reason for panic; college is a dress rehearsal for life itself, and the CSUF Health Education and Promotion department is dedicated to helping students regain their balance here and now. We’re here for you. For more information about our programs, workshops, and services, contact the Health Education and Promotion staff. HEALTH EDUCATION & PROMOTION WEB PAGE Disability Support Services The mission of the Office of Disability Support Services at California State University, Fullerton is to increase access and retention for students with permanent and temporary disabilities by ensuring equitable treatment in all aspects of campus life. The program acts as a catalyst and agent for compliance with Federal and State laws and regulations mandating equal opportunity and access for persons with disabilities. Disability Support Services Services provides co-curricular and academically related services which empower students with disabilities to achieve academic and personal self-determination. "No otherwise qualified individual with a disability in the United States . . . shall, solely by reason of his or her disability, be excluded from the participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance." (Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973) "Subject to the provisions of this title, no qualified individual with a disability shall, by reason of such disability, be excluded from participation in or be denied the benefits of the services, programs, or activities of a public entity, or be subjected to discrimination by such entity." (Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act) DISABILITY SUPPORT SERVICES HOMEPAGE This site is maintained by Academic Advising Center. Last Published 4/8/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact zz-pasharma@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled.