Check here for up-to-date information on the Gutman Library 2nd floor renovation project! Skip to main content Information For: Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Apply Give to HGSE Search Apply for Degree Programs Apply for Professional Education Donate Give back to HGSE and support the next generation of passionate educators and innovative leaders. Keywords Close Menu Degree Programs Professional Education Faculty & Research Usable Knowledge Keywords About HGSE About the Dean Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Commentary and Media Dean's Office History of HGSE Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Impact Campus and Facilities Office Directory Virtual Tour Gutman Conference Center Reservation Request Form Capacities and Cost Floor Plan Catering Policies Audio Visual Directions, Parking, and Hotels Map of HGSE Directions to HGSE History of HGSE Buildings Faculty & Staff Directory Work at HGSE Title IX Information Doctoral Degree Programs Doctor of Education Leadership Doctor of Philosophy in Education Brochures Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Doctoral Viewbook Master's Degree Program Master's in Education Programs Education Leadership, Organizations, and Entrepreneurship Education Policy and Analysis Human Development and Education Learning Design, Innovation, and Technology Teaching and Teacher Leadership Concentrations Arts and Learning Early Childhood Global, International, and Comparative Education Higher Education Identity, Power, and Justice in Education Literacy and Languages A Personalized Approach Online Master's in Education Leadership Foundations Brochures Academic Catalog Academic Calendar Academic Year 2020-22 Programs Professional Education About Us Programs Early Childhood K-12 Higher Education Online Programs For Organizations Group and Team Enrollment Custom Programs Admissions Payment & Tuition Assistance Refunds & Withdrawals Policies and Accessibility Campus Experience On-Campus Program Health and Safety Policies FAQs Events Contact Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Centers, Projects and Initiatives Faculty Recruitment Faculty Experts Admissions Introduce Yourself Explore Find the Right Program Brochures Life at HGSE Connect Apply Refer a Candidate Frequently Asked Questions Financial Aid HGSE & Harvard University Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Incoming Students Incoming International Students Continuing Students Scholarships, Fellowships & Grants Need-Based Grant Awards HGSE Fellowships Additional Fellowships External Fellowships Student Loans Student Work International Students International Applicant FAQ Funding Sources Students with Families Financial Aid Appeals Presentations & Publications Budgeting & Financial Literacy Budget Calculator Registrar News & Events Harvard Edcast Education Now Askwith Education Forum Upcoming Events Submit an Event Usable Knowledge Ed. Magazine Harvard Education Publishing Group Information for Media Education Now Usable Knowledge Usable Knowledge Harvard EdCast Ed. Magazine HGSE Centennial Community Learning Beyond the Classroom Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Organizations and Initiatives Community Events and Action Resources Teaching and Learning Gutman Library Services Alumni Services Collections Special Collections Request for Library Purchase Library Hours Websites for Educators About the Library Facilities & Equipment Contact Information Coronavirus Response Information Directory Calendar Alumni Network & Connect Get Involved Learn & Grow Benefits & Services my.harvard Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Information For Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Connect with HGSE Facebook Twitter Linked In LinkedIn Symbols Created with Sketch. Instagram Gutman Library Alumni and Visitor Services Gutman Library Access and Borrowing Beginning on Monday, April 11, 2022 the campus will be open to all visitors provided the guest completes the attestation process and meets all the requirements regarding vaccination (or testing) and health. For full details, please see the HGSE Visitor Policy. An active HUID is required for borrowing Gutman Library materials. If a visitor does not have an active HUID, or if an HGSE Alumni only has a pre-2020 HGSE Special Borrower Card, they should apply for a Harvard Library Borrower Card from the Harvard Library Access and Borrowing Office. This card will allow for borrowing at Gutman Library as well as other, select libraries across Harvard’s campus. For information on accessing Gutman Library’s Special Collections, please see our Special Collections page.    Other Harvard Libraries Access and Borrowing Some of Harvard’s libraries are open for in-person use by Special Borrowers, including alumni, and Visiting Researchers. Check the Harvard Library Visitor access website for the latest information on which libraries are open for in-person visitor access and whether they have special requirements for using and accessing the library (e.g., making an appointment). Electronic Resources for HGSE Alumni Off-site Access to Electronic Resources To support the work of all Harvard alumni, the Harvard Library offers a curated collection of online resources. This collection includes an alumni-specific version of the EBSCO Academic Search database, JSTOR, ABI/Inform (business), and many more resources.  Have a citation and looking for full text? Best bets for HGSE grads: EBSCO Academic Search Alumni Edition, JSTOR, Project Muse, and Sage Journals. Access to the full list of online resources for alumni is available on the Harvard Library Alumni page. Use of all alumni resources requires a HarvardKey. More information about the HarvardKey. Tip: Visit the open access ERIC site to locate full-text articles from many education journals.  Additional Resources Use the HOLLIS "Library Catalog" search to find books, journals and more. For access to full-text articles, alumni should search the resources on the Harvard Library Alumni page. Special Borrowers (a designation used pre-2020) who were previously issued a Gutman-specific borrower card may renew books after applying for a Harvard Library Borrower Card from the Harvard Library Access and Borrowing Office. This card will allow for borrowing at Gutman Library as well as other, select libraries across Harvard’s campus. HGSE Alumni: Resources for Educators at Work offers additional tips on finding education statistics, funding sources, or experts. Electronic Resources available through Public Libraries Many public libraries throughout the country provide access to electronic resources within their library and remotely. Contact your local public library for more information or check their website. Most Massachusetts residents can access online databases through Massachusetts Libraries, using the barcode on their public library card. Questions and Research Appointments  Quick questions? Visit Gutman Library’s FAQs and Ask Us page.    Overwhelmed by choices? Need help researching a new subject area? Schedule a virtual appointment with Gutman Library’s Research Services librarians. In this section Gutman Library Services Alumni Services Collections Special Collections Request for Library Purchase Library Hours Websites for Educators About the Library Facilities & Equipment Contact Information Gutman Library Gutman Library Services Alumni Services Collections Special Collections Request for Library Purchase Library Hours Websites for Educators About the Library Facilities & Equipment Contact Information Sign up for our newsletters to get the latest from the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Sign Up Now Artboard 1 13 Appian Way | Cambridge, MA 02138 Centennial Contact Us Directory Directions Harvard University ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Linked In Symbols Created with Sketch. Youtube RSS Podcast HGSE Publishing Policies & Disclaimers Digital Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy Trademark Notice