We use cookies to make your website experience better. To learn about how we keep your information safe, view our Privacy Policy. Accept Safer Return to Campus Masks Strongly Recommended. Notification of Potential Workplace Exposure. Skip To Main Content Popular Searches × Outreach, Recruitment & Educational Partnerships Home Contact Outreach Meet the Staff Request More Information Request an Outreach Representative Official Campus Tours Counselor Connections Pre-Admission Advising Frequently Asked Questions Bronco Stories Official Campus Tours Welcome back - we are now offering in-person tours! Select your tour type below to learn more and schedule your tour Prospective Student Description At the start of your visit a Cal Poly Pomona professional staff representative from the Office of Outreach, Recruitment & Educational Partnerships will greet your group and lead a 15-minute presentation to discuss: admissions requirements, deadlines tuition, majors and next steps. The campus tour is approximately a 90-minute walk through the main areas on campus. Freshman Residence Hall tours will resume when the COVID-19 situtation improves. Please visit CPP Housing for a virtual tour of the various residence halls we offer for incoming freshman. Ideal for both prospective students and admitted students. Details Check-in: 20 minutes before your start time Admissions Discussion Walking tour Daily Tour Parking Information Questions (909) 869-3529 Request Your Tour Admitted Student Description At the start of your visit a Cal Poly Pomona professional staff representative from the Office of Outreach, Recruitment & Educational Partnerships will greet your group and lead a 15-minutes group presentation to discuss: admissions requirements, deadlines, tuition, majors and next steps. The campus tour is approximately a 90-minute walk through the main areas on campus. Freshman Residence Hall tours will resume when the COVID-19 situtation improves. Please visit CPP Housing for a virtual tour of the various residence halls we offer for incoming freshman. Ideal for both prospective students and admitted students. Details Check-in: 20 minutes before your start time Admissions Discussion Walking tour Questions (909) 869-3529 Request Your Tour Returning Student Description Welcome back, Bronco! Familiarize yourself with the various resources that Cal Poly Pomona has to offer to acclimate you to college life. The campus tour is approxmately a 90-minute walk through the main areas of campus. Details Check-in: 20 minutes before your start time Walking tour Daily Tour Parking Information Questions (909) 869-3529 tours@cpp.edu Request Your Tour Group Tours Due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and health and safety recommendations, we are limiting group tours to only high school seniors or community college student groups. We hope to open group tours to all student populations in early 2022, or when COVID-19 conditions improve. Please direct any questions you have to tours@cpp.edu or (909) 869-3529. Thank you for understanding. High School Tours Description At the start of your visit a Cal Poly Pomona professional staff representative from the Office of Outreach, Recruitment & Educational Partnerships will greet your group and lead a 15-minute group discussion covering: admissions requirements, deadlines tuition, majors and the importance of good grades in preparation for college eligibility. Each student is given a brochure to take home that further addresses these important admissions requirements and provides the students with a future source of information which can be shared with their parents. The walking tour is led by a knowledgeable Outreach Ambassador who is a current Cal Poly Pomona college student. Our team of Outreach Ambassadors are just as diverse as the school itself with students in varying majors, interests and social dynamics! All Outreach Ambassadors have passed a background check, maintain high GPAs within their college academics, are involved in clubs and organizations throughout the university, participate in an extensive tour training program, and are official representatives of Cal Poly Pomona. Our group tour route is designed to help high school students discover: The Power of Polytechnic An Affordable, Quality Education at a Great Location Get Connected to Campus Life Diversity An Education that Prepares You for Your Career University Heritage Student Centered Philosophy Ideal for high school students in 9th - 11th Details Check-in: 20 minutes before your start time 60-minute Walking Tour Currently only offering limited group tours to high school senior groups Group Size Minimum 10 students per group Maximum 50 students per group Required 1 chaperone per 25 students Groups are scheduled first-come, first-serve per date availability Additional Information Tour Packet Questions (909) 869-3529 Request your tour Community College Tours Description At the start of your visit a Cal Poly Pomona professional staff representative from the Office of Outreach, Recruitment & Educational Partnerships will greet your group and lead a 15-minute group discussion covering: admissions requirements, deadlines, tuition, majors and the importance of good grades in preparation for college eligibility. Each student is given a brochure to take home that further addresses these important admissions requirements and provides the student with a future source of information which can be shared with their parents. The walking tour is led by a knowledgeable Outreach Ambassador who is a current Cal Poly Pomona student. Our team of Outreach Ambassadors is just as diverse as the school itself with students in varying majors, interests and social dynamics! All Outreach Ambassadors have passed a background check, maintain high GPAs within their college academics, are involved in clubs and organizations throughout the university, participate in an extensive tour training program, and are official representatives of Cal Poly Pomona. Our group tour route is designed to help community college students discover: The Power of Polytechnic An Affordable, Quality Education at a Great Location Get Connected to Campus Life Diversity An Education that Prepares You for Your Career University Heritage Student-Centered Philosophy Ideal for transfer students from local area community colleges. Details Check-in: 20 minutes before your start time 60-minute Walking Tour Group Size Minimum 10 students per group Maximum 50 students per group Preferred 1 chaperone per 25 students Groups are scheduled first-come, first-serve per date availability Additional Information Tour Packet Questions (909) 869-3529 Request your tour Faculty/Staff Tours Description Are you new to Cal Poly Pomona and want to get more information about the campus? Please join any of the prospective student tour dates. No need to register online, we will add you to the guest list when you check in. Are you conducting a faculty/staff search and want to incorporate a campus tour into your search agenda? If so, please request a special tour by emailing tours@cpp.edu. Please note that scheduling is based on tour guide availability and we cannot guarantee all requests. Ideal for new Cal Poly Pomona faculty/staff, or MPP/faculty searches. Questions 909-869-3529 Request your tour CPP Virtual Tour Experience our campus in an interactive way by taking a virtual tour. Take a Virtual Tour Self-Guided Tour Packet Learn even more about the campus by reading about key and unique locations as well as learning about the history of the campus. View Self-Guided Tour Paquete de Excursión a pie Autoguiada Aprenda aún más sobre el campus leyendo sobre ubicaciones clave y únicas, así como aprendiendo sobre la historia del campus. Ver Excursión Autoguiada 360° Interactive Panoramas Explore 360° panoramas featuring different campus locations. See Panoramas Email outreach@cpp.edu Location Student Services Building Building 121, 1st Floor Phone (909) 869-3529 Mon - Fri, 8 am - 5 pm Instagram @cppoutreach 3801 West Temple Avenue, Pomona, CA 91768 ©2021 California State Polytechnic University, Pomona All Rights Reserved About Cal Poly Pomona Feedback Privacy Accessibility Document Readers