Skip to Content Menu Audiences Clemson.edu Public Service and Agriculture Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift Academics Research Extension About Giving Sandhill Research and Education Center We are happy to welcome visitors to the Sandhill REC. A 50-acre greenspace is now accessible from the main parking area at 900 Clemson Road. The greenspace affords access to trails, pond views, the Sandhill Children’s Garden (currently under construction), the Sandhill Farmers Market during its season, a turfgrass demonstration area, and more. Visitor access hours are 7:15 am through 4:15 pm, Monday – Friday. The property is closed to all pedestrian and vehicle traffic on weekends and holidays. Parking is permitted from 7:00 am until 4:30 pm Monday-Friday. Parking is not allowed on weekends or holidays. Towing signs are in place throughout the parking lot and also list the available access hours. Guests are required to limit visits during the scheduled times and fenced area only. Please respect the property by keeping your pet leashed and not littering. Sandhill REC News Sandhill Farmers Market Open Tuesdays, 2-6 pm beginning May 3rd. Click here to visit the market homepage While the needs of the agriculture industry in South Carolina have changed significantly in the 92 years since the gates opened at the Sandhill Research and Education Center, its mission of meeting those needs has never wavered. Since it was established in 1926, its research efforts have evolved and expanded to continue to support the state’s $41.7 billion agribusiness industry. Read More Longleaf Pines, Southeast FarmPress Calendar of Events Sandhill HOME Richland County Extension Advisory Committee About Us Programs Extension Agribusiness Facilities People The Sandhill Children's Garden Events Contact Us Follow Us Sandhill Weather Station Copyright © 2022 Clemson University College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences Clemson, SC Contact Us Emergency Preparedness For Employees Page Update Request