Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Finance, BSBA Gain a Solid Foundation in the Principles of Finance and Invest in Your Future Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Business Department(s) Finance 4 Years In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Develop a Broad Understanding of Financial Markets and Your Role in a Dynamic Economy The finance major at UCF provides you with a broad knowledge in business finance, investments, financial institutions, international finance, risk management and insurance, and real estate. Throughout your coursework, you’ll learn asset valuation, corporate planning and performance analysis — gaining the theoretical background and tools of analysis required for making effective financial decisions. In upper-level finance classes, you’ll integrate Bloomberg terminals into your studies, which are used extensively by the financial services industry to analyze companies and various securities (e.g. equity, fixed income, options). You can also boost your skill set and enhance your resume by taking the Bloomberg Market Concepts test that leads to certification. Or, if you’re interested in Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) material, the Financial Statement Analysis course helps your understand and interpret financial statement data for business decisions and valuations. After graduating with your finance degree, you’ll be prepared to gain employment in a number of fields such as corporate business analytics, project management, investments, financial advising, wealth management, banking and insurance. Related Certificates: Finance: Corporate Finance Certificate Finance: Investments Certificate FinTech Certificate Related Minors: FinTech Minor Highlights UCF is recognized as one of the Best Business Programs in the country by U.S. News & World Report. The only program in Florida that offers a FinTech minor and a FinTech certificate. Finance occupations are projected to grow roughly 9% through 2029. The median earnings for finance graduates is $81,000. Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Start Your Application Today Ready to get started? Take the next step to save your spot at UCF. 1 Check out your application requirements. See what freshmen and transfer students need to apply. 2 Short on time? You can start your application today and come back later to finish. Apply Today Course Overview Intermediate Corporate Finance Take an in-depth look at the principles of corporate finance. Investment, financing, and capital decisions are examined. Equity and Capital Markets Examine various equity investments, including market structure, trading, analysis and valuation. You’ll also study the theories of efficient markets and rational investors, as well as get an introduction to futures and options. Advanced Topics in Financial Management Explore advanced topics in financial management, such as capital budgeting, financial structure, and capital decisions. Case studies are used extensively in this course. View All Finance Courses You’ll Take Finance Skills You’ll Learn Learn how to use relevant data to make financial decisions, including asset valuation, corporate planning, performance analysis and risk management. Explore the function of financial markets, securities valuation, diversification, risk analysis, cash flow projections, financial decision making, corporate policy and software applications for decision making. Gain hands-on experience analyzing and interpreting data, cultivating an eye for detail, as well as developing strong interpersonal and communication skills. Career Opportunities Financial Analyst Equity Research Analyst Credit Analyst Financial Planner Portfolio Manager Investment Banker Securities Broker Trader Loan Officer Financial Manager News and Updates Check out more stories Business & Economy Wriggle Brew ‘Worm Tea’ Fertilizer Wins at UCF’s 2022 Joust New Venture Competition Economics student Samuel Baker won for his concept, which also doubles as a pesticide. Business & Economy Metro Forecast: Florida Economy Must Weather ‘Monetary Policy Hurricane’ to Avoid Recession With the Federal Reserve making its first interest rate hike in three years in March, UCF’s Institute for Economic Forecasting predicts the 0.25% increase will… Colleges & Campus 2022 UCF Founders’ Day Honorees The annual celebration honors the academic achievements of our faculty members and students. Student Life Student Research Week: The Greater Good Ahead of Selfish Interests is Focus of Marketing Study Ph.D. student looks at how self-compassion creates longer lasting positive effects for donors in addition to fostering high prosocial behavior. Degree Search College of Business programs Bachelors Finance (BSBA) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management × The study of finance prepares students for careers in corporate finance, investments, banking and real estate. Not eligible for a double degree with another College of Business Administration major. Degree Requirements Students who change their degree programs and select this major must adopt the most current catalog. Students wanting to major in Finance must meet admission requirements for the major. Any student receiving a business degree must complete a minimum of 30 of the 60 upper level business credit hours for their degree program in the UCF College of Business Administration. Additionally, 12 of the 30 credit hours completed at UCF must be from the department or school in which the student majors. For students seeking a double major within the College of Business, a maximum of 6 hours of Required Courses for the Major or Restricted Electives may count towards another business major. A maximum of 6 hours of Core Requirements or Restricted Electives may count towards another degree program or minor. Students in the Finance major must maintain a 2.75 or higher cumulative Grade Point Average in all 3000 level or higher Finance courses taken at UCF and a 2.0 or higher cumulative GPA in all College of Business courses taken at UCF. Failure to maintain the required GPAs will result in the student being placed on Lack of Progress in the major and/or College. If a student on Lack of Progress fails to achieve the minimum required GPA in the subsequent term of enrollment, the student will be dismissed from the Finance major and/or College of Business. A student who is dismissed may seek consideration for readmittance into the College or major by submitting a letter indicating the reasons for academic difficulties and positive plans for achieving the required GPA. Readmission is not automatic or guaranteed and as an exception to College policy is rarely granted. Students must earn a "B" or higher in FIN 3403 and ACG 3173 (or a "C" or higher in ACG 3131). In addition, only grades of "C" or higher transfer into the program and students must earn a minimum of "C" or higher in all business courses. This includes all courses under requirements Common Program Prerequisites (CPP), Core Requirements: Advanced Level (Primary Core, Secondary Core and Required Courses for Major), Restricted Electives and Capstone Requirements below. Degree Requirements Core Requirements: Advanced Level 42 Total Credits Complete all of the following Primary Core Complete the following: ACG3173 - Accounting for Decision-Makers (3) QMB3200 - Quantitative Business Tools II (3) FIN3403 - Business Finance (3) MAN3025 - Management of Organizations (3) MAR3023 - Marketing (3) Secondary Core Complete the following: GEB3006 - Introduction to Career Development and Financial Plannings (3) GEB3005 - Career Search Strategy (1) BUL3130 - Legal and Ethical Environment of Business (3) MAR3203 - Supply Chain and Operations Management (3) GEB4223 - Business Interviewing Techniques (1) GEB4004 - Executing Your Career Plan (1) QMB3602 - Business Research for Decision Making (3) Required Courses for Major Complete the following: FIN3414 - Intermediate Corporate Finance (3) FIN4243 - Debt and Money Markets (3) FIN4504 - Equity and Capital Markets (3) FIN4424 - Advanced Topics in Financial Management (3) Restricted Electives 9 Total Credits Complete all of the following Complete at least 2 of the following: FIN3461 - Financial Statement Analysis (3) FIN4324 - Commercial Bank Management (3) FIN4453 - Financial Models (3) FIN4514 - Portfolio Analysis and Management (3) FIN4533 - Financial Derivatives (3) FIN4604 - International Financial Management (3) Finance Restricted Electives Earn at least credits from the following types of courses: Select two from the courses below or an additional two courses from the Finance Electives above: ACG 3141 - Intermediate Financial Accounting II Credit Hours: 3 - (Must be an accounting major or accounting minor to register for this course) ECO 4412 - Econometrics I Credit Hours: 3 ECO 4422 - Econometrics II Credit Hours: 3 ECO 3101 - Intermediate Microeconomics Credit Hours: 3 ECO 3203 - Intermediate Macroeconomics Credit Hours: 3 FIN 4906 - Directed Independent Study Credit Hours: 3 FIN 4941 - Finance Internship Credit Hours: 3 (Internship course requires an overall GPA of 2.75 and a 3.0 GPA in the major.) FIN 4903H - Honors Directed Reading I Credit Hours: 3: Must be in the UCF Honors in the Major Program FIN 4970H - Undergraduate Honors Thesis Credit Hours: 3: Must be in the UCF Honors in the Major Program GEB 4374 - International Negotiations and Transactions Credit Hours: 3 MAR 3391 - Professional Selling Credit Hours: 3 REE 4203 - Commercial Real Estate Finance Credit Hours: 3 REE 4303 - Real Estate Investment Analysis Credit Hours: 3 Business Electives Earn at least 3 credits from the following types of courses: Choose any upper level business course. Capstone Requirement 3 Total Credits Complete all of the following Complete the following: MAN4720 - Strategic Management (3) Admitted to a Business major, senior standing, and completion of MAN 3025, MAR 3023, FIN 3403, QMB 3200, and ACG 3173 or ACG 3131 are required to register for MAN 4720. Grand Total Credits: 54 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida