Skip navigation Global Brown Research & Curriculum Global Engagement International Programs Programs & Initiatives Community & Support About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information for Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors menu Brown University About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information for Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Global Global Brown Research & Curriculum Global Engagement International Programs Programs & Initiatives Community & Support Office of Global Engagement Presidential Proclamation Regarding Entry of Some Chinese Graduate Students and Visiting Scholars June 3, 2020 On Friday, May 29, 2020, President Trump signed a Presidential Proclamation on the Suspension of Entry as Nonimmigrants of Certain Students and Researchers from the People’s Republic of China, which may prohibit certain nationals from the People’s Republic of China seeking entry in F or J visa status to pursue graduate study or research at Brown University. It is important to note that details on the implementation of the proclamation have not yet emerged. Nonetheless, we are closely monitoring this situation and will post updates to the community on this website as they become available. The proclamation, which became effective June 1, 2020 and is expected to remain in effect until terminated by the President, suspends entry if an individual is connected to an entity that “implements or supports” the government of China’s “military-civil fusion (MCF) strategy.” An individual is considered to have a connection to such an entity if they have been funded by, employed by, studied or researched at, or on behalf of the entity. Under the proclamation, the Departments of State and Homeland Security will determine which entities are covered, and we will provide more information once the government has identified the entities. Currently, the proclamation does NOT apply to individuals inside the U.S. pursuing study or research in F or J status; However, the proclamation directs the Secretary of State to review and determine if current visa holders subject to the proclamation conditions should have their visas revoked. The proclamation does NOT apply to F and J visa holders entering to engage in graduate study or research in fields that DO NOT contribute to the MCF strategy. Specific fields are not listed in the proclamation. The proclamation does NOT apply to a student seeking to pursue undergraduate study. The proclamation does NOT apply to U.S. Citizens, U.S. Lawful Permanent Residents (Green Card holders), the spouse of a United States citizen or lawful permanent resident, and other special categories as listed in the proclamation. You can read the proclamation here. An analysis of the proclamation by NAFSA (NAFSA: Association of International Educators) can be found at this link. This proclamation is of significant concern to the University administration. Brown remains committed to supporting international students, scholars and faculty, and values the impact that global education has on the Brown community. We will continue to advocate for policies that are aligned with those values. We are working closely with peer institutions, higher education associations, and other partners to understand the exact impact of this proclamation. In the interim, please do not hesitate to reach out to the Global Brown Team if you have any questions or need additional support during these challenging times. OGE Section Submenu About Us Global Partnerships Grant Opportunities Planning Your Global Activity International Education Trends News & Events University-wide Policies for International Activities Brown Global Voices Top Destinations Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Map & Directions Social Media Dashboard Contact Us / Accessibility Giving to Brown