Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Department of Sociology Menu About Contact Information Events Undergraduate Degree Requirements Course Descriptions Scholarships Tolbert Endowed Scholarship Charles & Jean Furr Tolbert Scholarship Fund Application Undergraduate Research Questionnaire for SOC 4V70 Outstanding Senior Sociology Major FAQs On Our Programs Former Student Careers and Comments Graduate PhD: Community Analytics Concentration Example of Sociology Degree Plan PhD: Health and Society Concentration Example of Sociology Degree Plan PhD: Sociology of Religion Concentration Example of Sociology Degree Plan Current Graduate Students Graduate Students Current Student Information Graduate Honors & Awards Graduate Teaching Awards Graduate Placements How To Apply Admissions Financial Aid Graduate Courses Faculty Faculty Carson Mencken Matthew Andersson Mackenzie Brewer Kevin D. Dougherty Robyn Driskell Brittany Fitz Paul Froese Jodien Johnson Diana Kendall Samuel Kye Jerry Park Christopher Pieper Jeremy Uecker Laura Upenieks Paul Williams George Yancey Research Racial Justice News Make a Gift Apply Now Department of Sociology An Engaging Academic Environment Sociology literally means the study of society, or of social things. It is a scientific approach to understanding human groups and human interaction. From families to neighborhoods to nation-states, human life is spent in the company of others. The theories and methods of sociology provide a means to analyze the social nature of human existence. Training in sociology is useful preparation for careers in business, law, government, ministry, medicine, and many more. Explore Apply Now Why Baylor Sociology Dating back to 1919, Baylor’s sociology program offers a legacy of distinguished service, high caliber scholarship, exemplary teaching, and unique opportunities to its students. At Baylor, you will take classes taught by top scholars and have opportunities for independent research. Undergraduate Programs An attractive aspect of our program is its flexibility. You customize your sociological studies in keeping with your interests and ambitions. Graduate Programs The Department of Sociology at Baylor University has a productive faculty committed to the mentorship and collaborative research with students. About Us Undergraduate Graduate Research Areas Research is an important aspect of graduate study at Baylor and, by the end of their second year, Sociology doctoral students will begin engaging in an in-depth research project. Our graduate students have been published in Social Forces, Journal for the Scientific Study of Religion and Social Science Quarterly. Their work also has been selected by notable new outlets such as The Huffington Post, USA Today and The Washington Post. There has never been a better time to study sociology at Baylor. About Our Research Careers in Sociology The knowledge and analytical skills of sociology make our graduates broadly marketable. More than half of our alumni build a career upon their undergraduate degree. About a third eventually pursues some type of graduate education, such as sociology, social work, seminary, business administration, law, or medical. Private laboratories, foundations, and research centers offer opportunities for those who study sociology and health. Maggie G. Ph.D. student Maggie is in the Sociology PhD program at the University of Texas at Austin. Jeremy A. Benefits Advisor Serves patients at bedside by explaining their benefits, accounts, and payment options with the access services team at Baylor Scott and White - Hillcrest. Cole D. Law School Student Attending law school at Southern Methodist University. Sociology In the News Education Surges When Students Learn Together May 25, 2022 When a class becomes a community, students change from being passive to active learners, write Neil Garg and Kevin D. Dougherty, who offer suggestions for how to create such an environment. Read More 2022 Summer Dissertation Fellows May 4, 2022 In an effort to support students working to complete their dissertation, the Graduate School offers a select number of Summer Dissertation Fellowships intended to enable students to work on their projects without seeking summer employment. Read More Record-setting 13 Fulbright recipients top list of student scholar honors for 2022 — so far May 4, 2022 Three years ago, Baylor set a school record when seven Bears earned prestigious Fulbright scholarships -- part of the nation's flagship program for international graduate study and education. This year, Baylor students are blowing that record out of the water. An incredible 13 BU students have already been named Fulbright recipients for 2022 -- a number likely to place Baylor among the top producers of Fulbright scholars nationwide, and a total that might still be growing. Read More In the Push for Racial Justice, There’s a Middle Path Between Passivity and Aggression Jun. 22, 2021 Baylor sociology professor George Yancey, Ph.D., writes that to understand the path to ending racial alienation, it is valuable to understand first about using reason, power and moral suasion to affect others’ actions. Read More More News Our Faculty Spotlight Mackenzie Brewer Assistant Professor of Sociology Chris Pieper Senior Lecturer of Sociology and Undergraduate Program Director Kevin Dougherty Associate Professor of Sociology Graduate Program Director Faculty Affiliate, Institute for Studies of Religion Laura Upenieks Assistant Professor of Sociology Department of Sociology Burleson Building One Bear Place #97326 Waco, TX 76798-7326 (254) 710-1165 sociology_department@baylor.edu FacebookTwitterGiveContact UsApply Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Contact Information Events Undergraduate Degree Requirements Course Descriptions Scholarships Tolbert Endowed Scholarship Charles & Jean Furr Tolbert Scholarship Fund Application Undergraduate Research Questionnaire for SOC 4V70 Outstanding Senior Sociology Major FAQs On Our Programs Former Student Careers and Comments Graduate PhD: Community Analytics Concentration Example of Sociology Degree Plan PhD: Health and Society Concentration Example of Sociology Degree Plan PhD: Sociology of Religion Concentration Example of Sociology Degree Plan Current Graduate Students Graduate Students Daniel Allen Nick Andre Alonso Aravena Tamunosaki Bilaye-Benibo (Osaki) Rebecca Bonhag Brandon Brown Jason (J.J) Burtt Rudra Chakraborty Joyce Chang Ignacio Cid Pozo Tristen Clifton Jesse DeDeyne Edwin Eschler Hannah Evans Steven Foertsch Amanda Hernandez Rachel Johnson Rory Jones Timothy Lauve-Moon Richie Li James Malo Meagan McGourty Amanda McGowan Kyra Neill Michael Ryan Kimberly Trevino Heewon Yang Xi Zhu Current Student Information Completing Your Degree Publications Graduate Travel Graduate Travel Procedures Graduate Honors & Awards Graduate Teaching Awards Graduate Placements How To Apply Admissions Financial Aid Graduate Courses Faculty Faculty Carson Mencken Matthew Andersson Mackenzie Brewer Kevin D. Dougherty Robyn Driskell Brittany Fitz Paul Froese Jodien Johnson Diana Kendall Samuel Kye Jerry Park Christopher Pieper Jeremy Uecker Laura Upenieks Paul Williams George Yancey Research Racial Justice News Make a Gift Apply Now