× Home Cores Cell Center Stockroom Cell Center Services Penn Genomic Analysis Core Genetic Diagnostic Laboratory Transgenic and Chimeric Mouse Facility Next Generation Sequencing Core Faculty Education Undergraduate Education Graduate Studies Postdoctoral Programs Post-Baccalaureate Education Genetics Training Grant MD / PHD Programs News Announcements Publications In the News Events Contact Department of Genetics Home Cores Cell Center Stockroom Cell Center Services Penn Genomic Analysis Core Genetic Diagnostic Laboratory Transgenic and Chimeric Mouse Facility Next Generation Sequencing Core Faculty Education Undergraduate Education Graduate Studies Postdoctoral Programs Post-Baccalaureate Education Genetics Training Grant MD / PHD Programs News Announcements Publications In the News Events Contact Genetic Diagnostic Laboratory Announcements ATTENTION! Due to current unusual circumstances, that we are addressing, there may be delays to the usual turnaround times that we aim to meet for all our tests for the foreseeable future. We are working to have all results sent out in a timely manner and thank you for your patience during this time. For any queries or STAT cases, please reach out to the lab by email (gdllab@pennmedicine.upenn.edu) AND phone 215-573-9161. We are monitoring emails and calls during the usual operating hours (M-F, 9-5) and will try to respond same day. Please note our new shipping address as of October 2021: Genetic Diagnostic Laboratory University of Pennsylvania 560 Clinical Research Building 415 Curie Boulevard Philadelphia, PA, 19104 The Genetic Diagnostic Laboratory is a non–profit laboratory at the University of Pennsylvania. Established in 1994, the Genetic Diagnostic Laboratory has had the pleasure to serve patients, physicians, and other members of the medical and research community in many states in the U.S., as well as in over 24 countries worldwide. Our mission is to evaluate an individual’s DNA to discover a genetic cause for their disease or physical symptoms, provide interpretation of the genetic finding and its association with disease, develop new methods for analyzing genes, and introduce new testing to improve patient care. The Genetic Diagnostic Laboratory is CLIA certified and has state permits for California and Maryland. The staff of the Genetic Diagnostic Laboratory includes highly trained and experienced laboratory technicians, as well as a genetic counselor, who work continually to provide their services in a timely and professional manner. PLEASE NOTE that as of March 1, 2020 our Somatic Overgrowth Gene Analysis Panel will be upgraded to include 27 additional genes (OVGv3). The current version of our Somatic Overgrowth Panel (OVGv2) will no longer be offered as of this date. Due to technical limitations, analysis of the PIK3CA gene will no longer be available as a stand-alone test. Please be aware that while the CPT code will remain 81479, the cost will now be $3000 and will include analysis of two specimen samples. Contact the lab with any questions. As of September 1, 2019 we no longer offer Familial Mutation Testing for Familial Adenomatous Polyposis (APC), Li Fraumeni Syndrome (TP53), or Lynch Syndrome (MYH, MLH1, MSH2, MSH6). As of February 1, 2020 we no longer offer the Uveal Melanoma Related Gene Panel (GNAQ, GNA11, and BAP1) or the Somatic Analysis of GNAQ and GNA11. These genes are available for analysis on other testing panels. Please contact the lab with any questions. Click here for CURRENT prices and CPT codes Genetic Diagnostic Lab Home Test Catalog About the Staff Licenses and Certifications Resources Contact Information and Lab Hours Cancer Center Shared Resources All Cores The laboratory will be CLOSED on the following 2021 holidays (We will not be open to receive samples) January 17, 2022 (MLK Jr Day) May 30, 2022 (Memorial Day) July 4, 2022 (Observation of Independence Day) September 5, 2022 (Labor Day) November 24 & 25, 2022 (Thanksgiving Holiday) December 24, 2022 (Christmas Eve) December 25, 2022 (Christmas Day) December 31, 2022 (New Year’s Eve) January 1, 2023 (New Year’s Day) If blood samples are drawn during this time, please refrigerate and send once the lab reopens. Thank you! Department of Genetics Perelman School of Medicine Clinical Research Building 500 415 Curie Blvd. University of Pennsylvania Philadelphia, PA 19104 Search Follow Us Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy. Top