Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Home Actions and updates Bias reporting tools Climate assessment Diversity Blueprint Faculty recruitment and retention Accountability Resources Anti-Racism resources Covid 19 – Student Resources School and college profiles College of Arts & Sciences College of Built Environments College of Education College of Engineering College of the Environment School of Law Michael G. Foster School of Business School of Dentistry Graduate School The Information School School of Medicine School of Nursing School of Pharmacy School of Public Health Evans School of Public Policy & Governance School of Social Work UW Bothell UW Tacoma Race & Equity at the UW Race & Equity Initiative Menu Home Actions and updates Bias reporting tools Climate assessment Diversity Blueprint Faculty recruitment and retention Accountability Resources Anti-Racism resources Covid 19 – Student Resources School and college profiles College of Arts & Sciences College of Built Environments College of Education College of Engineering College of the Environment School of Law Michael G. Foster School of Business School of Dentistry Graduate School The Information School School of Medicine School of Nursing School of Pharmacy School of Public Health Evans School of Public Policy & Governance School of Social Work UW Bothell UW Tacoma Home Race & Equity Initiative This is not somebody else’s problem President Ana Mari Cauce launched a Race and Equity Initiative in Spring 2015 with a challenge: that all of us — students, faculty, staff and university leadership — take personal responsibility for addressing our own biases and improving our university culture. And it began with a commitment: that together we would combat the racism and inequities, both individual and institutional, that persist here and throughout our society. This is what universities are all about. They are places of discovery and difficult conversations — where we learn new ways of looking at and acting in the world. This work – this struggle — is not new. UW faculty, staff and students and the rest of our collective society have been in it for many years and in many ways. But many in our community believe we have reached a moment where we must commit to collaborative, accelerated action. Diversity and equity for all In order to support and sustain diversity and equity at the UW, as well as in the local, regional and global communities we serve, we must directly confront bias and racism at the individual, institutional and systemic levels. These are three key ways: Confronting individual bias and racism Transforming institutional policies and practices Accelerating systemic change Read more Race & Equity blog UW Launches Faculty Diversity InitiativeFebruary 22, 2021 FOR iSCHOOL SCHOLAR, ART HOLDS KEY TO NATIVE KNOWLEDGEOctober 13, 2020 UW Libraries Immigration ResourcesAugust 19, 2020 More updates Campus climate survey results As part of our commitment to transparency and inclusivity, the UW has completed its largest-ever campus climate survey across all campuses. Current students, faculty and staff can view executive summaries and campus-level reports. A NetID login is required. Anti-racism is all of our work UW leaders Rickey Hall, vice president for Minority Affairs & Diversity and UW chief diversity officer, along with Wayne Au, acting dean of diversity and equity, UW Bothell and James McShay, assistant chancellor for equity and inclusion, UW Tacoma, send message about the work of anti-racism in our community. More stories VISIT OUR NEW STORY HUB! Students, faculty and staff across our three campuses are working hard to advance the values of diversity, equity and inclusion at the UW. This new site features some of the stories about our community members who are making a difference. EQUITY FOCUS Office of Minority Affairs and Diversity The University of Washington Office of Minority Affairs and Diversity (OMA&D) works to increase diversity on campus and enrich the collegiate experience of all UW students, faculty and staff. Learn more Calendar University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA