Skip to main content Search Cornell Cornell Video Explore Home Browse Recent Trending Playlists Series Speakers Topics Contributors Submit MyPlaylist Play all in MyPlaylist Ask a Question tbd Name Email Address Question Send or cancel × Ask a Question Successful Thanks, ! Your question has been submitted. × Bronx high schoolers aim for college, via Cornell Posted on September 4, 2019 By Continuing Ed and Summer Sessions Video Platform Video Management Video Solutions Video Player facebook twitter share interactive transcript request transcript/captions live captions download HD video SD video audio | MyPlaylist start: now end: now reset copy link copy embed X [INTERPOSING VOICES] SHIVANI RAMSARAN: At first, I was just unsure about going away from my parents. You're going from the city to upstate New York. It's very rural here. But then I really just learned that I kind of do want to get out of New York by coming here. It's really nice over here, and I want to see the stars at night. That's the thing. [MUSIC PLAYING] My name's Shivani. I'm from the Bronx, New York City. The first time I walked into campus, I was really shocked at how big it was and also the fact that I was at an Ivy League school. I was a bit nervous at first, but then I went to my classes and met a bunch of new people. JIM SCHECHTER: Summer College Partnership with Marble Hill is a really exceptional collaboration. We really see the mutual benefits of this interaction between the students, our community of students on campus, and the faculty, knowing that we're enriching the school and knowing that they're enriching our program by complementing it with new diversity. SHIVANI RAMSARAN: You're getting a small taste of the college experience, helping you be a bit more prepared. And I'm actually taking a college course that I would take if I were to come here. My class is only 13 people. We're just going over different solutions to issues and just seeing everyone's different takes on the solutions. I like learning about how everyone else can think as compared to how I think. KIRSTEN LARSON: Marble Hill was opened in 2002 as one of the first small schools in the Bronx. We have, in our student body of 450 students, about 30 different languages. SHIVANI RAMSARAN: My parents, they're from Trinidad. It's an island in the Caribbean. They were raised there. They just came here for more opportunities. And they also want to see me taking advantage of those opportunities and going to a good college. They were a bit nervous about letting me go away from them. My mother, she owns a daycare. And my dad, he's a general maintenance worker for the New York City Housing Authority. During the summer, like right now, I would actually be helping my mom. JIM SCHECHTER: The mission of the Summer College Program is to integrate talented, ambitious high school students into the fabric of Undergraduate Studies at Cornell. For Marble Hill students' experience, it's a laddering structure. Younger students who are rising sophomores come to campus to equip themselves with study skills for high school and attend a general summer youth camp, whereas older students-- rising juniors or seniors-- come to Summer College to jumpstart their college experience. They're earning college credits and a Cornell transcript. We really want to broaden their worldview so they get a bigger sense beyond their community of who they can be and who they'll interact with in the future. And then we also want to expand their academic skill set, strengthen those. GLENN ALTSCHULER: It's hard to believe that three weeks or six weeks will make that dramatic a change, but it does. It really does. SHIVANI RAMSARAN: I feel like [INAUDIBLE] maybe a quick video just to help you understand the-- I like being well-rounded in every subject. I like math. I like science. I like English, history, all that. I like to do everything that I can. JIM SCHECHTER: We want them to leave Cornell Summer Experience with a sense of newfound confidence in who they are and what their possibilities are. SHIVANI RAMSARAN: Yeah, I definitely want to go to college. Yeah. [INTERPOSING VOICES] SHIVANI RAMSARAN: Because I know recently I was thinking about maybe I would apply to coming here. I enjoyed the way the classes were structured, because I went into some of my friends' classes too when I was off in the afternoons. It was just like, wow. My professor also made it clear that we were ready for college. And it's just like, wow. I could do that. [LAUGHS] I successfully completed a college class. [MUSIC PLAYING] Transcript Request Form Name Email Address Disability Accommodation? Disability Accommodation? Yes No Affiliation -Select- Faculty Staff Student Alumni Other Send Request Cancel X We've received your request You will be notified by email when the transcript and captions are available. The process may take up to 5 business days. Please contact cornellcast@cornell.edu if you have any questions about this request. Shivani Ramsaran is one of dozens of Bronx high schoolers who have become better prepared for college thanks to scholarships and programs at Cornell’s School of Continuing Education and Summer Sessions. Related Links Bronx high schoolers aim for college, via Cornell (Cornell Chronicle) More About k-12 summer programs academic programs What to watch next 2:32 MyPlaylist Summer College: Foundations in American Law 2:38 MyPlaylist Inside look at Summer College and the precollege experience 2:49 MyPlaylist Cornell's Adult University (CAU) Summer Programs surprise me Subscribe Submit Content Contact us RSS Cornell on YouTube Give Feedback Name Email Comments Send or cancel × Feedback Thanks for writing. We will be in touch shortly to address any questions, concerns, or technical difficulties you may have. × Schedule of Future Events There are no live broadcasts scheduled. × Email Updates See what's new on CornellCast and find out what's coming up next — and how you can take part. Subscribe to receive weekly CornellCast updates via email. Email address Subscribe or cancel × Subscribe Our hamsters have processed your subscription request and advise that the weekly update messages will contain details on unsubscribing in case you need them. × List Sent Our hamsters have processed your request and advise that a summary has been sent to the email address entered. × RSVP to this Live Event tdb tbd Enter your email below to be notified when this event begins Name Email Address Set reminder for Set reminder for 5 minutes 15 minutes 30 minutes 1 hour 1 day before the event starts. RSVP or cancel × RSVP Successful You should receive an email confirmation shortly. We will send you an email reminder before the show begins. You may request additional reminders for other times if you wish. You can also add this event to a calendar of your choice iCal/Outlook/other Google calendar For iCal, an .ics file will be downloaded to your computer or device. You may need to take additional steps to add the event to your personal calendar. × Settings Let us know your preferences and our accommodating hamsters will snap to it! Autoplay: on off Update or cancel × Follow this tbd tbd Enter your email below to be notified when new related videos become available. Name Email Address Follow or cancel × Thanks for Your Interest You should receive an email confirmation shortly. We will send you an email message when new related videos are posted. ×