Schedule an Advising Appointment Email About us Academic advising at the UW Working with us Our people Springboard Contact us COVID-19 Update Degree overview Your UW degree General education Overview Requirements by college and school Majors List of Undergraduate Majors Majors by Topic Majors and Careers Double degree and double major Departmental & Major Advising Offices Satisfactory Progress Policy and Pre-major Extension Minors Academic planning Plan your degree For new students For prospective transfer students Transfer Newsletter Pre-health/pre-law Choosing your major/courses Registration restrictions Cross-campus registration Placement testing Chemistry, math, & physics Academic terms and policies Co-curricular engagement Academic support Getting started Finding help Dropping classes Satisfactory progress policy and pre-major extension Academic warning/probation Reinstatement for College of Arts & Sciences Frequently asked questions Student guides Overview First-year Second-year Transfer First-generation International student guide Faculty & Staff Transfer Newsletter Home > Home > Academic planning > For prospective transfer students > Transfer Newsletter > Spring 2022 Spring 2022 Welcome to Spring! I hope everyone is well as we welcome the season for celebrating our graduates and reflect on the past academic year. I am hopeful as we return more fully to in-person operations and look forward to continuing our good work in support of our students. This newsletter features several outstanding transfer student profiles, articles and updates and changes within various UW campuses, Colleges, Schools and Departments. I appreciate that campus units continue to reach out about submissions to the newsletter. As a result, we have more variety each time we publish. Thanks to all who supported our efforts and participated in our third virtual UW/CC Advising Conference on April 22nd. We had almost 200 participants in a full-day Zoom format. We hope the conference was good for those of you who joined us. If you missed the conference this year, and want to check out information from it or past conferences, follow the link to the website, above. We hope to be together in-person for 2023! The UW Seattle Office of Admissions tells us they are still planning to admit about the same number of transfer students for Summer and Autumn as we have in the past. We are also looking forward to Transfer Advising and Orientation (again, the virtual version) starting up in the near future. Current transfer students are settling in to life at UW and their majors, while others are preparing to graduate. Here's to a safe, healthy and productive finish to Spring quarter! —Tim McCoy Student Profile: Shirley Mendez BASW Major, UW-Seattle School of Social Work Shirley Mendez Transferred from: South Seattle College B.A. in Social Welfare, 2023 Q: Tell us about your background - what drew you to apply to the UW as a Transfer Student? A: Being a first generation college student and immigrant latina, I knew I wanted to pursue my dream of attending the University of Washington ever since the day I moved to Seattle. I am originally from Guatemala and moved when I was 14 years-old. While in highschool I participated in several social justice events and activities that led to my passion for social work. Q: Why the School of Social Work? What drew you to choosing to earn a Bachelor of Arts in Social Welfare (BASW)? A: I chose the UW School of Social Work because I like the idea of knowing that I can influence people's lives in a positive way and with the sole purpose of supporting individuals achieve their goals. By being a student in this field, I know that I can help people to develop individual capacities and be able to contribute to something so immensely great for someone's life. Q: Tell us about the connections you’ve made - how has your cohort experience been? Any favorite Professors? A: So far, my experience at UW has been rewarding. My BASW cohort is extremely supportive of each other and professors are passionate to teach. Everyday I am grateful to be part of such an amazing team that cares for everyone's success. I enjoyed being able to make new connections during my first quarter because it helped me stay productive in my school work. Q: What has been your most memorable experience at the UW? In the BASW program? A: I dont have one in specific but I can say I have enjoyed being part of several group projects. By being placed in different groups, I had the opportunity to meet other BASW students and learn about their goals and aspirations. Q: What advice would you give to prospective UW transfer students? A: My biggest advice is to never give up, even if it takes the longer route and things will appear difficult, keep trying for the best! Life has given us the biggest lesson during the last two years and that is to live and take it one day at a time. It is okay to ask for help when struggling, especially when there is a process of transferring from community college to university. Q: What does post-undergraduate life look like for you? What career aspirations are on your horizon? A: After earning my BASW, I plan to work with children and youth in the child welfare system. I would like to serve as an advocate for individuals in the foster care system and support them by making sure they grow up in a safe environment. I also plan to go on to earn my MSW at the University of Washington, through the MSW Advanced Standing Program that BASW students are eligible to apply for. Student Profile: Camila Christensen and Mike Harris, Computer Science Majors, Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science and Engineering, UW-Seattle Student Profiles: Camila Christensen and Mike Harris, Computer Science Majors supporting Transfer Student Success at the Allen School During the fall and spring quarters, CSE 390T Transfer Seminar is offered for incoming computer science and computer engineering transfer students to the Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering. This unique seminar course was developed to support a thriving transfer student community at the Allen School and is taught by the lead transfer academic adviser along with two current Allen School transfer students. Meet our spring 2022 CSE 390T teaching assistants (TAs) Camila Christensen (she/they) and Mike Harris (they/them), computer science majors that transferred from Seattle Central College! Why did you choose UW? Mike: After nearly receiving an associate’s degree from ITT Tech, the school closed and nearly two years of my life disappeared. Once I’d worked through the depression of that situation I started researching new schools. I started over at community college and I set my sights on the UW. Some people know where they want to go out of high school. Being a returning adult student, I was limited to the options central to my roots in Seattle. UW became my dream school and I knew I had to work hard to be accepted. The UW is a leader in computer science, and I’ve known since I was a child that this was the field I wanted to be in. Having the opportunity to study at the UW has been one of the best choices I could have made for myself. I am honored to be a Husky and look forward to what comes next. Camila: I moved to Seattle in 2014 to work as an au pair and I fell in love with the Pacific Northwest. In 2017 I started my educational journey at North Seattle College and it wasn’t until the end of 2019 that I decided I wanted to transfer to UW to be one of the first in my family to acquire a bachelor's degree. I chose the University of Washington because of the outstanding reputation the school has especially within the computer science field. In addition to UW’s outstanding educational opportunities, I was very excited to be part of various extracurricular activities. How would you describe the transition from community college to UW? Mike: My transition from community college to the UW was both frightening and exciting. For one, I’m a transfer student, two, I’m first-generation, and three, I’m queer. My transition also occurred as the pandemic was coming underway. There were a lot of odds stacked against me. My entire first year at the UW was online. I didn’t set foot on campus for classes until my senior year. I didn’t think being a first-generation student was going to have that much of an impact on me. However, I found that I needed more support and community. It was challenging to navigate through the barriers of an undergraduate program. Camila: I transferred to UW in the Fall 2020, it was the beginning of the pandemic and we were all adjusting to the online learning environment. One of the biggest adjustments for me was the big classroom sizes, I felt intimidated at first. As a woman of color in STEM, I was afraid I would not be able to find community and support. However, as I started to get involved in different activities in the Allen School I found the support I needed to succeed. The first quarter was definitely the hardest one, the workload was very overwhelming, and I realized I needed to find ways to manage my time better to be able to succeed. What advice would you give prospective transfer students interested in Computer Science & Engineering at the Allen School? Mike: Find community! This is not the place to go it alone. While everything you have heard about being competitive to be accepted to the UW, it’s not all that competitive once you arrive. Sure, if you're going for the 5th year master’s program there may be more competition. And finding an internship is work in itself. But once you’re here, you’re no longer competing with those around you, only yourself. So, let go of needing to do everything alone and embrace community. Find study partners and groups, find friends, join an RSO. Enjoy the time you have at the UW and make the most of this wonderful opportunity. Camila: Enjoy your college experience, be open to exploring areas that interest you, even if they seem hard. Ask questions often and don’t let the class sizes intimidate you. What experiences have been the most impactful for you outside of the classroom? Mike: The most impactful moments for me outside of the classroom always center around being with my friends. So often we become entrenched with homework and assignments and studying that we forget there is still an outside world. I remember this one time, a friend and I decided to go bowling after we finished midterms. It was such a necessary thing to allow ourselves not to be concerned with school work. Staying connected with my partner and our dog, making sure to set date nights and purposefully making space for the special people in our lives. Camila: Two of my favorite experiences have been being an Allen School Ambassador and a TA for the CSE390T seminar, which is a 2-credit course for incoming transfer students. As an ambassador I am able to empower underrepresented individuals from local high schools and community colleges by showing them that computer science is an attainable field of study for anyone interested in it, even if you don’t have any computer science experience. As a TA, I can support the incoming Allen school transfer students by sharing resources with them that are helpful for their success and helping them build/find their community at UW. What motivated you to get involved with the Allen School transfer student community? Mike: As I mentioned, finding community is essential; especially for us transfers. Being able to give back and help guide new transfers is what motivates me. I’ve been there. My first quarter taking 311, 351, and the transfer seminar. Worried about my grades. Worried about how I’m supposed to make friends. Worried about how I’m going to survive being at this amazing place I never thought I’d actually make it to. But we were chosen. We stand in these halls because others see us. See our struggle. See our persistence. See our determination. See our resolve. Transfers are a hardy bunch. And if I can make at least one other transfer’s journey that much better for them, then I have to be involved. Camila: As a transfer student myself I know the transition is quite difficult and I really wanted to be supportive for other transfer students. In my first quarter at the UW I constantly felt like I did not belong or I did not deserve to be where I was, and I know that this is a feeling that many transfer students share. By being involved I can share my own experiences and the ways I was able to overcome these tough feelings. What are your future goals? Mike: Well, now that I am near graduating, one of my goals is to lose my college weight. It was surprisingly hard for me to stay in shape and be a CS major. I want to reprioritize my health. I wrote in my admissions essay that I wanted to work in the intersection of health and technology, specifically implantable tech. This is still a dream for me. I would really like to work for Apple and the amazing work they are doing with their health tech. Until I get to that point though, I’ll be entering industry and working up my skills to be at my dream job. Camila: After acquiring my bachelor’s degree, my plan is to enter industry to work as a software engineer to develop the skills I attained at UW. My hope is to be involved in areas that combine computer science and healthcare, in particular I am interested in cancer research, therefore I plan to go back to school after 3 years to pursue a master's degree, hopefully from University of Washington. In the long term, I hope to find myself in a leadership role. A huge thank you to Mike and Camila for supporting the transfer student community at the Allen School! Want to learn more about transferring to the Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering? Connect with our transfer team to learn more about transfer admissions by emailing outreach@cs.washington.edu or attend an upcoming transfer information session. Additional information about the transfer application process to the Allen School can also be found on our website. New Degree Program! Bachelor of Science in Civil Engineering (BSCE), School of Engineering and Technology, UW-Tacoma The University of Washington Tacoma School of Engineering and Technology (SET) will begin our new Bachelor of Science in Civil Engineering (BSCE) degree in Autumn of 2022. This degree is designed to emphasize the conception, development, design, construction, maintenance, and renewal of systems in a complex urban environment. The curriculum will study issues that involve transportation, water resources, the environment, structural engineering, geotechnical engineering, construction engineering, and land development. The program will be a cohort model consisting of 30-40 students. Admitted students will study in a friendly environment in small teams, get to know their peers, and work directly with world class professors. The labs are state-of-the-art and all the equipment is brand new. The BSCE is already on the pathway to becoming ABET accredited and will apply for accreditation after the first cohort graduates per the ABET approval rules. All graduates will be considered as having graduated from an ABET accredited program once the accreditation is granted. Applications for admission are currently being accepted. The priority date is July 1 but applications will be accepted all summer or until all seats are full. Please visit our website for more information on the application process https://www.tacoma.uw.edu/set/programs/undergrad/civil UW Tacoma SET also offers Bachelor of Science degrees in Computer Engineering https://www.tacoma.uw.edu/set/programs/undergrad/ces Computer Science & Systems https://www.tacoma.uw.edu/set/computer-science-and-systems Electrical Engineering https://www.tacoma.uw.edu/set/programs/undergrad/ee Information Technology https://www.tacoma.uw.edu/set/programs/undergrad/it Mechanical Engineering https://www.tacoma.uw.edu/set/programs/undergrad/me All above degrees are ABET accredited and Mechanical and Civil are in the accreditation process. We also have a Bachelor of Arts degree in Computer Science & Systems https://www.tacoma.uw.edu/set/programs/undergrad/css/ba For more information, please contact a SET undergraduate prospective student advisor https://www.tacoma.uw.edu/set/advising Interested In Studying Biology?: Department of Biology, UW-Seattle College of Arts and Sciences Interested in studying biology? About Biology: As the largest undergraduate major at the University of Washington, the Department of Biology is proud to offer a diverse collection of courses that span the biological sciences. Students can opt to keep their coursework broad with the General Biology option, or they can study a more specific area of biology with options in Ecology, Evolution, and Conservation; Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental; Plant; and Physiology. How to prepare: Students who intend to transfer to UW from another college can prepare for a biology degree by: Taking supporting coursework at another institution. For a smoother transfer process, students are encouraged to take sequenced courses, like the intro biology series and general chemistry at the community college, as well as one sequence from either organic chemistry, physics, or math. (see the community college Equivalency Guide for approved courses.) Visiting our website for information and resources Meeting with an academic adviser in Biology to discuss current and future coursework Eligibility requirements: Our application is open every quarter. Current UW students are eligible to apply* when they: Earn a 2.0 or higher in each intro biology series course (BIOL 180, 200, 220 at UW, or the equivalent from another institution) Have a minimum of a 2.5 supporting-coursework GPA (this includes any courses taken at the time of application in areas of chemistry, biology, physics, and math) *See our website for application deadlines and more information about our program. You can find out about the cool things happening in Biology in our Biology Student Newsletter. New Degree Program! Bachelor of Science in Electrical and Computer Engineering (BSECE), Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering (UW ECE), UW-Seattle Starting Autumn quarter 2022, the University of Washington Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering (UW ECE) will begin a four-year transition toward offering a Bachelor of Science in Electrical and Computer Engineering (BSECE) rather than a Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering (BSEE). This evolution of undergraduate curriculum and degree offerings is aimed at reflecting recent changes in electrical and computer engineering, as well as ongoing studies and research at UW ECE in cutting-edge areas such as neural engineering, sustainable energy, quantum computing, data science, photonics and nanotechnology. The move will also allow the Department to provide greater flexibility for students and enable it to respond more nimbly to advances in technology. The transition from the existing BSEE to the new BSECE degree program will occur gradually over time, beginning with direct to college students entering the College of Engineering and transfer students who are eligible and entering the UW autumn quarter 2022. Transfer students applying through the admission process can request admission to either EE or ECE through the autumn 2023 admission cycle. Beginning autumn quarter 2024, the BSECE will be the only degree available for undergraduate admission. The final BSEE degree is expected to be awarded in 2026. The BSECE admission and pre enrollment requirements are slightly different and will give transfer students greater flexibility in what courses they can use in their degree. In addition, the changes will provide more course options in a transfer student's first quarter. The UW ECE Bachelor of Science web page will cover frequently asked questions as well as a general overview of the transition. The Department will continue to have BSEE information available for students who plan to transfer Autumn 2023. UW ECE advisors will hold an info session for all community college advisors at the end of June. In addition, we will have a video of the degree overview on our website by the end of May as a resource. Questions can be emailed to undergrad@ece.uw.edu. Student Profile: Shannon Gatta, Informatics Alumni, UW-Seattle Information School https://ischool.uw.edu/news/2021/11/space-and-ground-informatics-alum-has-high-aspirations Student Profile: Andrianna Panebianco, Health Studies major, School of Nursing and Health Studies, UW-Bothell Andrianna Panebianco Degree program: Health Studies Transferred from: Shoreline Community College Andrianna Panebianco: A non-traditional transfer student majoring in Health Studies, maximizing every opportunity UW Bothell has to offer, recognizing an open door to explore exactly what she is capable of. Andrianna shares, "I am a firm believer in following opportunities as they arise." Andrianna is not the traditional college student story. She left high school early at sixteen, ready to explore life as an adult outside the classroom. Working in retail through her 20s and climbing the corporate ladder to management didn't leave her feeling fulfilled. Andrianna wondered, "What would going back to school look like?" Andrianna recounted the GED proctor who reviewed her scores with her years earlier and how those words stuck with her, "You belong in college. Your science and literature scores are so high." Growing exhausted of retail, she enrolled at Shoreline Community College and began to take prerequisites for a Biotechnology Laboratory certificate. Leaving high school early meant there was going to be a year and a half of prerequisites to complete prior to entering the program. Upon completing the Biotechnology Laboratory certificate, she earned enough credits to be awarded two associate degrees. After graduating, Andrianna secured a job at a cancer research start-up in downtown Seattle. Andrianna recalled the beautiful view in the laboratory, finding her work as a Histology Technician preparing the slides of cancer tumors in mice with various cancer drugs for the scientist interesting. However, not everything was working out well, "I was making less money than when I was a retail manager, this is rough." Earning an associate's degree just didn't seem to make ends meet. Andrianna moved on with other aspects of her life and started a family. Following the Opportunities In March 2020, Andrianna made jewelry and handmade crafts online as a side business while managing the household and three children heading into remote learning." There has to be more out there. What am I capable of? How can I apply everything I have already learned and advance it toward a program that is out there." That's where I met Andrianna in 2019 as her Admissions Advisor at UW Bothell. It was exciting to meet up with her years later in zoom for this interview, to witness her radiant smile, and to hear her enthusiasm for public health as we spoke about her experiences at UW Bothell. We reminisced about that first meeting together, "I was interested in Biology and Health studies but decided on Health Studies because it was a better fit. I was intrigued by the versatility and ability to customize the curriculum to match my interests, all the work I had previously done was able to transfer right into the major." Andrianna is now a senior in the Health Studies major and is earning a minor in Health Education and Promotion; she will graduate at the end of the spring quarter in 2022. The pandemic is not over. I hesitate to describe it as an opportunity for anyone, since it has claimed the lives of millions. However, the public health crisis changed the way people around the world lived as we isolated in our homes to prevent the spread of the Covid-19 virus. It also changed learning modalities at colleges and universities around the globe, opening up the idea of remote classes at institutions that previously only offered in-person class offerings. Andrianna shares, "It gave me a chance to continue my education from home attending UW Bothell. I really thrived in the online environment. I'm thrilled that I had this opportunity. This was never a hybrid or remote learning degree before. This is an amazing opportunity, and I will do everything I can to figure this out. I was so thrilled that all of the hard work I did before was recognized and applied, and I could move forward." I asked her to reflect on her experiences as a Health Studies major. "The way that the Health Studies curriculum is set up, it does a great job of giving you a foundation in health equity, learning what some of the barriers in the system currently are and what the state of the current world is. Pathways to Health Studies was a great class where you start to research what your own path may be. You get to hear from other students about their own career interests, while discovering there are so many different opportunities. I was very impressed with the faculty and curriculum. It is hard when you are in it to really take it all in and understand how much you are learning because your kind of focused on one assignment at a time, getting through the quarter, it doesn't really hit you until later. Now looking back on it, I realize how much I have developed as a leader and a person vs. when I started the program. It sort of creeps up on you, slowly builds, and before you know it." Impacting the people around you Andrianna is prepared, easy to listen to, and willing to share, and open up about her life. "My husband had hit the ceiling in his career as a supervisor for a major bottling company and felt stuck with only an associate's degree. A couple of promotions came up, which he was very qualified for, he is very bright. Still, he got turned down because he didn't have his bachelor's degree, which was required for the position. I inspired him to pursue his passion for Electrical Engineering and continue his education as well. He is now an electrical engineering student at UW Bothell with a 4.0 GPA." As we talk about UW Bothell, Andrianna continues, "There are a few experiences that stand out as pretty unique during my time at UW Bothell. pretty much anytime Kaitlin Wright, my Academic Advisor, sends out an email with opportunities to either engage with projects or assist professors, I am jumping on them." Last month Andrianna completed the last session of the Mental Health Matters program with Dr. Jody Early. "It was a series of Sunday afternoons on Zoom where we discussed learning materials from each week, discussed strategies, and practiced navigating mental health conversations, and I saw tremendous value in it. The program was so phenomenal. I learned about available resources and how to help people access care, navigate resources tactfully, and have conversations with friends and family or the workplace." Research beyond the classroom Andrianna recalls an email, "That's also how I found out about the photovoice research, with Assistant Professor Jason Daniel-Ulloa. I have been a research associate for a year now. Even after I graduate, I want to continue with this project and see it to completion. Professor Jason Daniel-Ulloa is one of the core instructors in the Health Studies program. I have taken many of his classes. I clearly remember the first time I logged online for my first class, and I met Professor Daniel-Ulloa on zoom, I had no idea what a huge role he was going to play in my academic journey, he has been such a mentor and an inspiration, it's pretty cool to see how things evolve." The health equity research photovoice project examines four cohorts of participants at UW Bothell: students of color, first-generation, LGTBQ+, and Muslim students. The photovoice research method involves asking participants to take pictures of bias they have experienced, remote learning challenges, and discrimination they have encountered during their education. Andrianna highlights, "Jason made sure we had the opportunity to develop the research project from the ground up, we got to be a part of every step along the way, from the initial planning, recruiting of participants, developing the flyers, writing the contracts and executing the research sessions. There were eight research assistants working on the project. We teamed up in pairs of two and managed our assigned cohorts throughout the entire research process. We facilitated a welcome orientation and all photovoice research sessions through zoom. Our cohort met for three 90 minutes sessions 2 to 3 weeks apart, so participants had time to take their photographs and think about their photovoice assignment before each meeting." Andrianna describes the participants and the work, "Running these sessions allowed participants to talk about how they were feeling through their photos by answering prompts to open up discussion, and creating a safe place where participants could vulnerable and openly share. Participants spent the sessions talking about their personal experiences on campus, whether they were good or bad. It didn't matter; we just wanted to hear their experiences. We wrapped up each session by working with the participants to create their photovoice assignments for the next session. There were times during the project when we had setbacks, and we inched forward, it was a challenge. During the research process, Jason continues to challenge us with problem-solving through trial and error so we can learn and share what worked well. Now that the sessions have wrapped up, we have begun coding data. Now everybody is going through the session transcripts, identifying themes, and giving them codes. We are painstakingly doing this by hand ourselves in a google doc as a team. He wants us to learn and understand the process from the ground up so we understand the algorithms that coding software would be looking for. It’s exciting to be a part of the proves. I am just so thrilled that I was able to be a part of this project, and I am thankful to get research credits for it." Fieldwork at Snohomish Health District One of the things that I really admire about the Health Studies major is that the curriculum was developed so that you are sure to have experiences beyond the classroom. Andrianna waves her hands and says, "I almost forgot to share something. I wanted to mention my fieldwork opportunity, which is part of the core classes for health studies. I had the option to use the research project that I was doing with Jason, and initially, that was my plan. I thought I had it covered, so I didn't even look at the opportunities. Then I stumbled upon a really amazing opportunity at Snohomish Health District as a covid communications intern to combat vaccine hesitancy in parents and caregivers on social media. The internship was online, with meetings once a week on Friday afternoons. I had the flexibility to choose this opportunity as my fieldwork instead and still continue with the photovoice project for research credit. I had an amazing experiencing interning, it really brought everything full circle, getting to see how everything I have learned would apply in a real-life setting. I attended workshops from experts in the field. I saw how the material I learned in this program was reinforced by real-world activities. I was thankful to work closely with my site supervisor and she was able to give me a recommendation for the graduate program." An hour of conversation with Andrianna flies by, and I now find myself smiling at the rich experiences shared, and I ask her about advice she would give to others. "One thing I have learned throughout life is that it is really about who you know. You got to just make connections because it is a small world out there and the more people you meet, the bigger your network is. I think it can just make things easier long term. I have been working on my linked in and trying to get that all cleaned up. When I was in the internship at Snohomish Health District, and I took a workshop from someone, I would add them to my linked in and reach out to them to thank them and let them know I learned a lot. Take every opportunity to build your network and build connections. Despite how challenging it was during the pandemic, I managed to do it at some level. I'm just so thankful looking back, if it wasn't for Jason and this photovoice project, I wouldn't have gotten into graduate school, it really helped open doors, and now I have an opportunity to take it further." Andrianna has been accepted to UW Seattle for the Online Master of Public Health program in Autumn 2022. This is unusual because the program usually doesn't admit students straight out of the bachelor's degree. However, Andrianna gathered a year of research assistant experience and brings other professional experiences to the program. This is a story that resonates, reminding us to make the most of opportunities, to value learning that happens inside and outside of the classroom. It's also an opportunity to recognize that remote and hybrid learning is opening doors for those that have traditionally been left out of higher education at public institutions, inviting us to reconsider. Updates: Milgard School of Business UW-Tacoma The Milgard School of Business at UW Tacoma offers a Bachelor of Arts in Business Administration degree with options in Accounting, Finance, Management, Marketing, and General Business as well as specialized minors in Business Data Analytics and Sports Enterprise Management. AUTUMN 2022 APPLICATIONS Transfer and Running Start students completing their business prerequisites by the end of spring or even summer quarter can still apply to UW Tacoma and the Milgard School of Business for Autumn 2022 admission. Students first apply to UW Tacoma and then apply to the Milgard School of Business. Deadline: July 1. As a reminder, effective Autumn 2022, the Milgard School of Business is no longer requiring the Writing Skills Assessment (WSA) for admission. Applicants do not need this test and will demonstrate their writing ability through their English composition course(s) and personal statement. TRANSFER PLANNING GUIDES We recently updated the Transfer Planning Guides for our local community colleges. These are a helpful planning tool for transfer students interested in majoring in business here at UW Tacoma. Please share them with students! WINTER 2023 ADMISSION Milgard’s next application cycle will be for winter quarter. Winter 2023 applications will open September 1, and the deadline to apply will be October 15. Transfer students completing the last of their business prerequisites during autumn quarter are eligible to apply for winter admission. Students first apply to UW Tacoma and then apply to the Milgard School of Business. Deadline: October 15. 2022 UW TACOMA MILGARD CASE COMPETITION On January 28, Milgard hosted the 16th annual Social Responsibility Case Competition for UW Tacoma students. Student teams presented their corporate responsibility recommendations on this year’s case, which focused on whether or not REI should pursue the B-Corp certifications. The top three teams earned cash prizes, and the winning team also represented UW Tacoma at our international Milgard Invitational Case Competition on Social Responsibility in late February. Humanities Academic Services (HAS), UW-Seattle Humanities Academic Services (HAS) is a hub for undergraduate student and faculty services within the Humanities division of the UW College of Arts & Sciences. From student advising and support resources to course management and curriculum coordination, our office works to advance the Humanities experience. We’re not just a place for technical advising on registration and degree planning, we can help with study abroad, independent research, scholarships, fellowships, career development and more. Whatever your interest, there’s a program in the Humanities Division for you! In the Humanities Division, you will develop a global perspective and an understanding of diverse cultures, both of which are essential in our increasingly connected world. You’ll learn to think critically and communicate expressively across media and genres, engaging with texts, languages, history, culture and civilization. Study in the Humanities pushes boundaries, embraces scholarship and investigates issues of power and difference. HAS offers both in-person and virtual appointments; students can book online and choose their session type. This includes prospective students too! Our team is here to help connect you to resources and opportunities before you set foot on campus and throughout your journey at UW. Ready to start planning your degree but not sure where to start? We encourage you to check the WA CC Equivalency website. This will show you how your courses should be transferring from Washington Community Colleges. Most, if not all, of these courses, will count towards your General Education Requirements. If you are transferring from a four-year institution, there may be some courses for which you need to provide syllabi in order for Humanities center advisors to properly apply your transfer courses to your UW record. Check out the department and major websites that will provide the requirements and application process for the major you are interested in. During your first few quarters at the UW, you may need help manually enrolling in sequential courses or courses that require prerequisites due to the UW system not recognizing your transfer credits. You do not need to retake these prerequisites and after you are manually enrolled at the UW you will be able to self-enroll afterward. Meet with an advisor regularly to ensure your transfer courses have been applied to your degree requirements accurately and that you are making satisfactory degree progress once admitted to the UW. Still have questions? Check out our transfer student guide for frequently asked questions or schedule a time to talk with an adviser. The HAS team welcomes you to UW and we look forward to meeting you! Join the UW and Community College Info Exchange Subscribe Previous Issues Autumn 2021 Spring 2021 Autumn 2020 Spring 2020 Autumn 2019 Spring 2019 Autumn 2018 Spring 2018 Fall 2017 Spring 2017 Fall 2016 Spring 2016 Winter 2015 Fall 2015 University of Washington Be boundless UAA Advising catalyzes the broad learning of UW Undergraduates. As educators, we guide and support students in exploring, questioning, and navigating the events and significance of their undergraduate education. As a team of experienced practitioners and engaged scholars we serve the UW and the greater higher education community. Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA