Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary SCHOOL OF MEDICINE DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE ELECTIVE CLERKSHIPS Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 MEDECK 601 P-Ward Medicine Subinternship - Seattle (*, max. 24) Students act in the capacity of interns on the medical wards under supervision of house staff and visiting physicians. They attend all regular medicine rounds and conferences as their schedules permit. (Four weeks). Prerequisite: third-year required Medicine clerkship. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 601 MEDECK 602 P-Primary Care - Seattle (8/12) Four-week, full-time ambulatory care block in primary care internal medicine. Students participate in several clinics at University of Washington Roosevelt Clinic following a panel of patients in medicine, rheumatology, and virology clinics. Prerequisite: third-year required Medicine clerkship. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 602 MEDECK 603 P-Clinical Cardiology and Electrocardiography - Seattle (8) Clerkship in clinical cardiology-combined inpatient-outpatient assignments, ECG interpretation. (Four weeks). Prerequisite: third-year required Medicine clerkship. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 603 MEDECK 604 P-Clinical Dermatology - Seattle (8) Participation in dermatology clinics and inpatient consultations. Journal club and clinical conferences each week with entire staff. A continuing series of teaching seminars and weekly dermatopathology conferences. (Four weeks). Prerequisite: third-year required Medicine clerkship. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 604 MEDECK 605 P-Clinical Endocrinology and Metabolism - Seattle (*, max. 12) Clerkship in clinical endocrinology and metabolism combined inpatient and outpatient assignments at selected hospitals. Prerequisite: third-year required Medicine clerkship. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 605 MEDECK 606 P-Clinical Gastroenterology - Seattle (8) Participation in consulting ward rounds, procedures, conferences, and selected clinics with full-time divisional staff, plus directed tutorial work. Students are scheduled at one of three sites: UWMC, Harborview Medical Center, and Veterans' Administration hospitals. (Four weeks). Prerequisite: third-year required Medicine clerkship. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 606 MEDECK 607 P-Clinical Hematology/Oncology - Seattle (8) Outpatient and inpatient experience with hematologic/oncologic disorders. The elective includes teaching rounds, conferences, and evaluation of laboratory work. (Four weeks). Prerequisite: third-year required Medicine clerkship. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 607 MEDECK 608 P-Clinical Infectious Diseases - Seattle (8) Students participate in the consulting service throughout the hospital, attend daily plate rounds, conferences, and seminars. Participate in consulting service throughout hospital to learn microbiological aspects of infectious diseases through the clinical laboratories. (Four weeks). Prerequisite: third-year required Medicine clerkship. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 608 MEDECK 609 P-Nephrology and Fluid Balance - Seattle (8) Students see clinical nephrologic problems under close supervision, participate in nephrology and transplant rounds, see consults with renal fellow and attending, and work up patients in renal clinics, participate in seminars with clerks from all three hospitals. (Four weeks). Prerequisite: third-year required Medicine clerkship. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 609 MEDECK 610 P-Clinical Respiratory Disease (8) Training in respiratory disease diagnosis and pulmonary therapy, with special emphasis on cardiopulmonary function testing and interpretation. Inpatient and outpatient teaching rounds, conferences, and basic science integration. (Four weeks). Prerequisite: third-year required Medicine clerkship. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 610 MEDECK 611 Advanced Inpatient Geriatrics (8) This is a unique intensive experience in geriatric and consultative medicine. The "Medicine G" service is a special inpatient service for elderly adults at a major trauma center with active geriatrics presence (outpatient, inpatient, and post-acute); the service provides consultative care with the goal of preventing and managing complications for elderly and often frail and/or medically complex patients. Prerequisite: Successful completion of the third year medicine clerkship Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 611 MEDECK 612 P-Clinical HIV Care - Seattle (8) Full-time outpatient and inpatient elective in HIV care for senior medical students. Students see patients for routine care and acute medical problems that do not require hospitalization, as well as provide inpatient consults. (Four weeks). Prerequisite: third-year required Medicine clerkship. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 612 MEDECK 613 Women's Primary Care (8) For students with strong interest in women's health care in the ambulatory setting. Educates students on the diagnosis, management, and treatment of medical and outpatient gynecological issues of adult women of all ages and life stages. Working alongside internal medicine trained women's health care specialists, students manage a panel of patients, working independently and taking on more responsibility when possible. Prerequisite: completion of Patient Care Phase Medicine Clerkship. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 613 MEDECK 614 P-Oncology Subinternship (8) Students participate in the oncology service in the inpatient oncology consult service at UWMC hospital, obtaining exposure to the management of patients with cancer, oncological complications and emergencies, oncological drug mechanisms of action, side effects, and interactions. Obtain basic understanding of principles of oncology care. (Four weeks). Prerequisite: third-year required Medicine clerkship. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 614 MEDECK 615 P-Rheumatology - Seattle (8) Full-time inpatient-outpatient clerkship in rheumatology. Includes diagnosis and treatment of rheumatic diseases, utilizing outpatient clinics and hospitalized patients at the UW Medical Center, Harborview Medical Center, or VAMC. Emphasis on concepts in pathophysiology, diagnosis, and treatment of these diseases. In addition to patient contact, reading, seminars, and preceptorial sessions are the methods of instruction. (Four weeks). Prerequisite: third-year required Medicine clerkship. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 615 MEDECK 617 P-Harborview Evening Clinic - Seattle (2) A longitudinal elective for senior medical students who assume primary responsibility for a panel of medical patients in an outpatient clinic. Direct care of patients is supplemented by didactic sessions dealing with issues in ambulatory care. Students must apply to this program, and are expected to participate for the full academic year. Prerequisite: third-year required Medicine clerkship. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 617 MEDECK 618 P-Medical Consultation - Seattle (8) Full-time outpatient and inpatient elective in peri-operative medical consultation for senior medical students. Students see patients in the medical consultation clinic, then follow them daily when they come in for surgery. (Four weeks). Prerequisite: third-year required Medicine clerkship. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 618 MEDECK 619 P-Management of Sexually Transmitted Diseases - Seattle (2, max. 12) Instruction and clinical experience in diagnosis, treatment, management, and patient counseling of sexually transmitted diseases. Instruction in genitourinary physical examination skills; relevant laboratory techniques and management of patients with STDs. Prior to the elective, each student must review a packet of didactic materials. (Two weeks). Prerequisite: third-year required Medicine, OB/GYN, and Surgery clerkships. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 619 MEDECK 620 P-Critical Care Medicine Subinternship - Seattle (8) Participating students function at the sub-intern level on the MICU service at either Harborview Medical Center, UWMC, or VAMC. Through direct patient care responsibilities, students learn about various forms of critical care illness and gain experience in the application of mechanical ventilation, arterial blood gas analysis, and palliative care medicine. (Four weeks). Prerequisite: third-year required Medicine clerkship. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 620 MEDECK 621 Advanced Outpatient Geriatrics (8) This is an advanced rotation in the care of older adults with an emphasis on age-related changes in physiology, pathophysiology, function, and quality of life. Students will prevent, diagnose and manage common geriatric syndromes; Identify available health and community services for older adults to address their care needs; and identify the complexity and uncertainty of many conditions and circumstances older adults experience. Prerequisite: Successful completion of the third year medicine clerkship Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 621 MEDECK 622 P-Clinical Medical Genetics (8) Students see outpatients and attend a variety of outpatient clinics including subspecialty clinics in cancer genetics, connective tissue genetics, neurogenetics, Turner syndrome and dermatologic genetics, and pediatric general genetics clinics with an emphasis on dysmorphology, developmental delay, disorders of sexual differentiation, skeletal dysplasia, craniofacial anomalies, and neurogenetics. (Four weeks). Prerequisite: third-year required Medicine clerkship. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 622 MEDECK 623 P-Clinical Wound Management (*) Opportunity for medical student to be exposed to and learn wound care management in clinical setting. At end of rotation students should be able to diagnose cause of chronic ulcer or wound, outline the approach to the management of diabetic foot ulcer, peripheral artery disease ulcer and VLU, and initiate treatments such as sharp debridement, VAC, dressing, and Unna Boot placement. (Two weeks). Prerequisite: third-year required Medicine clerkship. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 623 MEDECK 624 Hospitalist Subinternship - Seattle, WA (8) Intensive experience in hospital medicine. The student works primarily with an attending hospitalist or nocturnist. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 624 MEDECK 625 Cardiology Subinternship - Seattle, WA (8) Students serve as intern on the cardiology service under the supervision of senior resident and cardiology attending physicians. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 625 MEDECK 626 P-Clinical Cardiology and Electrocardiography - Tacoma (8) Clerkship in clinical cardiology-combined inpatient-outpatient assignments, ECG interpretation. (Four weeks). Prerequisite: third-year required Medicine clerkship. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 626 MEDECK 628 P-Clinical Infectious Diseases - Tacoma (8) Students participate in the consulting service throughout the hospital, attend daily plate rounds, conferences, and seminars. Participate in consulting service throughout hospital to learn microbiological aspects of infectious diseases through the clinical laboratories. (Four weeks). Prerequisite: third-year required Medicine clerkship. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 628 MEDECK 629 P-Clinical Respiratory Disease and Critical Care - Tacoma (8) Training in respiratory disease diagnosis and pulmonary therapy, with special emphasis on cardiopulmonary function testing and interpretation. Inpatient and outpatient teaching rounds, conferences, and basic science integration. (Four weeks). Prerequisite: third-year required Medicine clerkship. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 629 MEDECK 630 P-Ward Medicine Subinternship - Tacoma (*, max. 24) Students act in the capacity of interns on the medical wards under supervision of house staff and visiting physicians. They attend all regular medicine rounds and conferences as their schedules permit. (Four weeks). Prerequisite: third-year required Medicine clerkship. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 630 MEDECK 631 P-Ward Medicine Subinternship - Spokane (8) Students act in the capacity of interns on the medical wards under supervision of house staff and visiting physicians. They attend all regular medicine rounds and conferences as their schedules permit. (Four weeks). Prerequisite: third-year required Medicine clerkship. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 631 MEDECK 632 APC Inpatient and Outpatient Cardiology-Spokane (8) This rotation provides opportunities in inpatient and outpatient settings. Students assume ownership of inpatients, rounding on patients, formulating treatment plans, and following them through their hospital course. Emphasis will be placed on physical examination, electrocardiogram interpretation, basics of echocardiographic imaging, and the management of patients with congestive heart failure, dysrhythmia, angina, and valvular heart disease. Prerequisite: Successful completion of required medicine clerkship. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 632 MEDECK 633 P-Clinical Cardiology and Electrocardiography - Washington (8) Clerkship in clinical cardiology-combined inpatient-outpatient assignments, ECG interpretation. (Four weeks). Prerequisite: third-year required Medicine clerkship. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 633 MEDECK 634 P-Clinical Dermatology - Washington (8) Participation in dermatology clinics and inpatient consultations. (Four weeks). Prerequisite: third-year required Medicine clerkship. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 634 MEDECK 636 P-Clinical Gastroenterology - Washington (8) Participation in consulting ward rounds, procedures, conferences, and selected clinics at Sacred Heart Hospital in Spokane. (Four weeks). Prerequisite: third-year required Medicine clerkship. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 636 MEDECK 637 Clinical Infectious Diseases - Yakima, WA (8) Students participate in the clinic and consulting service at area hospitals. Includes patients with a range of community acquired and hospital acquired infectious diseases. Students participate in antibiotic stewardship discussions and infection control meetings. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 637 MEDECK 638 Clinical Infectious Diseases - Spokane (8) Students participate in the consulting service throughout the hospital, attend daily plate rounds, conferences, and seminars. Participate in consulting service throughout hospital to learn microbiological aspects of infectious diseases through the clinical laboratories. (Four weeks). Prerequisite: third-year required Medicine clerkship. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 638 MEDECK 639 P-Nephrology and Fluid Balance - Washington (8) Students see clinical nephrologic problems under close supervision, participate in nephrology and transplant rounds, see consults, and work up patients in renal clinics. (Four weeks). Prerequisite: third-year required Medicine clerkship. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 639 MEDECK 640 Critical Care Medicine Subinternship - Washington (8) Participating students function at the sub-intern level on the MICU. Through direct patient care responsibilities, students learn about various forms of critical care illness and gain experience in the application of mechanical ventilation, arterial blood gas analysis, and palliative care medicine. (Four weeks). Prerequisite: third-year required Medicine clerkship. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 640 MEDECK 641 Hospitalist Subinternship-WY (8) Intensive experience in hospital medicine. The student works primarily with an attending hospitalist or nocturnist. Prerequisite: Medicine Required Clerkship Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 641 MEDECK 643 P-Clinical Cardiology and Electrocardiography - WY (8) The student will spend time in a consultative cardiology clinic. They will see new patients independantly and present to the attending cardiologist on a daily basis. They will perform inpatient consultations and follow in patients. They will see ED patients in consultation. The student will spend time observing in the echocardiographic suite, the pacemaker clinic and the cardiac catheterization laboratory. Prerequisite: Successful completion of third year Medicine Clerkship Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 643 MEDECK 644 P-Clinical Dermatology - Wyoming (8) Participation in dermatology clinics and inpatient consultations. A continuing series of teaching seminars and weekly dermatopathology conferences. (Four weeks). Prerequisite: third-year required Medicine clerkship. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 644 MEDECK 651 P-Ward Medicine Subinternship - Alaska (*, max. 24) Students act in the capacity of interns on the medical wards under supervision of house staff and visiting physicians. They attend all regular medicine rounds and conferences as their schedules permit. (Four weeks). Prerequisite: third-year required Medicine clerkship. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 651 MEDECK 652 P-Infectious Disease Consults - Alaska (8) Intensive four week experience caring for patients with complex infectious diseases and immune compromise. Outpatient management of HIV-infected patients, execution of antimicrobial stewardship program, and exposure to treatment of a wide range of infectious disease pathology seen in Alaska. Prerequisite: Required internal medicine clerkship. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 652 MEDECK 653 P-Clinical Cardiology and Electrocardiography - Alaska (8) Clerkship in clinical cardiology. Combined inpatient-outpatient assignments, ECG interpretation. (Four weeks). Prerequisite: third-year required Medicine clerkship. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 653 MEDECK 654 P-Clinical Dermatology - Alaska (8) Participation in dermatology clinics and inpatient consultations. A continuing series of teaching seminars and weekly dermatopathology conferences. (Four weeks). Prerequisite: third-year required Medicine clerkship. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 654 MEDECK 657 Clinical Hematology/Oncology (8) Work with patients with benign and malignant hematology disorders and patients with various solid tumors, with an emphasis on those with GI malignancies, breast, lung, and head/neck cancers. Procedures performed include bone marrow biopsy and aspirate and lumbar puncture with intrathecal chemotherapy. Learn about the diagnostic workup, staging, and treatment of such cancers. Learn about therapies to treat hematologic diseases and solid tumors. Prerequisite: Successful completion of third year required medicine clerkship Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 657 MEDECK 658 P-Clinical Infectious Diseases Alaksa (8) Students participate in clinic and in the consulting service throughout the hospital, attend ICU, antimicrobial stewardship rounds, and seminars. Participate in consulting service throughout hospital to learn microbiological aspects of infectious diseases through the clinical laboratories. (Four weeks). Prerequisite: third-year required Medicine clerkship; fourth-year standing. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 658 MEDECK 660 P-Critical Care - Alaska (8) Advanced patient care clerkship on the MICU service at Alaska Native Medical Center. Through direct patient care responsibilities, students learn about critical care illness and gain experience in application of mechanical ventilation, arterial blood gas analysis, and palliative care medicine. (Four weeks). Prerequisite: third-year required Medicine clerkship. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 660 MEDECK 661 P-Ward Medicine Subinternship-Billings, MT (8) Students act in the capacity of interns on the medical wards under supervision of the house staff and visiting physicians. They attend all regular medicine rounds and conference as their schedules permit. Prerequisite: Third year required Medicine clerkship. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 661 MEDECK 662 Outpatient Medicine - Montana (8) Advanced ambulatory medicine elective at the Bozeman Health Internal Medicine Clinic. Students spend the most time in the Bozeman Health Internal Med Clinic, a primary care clinic serving a series of complex patients in the outpatient setting. Students see 3-4 patients a half day with a high level of autonomy. Time is also spent in medicine specialty clinics, as developed or desired. Prerequisite: successful completion of Patient Care Phase. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 662 MEDECK 663 Clinical Cardiology-Missoula (8) Experience in consultative cardiology clinic. Students see both new and returning outpatients presenting for routine clinic visits. Includes time in the hospital where the students gain exposure in evaluating acute cardiology problems including acute coronary syndromes, arrhythmias, heart failure, and more. Prerequisite: successful completion of Medicine Clerkship Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 663 MEDECK 664 P-Clinical Dermatology - Montana (8) Participation in dermatology clinics and inpatient consultations. A continuing series of teaching seminars and weekly dermatopathology conferences. (Four weeks). Prerequisite: third-year required Medicine clerkship. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 664 MEDECK 665 P-Clinical Endocrinology- Bozeman (8) Clerkship in clinical endocrinology and metabolism combined inpatient and outpatient assignments at selected hospitals in Bozeman, MT. Prerequisite: Third-year required Medicine Clerkship Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 665 MEDECK 667 Hospitalist Medicine Subinternship-MT (8) Intensive experience in hospital medicine. The student works primarily with an attending hospitalist or nocturnist. Prerequisite: Successful completion of required medicine clerkship. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 667 MEDECK 668 Critical Care Medicine, Great Falls, MT (8) Students evaluate and manage critically ill patients in a mixed medical, surgical, cardiothoracic and neuro ICU. Students act as the primary provider and work closely with the intensivist and interprofessional team. Students will encounter a patient with septic shock on vasopressors, a patient with respiratory failure on mechanical ventilation, a post-cardiothoracic surgery patient, and a patient with a primary neurological insult. Prerequisite: Successful completion of the third year medicine clerkship Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 668 MEDECK 669 P-Nephrology and Fluid Balance - Montana (8) Students see clinical nephrologic problems under close supervision, participate in nephrology and transplant rounds, see consults, and work up patients in renal clinics. (Four weeks). Prerequisite: third-year required Medicine clerkship. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 669 MEDECK 670 P-Clinical Medicine Critical Care - Idaho Falls (8) Inpatient critical care rotation in community hospital setting at Eastern Idaho Regional Medical Center in Idaho Falls. Assist in diagnosis and management of common ICU problems and major trauma resuscitation under supervision of critical care physicians. Exposure to common ICU problems, which may include sepsis, respiratory failure, hypotension, organ failure, and gastrointestinal hemorrhage. Students work as multidisciplinary team. (Four weeks) Prerequisite: third-year required Medicine clerkship. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 670 MEDECK 671 P-Ward Medicine Subinternship - Idaho (*, max. 24) Students act in the capacity of interns on the medical wards under supervision of house staff and visiting physicians. They attend all regular medicine rounds and conferences as their schedules permit. (Four weeks). Prerequisite: third-year required Medicine clerkship. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 671 MEDECK 672 P-Clinical Endocrinology and Metabolism - Idaho Falls, ID (8) Clerkship in clinical endocrinology and metabolism combined inpatient and outpatient assignments at selected hospitals. Prerequisite: medicine required clerkship. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 672 MEDECK 673 P-Clinical Cardiology and Electrocardiography - Idaho (8) Clerkship in clinical cardiology-combined inpatient-outpatient assignments, ECG interpretation. (Four weeks). Prerequisite: third-year required Medicine clerkship. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 673 MEDECK 674 P-Clinical Dermatology - Idaho (8) Participation in dermatology clinics and inpatient consultations. A continuing series of teaching seminars and weekly dermatopathology conferences. (Four weeks). Prerequisite: third-year required Medicine clerkship. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 674 MEDECK 675 P-Clinical Allergy and Immunology - Boise, ID (4) Clinical experience seeing a combination of new and recheck patients with allergy, asthma and immunology disorders for example but not limited to, seasonal allergies, allergic rashes, asthma, chronic cough, chronic sinusitis, contact dermatitis, bee sting allergy, and food allergy. Prerequisite: Medicine Clerkship and 4th year standing. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 675 MEDECK 676 P-Critical Gastroenterology - Boise, ID (8) Clerkship in clinical gastroenterology in Boise, ID. Participation in consulting ward rounds, procedures, conferences, and selected clinics with full-time divisional staff, plus directed tutorial work. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 676 MEDECK 677 P-Clinical Hematology/Oncology - Idaho (8) Outpatient and inpatient experience with hematologic/oncologic disorders. The elective includes teaching rounds, conferences, and evaluation of laboratory work. (Four weeks). Prerequisite: third-year required Medicine clerkship. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 677 MEDECK 678 P-Clinical Infectious Diseases - Idaho (8) Students participate in the consulting service throughout the hospital, attend daily plate rounds, conferences, and seminars. Participate in consulting service throughout hospital to learn microbiological aspects of infectious diseases through the clinical laboratories. (Four weeks). Prerequisite: third-year required Medicine clerkship. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 678 MEDECK 679 P-Nephrology and Fluid Balance - Idaho (8) Students see clinical nephrologic problems under close supervision, participate in nephrology and transplant rounds, see consults, and work up patients in renal clinics. (Four weeks). Prerequisite: third-year required Medicine clerkship. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 679 MEDECK 680 P-Clinical Respiratory Disease and Critical Care Medicine - Idaho (8) Training in respiratory disease diagnosis and pulmonary therapy, with special emphasis on cardiopulmonary function testing and interpretation. Inpatient and outpatient teaching rounds, conferences, and basic science integration. (Four weeks). Prerequisite: third-year required Medicine clerkship. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 680 MEDECK 682 P-critical Care Subinternship- Idaho (8) Students function at the sub-intern level on the MICU service. Through direct patient care responsibilities, students learn about various forms of critical care illness and gain experience in the application of mechanical ventilation, arterial blood gas analysis, and palliative care medicine. (Four Weeks). Prerequisite: Third-year required Medicine clerkship. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 682 MEDECK 683 P-Outpatient Clinical Cardiology Virgina Mason (8) Four-week clerkship in clinical outpatient cardiology at Virginia Mason Heart Institute. Covers ECG interpretation, stress testing, coronary angiography, stenting EP procedures, and echo cardiography. Prerequisite: third-year required Internal Medicine clerkship. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 683 MEDECK 684 Subinternship in Hospital Medicine and Hematology/Oncology - Seattle, WA (8) Intensive experience in hospital medicine in which the student acts as an intern for the Medicine O service. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 684 MEDECK 686 P-Advanced Clinical Dermatology Clinic - Idaho (8) Advanced clinical dermatology clerkship. (Four weeks). Prerequisite: third-year required Medicine clerkship; either MEDECK 604, MEDECK 634, MEDECK 644, MEDECK 664, or MEDECK 674. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 686 MEDECK 687 Advanced Outpatient Clerkship-Idaho (8) The advanced outpatient clerkship at the Boise Veterans Medical Center (VAMC) is designed for medical students with an interest in solidifying ambulatory clinical knowledge and skills, with a unique focus on learning new models of primary care delivery. This four-week, full time clinical experience based in a primary care teaching clinic at the Boise VAMC will focus on inter-professional collaboration and the patient centered medical home model. Prerequisite: successful completion of the medicine clerkship. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 687 MEDECK 690 P-General Internal Medicine - Shiprock (8) Clerkship located at the Northern Navajo Medical Center in Shiprock, New Mexico. Students are involved in all aspects of patient care, including home visits, ambulatory care, and hospital stays. (Four weeks). Prerequisite: third-year required Medicine clerkship. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 690 MEDECK 691 P-Medicine Special Electives - Seattle (*, max. 24) By special arrangement for qualified students, special clerkships or externships. Prerequisite: permission of department. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 691 MEDECK 692 P-Medicine Special Electives - Washington (*, max. 24) By special arrangement for qualified students, special clerkships or externships. Prerequisite: permission of department. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 692 MEDECK 693 P-Medicine Special Electives - Wyoming (*, max. 24) By special arrangement for qualified students, special clerkships or externships. Prerequisite: permission of department. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 693 MEDECK 694 P-Medicine Special Electives - Alaska (*, max. 24) By special arrangement for qualified students, special clerkships or externships. Prerequisite: permission of department. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 694 MEDECK 695 P-Medicine Special Electives - Montana (*, max. 24) By special arrangement for qualified students, special clerkships or externships. Prerequisite: permission of department. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 695 MEDECK 696 P-Medicine Special Electives - Idaho (*, max. 24) By special arrangement for qualified students, special clerkships or externships. Prerequisite: permission of department. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 696 MEDECK 697 P-Medicine Special Electives - Away (*, max. 24) Special clerkship, externship, or research opportunities at times made available at institutions other than University of Washington. Faculty advise students of opportunities. Students obtain from Dean's office a special assignment form at least three months before preregistration. (Two, four, six, or twelve weeks). Prerequisite: permission of department. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 697 MEDECK 701 P-Occupational and Environmental Medicine (8) Overview of Occupation and Environmental Medicine subspecialty. Introduction to Washington Worker's Compensation system and diagnosis and treatment of occupational injuries and illness. Students complete special projects in OEM aligning with student interest, participate in worksite visits, and attend conferences. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 701 MEDECK 704 P-Intro to Clinical Dermatology (2 Wks) (4) Students develop a basic approach to diagnosis and management of common skin conditions. Students see patients in dermatology resident under the supervision of dermatology faculty. (2-weeks) Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 704 MEDECK 711 P-Introduction to Community Internal Medicine Subspecialty Practice (4) Introduction to the outpatient Medicine specialty clinics of Endocrinology, Gastroenterology (GI), and Rheumatology in the Olympia medical community. Two weeks. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 711 MEDECK 713 Home Care Medicine (4) Introductory experience to home care medicine with a focus on longitudinal care for complex and frail patients. Students participate as a member of interdisciplinary teams at both the VA as well as a private home based care group under the direction of an attending physician from both programs. Clinically, consists of a mixture of home visits, virtual visits, and participation in interdisciplinary team rounds. Prerequisite: successful completion of UWSOM Foundations curriculum. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 713 MEDECK 714 Intro to Opioid Use Disorder (4) Intensive experience in the clinical care of patients with opioid use disorder in the inpatient and outpatient settings. Students will evaluate inpatients with opioid use disorder, providing treatment recommendations and linkage to outpatient services with appropriate supervision. Will work with patients in outpatient settings including primary care-based and opiod treatment programs. Students will complete training for buprenorphine waiver. Prerequisite: successful completion of medicine clerkship. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 714 MEDECK 724 P-Interprofessional Hospital Medicine (4) Introduction to inpatient internal medicine focusing on interprofessional hospital services. Students work as a member of Hospitalist service, managing 1-2 patients, under direction of an attending physician with afternoons dedicated to rounding with other interprofessional services. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 724 MEDECK 744 P-Intro to Clinical Dermatology (2 Wks) - Sheridan, WY (4) Students develop a basic approach to diagnosis and management of common skin conditions. Students see patients in dermatology clinic while paired with a PA and attending dermatologist. Prerequisite: Completion of Foundation Curriculum. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 744 MEDECK 764 Clinical Dermatology-Bozeman, MT (4-8, max. 8) Students will provide surgical assist for cancer procedures, and will have a variety of general-dermatologic clinic exposures and patient care. Shared time between surgical and general dermatology. Prerequisite: successful completion of medicine clerkship. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 764 MEDECK 774 P-Intro to Clinical Dermatology (2 Wks) - Boise, ID (4) Clinical rotation designed to help students develop a basic approach to the diagnosis and management of common skin conditions. They will see patients in dermatology clinic at Gem State, Boise, Idaho. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: MEDECK 774 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022