Skip to main content Information for: Current Students Alumni Give Today Admissions J.D. Admissions LL.M. Admissions (General) M.S.L.S. Admissions LL.M. Admissions (Cornell Tech) J.S.D. Admissions Academics Degree Programs J.D. Program LL.M. Program (General) M.S.L.S. Program LL.M. Program (Cornell Tech) J.S.D. Program Experiential Learning International Programs Centers & Programs Areas of Study Law Reviews Additional Resources Registrar Academic Support Academic Calendar Faculty & Research Faculty Research on SSRN Faculty Directory Careers For Alumni For Employers For Students Life at Cornell Law Campus Dean of Students Office Diversity and Inclusion Health, Wellness, and Safety Housing and Community Resources Ithaca Law Library Registrar’s Office Student Activities & Organizations Search Admissions J.D. Admissions LL.M. Admissions (General) M.S.L.S. Admissions LL.M. Admissions (Cornell Tech) J.S.D. Admissions Academics Degree Programs J.D. Program LL.M. Program (General) M.S.L.S. Program LL.M. Program (Cornell Tech) J.S.D. Program Experiential Learning International Programs Centers & Programs Areas of Study Law Reviews Additional Resources Registrar Academic Support Academic Calendar Faculty & Research Faculty Research on SSRN Faculty Directory Careers For Alumni For Employers For Students Life at Cornell Law Campus Dean of Students Office Diversity and Inclusion Health, Wellness, and Safety Housing and Community Resources Ithaca Law Library Registrar’s Office Student Activities & Organizations Information for: Current Students Alumni Give Today Close search Search Cornell Law School Or search: cornell.edu Faculty & Research Faculty in the News Newsweek Capitol Rioters Got Tougher Sentences in 2021 from Obama's Judges than from Trump's Jens David Ohlin, dean of the Law School, discusses the difficulties defense attorneys face in predicting how judges will rule in their clients’ Capitol riot case. Financial Times Charles Whitehead: Kim Kardashian, Floyd Mayweather, and a Crypto Token’s Wild Ride Univision Stephen Yale-Loehr: Supreme Court Hears Arguments on Right to Bail for Detained Undocumented Immigrants (in Spanish) Business Insider Valerie Hans Comments on Juror's Experience in the Ghislaine Maxwell Case Inside Higher Ed Jens Ohlin: Law Students Protest Research Database Contracts with ICE New York Times Sherry Colb: Fetal Viability, Long An Abortion Dividing Line, Faces A Supreme Court Test Featured Research The Delaware Death Penalty: An Empirical Study This article is part of a symposium that honors David Baldus, a great scholar and great man, a quiet man with a strong passion for justice. We study the operation of Delaware’s death penalty in the modern era of capital punishment. Why Is Torture 'Different' and How 'Different' Is It? Almost every serious commentator to address the moral and legal question of torture has taken for granted the proposition that the infliction of torture is a sufficiently grave evil to require a distinctly demanding moral scrutiny. Stings and Scams: ‘Fake News,’ the First Amendment, and the New Activist Journalism Constitutional law, technological innovations, and the rise of a cultural “right to know” have recently combined to yield “fake news,” as illustrated by an anti-abortion citizen-journalist sting operation that scammed Planned Parenthood. Dangerous Citations This Article considers when optional case citations may do more harm than good. There are valid reasons for citing to non-binding precedent — to promote consistency in the law. Additional Resources Faculty Directory Media Guide to Faculty Visiting Assistant Professorships Visiting Instructors cornell.law.school While the deer may be enjoying the lack of students at the Law School this week, we sure miss everyone already! Have an amazing summer and congratulations again to all of our graduates. View May 27 Open cornell.law.school On May 12, 2022, Cornell Law School’s Death Penalty Program received the Award for Excellence in a Public Interest Case or Project from the Clinical Legal Education Association (CLEA). The award honors the work of the Capital Punishment Clinic, the International Human Rights Clinic, the Center on the Death Penalty Worldwide, and the Death Penalty Project, representing the efforts of Professors Sandra Babcock, John Blume, Sheri Johnson, and Keir Weyble, as well as generations of their students, alumni, community partners, and clients. View May 20 Open cornell.law.school 👨‍🎓Congratulations to our newest alumni!👩‍🎓 We are proud of all of your hard work and dedication and welcome you to the Cornell Law School alumni family. #LawyersInTheBestSense #CornellLaw #Convocation View May 15 Open cornell.law.school You could not ask for more beautiful weather for Slope Day 2022. Good food, good music, and incredible students enjoying the sunshine and celebrating all of their hard work. View May 11 Open cornell.law.school Today Fern was at the law school helping students to de-stress while studying for exams. #CornellPawSchool #LabsInTheBestSense View May 4 Open cornell.law.school Don’t forget to stop by Copper Horse Coffee in the Commons for your complimentary cup of coffee sponsored by the Dean of students. Keep up the great work studying for exams! 🧠📝 View May 4 Open cornell.law.school Students in the sunshine on this gorgeous Friday. #TGIF #SpringIntoTheWeekend View Apr 22 Open cornell.law.school Cornell Paw School Thank you to alumnus Dave McGrath '92 for bringing Rigby along with your family for a tour of #CornellLawSchool Chloe was also enjoying the rays outside of Hughes Hall while her mama had lunch with a friend. #LawDogs #LawWithPaws View Apr 22 Open cornell.law.school Happy 🌎. Day! 🌳 What a gorgeous day to walk around campus. View Apr 22 Open cornell.law.school Congratulations Professor Kysel. 👏 https://www.lawschool.cornell.edu/news/ian-kysel-joins-cornell-law-as-assistant-clinical-professor-of-law-and-founding-director-of-the-transnational-disputes-clinic/ View Apr 22 Open cornell.law.school 👏👏 Cornell Law School sent a higher percentage of its 2021 graduates to large law firms than any other U.S. law school, according to new data from the American Bar Association. 👨‍🎓👩‍🎓 https://www.reuters.com/legal/legalindustry/biggest-law-firms-turned-these-schools-us-recruits-2022-04-20/ View Apr 21 Open cornell.law.school Where is/was your favorite place to spend your time at the law school? View Apr 20 Open Follow on Instagram @CornellLaw Some news: this summer I will join @CornellLaw as Assoc. Clinical Prof in @CornellLaw1AC! I’m incredibly excited to join an amazing faculty & to learn more about these gorges everyone keeps talking about. Plus as a Michigander it feels right to return to bitter winters! ❤️🤍🐻 /1 You can read more about these issues in this report: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1LF2tQMHIP8YVnXtm2s_ZzvI9sTz04SbX. As Amber shared at the International Migration Review Forum, 13 of 36 countries we studied (hosting ~70% of migrants) prohibited detention of migrant children in 2019: Bangladesh, Brazil, Denmark, Ethiopia, France, Ireland, Italy, Kenya, Mexico, Morocco, Nigeria, Peru, Spain. Great to see @CornellLaw student Amber Pirson presenting research she did with Cornell's @IMBRights Initiative on migrants' rights at the United Nations! One way for Adams to recoup his rhetorical losses on cryptocurrency — if not his financial losses — would be to actually use blockchain technology in a meaningful way in the city. -Robert Hockett, a professor of financial regulation at Cornell Law School https://www.ny1.com/nyc/all-boroughs/news/2022/05/19/as-adams-takes-crypto-losses--will-he-double-down-on-blockchain-tech- On May 12, 2022, Cornell Law School’s Death Penalty Program received the Award for Excellence in a Public Interest Case or Project from the Clinical Legal Education Association (CLEA). https://www.lawschool.cornell.edu/news/cornell-death-penalty-program-receives-clea-award/ “I know firsthand that policymakers at the White House, Treasury, and Fed are working hard to develop a policy framework for stablecoins,” says Dan Awrey, professor of law and advisor to the Treasury group last fall. https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2022/05/16/cryptos-meltdown-is-refocusing-washingtons-attention-regulating-industry/ This week marks the first International Migration Review Forum at the UN, reviewing state progress on the Global Compact for Migration (GCM). The @IMBRights Initiative @CornellLaw just released new research on rights implicated by the GCM. A thread ⬇️ 1/ 👨‍🎓Congratulations to our newest alumni!👩‍🎓 We are proud of all of your hard work and dedication and we welcome you to the Cornell Law alumni family. #LawyersInTheBestSense #CornellLaw #Convocation James Grimmelman, professor of law, described opposition to Disney’s copyrights as “harmless grandstanding” against something that’s not even happening. https://www.huffpost.com/entry/josh-hawley-disney-copyright_n_627ac821e4b046ad0d82c098 Cornell Law School Myron Taylor Hall Ithaca, NY 14853-4901 Quick Links Current Students Alumni Quick Links Academics Admissions Careers Life at Cornell Law News ABA Required Disclosures About CLS Contact Law Library Legal Information Institute Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin ©2022 Cornell University Privacy Policy Accessibility This website uses cookies We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it. Ok