Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Office of Communications & Marketing Menu Search TTU Office of Communications & Marketing Emergency Communications Center Coronavirus Information Coronavirus (COVID-19) Haga clic aquí para ver esta información en español. Important Notices March 4, 2022: President Schovanec announced the suspension of on-campus COVID-19 reporting. January 5, 2022: President Schovanec provided COVID-19 Guidance for Spring 2022. Testing Vaccine Report a Positive Test Result Faculty/Staff Texas Tech is strongly recommending that all employees be vaccinated for COVID-19 and receive the booster when eligible. The vaccines are safe and effective and will protect all members of the Texas Tech community. The vaccine, including booster, will be available on campus beginning January 7. Please visit our vaccine page and our testing page for additional information. Face masks are strongly encouraged in classrooms and other public indoor settings on campus. Face masks are required for all visitors to the Student Health Clinic. Generally, if an employee does not feel well, it's best to stay home and utilize sick leave. Employees may also work with their supervisors regarding remote work options. A change of duty point form is not necessary for these short-term situations. All employees (both vaccinated and unvaccinated) who have been identified as having a known exposure to a COVID-19 positive person should wear a face mask for a period of 10 days and should seek a SARS-CoV-2 test at day five after exposure. If the individual begins to develop symptoms at any point during the 10 days following exposure, they should immediately self-isolate and seek a SARS-CoV-2 test. Self-isolation for five days will be required for all employees (vaccinated or unvaccinated) who test positive for COVID-19. After the five-day isolation period, if the employee is asymptomatic or their symptoms are resolving (without fever for 24 hours), they may return to work but should wear a face mask for an additional five days. All employees will utilize sick leave through the entirety of the self-isolation. Employees may work remotely only if requested and approved through their supervisor. If an employee does not have sick leave available, they should work with HR to obtain emergency leave for a COVID illness. Employees who test positive for COVID-19 may notify close contacts immediately after receiving the diagnosis to help mitigate the spread of the virus. Should an employee test positive for COVID-19, the department supervisor should notify custodial services to arrange for a deep clean/EMist of the employee work area and any other areas in which they might have come in contact. If an employee tests positive for COVID-19, they must use the following link to report the diagnosis (If you took an at-home test, make sure you upload a picture of the positive result when prompted in the reporting system): Report a Positive Test Result Students Although COVID-19 vaccinations are not mandated, Texas Tech is strongly recommending that all students be vaccinated and receive a booster when eligible. The vaccines are safe and effective and will protect the student and other members of the Texas Tech community. Students that are fully vaccinated should submit their vaccine records to Student Health Services. The vaccine, including booster, will be available on campus beginning January 7. Please visit our vaccine page and our testing page for additional information. Face masks are strongly encouraged in classrooms and other public indoor settings on campus. Face masks are required for all visitors to the Student Health Clinic. If you are sick or not feeling well, you should stay at your place of residence and wear a mask when around others. Do not attend class, work, or social functions. Schedule an appointment to see a healthcare professional and seek testing if you think you might be experiencing symptoms. Students can also visit Student Health Services to schedule an appointment. All students in university housing should develop an action plan in the event they are required to self-isolate due to a positive COVID-19 diagnosis. This plan should include a location to complete the self-isolation, access to groceries/meal delivery, access to necessary medications, numbers of emergency contacts, and contact information for their preferred healthcare provider. All students (both vaccinated and unvaccinated) who have been identified as having a known exposure to a COVID-19 positive person should wear a face mask for a period of 10 days and should seek a SARS-CoV-2 test at day five after exposure. If the student begins to develop symptoms at any point during the 10 days following exposure, they should immediately self-isolate and seek a SARS-CoV-2 test. Self-isolation for five days will be required for all students (vaccinated or unvaccinated) who test positive for COVID-19. After the five-day isolation period, if the student is asymptomatic or their symptoms are resolving (without fever for 24 hours), they may return to class/activities but should wear a face mask for an additional five days. Report a Positive Test Result Student COVID-19 Positive Diagnosis Checklist If you are symptomatic or a high-risk exposure and have been tested for COVID-19 you should self-isolate while waiting for your test results. If you are using an at-home test make sure you take a picture of the result to upload to the reporting system. After receiving a positive diagnosis, isolate yourself as soon as possible and follow the CDC's guidance on isolation. After receiving a positive diagnosis, report your test result immediately. If you took an at-home test, make sure you upload a picture of the positive result when prompted in the reporting system. Students living on-campus should immediately implement your action plan to self-isolate for five days and follow the CDC's policy on masking. Notify your close contacts immediately after receiving the diagnosis. Notify your professors, supervisor/employer, and the Dean of Students Office (link) of your positive test result. When you report your positive test result, Student Health Services will provide you with a letter to your Texas Tech email address, please use this letter to notify your professors and the Dean of Students Office that you are in isolation. Do not attend class, work, social functions, and do not receive visitors during the time you are in isolation. To reduce the risk of infecting others, avoid travel while in isolation. Here are some suggestions for managing your COVID-19 symptoms at home. While in isolation, there are many places that can deliver groceries, food, and/or medication. H-E-B, Market Street, Wal-Mart, DoorDash, Favor, Grubhub, Instacart, Uber Eats, CVS, Walgreens, as well as other stores. For those that qualify, Antibody Therapy Treatments are available at the Grace Infusion Center. If you are experiencing worsening shortness of breath, chest pain, confusion, difficulty awakening from sleep, or bluish discoloration of the lips or fingertips, then seek attention in the Emergency Department immediately / call 911 and notify them in advance that you have COVID-19. For additional COVID-19 health resources visit Student Health Services. Student Vaccination Records Students that are fully vaccinated should submit their vaccination record to Student Health Services using the link below. Submit Vaccination Record Please note: you are not required to pay $10 to submit your vaccine card. When you see the “Ready to submit your documentation?” message, scroll down the page and click the grey button “No, thank you. I do not want to access my documents later.” Coronavirus (COVID-19) Dashboard About the Dashboard The data contained in this dashboard is cumulative beginning January 3, 2022, when the university resumed daily reporting. Cumulative data from 2020 and 2021 is archived and available. This dashboard contains data on students (on-campus and off-campus combined) and employees (faculty, staff, and student employees combined) that took classes or worked on our Lubbock campus (satellite campuses are not included in these numbers). Students that are employed in some capacity by Texas Tech are considered student employees and their data is reflected in the employee column of this dashboard. Due to the fact they have an actual workplace on campus, there were classified as employees for contract tracing purposes and for supervisor notification. Data for this dashboard is compiled from Student Health Services, the Texas Tech Physicians Family Medicine Faculty/Staff Clinic, the Texas Department of Emergency Management, Curative, and the TTU COVID-19 online reporting platform. On-campus COVID-19 reporting was suspended on March 4, 2021. Cumulative 2022 COVID-19 REPORTING DASHBOARD As of March 3, 2022 Students Employees Total Total Reported 1227 616 1843 New Recovered 1 2 3 Total Recovered 1216 608 1824 New Active 2 1 3 Total Active 11 8 19 2022 COVID-19 Case Trends TTU Experts in the News March 12, 2021 - Texas Tech Today: How Will COVID-19 Relief Bill Affect Your Taxes? Here's The Answer. January 15, 2021 - Texas Tech Today: Texas Tech Researcher At Forefront Of Economic Research In Dairy, Fruits And Vegetables January 14, 2021 - Texas Tech Today: Researcher Receives Grant To Chart Changing Structure In Dairy Industry January 11, 2021 - Texas Tech Today: Texas Tech Researcher Examines COVID-19 Impact On Fruit And Vegetable Production November 24, 2020 - Texas Tech Today: Is 2020 The Year For Un-Happy Holidays? It Doesn't Have To Be Read All News Search Coronavirus (COVID-19) Prevention If you experience symptoms of respiratory illness, seek care from the local health department or our personal health care provider Avoid nonessential travel to countries/regions with travel advisories/restrictions. Do not travel if you are sick, stay home. Avoid close contact with people who are sick. Cough or sneeze into the elbow or sleeve – not the hands. Fist bump instead of shaking hands. Wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds. If soap and water are not available, use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer. Don't eat, drink, or smoke after others. When using a tissue, throw it in the trash immediately after use. Avoid touching the eyes, nose, and mouth. Avoid direct contact with animals (dead or alive). Clean and disinfect frequently touched objects and surfaces. Health Support Texas Tech Physicians – MyTeamCare NOW App Anyone who thinks they may have symptoms of COVID-19, may see a provider face-to-face via online urgent care through the Texas Tech Physicians app, MyTeamCare NOW. Providers are available with a video visit to assess your symptoms and determine the most appropriate care. Visit myteamcarenow.com or download the MyTeamCare Now app to get started. TTU Faculty, Staff, and Students If you are a faculty or staff member or student of TTU, TTUHSC, TTUHSC El Paso or ASU and think you may have COVID-19 (coronavirus), call (806) 743-2911 to speak with a nurse. All Communications March 4, 2022: President Schovanec announced the suspension of on-campus COVID-19 reporting. January 5, 2022: President Schovanec provided COVID-19 Guidance for Spring 2022. January 5, 2022: President Schovanec and Provost Hendrick shared a COVID-19 update for the spring semester. December 22, 2021: President Schovanec addressed faculty, instructors of record and staff in regards to COVID-19 reminders and the Omicron variant. November 29, 2021: Provost Hendrick followed up with faculty and other instructors of record with an COVID-19 and semester end update. October 18, 2021: Provost Hendrick provided a COVID-19 update to faculty and instructors of record following a steady and dramatic decrease in case numbers and positivity rates. September 17, 2021: In a video message to the Texas Tech community, President Schovanec shared COVID-19 recommendations. September 8, 2021: Provost Hendrick addressed ongoing campus concerns related to current positive COVID cases. Texas Tech will continue to review the current situation and revise guidance as necessary. August 31, 2021: Provost Ronald Hendrick addressed suggestions on classroom management following the first week of in-person classes and provided revised classroom management guidance, including attendance and flexible instruction. August 27, 2021: Provost Ronald Hendrick provided updated guidance for instructors notified of a COVID-19 positive diagnosis by a student. August 27, 2021: President Schovanec addressed concerns from the first week of in-person classes and provided an update on COVID-19 safety measures and recommendations. August 24, 2021: TTU Emergency Management outlined COVID-19 resources available to the Texas Tech Community. August 13, 2021: The Office of the Provost has updated its pandemic-related guidance pertaining to in-person classroom instruction. July 30, 2021: President Schovanec addressed the Texas Tech community on the rise of COVID-19 cases in the city of Lubbock and the availability of on-campus vaccination clinics. July 19, 2021: President Schovanec shared COVID-19 vaccination recommendations and provided and update on a return to face-to-face instruction and a full-capacity campus. May 19, 2021: President Schovanec shared an update on campus COVID-19 protocols with the Texas Tech community. May 13, 2021: Meredith Imes, COVID-19 Coordinator, announced Texas Tech will suspend reporting of new COVID-19 cases through the university dashboard. She directs those interested in citywide reporting to visit the City of Lubbock Health Department website. April 20, 2021 President Schovanec outlined the University's plan to transition to Phase I operations. March 24, 2021 On Monday, March 29, all Texans will be eligible to receive the COVID-19 vaccine. Meredith Imes, COVID-19 Coordinator, shared additional details. March 18, 2021 In a letter to the campus community, President Schovanec addressed plans for the Fall 2021 semester and detailed classroom capacities. March 18, 2021 In a letter to students, President Schovanec announced a return to face-to-face instruction as Texas Tech's primary modality for Fall 2021. He encouraged everyone to follow the guidance of medical professionals and get the COVID-19 vaccine when available to make the transition successful. March 11, 2021 President Schovanec announced a plan to partner with the city and local pharmacies to provide the Texas Tech community with access to the COVID-19 vaccine. March 5, 2021 Following the recommendation of the Texas Tech University System, Texas Tech University will continue to require face coverings and social distancing in the classroom and indoor settings through the remainder of the spring semester. March 3, 2021: President Schovanec clarified details of the DSHS vaccine announcement which stated teachers are now eligible for vaccination. February 11, 2021: David Edwards, M.D., Medical Director of Student Health Services, addresses COVID-19 vaccine myths in a video to the Texas Tech University community. January 13, 2021: President Schovanec shared an update on vaccine distribution with faculty and staff. January 4, 2021: President Schovanec announced Texas Tech University has applied for and been approved as a vaccine distribution location. December 21, 2020: Grace Hernandez, Associate VP for Administration/Chief of Staff, and Jodie Billingsley, Assistant VP for Human Resources, reminded faculty and staff of various health and wellness resources available to them. December 3, 2020: Jodie Billingsley, Assistant Vice President for Human Resources, notified faculty and staff of updates regarding quarantine procedures as per the Centers for Disease Control guidelines. November 23, 2020: Flexible work schedules are encouraged to limit the number of faculty and staff on campus and in university buildings at any one time through December 31. November 16, 2020: Commencement Coordinator Amiee Dixon provided an update on the December 2020 Commencement. October 23, 2020: President Schovanec outlined updates to the academic calendar for the Spring 2021 semester. October 21, 2020: President Schovanec announced plans to hold two types of ceremonies, in-person and virtual, for the December 2020 Commencement. October 13, 2020: President Schovanec outlined changes that will occur following the Thanksgiving break in a campus-wide memo. October 7, 2020: Students were notified of an on-campus flu vaccine clinic that will take place on Oct. 15, as well as dedicated indoor and outdoor study locations that are available on campus. September 23, 2020: Meredith Imes, COVID-19 Coordinator, announced free on-campus COVID-19 testing has been extended and shared location details. September 21, 2020: Additional guidance was provided to Faculty/Staff concerning self-isolation and quarantine procedures and how to assist students. September 9, 2020: The outdoor COVID-19 testing site will change its location to the United Supermarkets Arena through Friday, September 11, due to inclement weather. September 8, 2020: In a letter to faculty and staff, President Schovanec addressed concerns following the Athletic Department's announcement of reduction in force. September 3, 2020: President Schovanec addressed the increase in COVID cases among the campus community and shared details on additional free on-campus testing. September 2, 2020: Student leaders sent a letter reminding Red Raiders to stay safe through Labor Day weekend. August 24, 2020: President Schovanec welcomed faculty, staff and students back to campus in a memo and accompanying welcome video. August 18, 2020: President Schovanec announced the creation of an online reporting and self-screening platform for COVID-19 that should be used by students, faculty, and staff. August 14, 2020: President Schovanec invited all university staff to participate in a Town Hall call, providing the campus community an opportunity to ask questions as the fall semester gets underway Aug. 24. August 5, 2020: President Schovanec sent a letter to summer graduates, inviting them to his home for commencement photos. August 5, 2020: President Schovanec informed the campus community of the removal or credit of some fees for the upcoming fall semester. August 5, 2020: In a memo to students and parents, President Schovanec announced that the university would credit student athletics and online distance education fees back to students for the fall semester. August 4, 2020: Meredith Imes, Interim Director of Emergency Management and COVID-19 Coordinator, shared with faculty and staff information on COVID-19 testing, a new dashboard that tracks active cases within the university community, and a new app that will allow users to check symptoms. August 1, 2020: President Schovanec provided a pre-registration link to students for free, non-mandatory COVID-19 testing. July 31, 2020: President Schovanec notified students of free, non-mandatory COVID-19 testing, beginning Mon., Aug. 3. July 31, 2020: In communication to faculty, staff and students, President Schovanec informed the campus community of free, non-mandatory COVID-19 testing, beginning Mon., Aug. 3. July 29, 2020: President Schovanec notified faculty and staff of new outdoor classroom and study spaces for in-person courses this fall. July 22, 2020: In a letter to faculty and staff, President Schovanec detailed plans for return to work on campus and outlined additional safety measures for the campus community. July 10, 2020: University administration shared supervisor and employee COVID-19 reporting procedures with the campus community, and an August 1 target for transitioning into Phase II. July 9, 2020: Sukant Misra, Senior Vice Provost for International Affairs, sent a memo to the campus community informing of the cancelation of all fall 2020 study abroad programs. July 8, 2020: President Lawrence Schovanec and other university officials shared their support of international students in a letter to the campus community. June 24, 2020: In a letter to the campus community, President Lawrence Schovanec outlined the Facial Covering Policy, which requires the campus to cover their faces while in buildings and other areas of campus. June 16, 2020: In an email to campus, Procurement Services shared details of the updated travel policy. June 15, 2020: President Schovanec shared the decision to hold August commencement exercises virtually with the health and safety of graduates, their families and the university community in mind. June 10, 2020: President Lawrence Schovanec shared the university's plans for a fall return to campus through the institution's TTU Commitment initiative. June 1, 2020: Human Resources distributed a memo outlining flexible work schedule guidance for Phase III – Restricted Operations, as some employees return to work. May 22, 2020: The offices of the Provost, Chief Financial Officer, Human Resources and the President issued a memo outlining Phase III, a return to on-campus work, beginning June 1. May 21, 2020: Vice President of Research & Innovation Joe Heppert shared guidance on returning to active research on campus. May 20, 2020: In a memo to the campus community, President Schovanec acknowledged the upcoming virtual commencement ceremony and invited graduates to visit his residence for photos with him and Raider Red. May 19, 2020: President Schovanec notified the campus community of continued online learning for the Summer II session and August Intersession, excluding a small number of in-person offerings that cannot effectively be delivered online. May 14, 2020: Joe Heppert, Vice President for Research & Innovation, shared with faculty and staff guidelines for requesting return to campus to conduct research activities. May 1, 2020: Jodie Billingsley, Assistant VP for Human Resources, reminded employees the university remains in Phase IV of the Emergency Remote Work Status Operational Phases. April 29, 2020: In a letter to the campus community, President Schovanec addressed the plan to safely resume in-person teaching in the fall. April 28, 2020: Texas Tech President Lawrence Schovanec sent a memo to students regarding the CARES Act and funding for expenses due to COVID-19. April 10, 2020: In a letter to the campus community, President Lawrence Schovanec shared updates on student fees for Summer Session I and an expansion to the Red Raider Guarantee tuition program. April 8, 2020: President Lawrence Schovanec and Provost Michael Galyean announced grading option for the Spring 2020 semester. April 6, 2020: In a letter to the Texas Tech family, President Lawrence Schovanec shared his pride in the response of the campus community since the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic. April 6, 2020: The CDC announced guidelines allowing the use of viral RNA extraction kits in COVID-19 testing; Vice President of Research Joe Heppert reached out to faculty asking for spare kits that may exist across campus. April 2, 2020: Human Resources outlined information in the Families First Coronavirus Response Act (FFCRA). March 30, 2020: Human Resources distributed a memo containing a link the Designated Essential Employee Approval Form, in response to Lubbock Mayor Dan Pope's Stay at Home Order. March 28, 2020: Vice President of Research Joe Heppert asked TTU faculty and staff to do another sweep of laboratories and research space for PPEs that can be donated to health care professionals. March 27, 2020: The newly-establish Hiring Review Committee shared information regarding the review and approval process of the hiring of all open positions at the university after March 26. March 27, 2020: Provost Michael Galyean provided a message to faculty regarding the first week of online learning, sharing the resources available to them during the transition. March 27, 2020: Information on prorated housing and dining refunds and credits was presented by President Lawrence Schovanec. Earlier in the day, he released a video introducing this information. March 26, 2020: President Lawrence Schovanec announced the hiring review committee for faculty and staff positions. All new hires after March 28 require committee approval. March 25, 2020: University Chief Information Officer Sam Segran provided a list of best practices and other information for transitioning to online learning. March 24, 2020: President Lawrence Schovanec detailed the move to Phase IV of the Emergency Remote Work Status Operational Phases, which reduces on-campus staffing to those whose positions are mission critical. March 23, 2020: In a memo to University faculty and staff, CFO Noel Sloan and Assistant Vice President for Operations Sean Childers shared information on building access as work schedules become modified. March 23, 2020: The Office of the Provost produced an academic affairs FAQ page providing information on course delivery, thesis/dissertation defenses and many other questions that have arisen during the transition to online learning. March 22, 2020: In response to the need and potential shortage of personal protective equipment in the region, an outreach across Texas Tech University and the Health Sciences Center for available materials was issued by Vice President for Research Joe Heppert. This message follows previous communication to the TTU community March 21. March 19, 2020: President Lawrence Schovanec informed the university community that in-person commencement ceremonies will be canceled, but plans for a virtual ceremony are underway. March 18, 2020: Notification of student who tested positive for COVID-19 upon returning from overseas was shared with the campus community by President Lawrence Schovanec. March 17, 2020: President Lawrence Schovanec detailed information regarding online course instruction, campus dining, residence halls, among other areas, with the campus community. March 17, 2020: Effective immediately, Texas Tech researchers must begin working from home, per Vice President of Research and Innovation Joe Heppert. The letter outlined necessary steps for the transition. March 17, 2020: The Office of the President and Human Resources introduced a website through HR that offers guidance and provides resources for both managers and employees. March 16, 2020: All summer Study Abroad and Maymester programs are canceled; the memo also details information on reimbursements for Study Abroad and associated travel. March 16, 2020: President Lawrence Schovanec announced modified work policies for campus employees, beginning the process of remote work from home. March 15, 2020: TTU System Chancellor Tedd Mitchell shared a system-wide initiative via video regarding a modified work policy across the System's component institutions. President Lawrence Schovanec shared the video in a message with the campus community. March 13, 2020: The Office of the CIO shared helpful links and staff contact information for faculty and staff to reference during the transition to online learning and work. March 13, 2020: President Lawrence Schovanec gave a brief update on residence halls, student recreation center, Student Union Building and Student Health Services operations. March 12, 2020: In response to questions from the campus community, President Lawrence Schovanec shared an online repository for frequently asked questions and asked the community to continue submitting questions to his office's email account as he did March 11. March 12, 2020: Information on extending spring break and canceling a week of classes, event schedules and campus operations was outlined by President Lawrence Schovanec. March 9, 2020: President Lawrence Schovanec addressed Study Abroad updates and cancelations, University-sponsored travel, and personal travel. March 6, 2020: Jodie Billingsley, Assistant Vice President for Human Resources, asked all employees to follow steps to help reduce the transmission of communicable diseases in the workplace. March 2, 2020: Links to Centers for Disease Control and Prevention information and the University's COVID-19 website were shared by President Lawrence Schovanec. Contact information for various campus offices to assist faculty, staff and student questions were included. January 27, 2020: President Lawrence Schovanec issued communication to the campus community regarding the outbreak and symptoms of a new virus in China. The university also is monitoring the Study Abroad program as the situation develops. Office of Communications & Marketing Address 2625 Memorial Circle, Administration 212, Lubbock, TX 79409 Phone 806.742.2136 Email webmaster@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityMar 4, 2022 3:04 PM Office of Communications & Marketing Marketing Office of Communications & Marketing Marketing Back Identity Guidelines Official Logos Communications Office of Communications & Marketing Communications Back News Office of Communications & Marketing Communications Back Texas Tech Today Monthly e-Newsletter Event Announcements A List Emergency Office of Communications & Marketing Communications Back Emergency Communications Center General Emergency Procedures Social Media Office of Communications & Marketing Communications Back YouTube Facebook Twitter Foursquare Flickr LinkedIn Wikipedia Experts Guide Office of Communications & Marketing Communications Experts Guide Back Experts Guide About Office of Communications & Marketing Back Staff Work With Us Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index