Skip to Content Menu Audiences Clemson Home Faculty/Staff Resources Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift Prospective Students Current Students Research About Partner News Center for Human Genetics Job Openings Postdoctoral Fellow The laboratories of Trudy Mackay and Robert Anholt at the new Clemson University Center for Human Genetics invite applications for a postdoctoral fellow to support a newly awarded NIH grant. A major challenge of modern biology is to determine how DNA sequence variants give rise to phenotypic variation for complex organismal traits through modulation of regulatory gene networks. This research project seeks to reverse engineer natural genetic variation in Drosophila using CRISPR/Cas9 precise allelic replacement to functionally validate genetic associations of common and rare molecular variants and long non-coding RNAs with organismal phenotypes and transcriptional networks. The successful applicant will have expertise in CRISPR/Cas9 gene editing, next generation sequencing methods and analysis, Drosophila genetics and quantitative genetics. Applicants should have a strong record of research productivity, excellent oral and written communication skills, and the ability to perform independent as well as collaborative research. A Ph.D. in genetics or related field is required. Enquiries should be addressed to Dr. Trudy F.C. Mackay, Self Family Endowed Professor and Director of the Center for Human Genetics, Clemson University, Self Regional Hall, 114 Gregor Mendel Circle, Greenwood, SC 29646 or to tmackay@clemson.edu. Applications must include a cover letter explaining the qualifications for this position, a curriculum vitae with list of publications, and the names of three references. The position is available immediately. Clemson University is an equal opportunity employer. Applications should be submitted electronically at: https://apply.interfolio.com/53001 Clemson University Cluster Hire in Human Genetics Clemson University invites applications for three tenure-track assistant professor positions at the new Center for Human Genetics, with an expected start date of August 2020. The positions are broadly defined and will include individuals who use statistical, computational, bioinformatic, genetic, genomic and comparative evolutionary approaches to explore the genetic and environmental basis of human health and disease, and promote precision medicine. Areas of research may include — but are not limited to — genomic prediction, the role of gene-gene and gene-environment interactions in human genetics and methods to detect such interactions, de novo regulatory network construction, integration of data across many levels of biological organization, explicitly modeling variants of unknown significance from clinical sequencing in model systems, including cell lines, and expanding human genomic studies to include whole genome sequencing and discovery of regulatory variants affecting health and disease. The Center for Human Genetics is housed in Self Regional Hall, a new 17,000-square-foot building located in Greenwood, South Carolina, on the campus of the Greenwood Genetic Center. The Center for Human Genetics is ideally configured for collaborative research with excellent bioinformatics facilities and state-of-the-art molecular laboratories. The Center for Human Genetics and the Greenwood Genetic Center are well-equipped for genomics, proteomics and metabolomics research, including a NovaSeq 6000 sequencer. Successful applicants will be part of a collaborative and interdisciplinary environment that includes the research, diagnostic and clinical geneticists at the Greenwood Genetic Center, the genetics, genomics, statistics and bioinformatics faculty at Clemson University, the USC School of Medicine in Greenville and the Greenville Health System. The home department will be determined by the fit of the applicant’s research interests with the mission of one of the departments in the College of Science, including the Department of Genetics and Biochemistry, the School of Mathematical and Statisticall Sciences and the Department of Biological Sciences. Clemson University is South Carolina’s public land-grant University. As a Carnegie R1 Institution, the University has excellent research resources including the globally ranked Palmetto Cluster high performance computing cluster; Sciences Genomics and Bioinformatics Facility; state-of-the-art light microscopy, electron microscopy, animal or fish facilities; a multi-user analytical laboratory and metabolomics core; and the Campbell Museum of Natural History. The University and Center for Human Genetics are committed to building a diverse and inclusive community of faculty scholars dedicated to working and teaching in a multi-cultural environment. We encourage applications from women, minorities and individuals with a commitment to mentoring colleagues and students from demographic groups underrepresented in the sciences. We are also supportive of the needs of dual-career couples. Successful candidates must hold a doctoral degree and have postdoctoral experience. Competitive candidates will demonstrate an ability to develop a vigorous and independent, externally funded and nationally recognized research program; demonstrate teaching excellence and a commitment to diversity inclusion; and participate in relevant undergraduate and graduate education programs. Applicants should submit the following items via Interfolio at apply.interfolio.com/68162: (1) cover letter; (2) Curriculum Vitae; (3) statement of research interests including future plans; (4) statement of teaching interests and experience; (5) statement describing past experience and/or future plans to promote diversity and inclusion; and (6) up to three reprints in one PDF. Applicants should also arrange, through Interfolio, the submission of three confidential letters of recommendation on their behalf. Inquiries should be directed to Dr. Trudy Mackay. For full consideration, applications should be submitted by Oct. 18, 2019. Review will continue until the positions are filled. — Clemson University is an AA/EEO employer and does not discriminate against any person or group on the basis of age, color, disability, gender, pregnancy, national origin, race, religion, sexual orientation, veteran status or genetic information. Clemson University is building a culturally diverse faculty and staff committed to working in a multicultural environment and encourages applications from minorities and women. General Inquiries College of Science 112 Long Hall Clemson, SC 29634 ✉ science@clemson.edu ☏ 864-656-3015 Research Home Centers and Institutes OSP/Submit Proposal Post Award Illustrations/Editing Departments Biological Sciences Chemistry Genetics and Biochemistry School of Mathematical and Statistical Sciences Physics and Astronomy Centers and Institutes Clemson Center for Human Genetics Clemson Eukaryotic Pathogens Innovation Center Center for Excellence in Math and Science Education Life Sciences Outreach Center Statistics and Mathematics Consulting Center Give to the College Like Us on Facebook Copyright © 2019 Clemson University College of Science | 118 Long Hall, Clemson, SC 29634 864-656-3015 | Email Us