Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Information For Current Students Faculty Search BC.edu Links Economics Department Menu Main Nav Economics Department Economics Department Contact Back Back Close About Overview Giving to Economics News & Notes Contact People Overview Economics Faculty Expertise Faculty Openings Professional Affiliations and Editorial Positions Undergraduate Overview Major and Minor in Economics Course Offerings Advising and Registration Research, Graduate Study, & Co-Curricular Options Honors Program Senior Honors Thesis Study Abroad Related Links Frequently Asked Questions Graduate Overview Graduate Brochure Ph.D. Program Requirements Courses Admission Financial Aid Research Facilities Placements Ph.D. Candidates Seeking Employment Working Papers Overview Archive: Working Papers 198-525 Archive: Working Papers 526-800 Archive: Working Papers 801-925 Seminars Overview Applied Microeconomics Seminar BU-BC Econometrics Workshop BC-McGill Labor Seminar Dissertation Workshop Econometrics Seminar Green Line IO Meeting Green Line Macro Meeting International Trade Seminar IO All Stars Macroeconomics and Financial Economics Seminar Macroeconomics Lunch Microeconomics Seminar Micro Theory Lunch Recruitment Close Contact Directory A to Z Listing Search Morrissey College Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Current Students Faculty BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Economics Department Home Graduate Graduate Graduate Brochure Ph.D. Program Requirements Courses Admission Financial Aid Research Facilities Placements Ph.D. Candidates Seeking Employment Graduate Program The Department of Economics at Boston College is an exciting community of scholars from many countries who pursue applied and theoretical research on the pressing economic and social issues that face the world in the 21st century. The doctoral program is designed to train economists for careers in teaching and research by providing strong backgrounds in economic theory, quantitative research methods and applied fields. The graduate program in economics is dedicated to full-time Ph.D. students. Requirements include course work, comprehensive examinations, a doctoral dissertation, and a one-year residence requirement. The Department of Economics has a full-time graduate faculty of 32 and admits about 16 full-time students per year into the Ph.D. program. The size of the program permits the department to offer a broad range of courses while at the same time enabling students to receive a good deal of individual attention. The Ph.D. program has been classified as STEM (CIP Code 45.0603: Econometrics and Quantitative Economics). Students in STEM degree programs can apply for a 24 month STEM extension of F1 Optional Practical Training (OPT). Get Started Request Info Apply Now Ph.D. Candidates Seeking Employment #19 IDEAS rankings, 2020 among U.S. economics departments Where do our graduates work? University of Alberta, Edmonton Marco Brianti, 2021 Amazon Joe Cooprider, 2020 Santa Clara University Vito Cormun, 2020 European Central Bank Laura Gáti, 2021 The Brattle Group, Boston Bogdan Genchev, 2020 Xiamen University Liyang Hong, 2021 Analysis Group, Brussels Krisztina Horvath, 2020 Renmin University, Beijing Yushan Hu, 2020 University of Glasgow, Adam Smith Business School Zafer Kanik, 2020 Harris School of Public Policy at University of Chicago (teaching position) Navin Kumar, 2021 Deloitte Christina Letsou, 2020 Analysis Group, Boston Sajala Pandey, 2020 At a Glance How competitive is this program? We receive about 400 applications, accept up to 10% and end up with an incoming class of about 15 students. Chances for acceptance depend on the quality of the applicant pool for any given year. How much will it cost? Accepted students are offered funding for five years consisting of a stipend and tuition remission. Continued funding year to year is dependent upon students achieving certain academic benchmarks for each year in the program. There are no forms to fill out and there is no special aid program for international students. When can I start? Students can begin the program only in the fall semester. Application Information Print The admissions process works in this way: as the application deadline nears, the Admissions Committee begins to review all applications. Applications are reviewed as in a pool; i.e., decisions are made by taking all the applications for that year and comparing them. Each candidate's application is reviewed in its entirety and only complete applications will be considered. Deadlines Regular Decision January 2 Application Form Apply Now There is a $75 non-refundable required application fee that is used to process your application. You have the option to pay this online before submitting the application form. If you choose to wait to pay the fee, you will have the option to pay the fee through the Portal. Alternatively you may send a $75 non-refundable check or money order, made payable to Trustees of Boston College to the processing center or directly to the Admissions office. Fee Waiver Form Academic Background A strong training in mathematics is essential to be successful in our program; the minimum recommended courses are: three calculus courses, courses in linear and matrix algebra, a course in real analysis, and a “real” statistics course. The committee has found that achieving a score of at least 166 in the quantitative exam in the GRE is beneficial for success in the program (the accepted applicants' average score this year is 166); this is considered of prime importance in the evaluation of applications. Statement of Purpose We require a brief (1-2 pages) personal statement in which applicants should discuss their preparation, motivation, and goals for their proposed courses of study. If you have any questions about the statement please contact the department. Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation are required and may be submitted electronically with the application form. Recommendations may also be received in hard copy at the GSAS Admissions office as an alternative. If you are presently employed, we recommend requesting letters from one or preferably two professors with whom you’ve studied in the past, particularly a math professor. Work experience is given no formal weight in evaluating an applicant’s chance for admission. Recommendation letters from employers tend to be flattering but uninformative. Letters on file with university placement offices are acceptable if sent directly by the university and signed by a placement official. Request that the recommendations be mailed with a signature across the envelope flap. If BC receives a recommendation with a broken seal the application may be disqualified. A recommender may prefer to mail his/her recommendation directly to us. If this is the case you should take whatever steps are necessary to verify that the recommendation has been sent to BC. Transcripts Unofficial transcripts may be uploaded to your online Application Form for purposes of application review. However, official transcript(s) must also be submitted upon acceptance/matriculation. Both undergraduate and graduate transcripts are required. Official transcripts should be sent to the following address: Boston College, Lynch School of Education Data Processing Center P.O. Box 8027 Portsmouth, NH 03802 For FedEx or UPS shipments, please use this address: Boston College, Lynch School of Education Office of Graduate Admission, Financial Aid, and Student Services Campion Hall 135 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Standardized Tests The GRE is required, general test only; the subject test is not required. Applications without GRE scores will be considered incomplete; decisions for acceptance will not be made without GRE scores. We accept only original score reports for the GRE & TOEFL and IELTS exams; no copies will be accepted. GRE scores are only official when submitted directly from ETS. We require scores of the general Graduate Record Examination (GRE). Applicants who have not taken the GREs within the last five years should contact their intended department to see if more recent scores are required. The Graduate School recommends that you register for the GREs early so that the scores will be available when applying. For information regarding test dates, etc., contact: The Graduate Record Examination ETS Princeton, New Jersey www.ets.org A strong training in mathematics is essential to be successful in our program; the minimum recommended courses are: three calculus courses, courses in linear and matrix algebra, a course in real analysis, and a “real” statistics course. The committee has found that achieving a score of at least 166 in the quantitative exam in the GRE is beneficial for success in the program (the accepted applicants' average score this year is 166); this is considered of prime importance in the evaluation of applications. Note: If you have personal score reports available from earlier examinations you may include them with your application, however, you must request ETS to send official score reports to the Graduate School directly: Boston College, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, Code 3083. Application Status Check If you submitted the application form online you should receive an E-mail from BC containing a user name and password to log into the Agora Portal. Through Agora you can check the status of your application by clicking on the Application Status tab. You must choose the correct school to which you applied. If you applied to a number of BC Graduate Schools, you will only receive one E-mail containing the above information. If you did not receive an E-mail with credentials you can access the Web Application Status Check here. You will be asked to provide your assigned ID number or confirmation number you received from submitting the application form online. Note: If you are submitting additional application items beyond a department-specified requirement (i.e. official transcripts from more than one institution or an extra letter of recommendation) please contact the GSAS Admissions office to ensure receipt of all items. International Students The Graduate School of Arts and Sciences requires students who speak a native language other than English to provide evidence of English proficiency Evidence of English Proficiency through the TOEFL and IELTS. A score of 100 or higher on the TOEFL iBT test or 7.0 or higher on the IELTS test is required. TOEFL and IELTS scores are considered valid from exams taken a maximum of two years prior to application program deadlines. Remember to enter the Boston College School Code 3083 when taking the TOEFL exam to ensure GSAS receives your score report; If submitting the IELTS score report, please send results to the GSAS Admissions Office or designate GSAS as your score report recipient. Proof of English proficiency is not required if: You are a citizen of Australia, Canada (except Quebec), Great Britain, Ireland, New Zealand, Guyana, an Anglophone country of Africa, or an English-speaking country of the Caribbean. You earned your prior college or university degree in the U.S. or one of the countries listed above or at an institution whose official language of instruction is English. The language proficiency requirement will be waived from your application upon receipt of an official transcript noting degree conferral from said institution. You are currently enrolled as a full-time student in a U.S. degree-granting program or at an American or English-speaking school in one of the countries listed above or at an institution whose official language of instruction is English and will have completed two academic years of college/university work before beginning your studies at BC. The language proficiency requirement will be waived from your application upon receipt of an official transcript noting two years/4 semesters completed at said institution. There is a financial consideration involved for international students. Each year there is a specific amount of money which an international student must certify that he/she has to be able to live in this area of the United States; the amounts granted in the awards of assistantships and/or tuition remission do not equal this requirement. Students are required to make up the difference with funds from their own resources. If you are accepted into the program, the visa process cannot be initiated until the financial requirement has been satisfied. The Office of International Students and Scholars (Tel. 617-552-8005; e-mail: bcis@bc.edu) make all decisions on the issuance of visas. Please communicate directly with them concerning visa matters. Learning Outcomes The department's Ph.D. students are expected to master advanced economic theory, research methods, and two economic subfields, and produce original contributions to the discipline so as to enjoy professionally rewarding careers in Economics. These include (i) tenure-track positions at high-quality Ph.D.-granting universities and/or the top primarily undergraduate colleges around the world, (ii) research positions in top non-academic research departments spanning domestic (e.g., U.S. Federal Reserve Banks), foreign (e.g., the European Central Bank), and international organizations (e.g., the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank), and (iii) employment in the private sector (e.g., leading consulting firms). Graduate students are expected to adhere to the principles of scientific integrity by responsibly using economic data and research methods and giving appropriate attribution to original work and source material. Graduate students selected to serve as teaching assistants or teaching fellows in the department's undergraduate program are expected to develop and apply best practice teaching methods. Back To Top Back To Top Economics Department Maloney Hall, Third Floor 617-552-3670 Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Gasson Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Contact Departments Art, Art History, and Film Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics Engineering English German Studies History Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Romance Languages and Literatures Slavic & Eastern Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology Giving to economics Apply Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College