Skip To Main Content Report an Accessibility Barrier The Department for Disability Support Services Search | Menu Search Resources Email Canvas Banner PiratePort PirateID IT Help Videoconferencing Engage Work Request Directory Maps Virtual Tour A-Z Index Academic Calendar Event Calendar Catalog PRR Catalog A-Z Recently Updated Interim Repealed About Policy Sources University Policy Committee Help PRRs> Academic Affairs> Grades, Undergraduate> Consequences for Faculty Who Fail to Submit Grades - Version 1 Consequences for Faculty Who Fail to Submit Grades Version 1 (Current Version) Print All Versions: Version 1 Policy REG02.25.01 Title Consequences for Faculty Who Fail to Submit Grades Category Academic Affairs Sub-category Grades, Undergraduate Authority Academic Council History First Adopted: June 2010 Contact Associate Provost for Academic Affairs (328-0607) Related Policies ECU Faculty Manual, Part VI; ECU Faculty Manual, Part IX, Part XI; UNC Code, Section 603 Additional References 1. Purpose With the implementation of the Banner system, effective Fall 2007, faculty no longer have a 48-hour deadline (after the exam is given) to submit grades. The Office of the Registrar provides the deadline in the memo sent to ECU Official, and available on their website, by which all grades must be submitted. Grades must be submitted electronically not later than the deadline established by the Office of the Registrar. This regulation outlines the consequences for faculty who fail to submit grades prior to the submission deadline. 2. Consequences 2.1 Upon notification from the Office of the Registrar, the unit administrator will determine why the grades were not submitted by the approved deadline. 2.1.1. If the unit administrator determines that the faculty member whose grades were not submitted by the approved deadline did not get his or her grades recorded due to circumstances outside his or her control, then no further action will be taken by the unit administrator. 2.1.2 If the unit administrator determines that the faculty member whose grades were not submitted by the approved deadline is at fault, the unit administrator will initiate the consequences as specified in this regulation. 2.2 First Offense ‹ The Department Chair or Director will initiate a meeting with the faculty member within 30 days after the grade submission deadline, and a written summary of that meeting will be provided to the faculty member and placed in his/her personnel file. Emphasis will be placed on contractual obligations of faculty relative to submission of grades and professional neglect of duty or misconduct, as well as detailed information regarding the faculty member‰s failure to comply with such contractual obligations and professional standards. 2.3 Second Offense ‹ The Dean will initiate a meeting with the faculty member within 30 days after the grade submission deadline, and a written reprimand from the Dean and appropriate Vice Chancellor will be provided to the faculty member and placed in his/her personnel file. This reprimand will be reflected in the faculty member‰s annual evaluation and consideration for merit adjustments. 2.4 Third Offense ‹ The faculty member will no longer be eligible to earn additional compensation, including summer teaching, overload, etc., as well as the benefit of university sponsored travel for a period of two years. 2.5 Fourth and Subsequent Offenses ‹ A faculty member who fails on four or more occasions to submit grades prior to the submission deadlines may be subject to imposition of serious sanctions in a manner consistent with Section 603 of The Code of the Board of Governors of The University of North Carolina and Part IX of the ECU Faculty Manual. 2.6 If the faculty member appropriately submits grades as per established university policies and procedures for a period of three consecutive years, the consequences noted above will reset for any subsequent offense. 2.7 At the end of the academic year, the dean is responsible for generating a report which shall include the names of violators for the academic year and the consequence as defined in this regulation. East Carolina University E 5th Street | Greenville, NC 27858 | 252-328-6131 ©2022 | Terms of Use | Accessibility | Report a Barrier