Brown University Quick Exit General Health Physical Health Acne Asthma Breast Exams Bronchitis Colds Concussion Headaches Meningitis Mononucleosis Sleep Seasonal Flu Sun Safety and Skin Cancer Stomach Flu Testicular Self-Exams Travel and Health Yeast Infection Emotional Wellbeing Mindfulness Sleep Stress Self-Care Techniques for Stress Relief Wellness on Campus Social Wellbeing Community, Connection and Coping: Remote Resources Consent Economic Stress Roommate Relationships Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Bacterial Vaginosis Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy Gender Care GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Premature Ejaculation Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Accessing Care Gender Care GYN Visits LGBTQ Health Care at Health Services Men's Health Exams Pregnancy Tests STI Testing Options Resources and Links Nutrition & Eating Concerns Eating Well at Brown Being a Vegetarian Dietary Guidelines Eating Off Meal Plan Meal Plan And Dining Information Supplements Eating Concerns and Body Image Body Image Concerns Eating Concerns Help at Brown Sports Nutrition Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S) Sports Nutrition Accessing Care Help at Brown Worried about a Friend Sexual Health Sex 101 SHAG! Erectile Dysfunction Orgasm Premature Ejaculation Sex and Alcohol Sex Toys Sexually Explicit Media Contraception Birth Control Pills Cervical Cap Condoms Depo-Provera Emergency Contraception Fertility Awareness Method Implant Internal Condoms IUD Ortho Evra (The Patch) Ring Spermicides and Lubricants The Recent Election & Contraception Access Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Yeast Infection Safer Sex Ship n SHAG! Sexual Health and Safer Sex During Covid-19 Abstinence Condoms Dental Dams Internal Condoms Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) Pre Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Safer Sex Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) STIs AIDS/HIV Bacterial Vaginosis Chlamydia Colposcopy Gonorrhea Hepatitis B Herpes HPV and Genital Warts HPV Vaccine Molluscum Contagiosum Oral Sex and STIs Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pubic Lice and Scabies Sexually Transmitted Infections Syphilis Talking with a Partner STI Testing Options Trichomoniasis Urinary Tract Infections Yeast Infection Sexual Assault & Dating Violence Get Help Sexual Assault Response Line SHARE Advocates Dating Violence First Five Days After an Assault Male Survivors Sexual Violence and Assault Sexual Harassment Stalking Help a Friend SHARE Advocates How to Help a Friend Get Involved in Prevention Interrupting the Red Zone: How we keep each other safe Culture of Respect Collective Sexual Assault Peer Education (SAPE) Help Prevent Sexual Assault Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Relationships and Communication Consent Dating Violence Learn More Common Reactions to Sexual Violence and Assault Predatory Drugs Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Sexual Violence: Key Terms Resources and Links Alcohol & Other Drugs Alcohol Alcohol and Your Body Recognizing a Problem Risks and Realities Sex and Alcohol Ways to Cut Down Other Drugs Caffeine Cocaine Ecstasy Energy Drinks GHB Inhalants Ketamine LSD Marijuana Methamphetamine Predatory Drugs Psilocybin (Mushrooms) Rohypnol Tobacco Smokeless Tobacco Smoking Cessation Tobacco Learn More Law and Policy Summary Educational Links Accessing Care Resources at Brown Off Campus Resources Calling EMS How to Help a Friend Quit Smoking How to Talk to a Friend about Drinking or Drug Use Google Tag Manager Get Help Sexual Harassment The University takes sexual harassment very seriously, and there are many resources on campus to address this problem. This page focuses on providing information and resources for students. For a more detailed discussion of these policies, you can refer to the Title IX website. What is sexual harassment? Federal law (Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972) protects students from unlawful sexual and gender-based harassment in all school programs and activities. Brown's Title IX Policy defines sexual and gender-based harassment as follows: Sexual Harassment is any unwelcome sexual advance, request for sexual favors, or other unwanted conduct of a sexual nature, whether verbal, non-verbal, graphic, physical, electronic, or otherwise, when one or more of the following conditions are present: (i.) Submission to or rejection of such conduct is either an explicit or implicit term or condition of, or is used as the basis for decisions affecting, an individual’s employment or advancement in employment, evaluation of academic work or advancement in an academic program, or basis for participation in any aspect of a Brown University program or activity (quid pro quo); and/or (ii.) Such conduct has the purpose or effect of unreasonably interfering with an individual’s learning, working, or living environment; in other words, it is sufficiently severe, pervasive, or persistent as to create an intimidating, hostile, or offensive learning, working, or living environment under both an objective and subjective standard (hostile environment). Gender-Based Harassment includes harassment based on sex or gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, or gender expression, which may include acts of intimidation or hostility, whether verbal or non-verbal, graphic, physical, or otherwise, even if the acts do not involve conduct of a sexual nature. The policy also lists examples of behaviors that could fall under the category of sexual or gender-based harassment: Inappropriate physical conduct, including unwelcome touching or sexual advances within the working, living, or learning environment; Persistent and inappropriate personal attention from one colleague to another in the face of repeated rejection; Inappropriate verbal conduct, including lewd or sexually suggestive comments, jokes, or innuendoes, or unwelcome comments about an individual’s sexual orientation, gender, gender identity, or gender expression; or Inappropriate written conduct, including letters, notes, or electronic communications, containing comments, words, jokes, or images that are lewd or sexually suggestive or relate in an unwelcome manner to an individual’s sexual orientation, gender, gender identity, or gender expression. Who can be a victim of sexual harassment? Anyone can be a victim of sexual harassment regardless of gender or gender identity. The victim does not have to be the person directly harassed but could be anyone affected by the offensive conduct. Who can be a sexual harasser? The harasser may be a person of any gender identity. Sexual harassment may occur between any members of the Brown community, for example, between faculty and students, faculty and faculty, students and staff, and student and student. While sexual harassment often occurs when there is a power differential, it can also happen between peers or colleagues where there is no power difference. Can one incident constitute sexual harassment? It depends. In "quid pro quo" cases, a single sexual advance may constitute harassment if it is linked to the granting or denial of employment or educational advancement. In contrast, a single incident of offensive sexual conduct or remarks generally does not create a "hostile environment." A hostile environment claim usually requires a showing of a pattern of offensive conduct. However, a single incident that is severe could create a hostile environment. It is important to remember that every situation is unique and needs to be evaluated based on several factors, including the nature of the behavior, the frequency and context of the behavior, and the relationship between the people involved. Because of this, we recommend talking to any one of the resources listed below so that you can better understand the situation, your options and your rights. What can I do to prevent sexual harassment? We can all step in to ensure that our community is more free from harassment. If you notice that someone is uncomfortable with comments that someone else is making, you can: Interrupt or distract in the moment; and/or engage your peers or authorities all while keeping in mind your own safety and the safety of the victim in the situation. Again, considering your own safety and the safety of the victim, first, you can also pull aside the person who is harassing and ask them to discontinue the behavior depending on your relationship and power to influence the situation. Take proactive steps within your workplace or other community to ensure that training and policies around these topics are in place, and prioritized appropriately. It is important to be aware that sexual remarks or physical conduct of a sexual nature may be offensive or can make some people uncomfortable even if you wouldn't feel the same way yourself. Follow these guidelines to help avoid making someone else uncomfortable: Do not repeat behavior if you have been told that it is not wanted. If you are in doubt, stop the behavior. Ask if something you do or say is being perceived as offensive or unwelcome. If the answer is yes, stop the behavior. Do not interpret someone's silence as consent. Look for other nonverbal signals. Do not retaliate if someone accuses you of sexual harassment. Retaliation is against the law and is considered an additional or separate offense. What do I do if I think I'm being sexually harassed? Whether sexual harassment comes from a person in authority or a peer, it is not acceptable. Brown regards any behavior which is sexually harassing as a violation of the standards of conduct required for everyone associated with the University, whether faculty, staff or students. If you are being sexually harassed, there are a number of things you can do: Tell the person that their behavior is making you uncomfortable, if you feel that you can do this. There are other ways of addressing the situation if this approach is not right for you. Save any written material, including pictures, notes and email, that is part of the harassment. You may be tempted to get rid of it immediately, especially if it is offensive. However, your feelings may change over time about whether or not you want to file a complaint, and that physical evidence will be very helpful in holding someone accountable. Know your rights and Brown's policies. You can contact any of the resources below and ask about services, confidentiality and the process of filing a complaint. You can call a staff member anonymously to discuss the situation and then decide what to do next. By discussing the situation with a staff member, you will learn about the options available to you. These options may include: Informal resolution Intervention by a third party (such as a Dean of the College) Formal complaint process for faculty, students, or staff How do I help a friend? It's important to take what your friend says seriously. Experiencing sexual harassment can be confusing and difficult to sort out. Providing a sympathetic ear will help your friend feel understood. Learn as much as you can about the available resources. It may be difficult for your friend to take the first step to talk to someone. You can call any of the resources and discuss the situation without identifying the people involved or filing a formal complaint. Gathering this information for your friend can help them make the best decision for their situation. Don't confront the harasser in a threatening way. Although it is normal to want to do this, it may only make things worse for your friend. Encourage your friend to save any physical evidence, including notes, pictures and emails. If your friend decides to file a complaint at some point, this evidence will be very important. If you are a residence hall staff member, be sure to follow your reporting protocols. It's important to recognize that hearing about your friend's situation could affect you in many different ways. Taking care of yourself will enable you to provide your friend with better support. Where do I go for help? Campus, Confidential Resources: Counseling and Psychological Services 401.863-3476, First Floor of Health & Wellness Center, 450 Brook Street. Clinicians provide confidential crisis support, follow-up appointments, and 24-hour on-call services for any Brown student dealing with sexual harassment. Located at Page-Robinson Hall, Room 516. BWell SHARE Adovates (Sexual Harm Acute Response & Empowerment), [email protected], 401.863-2794, Ground Level of Health & Wellness Center, 450 Brook Street. The SHARE (Sexual Harm Acute Response & Empowerment) Advocates in BWell Health Promotion are confidential resources at Brown that can provide support to any student from any part of the University (undergraduate, graduate, and medical students) affected by issues or experiences related to: Sexual Assault, Sexual and/or Gender-based Harassment, Domestic/Dating Violence, Relational Abuse, or Stalking, that has taken place at any time in their lives. Confidential services include acute responses or ongoing empowerment-based support for a survivor or the friends of a survivor, including help filing a complaint (if that is the student's choice) and/or navigating resources at Brown and in the community.*This is a survivor-centered resource for people who have experienced sexual harm. Chaplains Office 401.863-2344 The Chaplains are available for personal counseling and support. Call to make an appointment. Located in Page-Robinson Hall, Room 410. Campus, Not Confidential Resources: Sexual Harassment Information Liaisons If you would like assistance or wish to report sexually harassing behavior by faculty, staff, or students, use this link to get current contact information. Brown Department of Public Safety 401.863-3322 You may also direct any complaints to the Department of Public Safety. Off-Campus Resources: RI Commission for Human Rights 401.222-2661 Investigates charges of sexual harassment and other forms of discrimination. Office of Civil Rights, Department of Education - Boston Office (617)223-9662 Equal Employment Opportunity Commission - Boston Office (617)565-3200 Related Links Office of Institutional Diversity This web page provides extensive information on the definition of sexual harassment, available resources at Brown and the options for informal resolutions and disciplinary options. Explains confidentiality and the limits of confidentiality when sexual harassment is reported. Sexual Harassment Internet Resources A list of several different links provided by the Feminist Majority Foundation. US Department of Education This website lists several publications on sexual harassment and the educational setting. US Equal Employment Opportunity Commission This website contains fact sheets and recent court decisions on sexual harassment. About BWell: Quick Links About Us Staff Confidential Appointments Sexual Assault Response Line Workshops Peer Education Programs Health Empowerment Tools PHONE NUMBERS 401.863-2794 Health Promotion 401.863-3953 Health Services 401.863-6000 Sexual Assault Response Line 401.863-4111 EMS 401.863-3476 Counseling & Psychological Services 401.863-4111 DPS Make an Appointment How to Help a Friend When someone has been sexually assaulted, chances are that they will turn to a friend for help. You are an important person to the survivor; this is why the survivor shared this experience with you. Knowing how to respond will be very helpful in your friend's recovery. This page offers guidance on how to best support your friend. Get Involved Meet Our Staff About Us Make an Appointment Brown University BWell Health Promotion Health and Wellness Brown University Box 1928 450 Brook Street Providence, Rhode Island, 02912 Phone 401-863-2794 Fax 401-863-7953 [email protected] © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Related Offices Brown EMS Counseling and Psychological Services Health Services Social Media BWell on Facebook SHAG on Facebook BURP on Facebook Health Services on Facebook