Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Okta Outlook More Sign Ons... Iowa State University News Service Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search News Releases Video Resources Broadcast studio Campus images Faculty, staff headshots More News Inside Iowa State Employee announcements Student announcements Campus news Change agents The Conversation Futurity Contact us Iowa State spring commencement events are May 12-14 Posted May 11, 2022 8:00 am AMES, Iowa – An estimated 5,039 students are completing degrees from Iowa State this semester and will be honored during graduation events May 12-14 in Hilton Coliseum. All commencement ceremonies are in-person, but will be livestreamed for those who opt to view online. Due to high interest among undergraduates this spring to attend the university commencement – 80% of an estimated 4,274 bachelor's degree recipients – Iowa State will hold three undergraduate ceremonies Saturday, May 14. The initial plan called for two, but adding an evening ceremony provides the capacity at Hilton Coliseum for graduating students to invite as many guests as they would like – a long-standing Iowa State tradition. University registrar Jennifer Suchan said nearly 1,000 more students are attending commencement this spring than the previous largest event, May 2017's outdoor ceremony at Jack Trice Stadium. "Even prior to the pandemic, the participation percentages at commencement were going up," Suchan said. "What I think we're seeing this spring is a function of the disruption of the last two and a half years. People want to celebrate, they want something joyous to come together for. The past few years have given people a different perspective on these milestone events in life." Each ceremony will honor the graduates of two academic colleges: 9 a.m., Ivy College of Business, College of Liberal Arts and Sciences 2:30 p.m., College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, College of Engineering 6:30 p.m., College of Design, College of Human Sciences Graduate College ceremony Events begin Thursday evening, May 12, with a 7 p.m. Graduate College ceremony that will celebrate the accomplishments of an estimated 443 master's degree and 169 doctoral degree candidates. Alumnus Qijing Zhang, Clarence Hartley Covault Distinguished Professor, associate dean for research and graduate studies in the College of Veterinary Medicine, and professor of veterinary microbiology and preventive medicine, will give the address. Earlier this month, Zhang was elected to the National Academy of Sciences for his research achievements in building a world-class research program on antimicrobial resistance and food safety. Honorary degrees Ford Alumna Beth Ford, president and chief executive officer of Land O'Lakes, is the guest speaker at the morning ceremony and will receive a Doctor of Humane Letters honorary degree for her "many outstanding contributions as a pioneering leader in business and agriculture and advocate for farmers and rural communities." The Sioux City native earned a bachelor's degree in business administration from Iowa State in 1986. She has been recognized by Fortune as one of the world's 50 Greatest Leaders and Most Powerful Women, among other honors. She was featured in the New York Times' Corner Office column and profiled in a 2019 "60 Minutes" segment, "The Farmers Advocate." Suresh Alumnus Subra Suresh, president and Distinguished University Professor at Nanyang Technological University, Singapore, will address the afternoon graduates and also receive a Doctor of Science honorary degree for "many outstanding contributions as a distinguished engineer, scientist, entrepreneur and leader in higher education." Suresh received his master's degree in mechanical engineering from Iowa State in 1979. He served as director of the U.S. National Science Foundation (2010-13) and president of Carnegie Mellon University (2013-17). Suresh is among a rare group of researchers elected to all three of the national academies in this country: National Academy of Sciences, National Academy of Engineering and National Academy of Medicine. President Wendy Wintersteen will address graduates at the evening ceremony. Contacts Jennifer Suchan, Registrar’s Office, jsuchan@iastate.edu, 515-294-8381 Angie Hunt, News Service, amhunt@iastate.edu, 515-294-8986 Quick look An estimated 5,039 students are completing degrees from Iowa State this semester and will be honored during graduation events May 12-14 in Hilton Coliseum. All commencement ceremonies are in-person, but will be livestreamed for those who opt to view online. Each university ceremony will honor the graduates of two academic colleges: 9 a.m., Ivy College of Business, College of Liberal Arts and Sciences 2:30 p.m., College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, College of Engineering 6:30 p.m., College of Design, College of Human Sciences Undergraduate college convocations Iowa State colleges also will honor their graduating seniors during special events Friday into Saturday morning. Events at Hilton will be livestreamed. Agriculture and Life Sciences, 10 a.m. Friday, Hilton Coliseum Business, 4 p.m. Friday, Hilton Coliseum Design, 9 a.m. Saturday, Stephens Auditorium Engineering (by department), various locations and start times Human Sciences, 1 p.m. Friday, Hilton Coliseum Liberal Arts and Sciences, 7 p.m. Friday, Hilton Coliseum Strategic Relations and Communications News Service 2420 Lincoln Way, Suite 201 Ames, Iowa 50014-8340 news@iastate.edu 515-294-8986 phone Facebook @iowastateunews @iowastateu YouTube Social Media Directory Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Loading...