Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Biology PhD You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Biology PhD Apply Request More Info Biology PhD Admissions Biology/Neuroscience PhD Careers & Opportunities Curriculum Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Biology PhD Gain the experience to make significant contributions to biological research with the Biology PhD program in the College of Science and Technology. The Biology PhD degree provides a rigorous, research-focused course of study. You’ll be prepared to pursue multiple career pathways related to the biological sciences, including postdoctoral and academic positions, and in related industries, such as biotechnology, bioengineering, healthcare and pharmaceutics. The Biology PhD program provides opportunities for you to receive funding for your degree with either a teaching or research assistantship, and a tuition waiver. Biology PhD students are afforded the chance to choose which lab they want to join. During your first year, you can choose a specific research group immediately or you can rotate up to three research groups before deciding on a lab. Once you are admitted to candidacy, you’ll pursue specialized research toward the completion of your degree. Faculty members perform cutting-edge research in different areas of specialization that include cellular, developmental and molecular biology; cellular and molecular neuroscience, which investigates the central nervous system and the mechanisms it governs; computational biology, which focuses on computational evolutionary genomics; ecology, an interdisciplinary field that investigates the complex relationships between living organisms and their environments; evolutionary medicine, an interdisciplinary field that examines contemporary human disease within the larger context of evolutionary history; genetic epidemiology, an interdisciplinary field that examines the impact of genetic and environmental factors on modern human disease; and population genetics, a subfield of genetics and evolutionary biology that examines genetic change over time within and between populations. Learn more about core faculty members who work in each of these disciplines. Coursework is interdisciplinary and students are encouraged to participate in research across other fields, including biochemistry, chemistry, computer science, ecology, environmental science, engineering, mathematics and physics. Doctoral candidates perform innovative research in many of the College of Science and Technology’s state-of-the-art centers and facilities, including the Center for Biodiversity, focused on the conservation, education and research of species and their impact on the environment; Center for Biophysics and Computational Biology, an interdisciplinary center that explores theoretical and experimental research to define problems in the evolution of proteins, molecular recognition and structural biology; and Sbarro Health Research Organization, where genetic research investigates treatments and cures to chronic illnesses such as cancer, cardiovascular disease and diabetes. Learn more about the Department of Biology’s research centers and facilities Program Requirements Doctoral candidates have seven years to complete the required courses and examination, as well as a dissertation. All candidates must fulfill the following requirements for successful completion of the Biology PhD program. The preliminary examination is designed to test a student’s understanding of biological phenomena, specific research areas and scientific writing. The preliminary examination comprises an original research proposal, a 15- to 20-page proposal that introduces a research problem and the student’s methodological plan for investigating the problem, and the oral examination, which is administered after a student’s research proposal has been approved and tests a student’s understanding of the background and substance of the research proposal. (If a student’s research proposal is not approved, the student is considered to have not passed the oral examination.) The doctoral dissertation is an original, empirical study that demonstrates a student's knowledge of research methods and mastery of the primary area of research. All dissertation research is conducted under the guidance of the Doctoral Advisory Committee. The final dissertation defense is the culminating event for Biology PhD candidates. Students must successfully pass the dissertation defense for completion of the Biology PhD degree. All Biology PhD candidates must have experience teaching at Temple for a minimum of two semesters. This requirement can be satisfied through teaching assistantships in the Department of Biology. Learn more about the Biology PhD examination and dissertation requirements. Classes & Curriculum Following coursework in the first one to two years, you'll advance to candidacy and engage in research opportunities across the many labs and disciplines represented by faculty members. Doctoral students will undertake a preliminary examination, as well as an original dissertation, to demonstrate their knowledge of research methods and mastery of their primary research area. The Biology PhD curriculum requires 36 credit hours, including 15 hours of graduate seminar courses. Some of these courses include Analytical Biotechnology, Cellular and Molecular Neuroscience, Contemporary Biology, General Biochemistry, and Evolutionary Genetics Genomics. Learn more about required courses for the Biology PhD. Related Graduate Degrees Bioinformatics PhD Biotechnology PSM Scientific Writing PSM Bioengineering PhD* *College of Engineering Related Graduate Certificates Scientific Writing Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Doctor of Philosophy offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,205.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,567.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors Faculty advisors can help you navigate your program and discuss research opportunities. There are two graduate advisors for the Department of Biology. Richard Waring is a professor and the graduate chair in the Department of Biology. Phone: 215-204-8877 Email: richard.waring@temple.edu Sandhya Verma is the graduate administrator in the Department of Biology. Phone: 215-204-8854 Email: sandhya.verma@temple.edu Program Contact Richard Waring is the faculty contact for the Department of Biology. Phone: 215-204-8877 Email: richard.waring@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations If you can find the time to participate while meeting the demands of your degree program, student clubs offer valuable opportunities to meet fellow graduate students, researchers and professionals from science- and technology-related industries. Clubs and organizations for students pursuing a Biology degree include the Alliance for Minority Participation in STEM, which works to increase opportunities for students and help them complete their undergraduate and graduate degrees in STEM. the Biology Graduate Student Society, an organization that develops professional and leadership skills in doctoral students as well as encourages them to participate in public outreach. Leadership, Education and Development in Science, an organization that empowers Philadelphia middle school students to form an interest in STEM through science experiments and mentors. the Temple University Forensics Association, which helps students form an interest in forensic science through field trips and professional networking opportunities. Explore the full list of College of Science and Technology student clubs and organizations. Study Away If the demands of your degree program allow it, consider spending a summer or semester overseas building international connections with researchers from other countries. Temple’s study abroad program offers College of Science and Technology students opportunities to spend a summer or semester studying in China, Germany, Italy, South Korea or Taiwan. Learn more about your study abroad options. Accreditation As a division within Temple University, the College of Science and Technology is accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. ST-BIOL-PHD Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Biology PhD Admissions Biology/Neuroscience PhD Careers & Opportunities Curriculum Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info