COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU News Courtesy May 05, 2022Access and AffordabilityW. Frank Barton School of BusinessmarketingGraduate ProfilesInternational business Meet a Shocker: Truc Nguyen By Sara Ornelas, Marketing Content Strategist Truc Nguyen took full advantage of the professional and personal opportunities available to her during her time at Wichita State University. Truc is one of more than 2,400 students eligible for spring 2022 graduation. Learn more about her time at Wichita State and what is next for the grad. Hometown Vietnam until she moved to Wichita when she was 11. Degree International Business and Marketing What made you want to attend Wichita State? Wichita has one the best engineering programs in the United States. How are you feeling leading up to graduation? Wichita State had many scholarships opportunities helped me lift the financial burden from my dream of being to pursue higher education. The staff that I met were also very helpful during my college search. Everyone seemed really genuine and willing to help What was been your biggest challenge as a student, and how did you overcome it? My biggest challenge as a student definitely was figuring out myself. In college, I find it very hard at times to prioritize self-care and self-discovery when there are a million other things that need my attention. There were moments when I had many self-doubts about who I am and what I want to do. However, I had many people around me who supported me unconditionally, which made it a lot easier to feel loved and cared for during those moments when I couldn't do that for myself. Eventually, I've come to terms that it’s OK not to be OK or not to know exactly what I want to do. As long as I keep moving and trying new things, I'll eventually end up with where I am meant to be and when I am meant to be. What has been your most helpful learning experience at Wichita State? My most helpful learning experience at Wichita State was my applied learning experience as part of the Barton International Group. The Barton International Group is a student-run consulting company that offers students of all majors opportunities to work on a real-life project and make real contribution to our community. Through my involvement with them, I've gained both personal and professional skills that really helped me grow as a leader and as a professional. What are your plans after graduation? After graduation, I'll be moving to the city of Columbus, Ohio, to join Abercrombie and Fitch Co. as an assistant planner. I'm very excited, as I've always wanted to work in the fashion industry. The people I've met at the company so far are very genuine and nice. I believe this will be a great growing opportunity professionally and personally How did the COVID-19 pandemic affect your time at Wichita State? The pandemic definitely took away some precious in-person time away from my college experience. However, I believe that my support system at Wichita State grew stronger as we all learn to prioritize each other’s presence and mental health. My professors were very understanding of how the pandemic might have impacted me, and I felt very understood during those hard times. Coming back into an in-person setting this past year, my friends and I now value each other's presence more, as we never know what will happen next. What advice would you give other Wichita State students? Wichita state is what you want to make of it. There are many opportunities for you to foster lifetime relationships and personal development. If you ever feel stuck or have doubts about whether you are walking down the right path, just keep swimming and you will end up where you are meant to be when you were meant to be. It's OK to change your course. Sometimes it's better to take a step back and take things one step at a time. Don't be too hard on yourself. International Business The International Business program at Wichita State University is a multidisciplinary program. You will take classes from various departments in the Barton School of Business, as well as courses in political science, language, and culture. Learn more about international business at Wichita State Read more stories like this Related Stories Talent Pipeline Beyond the Classroom: Anllir Ramirez-Tenorio Access and Affordability Beyond the Classroom: Keegan Staats WSU Foundation Woolseys give $1.3 million to fulfill vision for Wayne and Kay Woolsey Hall Graduates Meet a Shocker: Rola Khaleel 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©