Skip to global navigation Skip to page navigation Skip to content Skip to footer For Current Students, Faculty & Staff Close internal resources For current Butler students, faculty, and staff Directory My.Butler Access Email Canvas Resources For Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Library Academic Calendar Event Calendar Maps & Directions Parking BUPD Search Close Site Search Search for pages, PDFs, and contact information Search Butler.edu Search Browse the Directory Menu Close Use the icon on the left to see more links. Close AboutToggle Sub Menu Maps & Directions At a Glance Experiential Learning Student-Centered Education Innovation Graduate Outcomes Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Community & Engagement Office of the President Strategic Direction Mascot Blue IV Give to Butler COVID-19 Information Admission & AidToggle Sub Menu First-Year Transfer International Graduate & Professional Non-Degree Admitted Students Financial Aid & Scholarships Net Price Calculator Tuition & Costs Find Your Admission Counselor Virtual Tour AcademicsToggle Sub Menu Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate & Professional Colleges Three-Year Programs Study Abroad Service-Learning Internships & Careers Academic Services Registration & Records Library Academic Calendar Student LifeToggle Sub Menu Housing & Dining Living in Indy Student Well-Being Recreation Student Involvement Greek Life Campus Safety Volunteering Athletics Arts & Events Esports News & Stories Make a Gift Resources for: Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni & Friends Request Info Schedule a Visit Apply to Butler Resources internal resources For current Butler students, faculty, and staff Directory My.Butler Access Email Canvas Resources For Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Library Academic Calendar Event Calendar Maps & Directions Parking BUPD Search Site Search Search for pages, PDFs, and contact information Search Butler.edu Search Browse the Directory Menu About Maps & DirectionsAt a GlanceExperiential LearningStudent-Centered EducationInnovationGraduate OutcomesDiversity, Equity & InclusionCommunity & EngagementOffice of the PresidentStrategic DirectionMascot Blue IVGive to ButlerCOVID-19 Information Admission & Aid First-YearTransferInternationalGraduate & ProfessionalNon-DegreeAdmitted StudentsFinancial Aid & ScholarshipsNet Price CalculatorTuition & CostsFind Your Admission CounselorVirtual Tour Academics Undergraduate Majors & MinorsGraduate & ProfessionalCollegesThree-Year ProgramsStudy AbroadService-LearningInternships & CareersAcademic ServicesRegistration & RecordsLibraryAcademic Calendar Student Life Housing & DiningLiving in IndyStudent Well-BeingRecreationStudent InvolvementGreek LifeCampus SafetyVolunteering Athletics Arts & Events Esports News & Stories Make a Gift Resources for: Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni & Friends Request Info Schedule a Visit Apply to Butler Home Academics Graduate & Professional Studies Graduate & Professional Programs Whether you’re interested in taking your career to the next level with a master’s or doctoral degree, or expanding your skill set through a certificate, Butler can help you get where you want to go. Academics Main Menu Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate & Professional Programs Colleges Three-Year Programs Study Abroad Service-Learning Internships & Careers Academic Services Registration & Records Core Curriculum Exploratory Studies UnitedHealthcare Academy at Butler University Prepare for more. Our graduate and professional programs feature applied learning experiences, small class sizes, and innovative curriculums designed to advance your knowledge and your skills. Each specialty is accredited nationally, and some even offer flexible delivery—whether in class, online, or using a hybrid model—to meet your busy schedule. Request More Information Apply Now Financial Aid Half-time graduate students qualify for Federal Direct Loans. Ask how you can finance your education. See Graduate Aid Options Graduate Programs & Certificates College of Communication Strategic Communication (MS) Credits: 30 Program Type: OnlineAdvance within your current organization or transition onto a new career path through this program, which blends communication theory, emerging trends, and best practices. Become a leader adept at critical thinking and problem solving as you adapt to this rapidly evolving field. Strategic Communication (Certificate) Credits: 12 Program Type: Online Develop the knowledge, skills and experience required for personal growth and career development in this rapidly changing field. Suitable for professionals seeking a graduate-level credential or a pathway into a Master’s in Strategic Communication. College of Education Experiential Program for Preparing School Principals (MS) Credits: 36 Program Type: On Campus This innovative, experience-based program prepares you to be a successful school administrator. EPPSP’s experiential design incorporates each aspect of the principalship training model into a six-semester experience, allowing you to work closely with peers. School Counseling (MS) Credits: 48 Program Type: On Campus Learn to counsel K-12 students for social and emotional needs as well as guide students in academic choices leading to college and career readiness. You’ll leave the program with a mental health perspective and prepared to serve as team members empowered to accomplish meaningful systems change. Applied Education Neuroscience Certificate Credits: 9 Program Type: Hybrid (Online and On Campus) This certificate meets the needs of educators, social workers, and counselors who work beside children and adolescents experiencing adversity and trauma. Become acquainted with the theoretical and empirical literature of educational neuroscience, trauma and the brain, and brain development as it relates to behaviors, relationships, and academic acquisition. Licensed Mental Health Counselor Certificate Credits: 12 Program Type: Online This certificate meets the needs of school counseling graduates who currently hold a 48-credit-hour master’s degree. The program, taught by experienced mental health professionals, features asynchronous instruction and targeted personal engagement. College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Creative Writing (MFA) Credits: 36 Program Type: On Campus Build a customized curriculum based on your unique artistic and professional interests in fiction, nonfiction,or poetry. Gain opportunities to edit content for our literary magazine, interact with guests of the Visiting Writers Series, and work with top-flight, full-time faculty. English (MA) Credits: 30, with thesis; 36, without thesis Program Type: On Campus Focus on English and American as well as European and world literature. This flexible, interactive program accommodates a wide array of academic interests and career goals. Additional topics of study include minority literatures; gender studies; colonial and post-colonial literatures; literary theory; and postmodernism. College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences Doctor of Medical Science Bridge Program Credits: 14 Program Type: Online Earn your Doctor of Medical Science degree by combining four 700-level Bridge courses and a semester-long capstone with 36 credit hours already completed during supervised clinical practice experiences from your entry-level master’s degree program. This program is only for PAs who have graduated within the past 6 months from an ARCPA-accredited entry-level program. Doctor of Medical Science Credits: 50 Program Type: Online If you’re a PA interested in gaining more in-depth medical knowledge within primary care, or interested in learning the business acumen to advance to leadership positions within your workplace, this program is suited for you. Doctor of Pharmacy (PharmD) Online Pathway Credits: 139 Program Type: Online The PharmD online pathway integrates a collaborative, immersive, and student-centered learning approach that prepares students as drug therapy experts and community leaders dedicated to serving society and improving patient outcomes. A bachelor’s degree is required. Healthcare Practice and Administration (Certificate) Credits: 12 Program Type: Online Expand your foundational medical knowledge and business skills without pursuing an entire degree through this program. Physician Assistant Educator (Certificate) Credits: 12 Program Type: Online Enhance your understanding of teaching and medical education for PAs. Physician Assistant Studies (MPAS) Duration: 24 months Program Type: On Campus You’ll learn to deliver high-quality, patient-centered care in a wide variety of primary care clinical settings through this program. Butler’s PA program boosts a 100 percent job placement rate within six months of graduation, making it one of the premier programs in the country. Division of Professional Studies Data Analytics (MS) Credits: 31-32 Program Type: Online Contextualize data analytics in business analytics, healthcare analytics, and bioinformatics. Use hands-on learning and real-world applications to employ key technologies, such as data mining, machine learning, visualization, and predictive modeling. Jordan College of the Arts Composition (M.Mus.) Credits: 30 Program Type: On Campus This writing-intensive degree provides numerous opportunities to write, perform, teach, and collaborate. You’ll exit the program with a professional body of work reflecting your newly expanded musical vocabulary and high level of craftsmanship. Conducting, Choral (M.Mus.) Credits: 30 Program Type: On Campus Expand your knowledge, skill, and effectiveness in conducting choral ensembles. The program blends the practical experience of coached conducting experiences with individual lessons in score, study, gesture, rehearsal techniques, and repertoire knowledge. Conducting, Instrumental (M.Mus.) Credits: 30 Program Type: On Campus Expand your knowledge, skill, and effectiveness in conducting instrumental ensembles. The program blends the practical experience of coached conducting experiences with individual lessons in score, study, gesture, rehearsal techniques, and repertoire knowledge. Music Education (M.Mus.) Credits: 31, without thesis; 34, with thesis Program Type: Hybrid (Online & On Campus) Designed for music educators currently teaching in a K-12 setting. Over the course of three years, you’ll participate in a two-week, on-campus residency and use your own classroom as a laboratory for advancing teaching and applying best practices. Performance (M.Mus.) Credits: 30 Program Type: On Campus Find new professional opportunities as a performer or private teacher. Participate in Butler’s ensembles, teach through the Butler Community Arts School, and perform as solo or ensemble musicians. Piano Pedagogy (M.Mus.) Credits: 30 Program Type: On Campus This nationally recognized program, known for its innovative curriculum, challenges you to become a teaching leader. Graduates are thriving studio musicians, owners of academies and multi-teacher organizations, successful doctoral degree candidates, and adjunct/full-time faculty. Musicology (MA) Credits: 30 Program Type: On Campus Prepare yourself for doctoral studies in musicology or related fields. You can pursue this degree in combination with other Master of Arts in Music degrees at Butler. Throughout the program, you’re encouraged to take part in ensembles and applied lessons alongside your coursework. You will complete a substantial thesis under the supervision of music history faculty. Lacy School of Business Master of Business Administration (MBA) Credits: 38 Program Type: On Campus Be part of a self-paced, student-focused environment in which you’ll gain exposure to theory and practice. You’ll apply classroom lessons to real-life situations, while working with leadership coaches who will help you achieve personal and professional goals. Master of Business Administration (MBA) Credits: 38 Program Type: Online The Butler Online MBA merges theory and practice in a flexible, student-focused, and experiential learning environment that prepares you for leadership roles in the business world. Master of Professional Accounting (MPAcc) Program Type: On Campus Offered on two tracks: An accelerated four-year/dual-degree option and the traditional, fifth-year degree option. Both result in a Bachelor of Science in Business (for Butler students) and a Master of Professional Accounting degree, providing you with 150 credit hours required for CPA certification. Master of Science in Risk and Insurance (MSRI) Credits: 30 Program Type: Online If you’re interested in entering the insurance field or are an early-phase professional in the industry, this program prepares you for advanced roles in corporate risk management. Our cohort-based program blends both traditional risk and insurance courses with foundational business courses as you’re primed for rapid advancement. Master of Arts in Management (MiM) Credits: 33 Program Type: Online Bolster your non-business undergraduate degree with this program, which teaches the functional areas of business. In addition to general business courses, you’ll benefit from a 300-hour required internship, a dedicated career mentor and a final capstone experience as you enhance your career options. Welcome New Graduate Student Checklist Congrats! You have what it takes to be a Bulldog. The only question now is: Do you have what you need to get started? Review the Checklist Butler Executive Education Certificates We believe education is a lifelong journey. Butler’s Executive Education certificates propel that journey in the form of skills mastery, career advancement, and tactical application. Foundations in Business CFP® Test Prep Enterprise Risk Management Coaching as a Mentality Course Coding Bootcamp Design Thinking Cyber Risk Management Insurance and Securities Licensure Test Prep Data Analytics Bootcamp Cybersecurity Bootcamp 4600 Sunset Avenue Indianapolis, IN 46208 800-368-6852 Careers at Butler Legal Consumer Information Website Feedback & Accessibility Sexual Misconduct Resources Incident of Bias Privacy Policy © 2022 Butler University Para ver esta pagina en espanol, véala en el traductor de Google