Student Work Career Services Academic Calendar Faculty Open Positions Admissions Academics People Campus About News + Events Apply Now Student Work Career Services Academic Calendar Faculty Open Positions Admissions Apply Now Admission Requirements Portfolio Requirements Financial Information Certain Affinity Scholarship Guildhall Preparation A Day In The Life Housing Refer a Game Changer Academics Specializations Student Work People Guest Lecturers and Advisors Faculty Staff Alumni Students Campus Our Facilities GameLab Area Studios Visit About History of Success FAQ Industry Partnerships Career Services Career Fair Testimonials Contact Us Apply Now Portfolio Submission Portfolio Requirements Art Design Production Programming Financial Information SMU Financial Aid Guildhall Preparation Art Design Production Programming Specializations Art Creation Level Design Production Programming Student Work Independent Projects Team Game Projects Faculty Faculty Open Positions Staff Staff Open Positions Alumni Alumni Spotlight Alumni Success Students International Students GameLab GameLab Facilities GameLab Events Steam FAQ Admissions Admissions Apply Now Admission Requirements Portfolio Requirements Financial Information Certain Affinity Scholarship Guildhall Preparation A Day In The Life Housing Refer a Game Changer Academics Academics Specializations Student Work People People Guest Lecturers and Advisors Faculty Staff Alumni Students Campus Campus Our Facilities GameLab Area Studios Visit About About History of Success FAQ Industry Partnerships Career Services Career Fair Testimonials Contact Us News + Events Apply Now About History of Success FAQ Industry Partnerships Career Services Career Fair Testimonials Contact Us Apply Now Industry Partnerships We are the industry. SMU Guildhall maintains partnerships with studios and tech companies across the globe. The demands of the video game industry inform every aspect of the Guildhall experience. We offer many opportunities for studios and developers to become an industry partner with us, as detailed below. On a statewide, national and international level, SMU Guildhall's industry partnerships are ever-evolving. Our location in Dallas, Texas, puts us nearby to over 40+ game studios, app developers and digital technology companies and many corporate giants, and more than 180 game development and production companies across Texas. This enables us to work closely with the local video game industry in the many ways listed below, as well as employing successful developers as adjunct faculty, who develop games at local studios by day and teach here by night. Become a SMU Guildhall Industry Partner Contact us for more information about the opportunities below and becoming an SMU Guildhall industry partner. Guest Speakers, Lectures & Workshops: We work with developers from around the world to present special topics, expanding our classroom conversations. This includes in-class lectures and workshops as well as presenting as keynote speakers at graduation or our Game Changers Speaker Series. Prominent game studios — such as Bioware, Bonus XP, Certain Affinity, Gearbox, id, Infinity Ward, Nerd Kingdom, Oculus, Playful, Robot, Square Enix, Unity, and Valve — visit often and bring industry leaders to share insight with our students to enhance our learning environment. Annual Career Fair: Studios from around the world are invited to participate in our Career Fair, which connects companies seeking top-notch talent with our students and alumni who are looking for career opportunities. Learn more about Career Fair Collaborative Curriculum Enhancement: We continually refine and enhance our curriculum to align with current industry trends and demands. To do so, our team of industry veterans works hand-in-hand with industry professionals, who are often brought in to contribute to curriculum evaluation and/or development. Mentorship Program: Our mentorship program connects second-year students with mentors including Guildhall alumni and our wide industry network. This initiative carefully assigns each participating student with a developer from their target career-path. Over the course of the academic year, students receive one-on-one guidance concerning their portfolio, application materials, and professional goals. As a result, students approach graduation better prepared to secure and master their entrance into the industry. In 2020, a record 34 companies participated in the mentorship program, including Blizzard Entertainment, Sony PlayStation, Gearbox Software, Certain Affinity, High Moon Studios, id Software, Naughty Dog, and Microsoft (343 Industries). Funding the Future: Individuals and studios have the option to contribute to the education of the next generation of game developers by funding a merit scholarship, or gifting our program with a Gift-in-Kind (a donation of assets other than cash) such as equipment, artwork, games and printed materials. In the past, we have been grateful to receive many forms of new technology and equipment for use in our classrooms. Portfolio Reviews: One of the ways industry professionals can work directly with our students is by serving as a portfolio reviewer, looking over graduating students’ portfolios and offering feedback to help them prepare for their job search. Email us to receive details about how you and/or your company can be part of shaping the future for the next generation of game developers! Apply to SMU Guildhall SMU Guildhall Game Changers Shaped Here 3100 McFarlin Blvd., Suite 306 Dallas , Texas 75275 (214) 768-4278 © SMU Legal Disclosures Site Index Working at SMU Apply to SMU Guildhall x