Skip to main content Skip to main navigation SearchMenu Baylor>Search Find Site By A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Websites starting with 'D': Dallas EMBA The Baylor Executive MBA Program in Dallas carefully selects a limited number of middle and senior management executives and trains them for success in the global marketplace. Defense Research For generations, Baylor University has partnered with the Department of Defense in education, research and training. Service and leadership are embedded within our University mission, foundational values that invigorate our long-term partnership. As Baylor pursues a bold new research vision, we are poised like never before to build on that legacy. Department of Public Health In our Master of Public Health (MPH) Degree program we equip students to promote population health in a wide range of public health settings. Our strong practice-based approach, global health opportunities, and low faculty-student ratios provide our students with a quality learning experience that can enhance career development. Department of Public Safety The University's Department of Public Safety which also contains the following areas: Fire Safety, Emergency Preparedness, Parking and Transportation and Baylor Alerts. Department of Student Media The Department of Student Media challenges students to explore diverse outlets and opportunities. Department of Wellness The Department of Wellness provides health education programs that help Baylor students develop healthy lifestyles and cultivate a culture of wellness on campus through knowledge and behavior change. Diadeloso Baylor's Diadeloso (Day of the Bear) tradition is a day off from school during the spring when students enjoy games, tournaments, shows, and more. Diana R. Garland School of Social Work The mission of the Diana R. Garland School of Social Work at Baylor University is to prepare social workers in a Christian context for worldwide service and leadership. Digital Humanities The intersection of the humanities with data and computing technologies. Digital Marketing The Digital Marketing Team provides strategic direction for and operation of the University’s diverse digital communication channels to advance the Baylor brand while working collaboratively to establish standards and provide resources that advance the priorities of campus partners. If you've visited a Baylor website or "official" social media outlet, then you've seen our work in action. Dining Services Dining on campus is a quintessential part of the overall college experience! Check out our dining locations to see all of the wonderful options we offer! Stay current with hours of operation and events via our social media channels. Diversity & Inclusion As a University committed to our Christian faith-and maintaining our Baptist heritage - we believe that all truth is open to inquiry. As such, Baylor has a strengthened commitment to diversity - to exploring unique perspectives, seeking the unfamiliar, and loving our brothers and sisters of different heritages and experiences. By diversifying the breadth of knowledge and enlarging the cultural horizons encountered at Baylor University, our mission of preparing future generations for worldwide leadership is being fulfilled. Doctor of Physical Therapy We offer an innovative and accelerated DPT program that allows completion of your degree requirements in two years. Our blended learning format combines best practices in distance education, on-campus lab immersion sessions, and clinical education experiences to prepare you as a future Doctor of Physical Therapy and servant leader in this remarkable profession. Drupal Content Management System Baylor's new content management system is a tool for academic and administrative units to create and manage websites. The system is based on Drupal and has been designed to support over 1,000 users and hundreds of websites. Faculty/Staff homepages starting with 'D': Donahoo,Jeff Dong,Liang Donnelly,Phillip Baylor Faculty and Staff: Update your homepage address or learn more about your homepage and privacy settings. Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678