Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Research at Brown Show/Hide Home Conducting Research at Brown Centers, Institutes and Libraries Undergraduate Research Assistance How Do I...? International Travel International Travel Brown faculty, students and staff frequently travel abroad to conduct research, attend conferences, set-up and foster international collaborations, and learn about foreign cultures. New Requirements for all exports (including temporary exports) to China, Russia, Venezuela, Hong Kong, Burma, and Cambodia Brown faculty, researchers, staff and students (collectively, Brown Personnel) who ship or hand-carry (“export”) any item, including documents and materials, to China, Russia, Venezuela, Hong Kong, Burma or Cambodia must read and become familiar with the new requirements for all exports (including temporary exports) to China, Russia, and Venezuela. Click here for details and to print this important information. Failure to comply with the new requirements related to exports to China, Russia, Venezuela, Hong Kong, Burma and Cambodia, is considered a violation of export control regulations and may result in civil and criminal penalties. General Advice Travel to most countries is not a problem. However, when traveling abroad, it is always a good idea to check the State Departments alert/warning website for updates. If going to countries with higher health and security risks, it is strongly recommended that you review the travel advisories of the U.S. Bureau of Consular Affairs. You may also want to consider registering your travel with the International SOS Traveler Program. International SOS is the world's largest medical and security assistance company, with more than 3,500 professionals in 24-hour Assistance Centers, international clinics and remote-site medical facilities across five continents. In case of an emergency, SOS can help you with all of your medical, security and travel assistance needs. Lastly, travelers should consider cybersecurity and local laws regarding the use of encryption as well as VPN. Follow Brown Office of Information Technology (OIT) guidelines for international travel and consider traveling with “clean” electronic devices, such as your laptop , smart phone, electronic storage media, etc. Brown OIT offers an international device loaner program and has prepared useful tips for international travelers that can be found here and here. Brown Travel Policies You are required to review and abide by Brown's Travel Policies and the Office of International Program's Travel Advisory Policy. Please note that the issuance of an export control license by a relevant regulatory agency does not supersede Brown’s institutional policy related to international travel. Export Controls and International Travel When traveling abroad, there are three basic questions that university personnel need to consider when determining if export controls apply to their travel: Where are you going? Tighter export controls are in effect for countries that are comprehensively sanctioned or have restrictions on trade enforced by various departments of the U.S. government. The following, most comprehensively-sanctioned countries will require advance planning and coordination with our Export Control office: Cuba, Iran, North Korea, Sudan, Syria, and Crimea Region of the Ukraine. Contact the Export Control Officer as soon as you anticipate travel to one of these countries. What are you taking with you? When taking items abroad (including scientific equipment, laptops, encryption software, cell phones, tablets, flash drives, cameras, and GPS units), you need to verify that the items are not export restricted based on your travel destination(s). When transiting between countries you may be asked to provide an Export Control Classification Number (ECCN) for each item you take. Please refer to the chart below for the ECCNs for equipment most commonly taken abroad. If you are planning to take equipment that is not listed in the chart below, please contact the Export Control Officer to obtain the ECCNs for your specific item(s). Most commercially available basic software (such as Microsoft Office) is EAR99 and can be exported either individually or on your device without a license. However, proprietary software, software that includes encryption, and/or other complex software may require an export license and should be reviewed by the Export Compliance Office. Please contact the Export Control Officer if your device includes any of the above software. ECCNs for Common Travel Items* *Do NOT use this chart for travel to the following countries/regions: China, Russia, Belarus, Venezuela, Hong Kong, Cuba, Iran, Sudan, Syria, Cambodia, Burma, North Korea, or Crimea, Donetsk, and Luhansk Regions of Ukraine ITEM ECCN# LICENSED AUTHORITY Dell Laptop (no encryption) 4A994 No Licensed Required (NLR) Mac Laptop 5A992 No Licensed Required (NLR) IPhones & IPads 5A992 No Licensed Required (NLR) Jump/Flash Drive (most) 3A991 No Licensed Required (NLR) Android Cell Phone/Tablets 5A992 No Licensed Required (NLR) Garmin GPS 7A994 No Licensed Required (NLR) Bitlocker Encryption 5D992 No Licensed Required (NLR) GoPro Camera EAR99 No Licensed Required (NLR) If you are traveling with any of the items listed in the above table to China, Russia, Belarus, Venezuela, Hong Kong, Cuba, Iran, Syria, Sudan, Cambodia, Burma, North Korea or the Crimea, Donetsk and Luhansk regions of Ukraine, an export license or certain export and/or end-user documentation will most likely be required. Contact the Export Control Officer for help in determining your export license and other documentation requirements. What will you be doing and who will you be interacting with? It is important to ensure that you do not accidentally export restricted information or provide any type of assistance or benefit to a sanctioned or blocked entity (Restricted Party). The following are a few things to keep in mind as you plan your travel activities: Sharing Research Data and Information You are free to take and openly discuss any data or information that is published, in the public domain, is normally taught as part of a class or that resulted from Fundamental Research. However, you cannot take or share data or information that is in any way export-restricted, such as information about export-controlled technologies, proprietary information, or the results of a project not protected under the Fundamental Research Exclusion. Sharing these types of information may constitute an unauthorized export. Presentations When presenting data/information in an international setting (including in the U.S. where the audience may include foreign nationals), you need to ensure that you limit your presentation to only information or data that is published, or is publicly available, or that qualifies as Fundamental Research. Be careful not to include or discuss any proprietary, unpublished, or export-restricted data or information as that may constitute an unauthorized export. Interactions with Foreign Colleagues As noted above, you are free to openly discuss any published or publicly available information or information generated as the result of Fundamental Research as long as the recipient is not a sanctioned or specially designated entity. It is important to remember that while the results/information resulting from Fundamental Research are not subject to export controls and can be shared without a license, any items, technology, or software generated under that Fundamental Research would be subject to export controls and may require an export license. Field Work Any university research activity done outside the U.S. may not qualify for the Fundamental Research Exclusion. Before disclosing or sharing information or data resulting from international field work it is important to ensure that the information is not export restricted. In addition, please contact the Export Control Officer as soon as possible if any of the following factors are involved with your research: Taking or sending equipment or materials other than items listed in the ECCN chart; Planning to bring back samples from an embargoed country; or Potential or existing non-disclosure agreements or restrictions on the publication of research results. To help ensure smooth international travel and compliance, contact Brown’s Export Control Officer as soon as possible if you have questions or concerns about export controls as they may apply to your travel plans. In addition to export controls, travelers should also consider the following when traveling with research equipment: Do I have insurance against loss, damage or theft? In general, the University has a property insurance policy that includes coverage for University owned property (buildings and contents) in the event of insurable events such as fire, flood, vandalism, and theft. Property insurance provides coverage for sudden and accidental losses. However, when taking University equipment outside the U.S., you must contact the Office of Purchasing and Insurance to ensure that appropriate insurance coverage is in place in case of loss, theft, or damage while abroad. How do I avoid potential duty and import tax payments when taking research equipment abroad (even if temporarily)? You may want to consider registering your items or equipment prior to traveling. For personal items use Customs and Border Protection (CBP) Form 4457; for commercial or professional items use CBP Form 4455. Both forms are used to register the items prior to the temporary export. The purpose of the forms is to demonstrate, upon re-entering the U.S., that you had the items before leaving the U.S. and, therefore, allows a duty-free re-entry back to the U.S. For more information on registering your items with CBP, please see here. Please note, however, that CBP Forms 4457 and 4455, are not acceptable temporary import documents to avoid import duty and tax into foreign countries. If you are traveling with special research equipment and want to avoid both, potential import duty and tax payments when entering the foreign country and when re-entering the U.S., you may want to consider using a Carnet. What is a Carnet? A Carnet is an international customs document that facilitates temporary (up to one year) imports into foreign countries. There are some 87 countries that participate in the Carnet program (also referred to as “carnet countries”). When presenting the Carnet to foreign customs, you will not be charged duties or import taxes. The Carnet also serves as a registration of goods in the U.S., which further facilitates the re-importation into the U.S. without having to pay import duties. Carnet Costs The cost of a Carnet is typically determined by the value of the equipment that is shipped or taken abroad. Basic processing fees range between $225 and $380. For more information on Carnets and how to obtain them, please see the ATA Carnet website. Conducting Research at Brown Finding Funding Research Strategy and Development (ORSD) Preparing and Submitting a Proposal Managing an Award Sponsored Projects (OSP) Research Compliance (IRB, IACUC, COI, Export Control, Research Data Management and Data Use Agreements) ORI staff directory Research Misconduct Policy Authorship Policy IRB IACUC Export Control U.S. Export Control Regulations Export Control Policy and Procedures Your Responsibilities under the Policy Foreign Scholar and Visitor Screening International Travel International Collaborations International Shipping & Export Control Procurement and Export Control Classifications Controlled Unclassified Information (CUI) DoD Guidance Export Control Training Export Control FAQs Contact Information Conflict of Interest QA/QI Program DURC ESCRO IBC Research Data Management Brown Technology Innovations Research Administration Information Systems (RAIS) Research Management Support (RMS) Research Agreements and Contracting International Research & Activities Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR) How Do I...? 2022 Research Achievement Award Winners About the Office Newsletter Forms and Policies Training and Outreach Graduate Student Resources Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Office of the Vice President for Research 350 Eddy Street | Brown University | Box 1937 | Providence, RI 02912 Vice President for Research 401-863-7408 [email protected] Research Strategy and Development 401-863-7999 [email protected] Brown Technology Innovations 401-863-7499 [email protected] Office of Sponsored Projects 401-863-2777 [email protected] Research Administration and Information Systems 401-863-2777 [email protected] Office of Research Integrity 401-863-3050 [email protected] @brownuresearch Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat