Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Undergraduate Admissions Menu Search Life in Lubbock Between on-campus happenings that are ever-constant as well as those in the greater Lubbock community, you can never say there's nothing to do in Lubbock, TX! Below are just some of the resources that will help connect you to local events, as well as on-campus activities! Welcome to "The Friendliest City in America". Moving to a new country can be exciting and we hope that you enjoy exploring the city and the campus. We have collected a variety of resources to help make your transition as easy as possible. Be sure to explore our website thoroughly to ensure you are aware of everything Lubbock and Texas Tech has to offer. Questions? Please feel free to email us with questions about moving to Lubbock that you may have. Welcome to "The Friendliest City in Texas". Helpful Webpages Lubbock in the Loop provides a great event calendar of different activities happening around the LBK, many free and family-friendly, but overall a very diverse list of opportunities! Visit Lubbock: offers another great events calendar helping visitors and locals alike stay in the know about the myriad of events taking place around town, and it also features restaurants, venues, and events that are guaranteed to make your time in Lubbock memorable! On Campus Engagement and Activities TTU Athletics: Texas Tech has a phenomenal sports culture and a huge fan base between the student body, the local community, and alumni. As a student, undergraduates have FREE access to all sporting events on-campus, and graduate students can choose to opt into this opportunity. Truly, you haven't experienced Texas Tech or American campus culture if you don't take advantage of an (American) football game in the fall, been a part of the raucous student sections at the basketball games, or gone to see America's pastime (baseball) in the spring! Student Activities Board (SAB): This board under Student Union & Activities plans and executes more than 60 FREE events per year exclusively for Texas Tech students! International Cultural Center: There's much more that happens in this building beyond immigration advising! There are numerous community events throughout the year that exposes the community to international cultures, and there is a gallery space that changes every few months, featuring photography and art from the local community, from the student body, TTU faculty and staff, as well as creative professionals! J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual and Performing Arts: The university's CVPA is constantly offering opportunities to experience music, dance, theater, and art created by their students and faculty, and tickets are often free or discounted for the TTU student body. Watch for opportunities at events.ttu.edu, in your daily Tech Announce emails and in the weekly International Student Newsletter sent out by ISL. Student Union Building: The Student Union is the community center of the Texas Tech University campus. It provides an environment for relaxation, social interaction, education and exchange of thoughts. It serves Tech students, staff, faculty, alumni and the greater Lubbock community. Many events, conferences and activities take place here. This is also the location of several on campus restaurants, Barnes and Nobel Bookstore (where you can rent and buy text books), Starbucks, Prosperity Bank, mail services, study rooms and a games area featuring Billiards, Darts, Ping Pong, Foosball & Board Games. Texas Tech Recreation Building: The massive recreation center offers a variety of ways to stay fit and healthy throughout the school year and well... to just have fun! Some of what the center includes are, a bike rental and repair shop, rock climbing wall, Olympic size swimming pool, indoor running track, weight room, racquetball courts, soccer fields, lacrosse fields, basketball courts, intramural sports, and a variety of classes ranging from yoga, cycling and personal fitness. The center also hosts a outdoor leisure pool with a 645ft long lazy river, a great way to cool off on those hot Texas days. Equipment checkout is available. Learn More Culture Life in the United States Lubbock Geography and Weather USA Holidays Lubbock Life Outdoor activities Museums Driver Licenses and ID Card Life at Texas Tech Take a virtual tour of Texas Tech Campus. Advice From Current International Students Lubbock and Texas Tech Buses Undergraduate Admissions Like Undergraduate Admissions on FacebookLike Undergraduate Admissions on Facebook Follow Undergraduate Admissions on twitterFollow Undergraduate Admissions on twitter Follow Undergraduate Admissions on InstagramFollow Undergraduate Admissions on Instagram Address Texas Tech University, 2500 Broadway, Lubbock, TX 79409 Phone (806) 742-1480 Email admissions@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech University May 31, 2022 11:12 AM Undergraduate Admissions Admission Undergraduate Admissions Admission Back Become a Red Raider Undergraduate Admissions Admission Become a Red Raider Back I'm Admitted I’m a High School Student I’m a Transfer Student I’m a Former Tech Student I’m an International Student My Students Want to be Red Raiders Admission Resources Undergraduate Admissions Admission Admission Resources Back En Español Find my Counselor Important Dates Other Admission Residency Determination Resources Request Information Academics Undergraduate Admissions Academics Back Academics Undergraduate Admissions Academics Academics Back Areas of Study Majors A-Z Colleges Online and Regional Programs Enrichment Undergraduate Admissions Academics Enrichment Back Undergraduate Research Study Abroad Honors College Preparation for Success Explore Undergraduate Admissions Academics Explore Back Schedule a Tour Watch our Videos Take a Virtual Tour Chat with Current Students Campus Tours & Events Undergraduate Admissions Campus Tours & Events Back Schedule a Tour Undergraduate Admissions Campus Tours & Events Schedule a Tour Back Campus Tours Large Group Tours Contact Us Attend an Event Undergraduate Admissions Campus Tours & Events Attend an Event Back On-Campus Events Regional Events Explore Undergraduate Admissions Campus Tours & Events Explore Back Watch our Videos Take a Virtual Tour Campus Life Undergraduate Admissions Campus Life Back Live Undergraduate Admissions Campus Life Live Back Campus Experience Dining Housing Safety Connect Undergraduate Admissions Campus Life Connect Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Spirit & Traditions Student Organizations Recreation Explore Undergraduate Admissions Campus Life Explore Back Schedule a Tour Watch our Videos Take a Virtual Tour Chat with Current Students Cost & Aid Undergraduate Admissions Cost & Aid Back Find Value at Texas Tech Financial Aid Undergraduate Admissions Cost & Aid Financial Aid Back Cost of Attendance Net Cost Calculator Important Dates Financial Aid Forms Scholarships Undergraduate Admissions Cost & Aid Scholarships Back For Incoming Freshmen For Incoming Transfers Frequently Asked Questions Explore Undergraduate Admissions Cost & Aid Explore Back Schedule a Tour Watch our Videos Take a Virtual Tour Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index