Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions Employment Apply Online Working at HBS Benefits & Compensation Diversity Hiring Process FAQ …→ Harvard Business School→ Employment→ View Jobs Join our diverse team of inspiring professionals whose work is centered around our commitment to educate future leaders Staff Positions Over 15 departments form a diverse community of passionate individuals whose mission-driven work provides real value and impact. Faculty Positions Join a culturally diverse full-time intellectual community that draws on their research to educate leaders who make a difference in the world and help shape the practice of business around the globe. Research Positions An unmatched opportunity to work closely with world-renowned faculty on the research, case studies, and coursework that shape the world’s leaders. Working at HBS Our campus is a workplace that is both beautiful and varied. Our faculty and staff are from all over the world and the School is consistently on th the cutting edge of business evolution. To work here is an opportunity to be a part of a community that is passionate about what we do. 1,761 Staff Positions 233 Faculty Positions (Full-Time Equivalent) Diversity We are a community committed to welcoming and accepting individuals from diverse global and local communities. Our staff brings varying ethnic backgrounds, skill levels, education levels, and personal experiences to their work creating an environment based on the shared values of respect for the rights and dignity of others. Community Community Celebrations Every year, in the spirit of giving thanks, we gather as a community to remember what truly matters and what makes HBS such a unique and remarkable place. Each community member receives a freshly baked pie from senior leaders at the School. The room where the pies are distributed is filled with warmth and good cheer, hot cocoa, tea, and freshly-baked cookies. Community Celebrations Every year, in the spirit of giving thanks, we gather as a community to remember what truly matters and what makes HBS such a unique and remarkable place. Each community member receives a freshly baked pie from senior leaders at the School. The room where the pies are distributed is filled with warmth and good cheer, hot cocoa, tea, and freshly-baked cookies. Documentary & Move Nights The school offers special evening activities on campus, including movie nights with offerings running the spectrum from Disney classics to documentaries. These are open to the entire community. Documentary & Move Nights The school offers special evening activities on campus, including movie nights with offerings running the spectrum from Disney classics to documentaries. These are open to the entire community. Food Trucks In the warmer months, food trucks come to campus with a variety of lunch options, and sometimes even an ice-cream truck to enjoy a sweet treat. Food Trucks In the warmer months, food trucks come to campus with a variety of lunch options, and sometimes even an ice-cream truck to enjoy a sweet treat. Milestone Celebrations It has become a tradition at HBS to honor long-time employees. The program acknowledges staff milestones every five years. Ellen Mahoney (Chief Human Resources Officer) enjoys the event and interacting with longer service colleagues. “The stories they share are priceless, the memories are heartfelt, their affection for the School is infectious, and the laughter reminds you of what a special place this is because of its people.” Milestone Celebrations It has become a tradition at HBS to honor long-time employees. The program acknowledges staff milestones every five years. Ellen Mahoney (Chief Human Resources Officer) enjoys the event and interacting with longer service colleagues. “The stories they share are priceless, the memories are heartfelt, their affection for the School is infectious, and the laughter reminds you of what a special place this is because of its people.” Amenities Shad Hall, centrally located on the school’s campus, is available to HBS employees, students, alumni and partners. Shad offers over 50 group fitness classes per week and personal trainers that provide more than 1300 training sessions per year. In addition to fitness, Shad is a great place to gather and build community outside the classroom or office! Amenities Shad Hall, centrally located on the school’s campus, is available to HBS employees, students, alumni and partners. Shad offers over 50 group fitness classes per week and personal trainers that provide more than 1300 training sessions per year. In addition to fitness, Shad is a great place to gather and build community outside the classroom or office! Hiring Process Learn about Harvard Business School’s recruiting and hiring process. Benefits & Compensation Time Off See Harvard's generous vacation, holiday, sick time, and family leave policies. Medical & Dental Quality and affordability are the hallmarks of Harvard's medical and dental plans. Work/Life Balance Harvard offers an array of resources for working parents. Retirement Planning Learn about saving for retirement through our Tax-Deferred Account program and a variety of generous, competitive pension plans. Learning & Development Harvard Business School is committed to the professional development and growth of its staff. In service to the School’s mission of educating leaders who make a difference in the world, HBS offers training for individual contributors and managers alike. Additionally, with generous tuition reimbursement programs at the University and local level, the cost of most undergraduate and graduate programs is covered by Harvard. By joining HBS you’ll have the opportunity to continue to grow professionally and academically. More information on University offerings can be found here. Compensation Harvard offers competitive salaries that are designed to attract, retain, and reward the performance of talented employees. →Salary Grades Frequently Asked Questions What is the Dress Code at Harvard Business School? The dress code is business attire during the school year for most of our departments. However, this may vary by business unit. In the summer, the campus dress code is business casual. When should I be prepared to speak about compensation? At HBS we are open and honest about our compensation structure and discuss it in the very first stages of the recruiting process. On the Harvard Employment Site you can see details regarding University-wide pay scales pay scales. In addition, every position is posted with a grade level. Hiring offers tend to be between the minimum and mid-point of the range listed. Where can I search for jobs across all of Harvard? Harvard is a large decentralized organization and each school at Harvard manages their own recruitment process. To see job postings at other schools, please visit www.employment.harvard.edu. How can I learn more about employment at Harvard? You can visit www.employment.harvard.edu and review their FAQ section. Additionally, in Harvard's ongoing commitment to our host communities, the University offers a workshop series aimed at helping to provide job seekers with the tools and resources needed for an effective job search. The series features sessions on various job search topics. The sessions are typically held from 5:30 to 7:00 p.m. at the Harvard Information Center in Holyoke Center, 1350 Massachusetts Avenue, Cambridge. Please call Harvard University Employment Services at 617-495-2772 or email them at employment@harvard.edu for details regarding the next available session. Everyone is welcome. Social Media Feeds @kriti_kg pic.twitter.com/x5ziPFyL3K May 31 2022, 10:08 PM Harvard Business School @HarvardHBS Follow Follow Us @HarvardHBS @perri_smith1 🥳 pic.twitter.com/M08s4lPrpG May 31 2022, 09:32 PM Harvard Business School @HarvardHBS Follow @kriti_kg pic.twitter.com/x5ziPFyL3K May 31 2022, 10:08 PM Harvard Business School @HarvardHBS Follow Follow Us @HarvardHBS @kriti_kg pic.twitter.com/x5ziPFyL3K May 31 2022, 10:08 PM Harvard Business School @HarvardHBS Follow Follow Us @HarvardHBS @perri_smith1 🥳 pic.twitter.com/M08s4lPrpG May 31 2022, 09:32 PM Harvard Business School @HarvardHBS Follow Open Positions Staff Positions Faculty Positions Research Positions ǁ Human Resources Harvard Business School Teele Hall, 2nd floor Boston, MA 02163 Phone: 1.617.495.6115 Fax: 1.617.495.0347 Email: hr@hbs.edu →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College