Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Research at Brown Show/Hide Home Conducting Research at Brown Centers, Institutes and Libraries Undergraduate Research Assistance How Do I...? Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR) Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR) NIH requirements | NSF requirements | NIFA requirements | RCR Programs at Brown | RCR Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) | Contact Brown University is committed to fostering an environment of research integrity, in part through Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR) training and education. “[R]esponsible conduct of research is defined as the practice of scientific investigation with integrity. It involves the awareness and application of established professional norms and ethical principles in the performance of all activities related to scientific research.” (National Institutes of Health, NOT-OD-10-019) Projects funded by the National Institutes of Health (NIH), National Science Foundation (NSF), and National Institute of Food and Agriculture (NIFA) have specific requirements regarding training in RCR. Please note that RCR training is separate from human subjects training required for Institutional Review Board (IRB) submissions. Read on below to determine if you or a trainee on your sponsored award must complete RCR education and the required format for instruction. NIH RCR Requirements All trainees, fellows, participants, and scholars receiving support through any NIH training grant, career development award (individual or institutional), research education grant, or dissertation research grant must receive instruction in RCR. This applies to the following NIH award types: D43, D71 F05, F30, F31, F32, F33, F34, F37, F38, F99 K01, K02, K05, K07, K08, K12, K18, K22, K23, K24, K25, K26, K30, K99/R00, KL1, KL2 R25, R36 T15, T32, T34, T35, T36, T37, T90/R90, TL1, TU2, and U2R And any other NIH-funded programs supporting research training, career development, or research education that require instruction in responsible conduct of research as stated in the relevant funding opportunity announcements. Frequency of Instruction NIH requires that reflection on RCR recur throughout a scientist’s career: at the undergraduate, post-baccalaureate, predoctoral, postdoctoral, and faculty levels. Institutional training programs and individual fellows/scholars are strongly encouraged to consider how to optimize instruction in RCR for the particular career stage(s) of the individual(s) involved. Instruction must be undertaken at least once during each career stage, and at a frequency of no less than once every four years. It is highly encouraged that initial instruction during predoctoral training occur as early as possible in graduate school. Individuals at the early career investigator level (including mentored K awardees and K12 scholars) must receive instruction in RCR at least once during this career stage. Senior fellows and career award recipients (including F33, K02, K05, and K24 awardees) may fulfill the requirement for instruction in RCR by participating as lecturers and discussion leaders in one of Brown's RCR Programs. To meet the above requirements, instruction in RCR may take place, in appropriate circumstances, in a year when the trainee, fellow or career award recipient is not actually supported by an NIH grant. Brown University RCR Programs that fulfill NIH RCR Requirements Click here for a list of RCR programs at Brown that fulfill NIH RCR requirements. Responsibilities for PIs on NIH Awards with RCR Requirements PIs on NIH awards with RCR requirements have a number of responsibilities, including developing an RCR instructional plan and ensuring those required to complete RCR training have done so. Click here for more information about PI Responsibilities and Resources. Click here for instructional plan templates for grant applications. More information regarding this NIH requirement can be found in NIH Notice Number NOT-OD-10-019. back to top NSF RCR Requirements NSF requires that undergraduate students, graduate students, and postdoctoral researchers who receive NSF support to conduct research receive appropriate training and oversight in the responsible and ethical conduct of research. NSF does not specify the frequency of provision of this RCR training; Brown requires that it be completed at least once during students' and postdocs' time while they are supported by an NSF award. Brown University RCR Programs that fulfill NSF RCR Requirements Click here for a list of RCR programs at Brown that fulfill NSF RCR requirements. RCR Responsibilities for PIs on NSF Awards PIs on NSF awards are responsible for ensuring that all students and trainees on their award complete RCR training. For more information and guidance on PI responsibilities and Resources, click here. More information about NSF requirements can be found on its website. back to top NIFA RCR Requirements NIFA requires that institutions that conduct USDA-funded extramural research foster an atmosphere conducive to research integrity, bear primary responsibility for prevention and detection of research misconduct, and maintain and effectively communicate and train their staff regarding policies and procedures. All Program Directors, faculty, students, postdocs, and staff participating on an NIFA-funded award must comply with NIFA's RCR requirement. NIFA explicitly cites the CITI RCR training as an acceptable means of satisfying its training requirement. As such, while NIFA-awardees may attend an in-person Brown RCR Program (if space allows), Brown encourages NIFA awardees to use the CITI RCR module to fulfill the NIFA RCR requirement. back to top Questions about RCR at Brown? Have any questions about RCR requirements? Need to verify who has completed the CITI RCR course? Want to participate as an instructor in an RCR course to fulfill an RCR training requirement or to help Brown fulfill its obligation to include faculty in its courses? Need assistance developing a course that meets NIH RCR requirements or would like ORI to spread the word about your qualifying RCR course? Need a subject matter expert from the ORI to talk about conflict of interest, human or animal subject research, data use / sharing, rigor & reproducibility, or research misconduct as part of a class or as part of an RCR course? CONTACT: Juliane Blyth, Director Email: [email protected] Phone: (401) 863-3295 Contact the Office of Research Integrity (ORI) Telephone Number: (401) 863-3050 South Street Landing (SSL), 5th floor 350 Eddy Street Providence, RI 02903 Conducting Research at Brown Finding Funding Research Strategy and Development (ORSD) Preparing and Submitting a Proposal Managing an Award Sponsored Projects (OSP) Research Compliance (IRB, IACUC, COI, Export Control, Research Data Management and Data Use Agreements) Brown Technology Innovations Research Administration Information Systems (RAIS) Research Management Support (RMS) Research Agreements and Contracting International Research & Activities Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR) RCR Programs at Brown FAQs PI Responsibilities & Resources Template RCR Plans for Grants How Do I...? 2022 Research Achievement Award Winners About the Office Newsletter Forms and Policies Training and Outreach Graduate Student Resources Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Office of the Vice President for Research 350 Eddy Street | Brown University | Box 1937 | Providence, RI 02912 Vice President for Research 401-863-7408 [email protected] Research Strategy and Development 401-863-7999 [email protected] Brown Technology Innovations 401-863-7499 [email protected] Office of Sponsored Projects 401-863-2777 [email protected] Research Administration and Information Systems 401-863-2777 [email protected] Office of Research Integrity 401-863-3050 [email protected] @brownuresearch Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat