Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary SCHOOL OF PHARMACY DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY PHARMACY PRACTICE Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 PHRMPR 511 Pharmacist Provider Experience I (2) Prepares students for practice as a pharmacist provider. Emphasizes application of classroom learning in a patient care setting. This is part of the (WIP) Wednesdays in Practice course series. Prerequisite: successful completion of on-boarding and compliance requirements for PharmD program. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: PHRMPR 511 PHRMPR 512 Pharmacist Provider Experience II (2) Prepares students for practice as a pharmacist provider. Emphasizes application of classroom learning in a patient care setting. This is part of the Wednesdays in Practice course series. Prerequisite: PHRMPR 511 and PHRMCY 541. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: PHRMPR 512 PHRMPR 513 Pharmacist Provider Experience III (2) Prepares students for practice as a pharmacist provider. Emphasizes application of classroom learning in a patient care setting. This is part of the Wednesday in Practice (WIP) course series. Prerequisite: PHRMCY 542 and PHRMPR 512. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: PHRMPR 513 PHRMPR 514 Pharmacist Provider Experience IV (2) Delivery of care to patients with increasingly complex health care needs. Prepares students for practice as a pharmacist provider. Emphasizes application of classroom learning in a patient-care setting. Part of the Wednesday in Practice (WIP) course series. Prerequisite: PHRMCY 543 and PHRMPR 513. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: PHRMPR 514 PHRMPR 515 Pharmacist Provider Experience V (2) Application of classroom learning in a patient-care setting. Emphasizes delivery of care to multiple patients with increasingly complex healthcare needs. Prerequisite: PHRMCY 544 and PHRMPR 514. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: PHRMPR 515 PHRMPR 516 Pharmacist Provider Experience VI (2) Application of classroom learning to a patient-care setting. Emphasizes delivery of care to multiple patients with increasingly complex healthcare needs. Prerequisite: PHRMCY 545 and PHRMPR 515. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: PHRMPR 516 PHRMPR 517 Pharmacist Provider Experience VII (1-, max. 2) Prepares students for practice as a pharmacist provider. Emphasizes application of classroom learning in a patient care setting. This is part of the Wednesday in Practice course series. Emphasizes the delivery of care to multiple patients with increasingly complex healthcare needs. Prerequisite: PHRMCY 546 and PHRMPR 516. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: ASp. View course details in MyPlan: PHRMPR 517 PHRMPR 541 Introductory Pharmacy Practice Experience in Institutional Health-System Setting ([1-3]-, max. 3) Jennifer M Danielson Prepares students for practice in institutional health-system setting. Students learn about the role of pharmacists in inpatient setting; medication use and patient safety; pharmacists' patient care process; medication knowledge; calculations; ethical, legal and professional behavior; general communication; patient education; drug information; insurance/prescription drug coverage; quality improvement. Prerequisite: PHRMCY 542. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: ASp. View course details in MyPlan: PHRMPR 541 PHRMPR 542 Introductory Pharmacy Practice Experience in Community Practice Settings ([1-2]-, max. 3) Prepares students for practice in the community practice setting: medication use and patient safety; pharmacists' patient care process; medication knowledge; calculations; ethical, legal and professional behavior; general communication; patient education; drug information; insurance/prescription drug coverage; and health and wellness. Students will spend the majority of class time for this course at a practice site. Prerequisite: PHRMCY 545 and PHRMPR 515. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: ASp. View course details in MyPlan: PHRMPR 542 PHRMPR 561 Core Community Pharmacy Advanced Pharmacy Practice Experience (7) Advanced pharmacy practice experience focusing on providing patient-centered care to patients in a community pharmacy care setting. Each experience will be six weeks in length and will primarily involve patient care activities. Prerequisite: successful completion of all didactic and laboratory coursework in the UW School of Pharmacy professional curriculum. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PHRMPR 561 PHRMPR 562 Core Ambulatory Care Advanced Pharmacy Practice Experience (7) Advanced pharmacy practice experience focusing on providing patient-centered care to patients in a primary or specialty care clinic setting. Each experience will be six weeks in length and will primarily involve patient care activities. Prerequisite: successful completion of all didactic and laboratory coursework in the UW School of Pharmacy professional curriculum. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PHRMPR 562 PHRMPR 563 Core General Medicine Acute Care Advanced Pharmacy Practice Experience (7) Advanced pharmacy practice experience focusing on providing patient-centered care to patients in a general medicine acute care setting. Each experience will be six weeks in length and will primarily involve patient care activities. Prerequisite: successful completion of all didactic and laboratory coursework in the UW School of Pharmacy professional curriculum. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PHRMPR 563 PHRMPR 564 Core Health System Pharmacy Advanced Pharmacy Practice Experience (7) Advanced pharmacy practice experience focusing on providing patient-centered care to patients in a health system acute care setting. Each experience will be six weeks in length and will primarily involve patient care activities. Prerequisite: successful completion of all didactic and laboratory coursework in the UW School of Pharmacy professional curriculum. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PHRMPR 564 PHRMPR 565 Elective Direct Patient Care Advanced Pharmacy Practice Experience (7) Advanced pharmacy practice experience focused on continued building of skills in providing care directly to patients within any practice setting. Each experience is six weeks in length and primarily involves patient care activities. Prerequisite: successful completion of all required didactic and laboratory coursework in the UW School of Pharmacy professional curriculum. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PHRMPR 565 PHRMPR 566 Elective Senior Care Advanced Pharmacy Practice Experience (7) Advanced pharmacy practice experience focusing on providing patient-centered care to patients in a geriatric care setting. Each experience is six weeks in length and primarily involves patient care activities. Prerequisite: successful completion of all required didactic and laboratory coursework in the UW School of Pharmacy professional curriculum. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PHRMPR 566 PHRMPR 567 Elective Non-Patient Care Advanced Pharmacy Practice Experience (7) Advanced pharmacy practice experience focusing on settings that do not involve direct patient care such as pharmacy administration, safety or quality management, education, professional organizations. Each experience is six weeks in length. Prerequisite: successful completion of all required didactic and laboratory coursework in the UW School of Pharmacy professional curriculum. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PHRMPR 567 PHRMPR 568 Elective Advanced Pharmacy Practice Experience (1-6, max. 12) Allows students to complete elective experiences that are shorter than the standard 6-week Advanced Pharmacy Practice Experience. Prerequisite: successful completion of all required didactic and laboratory coursework in the UW School of Pharmacy professional curriculum. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PHRMPR 568 PHRMPR 569 Research and Scholarship Advanced Pharmacy Practice Experience (7) Advanced pharmacy practice experience focusing on the introduction to and/or continuation in training in the scientific method of research and other scholarly projects. Each experience will be six weeks in length. Prerequisite: successful completion of all required didactic and laboratory coursework in the UW School of Pharmacy professional curriculum; and permission of instructor. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PHRMPR 569 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022