Skip to main content Restrict my search to Equal Opportunity Services Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Equal Opportunity Services (EOS) About EOS Staff Anti-Discrimination Anti-Discrimination Policy Anti-Discrimination Coordinators Anti-Discrimination Resources Anti-Discrimination FAQs Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Sexual Misconduct Policy Consensual Relationship Policy Title IX Coordinators Title IX Resources SB 212 ADA/Section 504 Policies: Student & Employee Policy for Students Policy for Employees ADA Coordinators ADA Resources ADA FAQs EIR Accessibility EIRA Policy EIRA Coordinators EIRA Resources Blackboard Ally Accessibility Terms Defined Self-Guided Learning Access University Accessibility Options EIRA FAQs EIRA Regulations Workforce Diversity Workforce Diversity Policy Workforce Diversity Resources Workforce Diversity FAQs Contact Us UH Home Equal Opportunity Services ADA FAQs Equal Opportunity Services About EOS Anti-Discrimination Title IX Sexual Misconduct ADA Policies: Student & Employee Coordinators Resources FAQs EIR Accessibility Workforce Diversity Contact Us Translation Disclaimer Equal Opportunity Services The University of Houston 4367 Cougar Village Drive Bldg 526 Houston, TX 77204 713-743-8835 eos@uh.edu ADA FAQs Who is protected against employment discrimination under the ADA? Employment discrimination is prohibited against "qualified individuals with disabilities." Persons discriminated against because they have a known association or relationship with a disabled individual are also protected. The ADA defines an "individual with a disability" as a person who has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities, has a record of such an impairment, or is regarded as having such an impairment. Who is a qualified person with a disability? A qualified individual with a disability is a person who meets legitimate skill, experience, education, other requirements of an employment position that they hold or seek, and who can perform the "essential functions" of the position with or without reasonable accommodation. Requiring the ability to perform "essential" functions assures that an individual will not be considered unqualified simply because of inability to perform marginal or incidental job functions. If the individual is qualified to perform essential job functions except for limitations caused by a disability, the employer must consider whether the individual could perform these functions with a reasonable accommodation. What does it mean to be substantially limiting? According to the EEOC, an impairment “substantially limits” a major life activity if the person is either: unable to perform a major life activity that the average person in the general public can perform, or is significantly restricted as to the condition, manner, or duration under which they perform the activity as compared to the condition, manner, or duration under which the average person in the general public performs the activity. The determination of whether an impairment substantially limits a major life activity must be made without regard to mitigating measures, including but not limited to: medication, prosthetics, hearing devices, or mobility devices. What are major life activities? Major life activities are activities that are fundamental to life and that the average person can perform with little or no difficulty, including but not limited to: caring for oneself, walking, talking, breathing, sitting, lifting, seeing, performing manual tasks, reaching, learning, speaking, working, standing, etc. Major life activities also include the operation of a major bodily function including but not limited to: normal cell growth, as well as functions of the immune, neurological, and endocrine systems. In order to be covered under the ADA, the person must have an impairment that significantly limits one or more of these major life activities. The examples listed above are not exhaustive. What are essential functions? Essential functions are tasks that are fundamental and not marginal to the performance of the position or to satisfaction of educational requirements. What is a reasonable accommodation? A reasonable accommodation is a modification or adjustment to a job, learning process, or the work environment that enables an otherwise qualified applicant or employee to perform the essential functions of his or her job. It is the employee’s responsibility to request the accommodation and to supply the proper medical documentation supporting the need for such modification. How do I request a reasonable accommodation? If you are an employee having difficulties performing the essential functions of your job due to a medical condition, contact EOS. EOS will work interactively with you and your supervisor to determine whether a reasonable accommodation is warranted and, if so, what the reasonable accommodation should entail. Make a Report Request an Accommodation Request a Training Get Involved Quick Exit Equal Opportunity Services 4367 Cougar Village Drive Bldg 526 Houston, TX 77204 713.743.8835 eos@uh.edu A-Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Maps Careers at UH Directory Emergency Information Human Resources Libraries Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Title IX - Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies