My Library Account Hours Ask a Librarian Columbia University Libraries Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library in Uris Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Our Values & Commitment in Action Strategic Directions Staff Jobs & Internships Student Library Advisory Committee News LibraryWeb (Site) Services & Tools Request Items & Services Interlibrary Loan Interlibrary Loan There are several Interlibrary Loan (ILL) offices within the Columbia University Libraries system, each providing services to a specific university community. Please select your affiliation below to route a request to place, renew, or check the status of an ILL request to the appropriate office. First time users will need to create an ILL account. Please select your campus. Columbia (Morningside) / Barnard / Union Theological Seminary / Columbia Law Medical Center Campus Teachers College NOTICE: WARNING CONCERNING COPYRIGHT RESTRICTIONS The copyright law of the United States (Title 17, United States Code) governs the making of photocopies or other reproductions of copyrighted material. Under certain conditions specified in the law, libraries and archives are authorized to furnish a photocopy or other reproduction. One of these specific conditions is that the photocopy or reproduction is not to be "used for any purpose other than private study, scholarship, or research." If a user makes a request for, or later uses, a photocopy or reproduction for purposes in excess of "fair use," that user may be liable for copyright infringement. This institution reserves the right to refuse to accept a copying order if, in its judgment, fulfillment of the order would involve violation of copyright law. ILL Services Interlibrary Loan (ILL) enables eligible Columbia University affiliates to borrow material from other libraries or obtain copies of articles or book chapters from titles that are not owned or available at Columbia University Libraries. Columbia University Libraries also lends materials to patrons of other libraries through Institutional Borrowing and reciprocal lending arrangements. Having trouble deciding between Borrow Direct and ILL? Compare services. Eligibility for ILL services Students, faculty and staff affiliated with the Morningside or Barnard campus with borrowing privileges in good standing are eligible to use Interlibrary Loan services provided by Butler Library. Provost-appointed visiting scholars with borrowing privileges in good standing are also eligible for ILL. Alumni, seminar associates and other individuals who have purchased library reading or borrowing privileges from the Library Information Office are not eligible. Please consult the Libraries' Access Privileges for a full list of permissions by affiliation. Policies Eligibility: Please check Columbia University Libraries' Access Privileges for eligibility. Loan Period: Both loan period and the ability to renew are designated by the owning institution. Please check either the paperwork or your ILL account to verify the due date and request a renewal as needed. Recall: Please note all Interlibrary Loan materials are subject to recall by the lending institution. Most recalls are for books intended for Reserves. Please return all recalled items as soon as possible. Return: New! Return items at *any* Columbia University Library circulation desk! Turnaround Time: Items usually arrive within one to two weeks. An email notice will be sent to your Columbia email account when item is ready for pick-up. If you need a book, CD or DVD faster please check availability in Borrow Direct. Renewals You can request a renewal for your ILL item provided it is not marked "No Renewals." Renewals are granted at the discretion of the lending library. Log in to your ILL account. Click on Checked Out under the ILL Request Summary section. Click on Renew for the item(s) you wish to renew. You will receive an automated e-mail within a few days notifying you that your renewal was granted or denied. If a renewal was granted, the e-mail will include your new due date. If it was denied, you must return the book by the original due date. Contact Interlibrary Loan Staff ill@library.columbia.edu (212)-854-7535 Columbia University Libraries 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 854-7309 Ask a Librarian Course Reserves Digital Scholarship Research Data Services Study Spaces Library Information Office Preservation & Digital Conversion Division Request Items & Services Other Library Catalogs Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) Columbia University Libraries 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-7309 Contact Us lio@columbia.edu Follow Us Donate Books or Items Suggestions & Feedback Report an E-Resource Problem The Bancroft Prizes Student Library Advisory Committee Jobs & Internships Behind the Scenes at Columbia's Libraries Policies Copyright Columbia University ©2021 Columbia University Libraries Nondiscrimination Ask A Librarian