Skip to main content Search Global dropdown menu Research Support Subject Librarians Reach out to a librarian for specialized help in a discipline. Library Catalog Find books, audio and video, music scores, maps and more. Research Guides Use the best resources we have, picked by librarians. Databases There's a wealth of information to be found through our database subscriptions. Collections Print and digital collections serve as extensions of our teaching and research facilities. Research Services We're available throughout all stages of your research. Quick Links Library Search JSTOR PubMed Make an Appointment Newspapers Journals Collections Program Borrow & Renew Library Catalog Find books, audio and video, music scores, maps and more in the catalog. Borrowing & Requesting Learn how to borrow materials at Dartmouth and from other libraries via BorrowDirect or DartDoc. Tech Loans We've got everything from chargers to a professional portable recording studio. Alumni Access and Resources How to access resources, on and off-campus. Media Discover an extensive range of movies, television series, documentaries, educational programs, audio and more. Off-Campus Access Students, staff, and faculty can access most of our electronic resources off-campus. Quick Links BorrowDirect DartDoc Course Reserves for Faculty Course Reserves for Students Libraries & Spaces Study and Meeting Spaces Book a meeting room for a group or sign up to use a private study room. Hours and Locations Our hours, holiday closings, street addresses and contact information. Baker-Berry Library Our main library houses the humanities, mathematics, music, physical sciences and social sciences collections Biomedical Libraries The Dana and Matthews-Fuller libraries support the disciplines of health and life sciences. Evans Map Room Houses thousands of sheet maps, mapping software, atlases, globes & more. Feldberg Business & Engineering Library Offers support for the Tuck School of Business & Thayer School of Engineering. Jones Media Center Provides facilities & collections for researching, viewing & producing media. Rauner Special Collections Library Includes rare books, manuscripts & more. Sherman Art Library Supports the departments of Art History, Studio Art, as well as the Hood Museum of Art. About Us Hours and Locations Events Latest News Privacy Policy Dean’s Council for Equity and Inclusion Strategic Objectives Visiting & Exhibits Help Library Search Learn about signing into your account, search options and tips, getting to resources and working with citations. Research Support We're committed to partnering with you to enhance and showcase your research. Publishing Support We provide consultation focusing on opportunities in digital publishing and scholarship. Subject Librarians We have a subject librarian for your major who wants to help! Teaching Support We have librarians who specializes in your subject area and can support your students’ learning. Workshops & Events We offer a variety of events to assist you in developing skills ranging from research to programming. Quick Links Contact Us FAQs Off-Campus Access Send Us Feedback Staff Directory Login Students, Faculty & Staff DHMC & Guests Alumni BorrowDirect DartDoc Toggle navigation Search Global dropdown menu Research Support Borrow & Renew Libraries & Spaces Help Login Students, Faculty & Staff DHMC & Guests Alumni BorrowDirect DartDoc Teaching Support We can work with you to develop and assess assignments, demonstrate how to use library resources, develop materials and more! What We Do Library instruction for courses takes many forms. In many cases, it is a collaborative process in which professors and librarians work together in developing and assessing assignments. In other cases, a more appropriate approach is a traditional “bibliographic instruction” session, in which a librarian demonstrates a particular resource or database. Sometimes it can be as simple as having a librarian stop by your class for a brief introduction. Librarians can also develop other materials to support learning in your course, such as handouts, websites, and guides to research resources. Librarians have worked with faculty on developing material for Canvas course sites. As well, we are available for consultations with students, both as individuals and for group projects. Teaching As information specialists, librarians mediate between the subject matter of your course and the research resources available in the Library and beyond. Librarians can help your students learn about the scholarly conversations in your discipline, and we can help you teach your students about the academic communication process. The most effective teaching, we have found, arises from a true partnership. Faculty feedback, our practice as librarians, research in the field, and particularly our students' experiences have shown that students learn best about library resources when the instruction is linked to a specific, focused assignment. The Library can best serve you when we work together to design and implement effective research experiences for your students. How to Get Started Your subject librarian is the first contact person for setting up library instruction for your course. It is helpful, but not essential, to have at least an outline of a syllabus or course schedule and some ideas about assignments in which students will be asked to do research. Starting the conversation before the beginning of the term is ideal, but, given some flexibility, we are almost always able to accommodate the needs of your course. We look forward to working with you. Help Library Search Research Support Publishing Support Subject Librarians Teaching Support Workshops & Events Quick Links Contact Us FAQs Off-Campus Access Send Us Feedback Staff Directory Dartmouth Library Baker-Berry Library Book Arts Workshop Evans Map Room Jones Media Center Biomedical Libraries Feldberg Business & Engineering Library Rauner Special Collections Library Records Management Sherman Art Library About Us Strategic Objectives Staff & Departments Subject Librarians Alumni Services Visiting & History Accessibility Library Catalog Careers Friends of the Library More About Us Contact Us 25 North Main Street Hanover, NH, USA 03755 Phone: 603-646-2567 Contact Us Give Us Feedback Connect with Us Facebook Instagram YouTube Footer copyright Dartmouth Copyright © 2020 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy