Skip to main content Search About From the Directors Mission & History Advisory Council Faculty Fellows Staff Newsletters & Brochure Contact Programs Corporate Responsibility Initiative COVID-19 and the Economy Education Policy Program Financial Sector Program GrowthPolicy Harvard Electricity Policy Group Harvard Environmental Economics Program Harvard Kennedy School Healthcare Policy Program Harvard Project on Climate Agreements Initiative for Responsible Investment Kansai Keizai Doyukai Program Regulatory Policy Program Rising Chinese Economic Power Sustainability Science Program News & Events News Events Videos Seminars & Conferences Newsletters & Brochure Subscribe Annual Robert Glauber Lecture Publications Working Papers and Reports Books GrowthPolicy Newsletters & Brochure Students B&G PIC Funding & Prizes Study Groups Other Opportunities Search About From the Directors Mission & History Advisory Council Faculty Fellows Staff Newsletters & Brochure Contact Programs Corporate Responsibility Initiative COVID-19 and the Economy Education Policy Program Financial Sector Program GrowthPolicy Harvard Electricity Policy Group Harvard Environmental Economics Program Harvard Kennedy School Healthcare Policy Program Harvard Project on Climate Agreements Initiative for Responsible Investment Kansai Keizai Doyukai Program Regulatory Policy Program Rising Chinese Economic Power Sustainability Science Program News & Events News Events Videos Seminars & Conferences Newsletters & Brochure Subscribe Annual Robert Glauber Lecture Publications Working Papers and Reports Books GrowthPolicy Newsletters & Brochure Students B&G PIC Funding & Prizes Study Groups Other Opportunities Search Search HKS Healthcare Policy Program In This Section Centers & Initiatives Mossavar-Rahmani Center for Business & Government Programs Harvard Kennedy School Healthcare Policy Program Amitabh Chandra's Research Discovering Solutions Affiliated Faculty Healthcare Policy Leadership Council Health Policy Coursework Harvard Ph.D. Program in Health Policy In The News Contact Grossman Fellowships In This Section You are here Home Mossavar-Rahmani Center for Business and Government Programs Harvard Kennedy School Healthcare Policy Program Faculty Director Amitabh Chandra Appointment Ethel Zimmerman Wiener Professor of Public Policy, HKS; Henry and Allison McCance Professor of Business Administration, HBS 617-496-7356 Mailing Address 1 Harvard Kennedy School Mailing Address 2 79 John F. Kennedy Street Mailbox 114 City Cambridge State MA Zip 02138 Discovering solutions and providing leadership for unprecedented problems in healthcare is the mission of the HKS Healthcare Policy Program. Prof. Chandra's Research Publications Prof. Chandra's research focuses on productivity and cost-growth in health care, medical malpractice, and racial disparities in health care. Publications News Prof. Chandra's research in the news. News Health Policy Courses See what's being offered at HKS this semester. Courses About the HKS Healthcare Policy Program The program has three aims: Research, on access, innovation, and value in healthcare; Establishing conversations between researchers, government, and industry; and Preparing future generations of leaders through educational programs. The Challenge A combination of factors - from the growing number of elderly Americans, expanding government spending on healthcare, increasing market power, and a new wave of innovations - portends that healthcare could become the defining issue for the United States. Innovation in immunotherapy for cancer, gene therapy, and Alzheimer's breakthroughs offer hope for millions. Access to innovations and providers has been shown to improve outcomes and reduce financial uncertainty. But the nation's ability to ensure access for the poor, the sick, and the elderly will be compromised if we do not devise the appropriate regulatory and reimbursement policies to grapple with this challenge. Indeed, the long-term fiscal health of the United States depends on our ability to find the balance between paying for innovation in healthcare with continued access to these innovations. Discovering Solutions Innovation in new medicines and devices depends on regulation and pricing, while access depends on the generosity of public programs, tax policy, and the cost of delivering care. More generous access is valuable and creates incentives for even greater innovation. But this poses a challenge for public payers who now constitute the largest payers. Sustainable answers to this dilemma require balancing innovation and access with solutions that emphasize competition, value-based pricing, improvements in the productivity of the delivery system, premium-support in Medicare, tax-reform, and redesigning plans to offer value-based insurance. Learn more. Location The Harvard Kennedy School is uniquely positioned to be the home of this multi-disciplinary undertaking. It is ranked as the #1 health policy program in the nation. The program’s faculty affiliates and alumni are immersed in actual policy design and not simply the study of it; they have led the Food and Drug Administration, Congressional Budget Office, Centers for Medicaid and Medicare Services, and served in the White House. The student interest group on health policy at the Kennedy School is now the largest student group at the School and demonstrates the extent to which future leaders and generations care about health policy. Finally, Harvard is in Boston, which is an unparalleled location to study US healthcare and the opportunities and challenges that it presents for the future. Boston has emerged as a center of innovation for biotechnology and devices, as well as for hospital care and public policy in healthcare. Massachusetts insured the uninsured before the rest of the nation in 2006; it experimented with alternative payment systems for physicians; it is where novel treatments for disease are discovered; and it is the largest training location for physicians in the world. Leadership The Program is directed by Professor Amitabh Chandra, Ethel Zimmerman Wiener Professor of Public Policy at the Harvard Kennedy School and Henry and Allison McCance Professor of Business Administration at Harvard Business School. The program is anchored by faculty and clinical affiliates from Harvard Kennedy School, Medical School, School of Public Health, Business School, the Department of Economics, as well as the Brigham and Women’s Hospital and Massachusetts General Hospital. Sponsors The HKS Healthcare Policy Program is sustained through the numerous organizations and individuals who invest in the Program. These include support from: Healthcare Policy Leadership Council (see link for list of members) The Family of Jerome H. Grossman, M.D. Mossavar-Rahmani Center for Business and Government at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government National Institutes of Health Office of the Provost at Harvard University Learn More Healthcare Policy Program Faculty Jerome H. Grossman M.D. Graduate Fellowships Healthcare Policy Leadership Council Mossavar-Rahmani Center for Business & Government Harvard Kennedy School Weil Hall 79 JFK Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Programs News Events Faculty Fellows Students Working Papers Subscribe Contact Us Privacy Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. https://www.facebook.com/MRCBG https://twitter.com/HKS_BizGov https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCBIKMs_Ed3XMtDnhcDOdrSw https://soundcloud.com/harvardkennedyschool/sets/m-rcbg