Emergency Notification More details Skip to main content Dartmouth Home Search Index Dartmouth College Faculty/Employee Assistance Program About Us Problem/Referral Info Work/Life Balance Other Services Staff/Location Quick Links Contact Info/Emergencies Work United Calendar of Events Links/Resources Supervisory Tools COVID-19 Resources Guided Relaxation Access two short guided relaxation activities here Looking for additional emotional well-being resources? If you're a Cigna member you also have access to a variety of behavioral health resources including connecting with a coach, therapist, or psychiatrist virtually via text, video or phone. Learn more about these offerings, and more, here Standing with Ukraine Dartmouth encourages any employees affected by the escalating conflict in Ukraine to reach out to the Faculty/Employee Assistance Program (F/EAP) for free confidential support, resources and information. These services are provided at no charge to you, and any household members, and are available 24/7. GuidanceResources, our Faculty/Employee Assistance Partner, has created this website with conflict resources available to help you cope with this crisis. GuidanceResources has also created this pre-recorded "Coping During Uncertain Times" webinar (after registering you will have immediate access to the webinar) Search this Site [an error occurred while processing this directive] Welcome to the Faculty / Employee Assistance Program Your Dartmouth College Faculty/Employee Assistance Program, in partnership with GuidanceResources, gives you, our employees, and your household members confidential support, resources and information for personal and work-life issues. These services are provided at no charge to you and are available 24/7. There are two ways to access your Faculty/Employee Assistance Program (F/EAP) resources 24/7: Call 844.216.8308 You'll speak to a counseling professional who will listen to your concerns and can guide you to the appropriate services you require (virtual counseling is available from local providers as well as the Dartmouth College campus counselor, Sharon Morisi, until face to face is reinstated) Visit GuidanceResources® Online at www.guidanceresources.com, click on Register and enter your company ID: Dartmouth and then follow the registration prompts. You will find timely, expert information on thousands of topics, including relationships, work, school, children, wellness, legal, and financial. You can search for qualified child care and elder care, attorneys and financial planners as well as ask questions, take self-assessments and more. What Is the Faculty/Employee Assistance Program? Your Dartmouth College Faculty/Employee Assistance Program, in partnership with GuidanceResources, offers someone to talk to and resources to consult whenever and wherever you need them. Watch this video to learn more. Services include: Confidential Counseling Life can be stressful. F/EAP is designed to provide short-term counseling services for you and your household members to help you handle concerns constructively, before they become major issues. Call anytime about concerns such as marital, relationship and family problems; stress, anxiety and depression; grief and loss, job pressures and substance abuse and our highly trained clinicians will listen to your concerns and listen to your concerns and can guide you to the appropriate services you require, including local providers for in-person counseling. Receive up to eight (8) counseling sessions per issue. Work-Life Solutions Too much to do, and too little time to get it all done? The work-life specialists through F/EAP can do the research for you, and provide qualified referrals and customized resources for child and elder care, moving, pet care, college planning, home repair, buying a car, planning an event, selling a house and more. Legal Support With F/EAP, you have an attorney "on call" whenever you have questions about legal matters. Speak with on-staff licensed attorneys about legal concerns such as divorce, custody, adoption, real estate, debt and bankruptcy, landlord/tenant issues, civil and criminal actions and more. If you require representation, you can be referred to a qualified attorney for a free 30-minute consultation and a 25 percent reduction in customary legal fees. Financial Information Everyone has financial questions. With your F/EAP benefit, you can get answers to your questions about budgeting, debt management, tax issues and other money concerns from on-staff CPAs, Certified Financial Planners® and other financial experts. Who Will Know? Our program is strictly confidential; no one will know if you use the F/EAP. If you meet with a counselor, everything you discuss with your counselor will be kept confidential unless you give written permission to share information. If you contact F/EAP, your supervisor will not be told unless you want him or her informed. However, a supervisor may refer you to the F/EAP program if your job performance is affected. If you decide you want help, everything you discuss will still be confidential. However, by law, we are required to disclose to emergency personnel when there has been a disclosure of child or elder abuse, and or threat of harm to oneself or others. Your job security or working conditions will not be jeopardized by a request for help through F/EAP. We do not record F/EAP visits in your personnel file, and they do not affect performance evaluations. How Much Will This Cost? F/EAP is a free employee benefit offered to you and your family members. Who is eligible for F/EAP services? All Dartmouth College active employees and their household members are eligible. Contact Us Top of page | Privacy | Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Last Updated: 9/10/21