Skip to main content < × Penn COVID-19 Response » University of Pennsylvania Toggle Navigation Toggle Search Accessibility Menu Jump to… Main Content Search Main Navigation Utility Navigation Main menu Areas of Practice Services Careers About Contact Us Utility Navigation A-Z Calendar Directory Maps Offices & Services Penn Home Webmail Back to Accessibility Menu Search Search Office of General Counsel University of Pennsylvania Office of General Counsel represents the University of Pennsylvania and Penn Medicine as a corporate entity in legal matters. The Office supports the mission of the University and Penn Medicine by handling all legal matters generated by the activities of the institution, including the schools, centers, departments, operating units and subsidiaries that comprise the University and its Health System. The Office provides legal advice and counsel across the institution, represents the institution in litigation and other proceedings, and initiates action to protect the institution, and manage risks. All matters requiring legal advice or legal action should be referred to the Office of the General Counsel. WENDY S. WHITE Senior Vice President & General Counsel, University of Pennsylvania & Penn Medicine LEE J. DOBKIN Deputy General Counsel for the University and Chief Counsel for Penn Medicine Areas of Practice Useful information covering the legal areas in which our attorneys practice. Visit Areas of Practice Penn Medicine Penn Medicine is dedicated to high-quality patient care and advancing medical science through research. Visit the Penn Medicine Website Policies A link to an extensive list of policies, procedures and related forms. Visit Policies Law Clerk Externships Resources for those seeking law clerk positions and externships. Visit Law Clerk Externships Address FMC Tower at Cira Centre South 2929 Walnut Street, Suite 400 Philadelphia, PA 19104-5099 Contact Main: (215) 746-5200 Fax: (215) 746-5222 Email Send email to OGC Directions Find us on the map University of Pennsylvania ©2022 University of Pennsylvania Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement