Skip to the main content United States Air Force Academy Go to home page image/svg+xml Page 1 Go to home page Link to home page Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Menu Search the Site Academics A rigorous academic program that balances STEM with the arts and humanities. Academics Core Curriculum Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Registrar Faculty and Staff Directory Academic Success Center Request a Transcript Investigator or Verifications Admissions News Research Learn more about cutting-edge research that supports the Air Force and our global society. Research Office of Research Research Centers Cadet Summer Research STEM Outreach Future Conflict Cadet Life Take a peek into the life of a United States Air Force Academy cadet. Cadet Life Dormitories & Dining Cadet Clubs Cadet Support Services Day in the Life Frequently Asked Questions Military With a focus on innovation and adaptation to the changing world of warfare, we’re setting higher expectations for what it means to serve. Military Basic Cadet Training Squadrons Airmanship Military Careers Wings of Blue Athletics About There’s no limit to what you will achieve here. Academics. Athletics. Military training. We deliver the future leaders of modern warfare. About Leadership Character Development History Awards Traditions Educational Innovation More Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Education at a Different Altitude The U.S. Air Force Academy delivers a college experience that’s not for everyone. But then again, you aren’t everyone. ABOUT THE ACADEMY Full Scholarship An Academy education is valued at more than $416,000, yet we offer it at no cost to our cadets. All that is required in return is your commitment to serve as an officer in the Air and Space Forces. ABOUT THE ACADEMY 4,000+ Cadets More than 4,000 cadets are enrolled in the Academy experience to become leaders through an integrated and immersive academic, athletic and military curriculum. ABOUT THE ACADEMY 80% Graduation Rate The Academy ranks among the highest four-year colleges in the country when it comes to graduation rate. What's even more impressive is that 100% of our graduates have a job immediately after commissioning. In This Section: Awards Leadership Institutional Research Governance Honor Diversity and Inclusion Mission & Vision History Frequently Asked Questions Traditions Board of Visitors Interactive Map ACADEMY OVERVIEW AN EXPERIENCE UNLIKE ANY OTHER With a history of excellence and a focus on the future, the United States Air Force Academy instills cadets with pride and integrity while preparing them to serve their country and succeed in 21st-century careers. As a public university and a military service academy, we are leading the way into an increasingly complex future, driving advancement and innovation in air, space and cyberspace, among countless other fields. Whether you come to Colorado Springs for the world-class education, military training, Division I athletics, or character-building challenge and adventure, one thing is certain, the Academy experience—more than 60 years in the making—is unlike any other. The United States Air Force Academy is accredited by the Higher Learning Commission. Where it All Began Academy History Long before the Air Force was a separate service, Airpower leaders in the United States knew they needed a dedicated facility at which to train the country’s future airmen. In 1954, the idea for the United States Air Force Academy was approved – seven years after the Air Force was officially established. After 21,000 miles of traveling to potential sites, an appointed commission recommended Colorado Springs as its first choice, which is where the Academy resides today. Learn More AT A GLANCE ACADEMY FACTS 4,000+Current Cadets 30Programs of Study 27Division I Athletics Teams 8:1Cadet to Faculty Ratio 19Research Centers × ACADEMICS Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Research Centers Faculty and Staff Directory CAMPUS Events Employment Emergency Weather Helping Agencies Apps COMMUNITY AF CyberWorx USAFA Band Force Support Wings of Blue VISIT Visitors Campus Map Facilities Cadet Chapel Planetarium Base Access Contact Us Social Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Flickr © 2022 United States Air Force Academy, All Rights Reserved The appearance of hyperlinks does not constitute endorsement by the Department of the Air Force or the information, products, or services contained therein. For other than authorized activities such as military exchanges and morale, welfare and recreation sites, the Department of the Air Force does not exercise any editorial control over the information you may find at these locations. Such links provided are consistent with the stated purpose of this DOD Web site.