Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Chemistry at Brown: Undergraduate Home About Research Academics Undergraduate Research Opportunities Chemistry Placement & Introductory Courses CHEM - Web Tutorial Transfer Credit Honors & Awards ChemDUG REUs & Funding Graduate Courses Resources People News Seminars & Events Site Navigation Home About Facilities & Services NMR Facility Mass Spectrometry Facility Machine Shop Electronics Shop Stockroom Room Reservations Connect your Computer Outreach & Inclusion Diversity & Inclusion Action Committee Outreach Activities Chemistry Anonymous Climate Form Visitor & Contact Information Travel Policies for Guests Brown Chemistry Department Employment Opportunities & Internship Postings Geo-Chem MacMillan Safety Resources Research Chemical Biology Inorganic Chemistry Nano and Materials Chemistry Organic Chemistry Physical & Theoretical Chemistry Chemical Education Publications Academics Undergraduate Research Opportunities Chemistry Placement & Introductory Courses CHEM - Web Tutorial Transfer Credit Honors & Awards ChemDUG REUs & Funding Graduate Financial Support and Funding Opportunities Awards Graduate Leadership Courses Resources People Faculty Staff Department Directory News Archive Seminars & Events Endowed Lectures DIAC-Hosted Events Alumni Speaker Series ChemDUG Who We Are The ChemDUG is the Brown Chemistry Department Undergraduate Group, representing the concentrations in Chemistry, Biochemistry, and Chemical Physics. It is composed of Brown students—from freshmen to seniors—active in networking, hosting events, and leading departmental outreach to Brown and its community. Anyone who is interested in taking part in DUG activities is welcome. Contact the Chemistry DUG Leaders Join the Chemistry Department Listserv for Updates Find out what the Chem DUGs are planning for the coming year! What We Do The goal of the ChemDUG is to welcome all students interested in chemical sciences and to foster a sense of community and inclusion. Activities include study breaks during exam weeks, movie nights, outreach to local schools, judging Science Fair projects and participating in STEM Day. ChemDUG hosts a broad range of events each year. Below are just a few examples, and new ideas are always welcome! Fall Meet and Greet The ChemDUG organizes a Meet and Greet event for students to meet with department research faculty and other concentrators. Declaration Day Event The ChemDUG in conjunction with the concentration advisors plan the annual Declaration Day event which welcomes all new concentrators to the department. Science Communication & Professional Development Workshop In recent years, the ChemDUG collaborated with the Physics and DEEPS departments to host a professional development event focused on communicating science and networking in the science world. Chemistry Degree Day The DUG hosts Chemistry's annual Degree Day. DUG members invite a panel of alumni with degrees in Chemistry, Biochemistry, and Chemical Physics to discuss their post-Brown career paths. And when do we plan all this? Planning meetings are held several times during the academic year. Anyone interested in planning is welcome to attend a meeting (no concentration required!). Planning meetings are great opportunities to present new ideas, too. Sign up for the Chem Department listserv to receive emails about planning meetings. Undergraduate Research Opportunities Chemistry Placement & Introductory Courses CHEM - Web Tutorial Transfer Credit Honors & Awards ChemDUG REUs & Funding Department of Chemistry Department of Chemistry Brown University Box H 324 Brook Street Thayer Street at MacMillan Lawn Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2321 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top