Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Media Studies and Production MA You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Media Studies and Production MA Apply Request More Info Media Studies and Production MA Admissions Careers & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Arts in Media Studies and Production Increase your knowledge of media analysis, creation and management with the Master of Arts in Media Studies and Production in the Lew Klein College of Media and Communication at Temple. In this age of digital production and global distribution, media are essential elements of public communications in any professional field, including advocacy, art, commerce, entertainment and politics. Graduates of this program are empowered to enter a broad range of careers in the media world, or to pursue advanced research at the doctoral level. Media are powerful vehicles for self-expression and social transformation, vital to any contemporary organization. The interdisciplinary media studies and production program explores the potential uses and impacts of media across an array of evolving technologies, platforms and practices. Our approach to education is holistic, structured around two core principles. Creative production emphasizes the cultivation of sophisticated media creators and entrepreneurs, who are empowered to develop innovative and ethical content and to sustain a career doing so. Critical engagement emphasizes the intellectual comprehension of media and the understanding of their relationship to society. Situated in the heart of Philadelphia, a leading center of media, art and commerce, this program connects you to a diverse urban landscape where local and global cultures interweave. Through our program, you will collaborate with peers and professionals who have unique interests and academic backgrounds, from social sciences and the humanities, to mass communications and communication theory. Our faculty are acclaimed media scholars and accomplished professional practitioners whose work integrates theory and practice to successfully navigate the continuously evolving media-centric world. Learn more about the Media Studies and Production MA’s faculty and staff. Find Your Focus Personalized research and professional opportunities characterize the media studies and production program, and your studies can be tailored to your individual interests. Focus your coursework on one of three areas of specialization, ensuring you achieve your unique academic and career goals. The Media Business specialization covers corporate communications, marketing and research, media management, and media publicity and advertising. The Media Production specialization covers digital platforms, multimedia production, radio, TV and emergent communication technologies. The Communication Scholarship specialization examines media and technology through various lenses, including cultural, economic, historical, political and sociological, and explores the behavior and management of communications systems. Program Format & Curriculum The 36-credit Media Studies and Production MA program’s in-person courses are held on Temple’s Main Campus. Students may complete the program on a full- or part-time basis. The following courses are required. Communication Research Methods Introduction to Communication Concepts Masters Colloquium Media Institutions Media Technology and Culture Departmental courses must constitute a minimum of 19 of the 36 credits required to graduate. Provided this requirement is met, students are free to take courses in other departments and pursue an interdisciplinary focus. Learn more about requirements of the Media Studies and Production MA. Related Graduate Degrees Communication for Development and Social Change MS Communication Management MS Journalism MJ Media and Communication PhD Related Graduate Certificates Cultural Analytics Public Relations Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Arts offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,078.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,441.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors Faculty advisors can help you navigate your program and discuss research opportunities, teaching assistantships and more. Learn more about Klein College of Media and Communication faculty. Program Contact Contact the following faculty or staff members with questions about the Media Studies and Production MA. Jan Fernback is co-chair of the Media Studies and Production Department. Email: fernback@temple.edu Phone: 215-204-3041 Matthew Lombard is co-chair of the department. Email: lombard@temple.edu Phone: 215-204-7182 Nicole McKenna is the director of the graduate office. Email: nmckenna@temple.edu Phone: 215-204-1497 Clemencia Rodriguez is the program director. Email: clemencia@temple.edu Phone: 215-204-5752 Student Clubs & Organizations As a student of the Master of Arts in Media Studies and Production program, you’ll have opportunities to develop your skills as a scholar and work collaboratively with faculty and other students on research projects. You may also practice your craft in on-campus media outlets and student organizations, including the following. Bell Tower Music is Temple University’s student-run record label. The Center for Media and Information Literacy promotes education, outreach and research on issues involving media literacy and information literacy. Emerge is an annual publication that features interactive and new media work created by students in the Media Studies and Production Department. TUTV is Temple’s digital cable station with programming that includes Temple Update, A Broader View and OwlSports Update. WHIP Radio is Temple’s student-run internet radio station. Learn more about student clubs and organizations. Study Away Students in the Media Studies and Production MA can register for the summer program at Temple London, where they can live and learn in one of the great artistic, urban and political centers of the world. Learn more about the Temple London summer program. Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. CO-MSP-MA Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Media Studies and Production MA Admissions Careers & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info