Skip to main content FSU >> FSU LIBRARIES Top Right Search Box Search Our Website... * OneSearch | My Account Florida State University Libraries Search & Find Advanced Search Find a Database Journal Search Special Collections Search DigiNole Search Services & Research All Services Subject Librarians Distance Learning Digital Research & Scholarship Special Collections & Archives Government Information About the Libraries Libraries Overview Member Libraries Departments Accessibility @ FSU Libraries Diversity & Inclusion Giving to the Libraries Facts & Figures Strategic Plan Advancement Board Materials & Borrowing Borrowing Materials Library Express Delivery Interlibrary Loan Materials Purchase Request Help & Support Get Help Library Hours Maps & Directions Visitor Information COVID Guidelines Home >> Tutoring >> Math Tutoring Math Tutoring TUTORING IS NOW CONDUCTED BOTH IN PERSON AND THROUGH ZOOM. Strozier Library We are now open for summer! Summer Hours: Monday - Wednesday, 8pm to 11pm We are available both in person and online this semester. Enter the Zoom room for Strozier tutoring. Tutoring services are supported by the generosity of the Fogg Trust. Please note: Tutors are only available during our posted hours, and you will be asked to log in with your my.fsu credentials to reach the direct Zoom link. This How to Access Online Tutoring with Zoom video will walk you through downloading and signing into Zoom, finding the link to the active tutoring session, and what happens when you log in for the first time. If you need assistance figuring out Zoom, start with this page of FSU's Information Technology Services site or Zoom's official help center. If you are a TCC or FAMU student and would like to access tutoring for the current semester, please email lib-tutoring@fsu.edu or use the Submit A Question page to register and receive the link. Course Title Course Code Analytic Trigonometry MAC1114 College Algebra MAC1105 Business Calculus MAC2233 Calculus w Analytic Geometry I MAC2311 Calculus w Analytic Geometry II MAC2312 Math for Liberal Arts I MGF1106 Math for Liberal Arts II MGF1107 Precalculus Algebra MAC1140 Math help is also available through ACE & CARE ACE offers the following services: Learning Studio Appointments | Drop-In Math Tutoring You can find ACE on the ground floor of the William Johnston Building. CARE offers help for various math courses and you can learn more on their CARE Online page. Need help now? The videos and review notes below are provided by the Math Department Algebra Review Videos by Professor Blackwelder Some Algebra You May Need to Review Examples of Graphing Strategy Properties of Logarithms Derivative Rules Integration Rules Midpoint Rules Page last updated 05/2022 Tutoring Information Tutoring Online Tutoring Submit a Question Chemistry Math Physics Reading and Writing Center Learning Resources Readiness Review Series Our Team Become a Tutor Other Locations Tutoring Policy About The Florida State University Libraries The mission of the University Libraries is to support and enhance the learning, teaching, research, and service activities of the Florida State University... READ MORE > Library Hours Maps and Directions Our Libraries Staff Directory Subject Librarians All Forms Library News Library Departments Library Events Library Services Employment Visiting the Libraries Giving to the Libraries Policies About the Libraries FAQ Government Information Staff Intranet Content Editor Login Internal Knowledge Base © Florida State University Libraries 116 Honors Way Tallahassee, FL 32306 Website Suggestions Privacy Principles Copyright Policy Contact Us (850) 644-2706 Search Articles, Books and More... * Connect with us!