Your browser does not support iframes. Skip to main content Menu Scheller College of Business Request More Information Attend an Info Session Contact Us Directory Apply Now Search Why Scheller? Programs Executive Education Academics Centers & Initiatives News & Events Overview & History Dean's Message and Report Meet Ernest Scheller Jr. Advisory Board Accreditation Strategic Plan Business at Tech Graduates Get Hired Return on Investment Faculty and Advisors Global Perspective A Good Fit Corporate Engagement Trading Floor Georgia Tech Community Student Life Making Connections and Learning Opportunities Diversity Diversity News Career and Recruiter Services Career Services for Students Hire Our Students Giving to the College Meeting the Challenge Priorities and Needs Faculty Support Student Support Program Enrichment Unrestricted Endowment The Impact of Your Gift How to Make a Gift FAQs Scheller MBA Annual Fund Alumni Network Alumni News Alumni Resources Update Contact Information Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Full-time MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQsEvening MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Advancement Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQs Executive MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Student & Alumni Profiles FAQsMBA Programs Which Georgia Tech MBA is Right for Me? Commitment to Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Dual Degree Options Experiential Learning For Engineers For Military Community MD/MBA Option MBA Early Admission for Undergrads Rankings The Intersection Podcast Earn Your MBA in Atlanta Graduate Certificate Business Analytics Certificate Undergraduate Admissions Curriculum Career Services Student Services Student Life Scholarships & Awards Rankings & Stats Connect With Us The Intersection Podcast, Undergrad PhD Concentrations Program Milestones Faculty and Staff Funding Admissions FAQs Recruiting Events Student Bios Program News Request Program Information Interdisciplinary M.S. M.S. in Quantitative & Computational Finance (QCF) Master of Science in Analytics at Georgia Tech Lean Six Sigma Certification Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Certification Lean Six Sigma Black Belt Certification FAQs Custom Programs FAQs Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Engineering Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship International Management Management of Technology Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results Academic Speaker Series Guest Speakers in Accounting Guest Speakers in Finance Guest Speakers in Marketing Current Faculty Opportunities Business Analytics Center Engage with Us Executive Council News Research Education People Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics About Cecil B. Day The Cecil B. Day Prize Speakers and Events Faculty Support Net Impact Center for International Business Education and Research Projects Research Events Books People at CIBER Inside CIBER News and Events Archives International Management Certificate Sign Up for Future CIBER News Financial Analysis Lab Subscribe to Reports Institute for Leadership and Social Impact About Us Programs News Impact Speaker Series Leadership for Social Good Study Abroad Program Social Impact Fellows Ideas to Serve (I2S) Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Servant Leadership Programs Minor in Leadership Studies Excel Alumni Other ILSI Programs Partnerships Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business About Us Sustainable Business Insights Research Briefs Sustainable Business Events Sustainable Business News Blog Research & Thought Leadership Empowering Students Industry Engagement Newsletter Participating in the Drawdown Georgia Compact Drawdown Georgia Business Compact Meet the Team Alumni Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program Director's Message About Steven A. Denning T&M Curriculum Program Faculty & Staff Admissions T&M Corporate Affiliates Denning T&M Program News TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta Program Network TI:GER MBA & PhD FAQs News Apply Inquire Resources in Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller Business Analytics Center Business Analytics Center News Home » Centers & Initiatives » Business Analytics Center » News » Business Analytics Center News Menu Business Analytics Center Business Analytics Center News Engage with Us Executive Council Research Education People Latest Posts May 13, 2022 Lizhen Xu Named a Poets&Quants 2022 Best 40-Under-40 MBA Professor Lizhen Xu, Associate Professor of Information Technology, has been named a 2022 Best 40 under 40 Professor by Poets&Quants. Read more May 11, 2022 Top Students and Top Brands Take Part in IT Management Practicum Strength and value of academic/industry collaboration powerfully showcased via real-world challenges. Read more April 27, 2022 Graduate Business Analytics Practicum Highlights Student Insights and Ingenuity MBA and MSA students ended their semester-long business analytics practicum class with an impressive showcase presentation to their client companies. Read more April 19, 2022 First Business Analytics Undergraduate Practicum Is Smashing Success Undergraduate students from across Georgia Tech take part in the inaugural business analytics practicum class. Read more April 12, 2022 Countdown to Commencement: Meet Conor Walsh As part of the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our Undergraduate program. Meet Conor Walsh. Read more April 01, 2022 5 Key Things Marketing Leaders Need to Know About Analytics Think you don't need analytics? Here's 5 reasons analytics should become an integral strategy in your marketing plan. Read more March 29, 2022 Georgia Tech Scheller MBA Ranks Top 10 in Business Analytics, Information Systems, and Operations The Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business MBA ranks top 10 in business analytics, information systems, and operations, according to the U.S. News & World Report 2023 Best Business School ranking. Read more March 20, 2022 Veritiv Added to Georgia Tech Scheller Business Analytics Center's Executive Council Georgia Tech Scheller Business Analytics Center announced today that North American packaging leader Veritiv, a Fortune 500 company headquartered in Atlanta, is joining the BAC's Executive Council. Read more January 31, 2022 Big Year for the BAC Enhancing and expanding our current efforts while remaining focused on our core mission to provide excellence in business analytics education made for a fantastic 2021. Read more December 06, 2021 Students Wow Analytics Execs at Live Showcase Event MBA and MSA students presented the results of their semester-long business analytics practicum project during a lively, interactive final Showcase. Read more November 22, 2021 Countdown to Commencement: Meet Matt Pacifico As part of the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our Undergraduate program. Meet Matt Pacifico. Read more October 06, 2021 Students and Top Tech Companies Connect at 2021 Business Analytics Career Fair & Internship Expo Fourteen companies and more than 100 graduate and undergraduate business analytics students spent an afternoon networking at the Historic Academy of Medicine. Read more September 28, 2021 Inside and Outside the Classroom, Scheller College and the Business Analytics Center Continue Innovation in Business Analytics Education New summer experiential learning opportunities were a big hit with Scheller students Read more September 14, 2021 Scheller Undergraduate Business Analytics Program Ranked 1st Among Public Universities U.S. News & World Report once again rates Georgia Tech Scheller's business analytics program among the best in the nation. Read more August 30, 2021 Intern Insights - Graduate MBA Panel Talks All Things Internship Six graduate interns provide an in-depth look at acing the internship. Read more August 25, 2021 Recruit the Best Business Analytics Talent at the 2021 Business Analytics Career Fair & Internship Expo Registration is now open for the 2021 Business Analytics Career Fair & Internship Expo. Read more May 11, 2021 Business Analytics and IT Management Practicums Deliver Quality Insights and Practical Experience Real World 101: Scheller graduate students completed complex real-world challenges in spring Business Analytics and IT practicum courses. Read more April 21, 2021 Countdown to Commencement: Meet Undergraduate Grant Lin As part of Scheller’s Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our Undergraduate program to learn about them. Meet Grant Lin. Read more April 16, 2021 New Business Analytics Career Path Announced As interest in business analytics continues to rise, Scheller College of Business offers a new business analytics undergraduate career path. Read more March 08, 2021 How a Passion for Problem Solving Put Two Women on the Path to Business Analytics Success: An Interview with Rachel Wiseley and June Sloan, Two Top Business Analytics Scheller Graduates Rachel Wiseley and June Sloan discuss the choices that led to Scheller, Slalom, and business analytics succcess. Read more February 11, 2021 Georgia Tech Datathon Draws Fierce Competition from 20 Countries The Business Analytics Center was proud to sponsor Hacklytics 2021 featuring competitors from across the globe. Read more January 28, 2021 Big Turnout for The Home Depot Virtual Open House The Business Analytics Center and Business Analytics Club recently hosted a Home Depot Open House/Information session for students interested in careers and internships with Home Depot. Read more December 03, 2020 Virtual Fall Business Analytics Showcase Features Insights and Ingenuity MBA and MSA students team up with thyssenkrupp Elevator and the GT Athletic Association for virtual fall business analytics showcase Read more November 09, 2020 Increasing the Success of Virtual Queues: Research from Scheller Professor Qiuping Yu Georgia Tech Scheller Professor Qiuping Yu publishes research on virtual queues, showing when providing wait time estimates, it pays to under-promise and over-deliver. Read more November 05, 2020 Executive Council Members & Business Analytics Alumni Share Wisdom During BA Club Panel Students and Business Analytics Executive Council members enjoyed an interactive panel discussion sponsored by the Business Analytics Club. Read more October 21, 2020 Three Reasons Georgia Tech Scheller Is Ranked No. 1 in Business Analytics U.S. News & World Report ranks Scheller’s undergraduate and graduate business analytics programs No. 1 among public universities and No. 3 overall in the nation. Here are three reasons why. Read more October 05, 2020 Alumni Panel Shares Tips for Success Virtual alumni panel helps current students navigate the job search journey. Read more September 24, 2020 King & Spalding Joins Georgia Tech Scheller Business Analytics Center’s Executive Council King & Spalding, an international law firm founded in Atlanta, announced today that it is joining the Executive Council of the Business Analytics Center (BAC) at the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business. They join other global industry leaders including The Coca-Cola Company, The Home Depot, AT&T, NCR, UPS, and thyssenkrupp Elevator. Read more September 22, 2020 King & Spalding Added to BAC Executive Council Another global leader is joining the Executive Council. Beginning in September 2020, International law firm King & Spalding will be a part of the Executive Council of Georgia Tech's Business Analytics Center at Scheller College of Business. Read more September 16, 2020 Scheller Undergraduate Business Analytics Program Ranked 3rd Among U.S. Universities In its first-ever ranking of undergraduate Business Analytics programs, U.S. News & World Report ranked Georgia Tech’s Scheller College of Business undergraduate Business Analytics program #3 for Business Analytics (all universities) and #1 for Business Analytics (public universities) in the U.S. Read more August 16, 2020 thyssenkrupp Elevator Added to BAC Executive Council thyssenkrupp Elevator, a leading global player in the elevators and escalators market is joining the Executive Council of Georgia Tech’s Business Analytics Center at Scheller College of Business. Read more April 21, 2020 Students Team Up with Home Depot for Virtual Spring Business Analytics Showcase Four teams of graduate students presented their analytic insights at the virtual Business Analytics Spring Showcase. Read more April 08, 2020 BA Club Presents Virtual Workshops When the campus shutdown threatens to cancel their previously scheduled workshops, Business Analytics Club leaders pivot and present the workshops virtually. Read more April 03, 2020 Scheller Business Analytics MBA Ranked First Among Public Universities by U.S. News & World Report In its first-ever ranking of MBA Business Analytics programs U.S. News & World Report ranked Georgia Tech’s Scheller College of Business MBA Business Analytics program #1 MBA for Business Analytics (public university) and #3 MBA for Business Analytics (all universities) in the U.S.. Read more March 12, 2020 Anthem Visit Draws Big Crowd The Business Analytics Club recently sponsored a breakfast panel with Anthem. Read more March 02, 2020 Analytics Ingenuity on Display During Georgia Tech Hackathon The Business Analytics Center recently helped sponsor the second-annual Georgia Tech Sports Innovation Challenge, a 24-hour hackathon. Read more December 20, 2019 Poets & Quants Ranks Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business’ Undergraduate Program Top 20 in the U.S. Scheller College of Business’ Undergraduate Program has been named #14 Best Undergraduate Business Program in the U.S. and #5 Best Undergraduate Business Program at a public university in the U.S. by Poets and Quants in their just-released 2020 rankings for undergraduate programs. Read more November 22, 2019 Students Shine at Fall Business Analytics Showcase Student teams presented their semester-long business analytics practicum project at the Fall Business Analytics Showcase. Read more November 12, 2019 Business Analytics Club Holds Alumni Panel The Business Analytics Club recently hosted an alumni panel, providing a real-world glimpse of what it's like to work in analytics. Read more October 14, 2019 2nd Annual BAC Career Fair & Internship Expo Connects Students with Top Tech Companies Fourteen of the nation's leaders in business analytics attended the BAC Career Fair and Analytics Expo, hoping to attract Tech's top talent. Read more May 02, 2019 BAC Welcomes Senior Tech Leaders for AI Disaster Preparation Session The Business Analytics Center recently teamed up with The Coca Cola Company to present "AI for Good: How One Concern is Using AI to Improve Disaster Preparation & Response. Read more April 26, 2019 Countdown to Commencement: Michelle Frenssen, Full-time MBA As part of Scheller’s Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our undergraduate, MBA, and Ph.D. programs to learn about their backgrounds, why they chose Scheller College, and what they plan to do after Spring 2019 Commencement. Read more April 24, 2019 Congratulations to the Winners of the 2019 Showcase Competition Excited to announce the winners of the 2019 Business Analytics Showcase Competition Read more April 22, 2019 Countdown to Commencement: Meredith Wolpert, Undergraduate Countdown to Commencement As part of Scheller’s Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our undergraduate, MBA, and Ph.D. programs to learn about their backgrounds, why they chose Scheller College, and what they plan to do after Spring 2019 Commencement. Read more April 10, 2019 First Tableau Training Workshop is Big Success A stellar turnout for the Introduction to Tableau Workshop as MBAs, MSAs, Alumni, Faculty and Staff joined the interactive training on April 5th at Scheller. Read more April 03, 2019 Ideas to Serve Competition – ‘Know What You Don’t Know’ Applicants for the 2019 Ideas to Serve (I2S) competition are exploring and addressing a number of issues both locally and globally from plastic waste reduction, disaster response in low-income communities, food security, global health, prison reform, education, and more! Read more March 25, 2019 UPS Joins BAC Executive Council Exciting news for the Business Analytics Center: UPS has joined our Executive Council! Read more March 20, 2019 Leaders on Leadership: A Conversation with Mike Duke, President and CEO of Walmart (retired) and Dean Maryam Alavi Michael (Mike) Duke, retired president and chief executive officer, of Walmart discusses leadership with Dean Alavi Read more March 13, 2019 BAC Teams Up with NFL for Punt Analytics Competition BAC Director Keith Werle helps judge the Punt Analytics Competition as part of the NFL 1st and Future Experience. Read more January 28, 2019 The Business Analytics Center at Scheller College of Business to Help Georgia Tech Host the NFL “1ST & FUTURE” Competition Hosted by Georgia Tech and sponsored by the NFL and Arrow Electronics (NYSE-ARW), 1st and Future (http://www.nfl.com/1standfuture) is the NFL’s Annual Super Bowl Competition designed to spur innovation in player health, safety and performance. Read more December 06, 2018 Winner Technology Co. Inc, forms strategic international partnership with Georgia Tech Business Analytics Center at Scheller College of Business Executives from Winner Technologies Co, Inc., a Shanghai China-based high-tech company focusing on consumer data collection and behavioral analysis visited the Business Analytics Center (BAC) at Scheller College of Business at Georgia Tech. During the visit, the BAC and Winner Technologies signed a Memorandum of Understanding. Read more November 14, 2018 Scheller College Business Analytics Center Connects Analytics Students with Executive Council Partners The Business Analytics Center (BAC) at Scheller College of Business recently held a Career & Internship Expo at Georgia Tech’s Student Success Center. Read more September 13, 2018 Annual Business Analytics Forum More than 200 joined the Business Analytics Center (BAC) at Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business for our annual business analytics forum. Held at the Historic Academy of Medicine on Friday, August 17, this year’s event, titled “The Challenges for Business Analytics in an Omni Channel World,” addressed meeting consumer needs in a market characterized by both constant change and multiple platforms, formats and messages. Read more June 27, 2018 Scheller Professor Yu “Jeffrey” Hu, Ph.D., recently earned a rare shout out from INFORMS The INFORMS press release discussed the key findings of Dr. Hu’s new research study, titled “The Impact of E-book Distribution on Print Sales: Analysis of a Natural Experiment” and recently published by INFORMS flagship journal Management Science. Read more May 29, 2018 Captech Announces Partnership with Scheller College Of Business at Georgia Tech Business Analytics Center CapTech, an IT management consulting company, is pleased to announce its partnership with Scheller College of Business at Georgia Tech Business Analytics Center. As part of its partnership, CapTech is joining other local companies as Executive Council members, in supporting programs that benefit students, industry, and the analytics community. Read more April 06, 2018 Panel of Distinguished Female Leaders Reflect on Careers in Technology and Analytics More than 70 people gathered at the Scheller College of Business on April 4th for the Women in Technology and Analytics Panel. The all-star panel was hosted by the Georgia Tech Business Analytics Club and the Business Analytics Center at Scheller College of Business. The event attracted groups from an array of Atlanta Universities, as well as representatives from Chick-fil-A, Southern Company and NCR. Read more April 05, 2018 Congratulations to the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business 2018 Business Analytics Master Modeler Competition Winners Earning first place and the $10,000 grand prize was Team Blue Ocean 12 with team captain German Schnaidt-Grez (PhD Cand. IE 2019), and Nermit Chetwani (MS Analytics 2018). Read more March 24, 2017 Business Analytics Forum 2017: Learning from Industry Experiences Business Analytics Forum 2017: Learning from Industry Experiences Read more March 01, 2017 Master Modeler Competition by the Business Analytics Center 2017 - sponsored by Navicure The Business Analytics Center recently held the Master Modeler Competition, open to all analytics-interested students across Georgia Tech. A great deal of support was provided for this competition by the business analytics community. Read more February 22, 2017 Business Analytics Think Tank Roundtable- HR & Workforce Analytics The Business Analytics Center recently held the Business Analytics Think Tank Roundtable dinner event, presented by <hackd/> Read more January 04, 2017 The Business Analytics Center at Azul Motorsports The Business Analytics Center at Azul Motorsports Read more November 29, 2016 Business Analytics Think Tank Roundtable - Use and Impact of Artificial Intelligence on Analytics Business Analytics Think Tank Roundtable - Use and Impact of Artificial Intelligence on Analytics Read more October 13, 2016 Innovations in Healthcare Analytics: what we learned from the experts Innovations in Healthcare Analytics: what we learned from the experts Read more September 15, 2016 Georgia Tech to Host Microsoft Data Science Student Challenge Hackathon The Business Analytics Center at Scheller College of Business will host the Georgia Tech Data Science Student Challenge by Microsoft in collaboration with Master of Science Analytics, Stewart School of Industrial Systems Engineering, School of Interactive Computing, and School of Computational Science and Engineering. Read more April 21, 2016 Georgia Tech Team O-Mazing wins Krannert-Walmart Data Dive Georgia Institute of Technology students took first place at the Krannert-Walmart Data Dive held at the Purdue University campus in West Lafayette, Indiana on April 2-3. Read more April 11, 2016 Master Modeler Competition by the Business Analytics Center, and the National Win That Followed The Business Analytics Center recently held the Master Modeler Competition, open to all analytics-interested students across Georgia Tech. A great deal of support was provided for this competition by the business analytics community. Read more March 31, 2016 Business Analytics Center Moderates Marketing Analytics Panel for UPS The Business Analytics Center at Scheller College of Business, Georgia Tech, recently moderated "Marketing Analytics" Panel Discussion for UPS's Marketing Leadership Conference. Read more March 25, 2016 Business Analytics Center at Scheller College Hosted Business Analytics Forum 2016 On March 25, the President and CEO of AT&T Mobility and Consumer Operations, Glenn Lurie, led an intriguing discussion at the Business Analytics Forum 2016 Read more February 29, 2016 Business Analytics Center hosts Improving Your Analytics Influence The Business Analytics Center at Scheller College of Business, Georgia Tech, recently hosted "Improving Your Analytics Influence" Panel Discussion. Read more February 04, 2016 Renowned Analytics Chief Bill Franks Shares What It Takes to Develop Data Focused Leadership The rise of analytics is a game-changer in any industry, but when business leaders fail to focus on data usage, their organization will suffer. Read more December 16, 2015 Business Analytics Center hosts Analytics Day of Learning The Business Analytics Center at Scheller College of Business, Georgia Tech, recently hosted Analytics Day of Learning: Cognitive Solutions. Read more December 03, 2015 Business Analytics Center hosts Tableau Zen Master, Mark Jackson The Business Analytics Center at Scheller College of Business, Georgia Tech, recently hosted Tableau Zen Master, Mark Jackson, Director of Business Intelligence at Piedmont Healthcare. Read more October 29, 2015 Business Analytics Center hosts Panel Discussion on Improving Your Level of Analytics Influence The Business Analytics Center at Scheller College of Business, Georgia Tech seeks to develop and foster strong partnerships in the ever-evolving and still relatively small community of business analytics, particularly in the region. We have the extreme fortune of having such incredible collaborative companies and non-profit organizations that work with the Business Analytics Center to speak in our classes, recruit our students, collaborate on projects, among other opportunities. Read more March 28, 2015 Scheller College’s Business Analytics Center Holds 2015 Business Analytics and Big Data Forum Nearly 300 industry leaders and analytics experts converged at Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business on March 20 for the 2015 Business Analytics and Big Data Forum. Read more January 12, 2015 Scheller Formalizes Four New Interdisciplinary MBA Concentrations Based on discussions and feedback from industry leaders, students, and an assessment of future trends, Scheller College’s renowned faculty recently formalized four new interdisciplinary concentrations of MBA study: Business Analytics, Managing Innovation and Technology, Quantitative Finance, and Strategic Sustainability. Read more August 15, 2014 Scheller College Tailors Custom Program for China Mobile's Top Executives Twenty-eight top executives from China Mobile, the leading mobile services, provider in mainland China, traveled to Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business for the custom program “IT Transformation and Innovation in the Digital Age.” Read more June 27, 2014 Faculty Profile: Yu Jeffrey Hu Examining Evolution of E-commerce When Yu Jeffrey Hu began his first academic post at Purdue University in 2005, he and his wife couldn’t find all the furniture they wanted in the college town of West Lafayette, Indiana. So the couple furnished almost their entire apartment through online shopping. Read more May 21, 2014 Georgia Tech Offers New One-Year Master’s in Analytics Georgia Tech is now offering a one-year Master of Science in Analytics to meet the growing demand for savvy professionals who can transform data into relevant insights for making better business decisions. Read more More Scheller College of Business Home Why Scheller? Overview & History Business at Tech Georgia Tech Community Career and Recruiter Services Giving to the College Alumni Network Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Programs MBA Undergraduate PhD Interdisciplinary M.S. Executive Education Lean Six Sigma Certification Custom Programs Academics Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Academic Speaker Series Current Faculty Opportunities Centers & Initiatives Business Analytics Center Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics Center for International Business Education and Research Financial Analysis Lab Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta News & Events Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller LinkedIn Instagram Facebook Twitter Youtube Flickr Georgia Institute of Technology Scheller College of Business 800 W. Peachtree St. NW Atlanta, GA 30308 404.894.2600 © 2021 Georgia Institute of Technology Intranet Emergency Information Contact the College Privacy & Legal Notice Accountability Web Accessibility Resources for People with Disabilities Plugins Youtube Usage Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures