Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Center for Innovative Teaching and Learning Advising Finish Line Experiential Learning Credit Distance Learning Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Finish Line Submit Your Information Finish Line in the News Students Speak! Make A Gift Contact Us Take Action Apply Now myMemphis Make A Gift Contact Us! Home Center for Innovative Teaching and Learning Finish Line Finish Line The University of Memphis Finish Line Program The UofM Finish Line Program assists students who have completed 90 or more credit hours but have regrettably had to abandon their dreams of completing a college degree. Many have demonstrated the ability to be successful in college and are within a single academic year of successful graduation (i.e. 30 hours). Yet the primary reason for withdrawal at 90+ hours is exhausted financial aid and related external situations, such as needing to work full-time to support a family. To qualify for our program, students must: Have 90 or more earned credit hours Have a stop-out period of at least one semester (fall or spring) Have an overall and University of Memphis grade point average of at least 2.0 Have a maximum of 30 credit hours remaining To verify that you meet the qualifications of the program and to be considered as a participant, please submit your information here. Since the fall 2013 semester, 913 students have mapped out cost-effective degree completion plans and graduated from the university. Click Here to hear their stories! One such student was Aniysha who had earned 108 credit hours but was unable to finish her degree as planned because her financial aid opportunities were exhausted in the fall 2012 semester. Aniysha was contacted in October 2013 and shared that she had been working to save money to return to the University. Through the Finish Line program, she completed 4 online, self-paced courses that had been pre-assessed by faculty members through the Experiential Learning Credit program. Working with the Finish Line team Aniysha graduated in December earning the bachelor's degree she thought was just out of her reach. See more student stories and news about Finish Line below: "Students Speak" - Check out this page to read student testimonials about their time with the Finish Line program. "In the News" - Read the articles featuring our award-winning program. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/25/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.