Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Division of Administration and Finance Administration and Finance right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow Leadership Units Policies Business right arrow down arrow Business Core Systems right arrow down arrow Catalyst UC Flex Community Development Travel Resources right arrow down arrow Concur Travel and Expense Management Concur Training right arrow down arrow Concur FAQs Best Practice Guide Training Guides and Videos Concur SSO Login Travel Resources Contacts Policy and Travel Tools Travel Cancellation Guidance Concur Guest Account Login Environmental Health & Safety right arrow down arrow Waste Management Training right arrow down arrow Advanced Laboratory Safety Training Animal Care Safety Training Defensive Driving Training Facilities Mgmt/Construction Training Laboratory Compliance Training Principal Investigators Training Orientation & Informational Courses Emergency Procedures right arrow down arrow Work-related Injuries & Illnesses Lab Safety Resources & Documents right arrow down arrow Advisories Additional Information Frequently Asked Questions Our Mission right arrow down arrow Laboratory Safety with an Attitude Programs right arrow down arrow Occupational Safety right arrow down arrow IACUC Information Hazardous Materials Management Environmental Engineering right arrow down arrow Pollution Control Asbestos/Lead Abatement Industrial Hygiene Health & Safety Administration Contact Us Facilities Management right arrow down arrow Departments right arrow down arrow Central Receiving Grounds Housekeeping Mail Services Maintenance & Operations Moving Services Project Services Transportation Services right arrow down arrow Shuttle Services UC*Metro Program Charters and Rentals Utilities right arrow down arrow Utilities: Production Utilities: Distribution Dashboards Energy Conservation Recycling @ UC COVID-19 Information right arrow down arrow Cleaning right arrow down arrow Classroom Cleaning Office Cleaning Hand Sanitizer Stations Specialized Cleaning Tools Physical Space right arrow down arrow HVAC - Indoor Air Quality Sneeze Guard Request Process Safe Work Environment and Wellness Resources Contact Us right arrow down arrow Service Requests Join Our Team Announcements Finance right arrow down arrow Vice President for Finance Office of the Controller right arrow down arrow Accounting & Reporting Accounts Payable right arrow down arrow Vendor Form Information Purchasing & Non-Purchasing Information Asset Management Capital Finance Payroll Operations right arrow down arrow Employee Self Service (ESS) for Former Employees Payroll Calendars Stop Payment Request Form W-2 Information Office of the Treasurer right arrow down arrow Debt Management Investment Operations Tax Compliance Treasury Operations Budget Management Investment Office right arrow down arrow Endowment Impact Stories Contact Us right arrow down arrow Karl Scheer | Chief Investment Officer Sam Ekis | Investment Director Tony Caccomo | Senior Investment Analyst Doreen Clark | Investment Operations Administrator Investment Intern Program History Planning + Design + Construction right arrow down arrow Maps and Space Management right arrow down arrow Scheduling Events at the Reading Campus 2021 Intermediate Space Survey User Guide Sustainability right arrow down arrow Get Involved right arrow down arrow Committees & Organizations Events & Programming Environmental Literacy Campus Initiatives right arrow down arrow Built Environment Energy Food Landscape Transportation Water Management Waste Diversion Purchasing Carbon Inventory & Climate Action Plan Links & Resources right arrow down arrow On-Campus Resources Off-Campus Resources Tools & Guides Partners In The News Naming right arrow down arrow General Criteria Monetary Guidelines Design Standards Naming Committee Naming Request Form Vendor Information Purchasing right arrow down arrow Purchasing Contacts Information for Suppliers Contract Compliance Supplier Diversity Home » About UC » Admin & Finance » Planning + Design + Construction » Naming Set Navigation title in component General Criteria Monetary Guidelines Design Standards Naming Committee Naming Request Form Naming Many of UC's most cherished places remind us of people whose contributions—in academics, athletics, or service—have changed the university for the better. The names are all around us: McMicken Hall, Tangeman University Center, Richard E. Lindner Varsity Village. We will always seek ways to honor members of the university family who have distinguished UC, whether in the past, the present, or the years to come. The university recognizes three distinct types of naming: Functional or Administrative: Related to a building's use or location includes retail or auxiliary spaces. Honorific: Honoring or memorializing a person for distinguished service or extraordinary academic contributions not related to a gift. Commemorative: Acknowledging a private or a corporate gift. General Criteria Monetary Guidelines Design Standards Naming Request Form Types of Naming Functional and Administrative Naming right arrow down arrow University Hall is an example of a functional or administrative name A functional or administrative name is one that relates to a building's function or location. The approval process is as follows: The University Architect and the President of the University Foundation discuss whether the request conflicts in any way with current or future fundraising plans or pursuit or donor naming opportunities. If not, they forward the request to the Senior Vice President of Finance and Administration, who brings the request before the Board of Trustees. If the Board approves the request, the Office of Campus Planning and Design begins design and implementation. Honorific Naming right arrow down arrow Herman Schneider Quadrangle and Memorial Bench Dedicated 1953, Rededicated 2006 An honorific name recognizes a member of the university family for distinguished service to the university or extraordinary contributions to an academic field. When proposing an honorific name, be aware that this type of naming may be considered only for persons separated from active university service for five years or more. The approval process is as follows: The request is submitted to an academic dean or vice president for consideration, as appropriate. If the proposal is to honor a faculty member, the dean seeks input from the department faculty. The academic dean or vice president consults with the naming committee to assess the feasibility of the request. This discussion addresses how the request fits with the long-term aesthetic of the campus, as well as whether the request conflicts with current or future fundraising plans or donor naming opportunities. The naming committee may determine that the request should in fact become a recognition of fiscal or sponsorship support. In this case, the request will from then on follow the process for commemorative naming (more information in the following drop-down). If the naming committee determines that the honorific request is viable and valid, the request is forwarded to the Executive Committee of the President's Cabinet. If approved, the request goes before the President's Cabinet for consideration and approval. Upon Cabinet approval, the Senior Vice President for Finance and Administration brings the request before the Board of Trustees. If the Board approves the request, the Office of Campus Planning and Design begins design and implementation. Commemorative Naming right arrow down arrow A commemorative name recognizes a private or a corporate gift. For a complete explanation of the financial considerations involved, please see Monetary Guidlines. The approval process for a commemorative naming is as follows: The request is submitted to the University President, academic dean, or vice president for consideration, as appropriate. The President, dean, or vice president submits the request jointly to the co-chairs of the naming committee, who determine the financial value and type of recognition appropriate according to criteria established by the UC Foundation. General Counsel must review all agreements for sponsorships or gifts. The naming committee co-chairs forward the request to the Executive Committee of the President's Cabinet for approval and discussion about how the gift funds are to be allocated. The UC Foundation President/VP for Development and Alumni Relations transmits the request to the Board of Trustees for approval. If the request is approved, the Board transmits it to Campus Planning + Design for implementation, and to ensure that university design and signage standards are adhered to. The UC Foundation President and staff, in coordination with the college or unit involved, coordinate the timing and method of communicating the final decision to all involved. With permission of the honoree or representative, UC Foundation staff will support and arrange for a dedication ceremony, internal and external publicity, and other activities to maximize the donor's level of recognition, community awareness, and university understanding. Division of Administration and Finance University Pavilion, Suite 630 2618 McMicken Circle PO Box 210620 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0620 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Division of Administration and Finance University Pavilion, Suite 630 2618 McMicken Circle PO Box 210620 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0620 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top