Emergency Notification: COVID-19 Visit the Health Advisories website for the latest updates, FAQs, vaccination information, and to Report a Case. Skip to main content San José State University Menu Visit Campus Tours Maps Parking Silicon Valley Hammer Theatre SJSU Loves SJ Academics Colleges and Departments Majors and Programs Centers and Institutes Academic Calendar Classes King Library Admissions Tuition and Fees Housing Professional Education Parent and Family Programs Campus Life Health and Wellness Safety SJSU Cares Events Traditions Student Alumni Connection Research and Innovation Office of Research SJSU Research Foundation Student-Faculty Collaborations Become a Research Partner About Administration and Leadership Facts and Accomplishments Partnerships Transformation Defined SJSU on Facebook SJSU on Twitter SJSU on LinkedIn SJSU on Instagram SJSU on YouTube Athletics Alumni Association Giving to SJSU Canvas one.SJSU Search University Menu .Go toSJSU homepage. Visit Campus Tours Maps Parking Silicon Valley Hammer Theatre SJSU Loves SJ Academics Colleges and Departments Majors and Programs Centers and Institutes Academic Calendar Classes King Library Admissions Tuition and Fees Housing Professional Education Parents and Family Programs Campus Life Health and Wellness Safety SJSU Cares Events Traditions Student Alumni Connection Research and Innovation Office of Research SJSU Research Foundation Student-Faculty Collaborations Become a Research Partner Athletics About Administration and Leadership Facts and Accomplishments Partnerships Transformation Defined Home SJSU Cares SJSU CaresDivision of Student Affairs SJSU CaresDivision of Student Affairs Menu Get Assistance Get Assistance Spartan Food Pantry CalFresh Housing Assistance Resources Resources iGrad Give Assistance Give Assistance Pantry Donation Guide About About What We Do Contact Us Data and Reports Request a Presentation FAQ Get Assistance Spartan Food Pantry CalFresh Housing Assistance Resources iGrad Give Assistance Pantry Donation Guide About What We Do Contact Us Data and Reports Request a Presentation FAQ Request Assistance Now Assistance when you need it the most SJSU Cares provides resources and services for SJSU students facing many kinds of financial crisis. If you’re having trouble paying for food, housing or other bills, come to us to get the help you need. Housing Assistance Housing insecurity is a real issue among students. If you find yourself living in shelters, parks, motels or cars, or temporarily couch-surfing with other people because you have nowhere else to go, SJSU Cares provides support for students who lack stable, regular and adequate housing. Request Assistance Now Emergency Bed Program 12 beds currently available for up to 28 nights per bed. If you're struggling with housing, reach out to a Case Manager by requesting assistance to discuss your individual needs. Rapid Rehousing Are you homeless or at risk of becoming homeless soon? Currently enrolled & living in an unsafe environment and have nowhere else to go? You may be eligible for the Rapid Rehousing, a housing assistance program in partnership with the Bill Wilson Center. Complete a Request for Assistance form, or consider using our drop-in hours every Tue & Fri 12-1PM via Zoom. Food Assistance Are you finding yourself struggling to afford food? You are not alone. SJSU Cares has two great programs to help you get the food you need to focus on your education: the Spartan Food Pantry and Calfresh. Spartan Food Pantry No student should ever go hungry. This full service walk-in pantry offers perishable goods, fresh produce, and refrigerated goods at SJSU. CalFresh Get help applying for CalFresh, which provides a monthly cash supplement loaded onto a debit card to use for buying groceries. Emergency assistance SJSU Cares also provides help after natural disasters and other emergency situations, from floods and fires to burglaries and break-ins. If you are in need of assistance, please submit a Request for Assistance form. Request Assistance Now How can a Case Manager help? A Case Manager will meet with you (either in person or over the phone) to understand the circumstances surrounding your financial crisis—and then work directly with you to find resources on campus or in the community to help you succeed. Connect with a Case Manager We are here to help. No student should have to worry about where they will sleep at night or when their next meal will be. Request assistance now, and SJSU Cares will be there for you. Request Assistance Now SJSU Cares PLACEHOLDER-FOR-XSL:VALUE-OF(SITE-TITLE) on Facebook PLACEHOLDER-FOR-XSL:VALUE-OF(SITE-TITLE) on Twitter PLACEHOLDER-FOR-XSL:VALUE-OF(SITE-TITLE) on Instagram Contact Us Phone: 408.924.1234 Email: sjsucares@sjsu.edu Visit Office SJSU Cares Clark Hall – Room 140 Monday-Friday 9AM-5PM Spartan Food Pantry Diaz Compean Student Union (exterior entrance across from Engineering Rotunda) Spring Term Pantry Hours: Monday & Friday 10AM-5PM Tuesday-Thursday 10AM-6PM Make a Gift Give to SJSU Cares Footer San José State University SJSU on Facebook SJSU on Twitter SJSU on LinkedIn SJSU on Instagram SJSU on YouTube One Washington Square San José, CA 95192 408-924-1000 Accessibility Title IX Diversity Land Acknowledgement Privacy Colleges Business Education Engineering Graduate Studies Health and Human Sciences Humanities and the Arts Professional and Global Education Science Social Science Resources A-Z Index Annual Security Report [pdf] Bookstore Calendars Careers and Jobs Catalog Current Students Emergency Food & Housing King Library Parking and Maps Contact Us Contact Form Directory Doing Business with SJSU Emergency Info Report a Web Problem Report a Title IX Complaint Last Updated May 25, 2022