Javascript must be enabled for the correct page display Skip to Content Close × Close × Request Information Admitted Students Admitted Students Applicant Sign In Fall Admitted Freshmen Fall Admitted Transfers Spring Admitted Students Find Your Counselor Understanding Financial Aid Apply Now Discover Discover Test Optional Admission Why Seton Hall Meet Our Students Majors and Programs Transfer to Seton Hall Frequently Asked Questions Fast Facts Photo Gallery Watch Our Video Seton Hall Viewbook Campus Video Tour IHS Campus Video Tour Find Your Counselor Contact Admissions APPLY NOW Affordability Affordability Investing in Your Future Applying for Financial Aid Understanding Your Financial Aid Package Scholarships Net Cost Calculator Tuition and Fees APPLY NOW Visit Visit All Visit Opportunities Campus Tour – South Orange Campus Tour – IHS Campus Open House Transfer Decision Weeks Area Hotels Directions Campus Video Tour IHS Campus Video Tour APPLY NOW Seton Hall University Seton Hall University Academic Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Schools and Colleges Admissions Admissions Undergraduate Graduate Catholic Mission Catholic Mission Catholic Tradition Mission Statement Mass Schedule Athletics Athletics Schedules Pirate Blue SHUPirates.com Alumni Alumni Alumni and Friends Benefits and Services True Blue Menu Seton Hall University Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Schools and Colleges Faculty Office of the Provost Resources Undergraduate Admissions Office of Graduate Affairs Academic Calendar Mission and Ministry Alumni and Friends Quick Links Seton Hall Homepage Seton Hall News University Calendar SHU Athletics Support Seton Hall Request Information Admitted Students Applicant Sign In Fall Admitted Freshmen Fall Admitted Transfers Spring Admitted Students Find Your Counselor Understanding Financial Aid Apply Now University Site Search Seton Hall University Discover Test Optional Admission Why Seton Hall Meet Our Students Majors and Programs Transfer to Seton Hall Frequently Asked Questions Fast Facts Photo Gallery Watch Our Video Seton Hall Viewbook Campus Video Tour IHS Campus Video Tour Find Your Counselor Contact Admissions APPLY NOW Affordability Investing in Your Future Applying for Financial Aid Understanding Your Financial Aid Package Scholarships Net Cost Calculator Tuition and Fees APPLY NOW Visit All Visit Opportunities Campus Tour – South Orange Campus Tour – IHS Campus Open House Transfer Decision Weeks Area Hotels Directions Campus Video Tour IHS Campus Video Tour APPLY NOW Undergraduate Admissions Discover Test Optional Admission Why Seton Hall Meet Our Students Majors and Programs Transfer to Seton Hall Frequently Asked Questions Fast Facts Photo Gallery Watch Our Video Seton Hall Viewbook Campus Video Tour IHS Campus Video Tour Find Your Counselor Contact Admissions Affordability Investing in Your Future Applying for Financial Aid Understanding Your Financial Aid Package Scholarships Net Cost Calculator Tuition and Fees Visit All Visit Opportunities Campus Tour – South Orange Campus Tour – IHS Campus Open House Transfer Decision Weeks Area Hotels Directions Campus Video Tour IHS Campus Video Tour Menu Discover Test Optional Admission Why Seton Hall Meet Our Students Majors and Programs Transfer to Seton Hall Frequently Asked Questions Fast Facts Photo Gallery Watch Our Video Seton Hall Viewbook Campus Video Tour IHS Campus Video Tour Find Your Counselor Contact Admissions Affordability Investing in Your Future Applying for Financial Aid Understanding Your Financial Aid Package Scholarships Net Cost Calculator Tuition and Fees Visit All Visit Opportunities Campus Tour – South Orange Campus Tour – IHS Campus Open House Transfer Decision Weeks Area Hotels Directions Campus Video Tour IHS Campus Video Tour Seton Hall University Office of Undergraduate Admissions Undergraduate International and ESL Applicants Seton Hall University is an ideal destination for international students. Located in suburban New Jersey just 14 miles from New York City, Seton Hall's small classes provide close personal attention, extensive internship opportunities and a diverse and welcoming community with students from all 50 states and more than 64 countries. The University is very generous with financial aid, and international students can qualify for the same scholarships as students from the United States. Most scholarships are automatically awarded upon admission based on the student's academic profile. To be considered, applicants must submit scores from the SAT or ACT. Undergraduate Applicants Applying to Seton Hall as an international student is easy. Just submit the following items to the admissions office: An application form including personal essay (choose one): Seton Hall Undergraduate Application (all applicants) Common Application (freshman applicants only) $55 USD application fee (non-refundable) SAT, ACT, TOEFL or IELTS scores Official high school transcript (must be in English) with a credential evaluation Official college transcript(s) (if applicable) with a credential evaluation Counselor report and teacher recommendation Application for Form I-20 (if you require a student visa) Graduate Applicants Seton Hall welcomes applications from international students for admission into full-time graduate degree programs. Prospective international students may visit the Graduate Application page to apply to a graduate program of study. International applicants are advised to consult with representatives from the College or School to which they are applying. Additional information is available on the international applicants page. Transcripts may be sent by mail to Seton Hall University, Office of Graduate Affairs, Presidents Hall, 400 South Orange Avenue, South Orange, NJ 07079. Credential Evaluation Transcripts from institutions outside of the United States or Canada must undergo a course-by-course evaluation conducted by an independent credential evaluation agency. These agencies must be members of the National Association of Credential Evaluation Services (NACES). Students attending U.S. schools abroad or international schools following a U.S. or Canadian curriculum abroad, as well as partner or feeder schools, do not need to submit a credential evaluation; other exceptions may be made on a case-by-case basis. However if the credential evaluation is not waived by the Admissions Office, you must submit one. If you do not, your application for admission cannot be reviewed. If you have questions or would like to know if you can receive a waiver, please contact international@shu.edu. Test Scores If English is your native language or if you have been in an English-speaking country for three or more years, you are required to submit SAT or ACT scores. If not, you may submit TOEFL or IELTS scores in lieu of your SAT/ACT scores. Only students with SAT and/or ACT scores may be considered for merit-based scholarships. Admission Criteria Seton Hall will review your application holistically, considering your grades, recommendations, essay, activities and test scores. The average Seton Hall student has about a 3.4 (B+) GPA and an SAT of 1100 (old) 1170 (new). Students who submit the TOEFL in lieu of the SAT should have a 550 (paper-based), 213 (computer-based) or 79 (internet-based) TOEFL score or a 6.0 on the IELTS. Provisional Acceptance Applicants who are academically qualified but have insufficient language proficiency, as measured by the TOEFL or IELTS, may gain provisional acceptance to the University with placement into Seton Hall's English as a Second Language (ESL) Program. Students who successfully complete our ESL Program can begin to study regular University course work and transition into a degree-seeking program. English as a Second Language (ESL) Seton Hall also offers a comprehensive English as a Second Language (ESL) Program, which is perfect for students looking to improve their English before beginning a degree program, or simply hoping to develop better communication skills. Special emphasis is placed on university preparation: written expression, TOEFL preparation, vocabulary expansion, comprehension and speaking skills. The Program also provides the opportunity to learn about American culture by encouraging participation in events and activities such as trips to the Statue of Liberty, Wall Street and local museums. Course levels range from beginner to advanced and all classes are small (with an average of 12 students) to ensure personal attention and rapid development. Visit the ESL Website to learn more about the program. Students admitted to the ESL program must submit a $250 tuition deposit before their application for I-20 will be reviewed. You can submit a tuition deposit online. Student Visas Seton Hall University is permitted to issue an I-20, a form used to pursue a student visa through the American Embassy or Consulate in the student's home country. In order for the University to issue your I-20 form, you must complete an application for Form I-20 and submit proof of your ability to finance your education. We suggest you submit this along with your initial application for admission to ensure your I-20 is processed in a timely manner. If you are already studying in the United States, you will also need to complete these documents in order to transfer sponsorship of your F-1 status and receive a new I-20 from Seton Hall. Once you are admitted to the University and submit your $250 tuition deposit, the Office of International Programs will review your application for I-20 and related documents as well as process your I-20. If you have any questions about the required documents, your F-1 status or applying for your visa, please contact the Office of International Programs at (973) 761-9072 or oip@shu.edu. Financial Aid International students can qualify for the same merit-based scholarships as students from the United States. Most of our scholarships are automatically awarded upon admission based on your academic profile. To be considered, applicants must submit scores from the SAT or ACT. Please note that there is no need-based financial aid available to international students. International students at Seton Hall must be able to fund their own education and will need to provide evidence of funding in order to receive an I-20. Open House Register Now Join us virtually. Tour campus, learn about our academic programs, and meet current students and faculty. Transfer Decision Weeks Register Now Interested in transferring? Receive a decision during your virtual appointment. Apply Online Apply Now Get a jump start on your Seton Hall University career and apply online. Seton Hall University 400 South Orange Ave South Orange, NJ 07079 (973) 761-9000 Privacy Statements Title IX Nondiscrimination Statement and Information Contact Us Student Services Parents and Families Career Center Technology Web Accessibility Visiting Campus Public Safety Disability Support Services Campus Security Report Employment Follow #SetonHall www.shu.edu/social Back to top