Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Entrepreneurship and Innovation Management Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Entrepreneurship and Innovation Management Major Apply Visit Request More Info Entrepreneurship and Innovation Management Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Business Administration in Entrepreneurship and Innovation Management Transform a promising idea into a successful business venture with the Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) in Entrepreneurship and Innovation Management from the Fox School of Business at Temple University. Learn to recognize opportunities, generate innovative solutions and identify untapped market spaces in an ever-changing business landscape. Through this degree program, you will harness the creativity and big-picture thinking needed to launch your own business or propose innovative initiatives within existing organizations. This program is specifically tailored to outside-the-box thinkers looking to create positive social impact with a social venture; start a new business; take over the management or ownership of an existing business; work as a consultant within an existing high-growth organization; or work in entrepreneurial ecosystems (accelerators, incubators, startups, venture groups). Receive instruction from Fox faculty members who actively own or have sold successful startup ventures, and who actively work in the entrepreneurial ecosystem. Develop an appreciation for how and why being an innovator is essential for success within countless areas of business. Collaborative classroom instruction alongside real-world opportunities make this program a perfect fit for enterpreneurial-minded students. In addition to coursework, there are numerous avenues for students to gain professional experience during the completion of the degree, through a required internship, as well as opportunities to join student professional organizations. Additionally, through Fox’s renowned Innovation and Entrepreneurship Institute, students gain access to workshops, conferences and customized mentorships with both faculty and alumni entrepreneurs. Classes & Curriculum Students interested in the Entrepreneurship and Innovation Management Major program will complete the following core courses in addition to choosing three electives. Lean Startup: Fast & Frugal Approaches to High-Impact New Ventures, Product Invention & Innovation New Venture Internship: Learning to be a High-Value Employee, Manager or Founder Cost Accounting Strategic Planning: The Business Plan as a Strategic Tool for Existing Businesses & Entrepreneurs Learn more about courses for the Entrepreneurship and Innovation Management Major. Distinguished Faculty A diverse faculty brings extensive real-world knowledge to the Entrepreneurship and Innovation Management BBA program, with some professors holding more than 25 years of professional experience in relevant fields. Many have also run and sold successful entrepreneurial ventures, or worked to support entrepreneurs, and have worked closely with such nationally and internationally recognized organizations as AT&T, DuPont, Exxon, Johnson & Johnson, Procter & Gamble, Scott Paper Company, and Sony. Related Graduate Degrees Business Administration MBA Innovation Management and Entrepreneurship MS Related Graduate Certificates Conflict Management and Dispute Resolution* Entrepreneurship and Technology Commercialization Innovation Strategy Strategic Communication and Cross-Cultural Leadership* *Klein College of Media and Communication Accelerated 3-year BBA Motivated students can accelerate their BBA program to finish in three years. To find out more about completing your degree on an accelerated timeline, contact your advisor. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Business Administration offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $21,144.00 per year Out-of-state: $38,544.00 per year Our Academic Advisors The Center for Undergraduate Advising in the Fox School of Business is dedicated to helping students navigate their academics and make informed decisions about their career paths. See a full list of undergraduate academic advisors. Peer Advising The Center for Undergraduate Advising also offers peer advising at the Main Campus location. Undergraduate peer advisors offer the perspective of an upper-level student and assist by sharing their knowledge and personal tips for academic success. Program Contact For more information about your degree program, contact the faculty below. Kate Markowitz is the director of enrollment management for undergraduate students. Phone: 215-204-4892 Email: kmrick@temple.edu Tom Carney is the assistant director of undergraduate enrollment. Phone: 215-204-5424 Email: tom.carney@temple.edu Claudia Bereshnyi is the assistant director of transfer, veteran and online BBA recruitment and the contact for both incoming transfer students and those interested in an online BBA. Phone: 215-204-4100 Email: claudia@temple.edu Drew Hashimura is the coordinator of enrollment management. Phone: 215-204-2070 Email: ahashimura@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Joining student clubs and organizations is a great way to meet like-minded students; connect with local, national and international businesses; and build the skills you’ll need in your professional career. Enhance your academic experience by participating in a club related to your major or interests. Those with dreams of starting their own business may be interested in the Entrepreneurial Students Association, which aims to support, inspire and encourage students to pursue their entrepreneurial goals. The association is open to students of all majors. TAMID is a nonpolitical Israeli entrepreneurship organization that seeks to get students involved in the Israeli economy through consulting projects for startups and/or funds. Explore the full list of Fox School of Business student clubs and organizations. Global Immersions Broaden your understanding of global economies and business practices by taking advantage of the various study abroad options and opportunities for learning beyond Temple’s Main Campus in Philadelphia through Global Immersion Programs. Temple administers several programs around the world, including campus sites in Rome, Japan and Spain, faculty-led summer programs and exchange programs in Europe and Asia. Interested students may also participate in approved programs organized by study abroad organizations or other U.S. universities, or apply directly to an accredited institution overseas. Temple’s Education Abroad office provides information on approved programs, and advisors can work with you to determine which program might provide the best fit. Learn more about study away options. Temple Exchange Programs Through reciprocal exchange agreements with the following universities, Temple students can exchange places with students for a semester or academic year. Some programs require sufficient proficiency in the host country language to participate. China: Hong Kong Baptist University Korea: Ewha Womans University, Yonsei University, Sogang University Taiwan: National Taiwan University Learn more about Temple exchange programs (PDF). Accreditation The Fox School of Business is accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB). The school has maintained AACSB accreditation since 1934. BU-EIM-BBA Additional Program Information Available as a minor. School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Entrepreneurship and Innovation Management Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info