Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Okta Outlook More Sign Ons... Iowa State University Graduate College Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Application Programs Contact Mission Prospective Application Application for Nondegree Application Fee / Waivers Available Programs Connect With Us Frequently Asked Questions Request more information Funding International Students International Instructions English Requirements University Resources Current Students Academic Awards & Events Academic Information Events & Deadlines Graduate College Handbook Graduation New Student Orientation New Student Checklist Program Handbooks Program of Study / Committee Theses & Dissertations You and Your Major Professor Funding Professional Development Career Services Center for Communication Excellence Graduate & Professional Student Senate Student Forms Student Tools University Resources Faculty and Staff Academic Awards & Events Academic Information Events & Deadlines Graduate Program Review Graduate College Handbook Mentoring & Advising Online & Paper Forms Funding Graduate Tools Program Contacts (DOGE List) Program Handbooks Postdoctoral Getting Started Postdoctoral Scholar Resources Principal Investigator Resources Academic Awards Benefits Policies Postdoctoral Appointments Postdoctoral Association Postdoctoral Contact People (PCP) Professional Development Career Services Center for Communication Excellence Grant Writing Diversity Faculty Funding Recruiting Practices Mentoring Student George Jackson Symposium McNair Student Associations Postdoctoral Scholar Policies and Guidelines Home > Postdoctoral Scholars > Postdoc Policies and Guidelines Information on this page: Postdoctoral Scholar Office Postdoctoral Scholar Policies PI and Administrative Guidelines Appointment Salary/Stipend Expectations Evaluations Salary/Stipend Increases Hiring Forms/Procedures Process - Reappointment Additional Compensation Resignation Process Postdoctoral Scholar Office The Graduate College is the administrative home of the Postdoctoral Scholar Office. Postdoctoral Scholar Office Mission Statement - A postdoctoral scholar appointment is a brief, intense, and pivotal time in one’s career. The mission of the Postdoctoral Scholar Office is to provide the postdoctoral scholar community with support, professional development opportunities, and tools to ensure postdoctoral scholars to develop sustainable and successful career paths. Misty Treanor Postdoctoral Scholar Coordinator mcarder (at) iastate (dot) edu or 515-294-0419 Lynette McBirnie-Sprecher Business Manager mcbirnie (at) iastate (dot) edu or 515-294-7811 Postdoctoral Scholar Policies Policies regarding postdoctoral scholars can be found in the Graduate College Handbook. PI and Administrative Guidelines The Postdoctoral Scholar Office has developed a selection of best practices / resources intended as a guideline for the life cycle of the postdoctoral scholar. These can be found on the Principal Investigator Resources page. Appointment The postdoctoral scholar (postdoc) is an employee who has recently completed the terminal doctorate degree and who is considered to be preparing for an independent career. The majority of the appointment is to be focused on research and scholarship. In some circumstances, the postdoctoral scholar appointee may also teach. In all cases, more than half the appointment must be devoted to scholarship, and in no case may teaching responsibilities exceed ¾ of the annual teaching responsibility of a faculty member in that department. Postdoctoral scholars receive training under the supervision and direction of a faculty mentor who will provide the opportunity for collaborative and independent research, as well as promote the publication of findings and preparation of research grants as determined by mutual agreement between the faculty supervisor and postdoctoral scholar. Each postdoctoral appointment is for a term and may be renewed. Presently, most postdoctoral scholars at ISU work for a two- (2) to three- (3) year period. All postdoctoral scholars must be appointed for a minimum of half-time. The Graduate College allows a maximum of five (5) years as postdoctoral scholar. Extension of the appointment status for more than five (5) years is extremely rare and is allowed only for the most extraordinary circumstances. Requests to extend a postdoctoral appointment beyond five (5) years must be made at least six (6) months prior to the end of the fifth year and preferably sooner. A Predoctoral Scholar Appointment follows the exact same postdoctoral salary/stipend scale and benefits (see below). A predoctoral scholar appointment does not need to be advertised in the same manner that a postdoctoral scholar position needs to be (see below) The difference between the two appointment types is that the predoctoral scholar is still in the process of completing the doctoral degree (or equivalent). A predoctoral scholar must have completed the oral and written preliminary examinations and must be registered for a graduate credit (minimum) each semester. Upon completion of the doctoral degree, the position can be transferred to the postdoctoral level by following the Hiring Forms/Procedure below. The predoctoral scholar appointment time is counted towards the five-year maximum postdoctoral appointment. For more detailed information on postdoctoral and predoctoral scholars at ISU, consult the Graduate College Handbook. Salary/Stipend The Graduate College sets a minimum salary/stipend for postdoctoral scholars. There is no institutional maximum salary. The minimum salary/stipend for the entire first year of appointment depends on the appointee’s number of full years of prior relevant experience as a postdoctoral scholar when the appointment begins. Relevant experience may include research experience in academia, industry, or government; internships; residency; clinical duties; or other time spent in a related field beyond that of the qualifying doctoral degree. Adjustments in salary/stipend after the initial appointment will be based on institutional salary/stipend policy, see "Salary/Stipend Increases" below. When the appointee’s doctorate was earned one year or more before the start of a postdoctoral appointment, the Graduate College assumes the appointee has other relevant postdoctoral scholar/professional experience (as defined by the National Institutes of Health). If this is not the case, then the prospective supervisor of the appointee will need to provide justification for a lower salary. Salary/Stipend Minimums at Initial Appointment Years of Experience Minimum Salary/Stipend Less than one year $49,440 One Year $50,058 Two Years $50,676 Three Years $51,294 Four Years $51,912 Expectations We recommended that at the beginning of the postdoctoral scholar’s appointment, the PI/Supervisor establish in writing clear expectations (template), at a minimum, for the postdoctoral scholar’s: (a) reporting duties (frequency, level of detail, format, etc.); (b) level of performance; and (c) professional conduct. The postdoctoral scholar is thereafter responsible for meeting or exceeding these expectations. For more detailed information on predoctoral and postdoctoral scholars at ISU, consult the Graduate College Handbook. Evaluations A practical first step is for a PI to work with a new postdoctoral scholar to establish an Individual Development Plan (IDP) within the first three months of the appointment. The Individual Development Plan is an interactive web-based tool that serves as a constructive means of communication between the postdoctoral scholar and PI. It also provides a planning process that identifies both professional development needs and career objectives. Reviewing the IDP on an annual basis is a good practice. At an administrative level, annual reviews are required. See below for details and a timeline. We provide this document for an Annual Review Template that builds on the progress of the IDP. Annual salary increases need to conform to the guidance issued by the President’s and Provost’s Offices and must be sufficient to meet the minimum for the experience level. Annual Review The PI/supervisor shall conduct a performance evaluation with the postdoctoral scholar once a year. Evaluations will be conducted for postdoctoral scholars who are expected to be appointed for more than one year. The review will assess the postdoctoral scholar’s progress to date, strengths, and areas needing improvement. Also included will be expectations, activities, and goals for the upcoming year. Timeline: due June 1 each year. The annual review confirmation must be completed by the PI/supervisor and acknowledged by the postdoctoral scholar in Workday. Check with your home department to determine if they expect a copy of the review or confirmation. All reviews must occur before determinations can be made regarding the July 1 salary/stipend increase. Salary/Stipend Increases Performance Increases in salary/stipend may occur only at the start of each fiscal year (July 1). These increases will be based on annual institutional salary/stipend guidelines, and not by years of experience. The Salary/Stipend table only sets the initial salary/stipend level. A new postdoctoral scholar whose appointment begins May 1 and extends through June 30 is not eligible for an increase until July 1 of the next year. A supervisor may deny a salary/stipend increase due to a scholar’s performance if a formal review has resulted in a plan for performance improvement. Types of increases: Performance. Postdocs who consistently meet the standards of performance for their positions will receive a performance based, meritorious salary adjustment in accordance with the parameters established during the annual review process. The adjustment must be documented by a written performance evaluation and will be effective annually as stipulated in the annual meritorious increase process. Performance based salary adjustments may not be proposed outside of the annual review process. Equity. When necessary and appropriate, salary adjustments not related to performance but intended to correct equity disparities may be proposed for postdocs. Salary adjustments for postdocs require approval from the supervisor, the academic college, and the Dean of the Graduate College. Related information can be found here. For questions regarding equity comparisons or any additional information, please contact Misty Treanor, the University’s Postdoctoral Coordinator. Funding The salary adjustment policy is applicable for all fund sources. All individual salary adjustments are subject to available funding. Hiring Forms/Procedures Procedure for Appointing Postdoctoral Scholars – Workday and Competitive Recruitment All postdoc positions must be advertised at www.jobs.iastate.edu for a minimum of seven (7) days. Advertising for at least seven (7) days is likely to attract diverse pools of qualified applicants who may not have otherwise known of these opportunities. Additionally, all candidates must apply to the position posted on the ISU jobs page in order to be considered for employment. Process - New Appointees Postdocs: For Faculty: Upon determining that you would like to hire a postdoctoral scholar, email your HR Delivery team ( hr_delivery (at) iastate (dot) edu ) to initiate the process. Be prepared to submit a job summary, description of minimum qualification(s) and preferred qualifications, location, cost center, and other relevant position/posting information. The HR Delivery team will initiate the business process with UHR Talent Acquisition. UHR TA will initiate the process in Workday, and the action will route to you as the Manager and then to the Business Unit Manager for approval. Upon approval, the job will then be advertised on www.jobs.iastate.edu for a minimum of seven (7) days. The Manager can request assistance with additional external advertising. Once the posting application deadline has closed, the SRS can rate the candidates, or the Manager can complete this task him/herself. From the pool of candidates that meet the minimum qualifications, the Manager will work with UHR TA to determine who to interview and who will conduct interviews. The final decision of who to hire is up to the faculty manager/principal investigator. A contingent offer can be made after a candidate is selected and professional references have been verified. It is important to note that recommendation letters should not be used in lieu of contacting professional references. UHR TA is able to check references using the Workday system. After the candidate’s references have been contacted, an offer letter in Workday will be routed for review and signatures. Once the offer letter is signed, UHR TA verifies that the doctorate was awarded. If the degree has not yet been conferred and the conferring institution is not Iowa State, a letter certifying that all graduation requirements (e.g., course work/credits, dissertation defense, full approval of the final version of the dissertation, etc.) have been met is required from the student’s Graduate College or equivalent (a letter from the student’s adviser/major professor/department/graduate program is not sufficient) prior to the candidate starting the Postdoc position. In scenarios where the degree has not been conferred, and a letter is obtained, UHR TA will still verify the degree during the graduation month or require a copy of the doctoral diploma. UHR TA will initiate a Hire process in Workday. Once the hire process has been initiated, the Form I-9 process and onboarding is automatic through Workday, and a New Postdoctoral Scholar Orientation will be available through the Postdoctoral Scholar Office at the beginning of each semester. Appointing a Recent ISU Graduate: A faculty member may appoint his or her newly graduated Iowa State University Ph.D. student for a maximum appointment of three (3) months without advertising if the hire happens within 30 calendar days after commencement. Competitive recruitment will be required for the continuation (renewal) of any postdoctoral scholar who was initially hired under this exception. Predoctoral Scholars: Predoctoral Scholars (predocs) can be hired using the Hire Student business process and may be completed by JM Support or HR Delivery. Predocs that were previously Graduate Assistants must first be separated from their GA appointment, and then a new hire processed for the predoc. For questions regarding the competitive recruitment policy, please contact Misty Treanor at mcarder (at) iastate (dot) edu . Service Portal KB Articles to assist with hiring. Graduate Student to Postdoctoral Scholar Graduate Student to Predoctoral Scholar Predoctoral Scholar to Postdoctoral Scholar Process - Reappointment If a postdoctoral scholar will be reappointed after the initial appointment, the Manager shall email the HR Coordinator ( hr_delivery (at) iastate (dot) edu ) to initiate this process. When reappointing a postdoctoral scholar, begin this process in a timely manner to ensure no payroll delays. Renewals do not require a new competitive recruitment. Additional Compensation Prior approval is required on payments for salary above the postdoctoral scholar's base salary. Please submit a request to pay additional compensation to the following: Misty Treanor Postdoctoral Scholar Coordinator mcarder (at) iastate (dot) edu Lynette McBirnie-Sprecher Business Manager mcbirnie (at) iastate (dot) edu The request must include: A description of the nature of the work, including if/how the work has been performed in the past An explanation of why it is considered to be clearly outside of the scope of the person's normal duties The amount of the proposed compensation and an explanation of how this amount was determined An estimate of the amount of time that the individual will spend on the activity and the estimated dates of service An explanation of how the person can reasonably carry out his or her full-time job responsibilities during this time period. Whether it is expected that the proposed activity will continue beyond the period for which the compensation is requested Resignation Process Non-Renewal of Appointment – Principal Investigator In the event that a postdoctoral scholar appointment will not be renewed, it is recommended as a professional courtesy to provide as much notice as possible prior to the end of the appointment. This time period should allow the postdoctoral scholar to successfully complete or transition any ongoing projects and also to allow them time for future plans and accommodations. At least a 60-day notice is highly recommended; more time is recommended for international postdoctoral scholars to provide sufficient time for making visa arrangements. Please follow these steps immediately after informing the postdoctoral scholar of a non-renewal: Notify the HR Coordinator ( hr_delivery (at) iastate (dot) edu ) to start the resignation process in Workday. Email/share with the postdoctoral scholar an invitation to take the Postdoctoral Scholar Exit Survey. Refer the postdoctoral scholar to the departmental check-out process (returning keys, etc.). Resignation of Appointment - Postdoctoral Scholar Submit written notification of intended departure to your Principal Investigator/Supervisor. It is recommended as a professional courtesy to provide as much notice as possible prior to leaving. At least a 30-day notice is highly recommended Please fill out the Postdoctoral Scholar Exit Survey and refer to the Postdoctoral Scholar Departure List. All unused accrued vacation is forfeited at the time of resignation. Postdoctoral scholars are encouraged to use their accrued vacation during their appointment time. Resignation of Appointment - Department Please follow these steps: Notify the HR Coordinator ( hr_delivery (at) iastate (dot) edu ) to start the resignation process in Workday. Email/share with the postdoctoral scholar an invitation to take the Postdoctoral Scholar Exit Survey. Refer the postdoctoral scholar to the departmental check-out process (returning keys, etc.). Postdoctoral Scholar Exit Survey Is your postdoctoral scholar experience ending soon? The Graduate College is interested in obtaining feedback about the ISU postdoctoral scholar experience. The Exit Survey will take about 15 minutes to fill out. The results from this survey will give the postdoctoral scholar Office valuable information on relevant areas, resources, and services needed to enhance the postdoctoral scholar experience at Iowa State. All responses to this survey will be kept confidential. Thank you in advance for taking the time to complete this survey. ➤ Graduate College 1137 Pearson Hall 505 Morrill Rd Ames, IA 50011 grad_college@iastate.edu 515-294-4531 phone Facebook Twitter Linkedin Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Loading...