Skip to main content Google Tag Manager The Office of the Provost Show/Hide About People Communications Committees & Reports Policies & Procedures Initiatives & Resources Related Areas Bringing America Together Tuesday, April 10, 2018 5:30 pm Pembroke Room 305 Meeting Street Providence, RI Biography Arthur C. Brooks has been president of the American Enterprise Institute (AEI) since January 1, 2009. He is also the Beth and Ravenel Curry Scholar in Free Enterprise at AEI. Before joining AEI, Dr. Brooks was the Louis A. Bantle Professor of Business and Government at Syracuse University, where he taught economics and social entrepreneurship. Before pursuing his work in academia and public policy, he spent 12 years as a classical musician in the United States and Spain. Dr. Brooks is a contributing opinion writer for The New York Times and the bestselling author of 11 books on topics including the role of government, economic opportunity, happiness, and the morality of free enterprise. His latest book is the New York Times bestseller “The Conservative Heart: How to Build a Fairer, Happier, and More Prosperous America” (Broadside Books, 2015). He has also published dozens of academic journal articles and the textbook “Social Entrepreneurship” (Prentice Hall, 2008). Dr. Brooks has a Ph.D. and an M.Phil. in policy analysis from the Pardee RAND Graduate School. He also holds an M.A. in economics from Florida Atlantic University and a B.A. in economics from Thomas Edison State College. Experts are struggling to comprehend this unusual political and economic moment. Are a shrinking workforce and an economically polarized America simply our “new normal”? Does helping vulnerable citizens require us to put aside free enterprise and pursue a narrow national interest? Arthur Brooks draws on history, economics, and social science to explain these unusual times – and offers a set of strategies, from national policy prescriptions to personal advice for leaders and citizens, that we can use to rebuild prosperity for the most marginalized Americans and reunite our divided country. Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Office of the Provost Office of the Provost Brown University Box 1862 Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2706 Email [email protected] Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat