Skip to main content COVID-19 RESPONSE Learn how Pitt is building a healthy and resilient community. About Academics Admissions Research Life at Pitt Athletics open search open menu Close Search Pitt Search Search for People Close Global Menu Apply Visit Give Pittwire Events Navigation Navigation About Academics Admissions Research Life at Pitt Athletics Colleges & Schools Colleges & Schools Arts & Sciences Business Computing & Information Dental Medicine Education Engineering General Studies Health & Rehabilitation Honors College Law Medicine Nursing Pharmacy Public & Intl Affairs Public Health Social Work Highlights Highlights Alumni Community Global Sustainability Twitter Instagram Facebook Youtube About Since 1787, we've never stopped pushing the edge of what's possible. Forged in Progress Here, we’re focused on the impact and the relentless pursuit of change, for good. The University of Pittsburgh is a top-ranked, public institution in Pennsylvania and member of the Association of American Universities of leading research universities. With our discoveries, we are recognized as one of the most innovative universities in the world. We invent the paths of the future and forge ahead. Values, Mission and Vision Driven by the search. Inspired by the impact. Our values shape who we are and where we are going next. Values, Mission and Vision Plan for Pitt History & Achievements Leadership & Governance Pitt's administration is led by Chancellor Patrick Gallagher and overseen by a Board of Trustees with input from faculty, staff, and student shared-governance organizations and support from various offices. Office of the Chancellor Board of Trustees Administrative & Business Offices Admissions, Student Affairs, Dining Services, Diversity and Inclusion, and Public Safety and Emergency Management are among the Pitt offices serving our students, faculty and staff. Administrative Offices Media Relations Regional Campuses All the Advantages of a Pitt Education Pitt's regional campuses in Bradford, Greensburg, Johnstown and Titusville combine the advantages and environments of liberal arts colleges with the resources and prestige of a major research university. From workforce development…to increased social mobility…to arts and culture, Pitt improves the lives of Pennsylvanians across the state. Slide 1 Explore Regional Campuses Here, progress is always in progress. Don't just take our word for it: Pitt is an academic and economic powerhouse that's consistently ranked among the nation's top universities. History & Achievements Expand Tile No. 1 Public University in the Northeast No. 1 Public University in the Northeast In 2021, the Wall Street Journal/Times Higher Education College Rankings again named the Pittsburgh campus as the No. 1 public university in the Northeastern United States. Expand Tile Top Producer of U.S. Fulbright Scholars Top Producer of U.S. Fulbright Scholars For the ninth time in 10 years, Pitt in 2019 was named one of the nation's top institutions for producing Fulbright students by the U.S. Department of State's Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs. Expand Tile 14:1 Student to Faculty Ratio 14:1 Student to Faculty Ratio Students at Pitt develop personal relationships with world-renowned faculty members who serve as their mentors. Expand Tile Top 20 Public University Top 20 Public University Pitt is ranked No. 19 on the U.S. News & World Report's 2021 list of Top Public Schools in the nation. Expand Tile $4.2B PA Economic Impact $4.2B PA Economic Impact A proven economic engine, Pitt contributes $4.2 billion to communities throughout Pennsylvania. Expand Tile 94% of Graduates 94% of Graduates 94% of Pitt graduates achieve a successful career outcome within six months. Expand Tile 645 Degrees and Certificate Programs 645 Degrees and Certificate Programs Pitt is home to 16 schools and colleges that offer a breadth of high-quality undergraduate and graduate programs. History & Achievements Dive deeper into Pitt: Diversity & Inclusion Pittsburgh Campus Regional Campuses Interactive Map Campus Tour Events Calendar Global Menu Apply Visit Give Pittwire Events About Academics Admissions Research Life at Pitt Athletics Quick Links & Resources Quick Links & Resources Accessibility Statement Careers Consumer Info/Achievement Contact Us Departments A-Z Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Find People Information Technology LGBTQ+ Nondiscrimination and Anti-Harassment Policy My Pitt Regional Campuses Regional Campuses Bradford Greensburg Johnstown Titusville Colleges & Schools Colleges & Schools Arts & Sciences Business Computing & Information Dental Medicine Education Engineering General Studies Health & Rehabilitation Honors College Law Medicine Nursing Pharmacy Public & Intl Affairs Public Health Social Work 4200 Fifth Ave. Pittsburgh, PA 15260 United States +1 412-624-4141 Twitter Instagram Facebook Youtube