Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Events Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Schedule a Visit SMU Tour Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Twitter Follow Us YouTube Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Home Academics Academics Departments Undergraduate Majors Undergraduate Minors and Programs Graduate Studies Why Study Here? Why Study Here? The Dedman Edge Heard on The Hilltop Research and Fellowships Research and Fellowships Undergraduate Students Graduate Students National Student Fellowships Institutes and Centers Faculty Dean's Research Council Resources Resources Current Students Faculty and Staff Prospective Students Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate About About Dean's Welcome Administrative Directory Executive Board Department Chairs Department Faculty Directory Dedman Diversity Publications Facilities Connect Connect Make a Gift Contact Us Prospective Student Visit Alumni Connection and Events ☰ Why Study Here? SMU Home Why Study Here? Why Study Here? Liberal arts students ask important questions, process big picture information, and summarize ideas into a concise vision. They utilize the competitive and constantly changing landscape to spark inspiration through research and hands on experiences. A degree from Dedman College will prepare you with the critical skills that allow you to easily adapt in life and thrive in any environment. Are you interested in economic theory, biophysics, creative writing, thermodynamics, health and society, or learning new languages? Peruse and find your passion within our 16 academic departments. Degree Programs Learn More Dedman College Facts and Figures 3,000 + Students with a Major or Minor in Dedman College 200 + Faculty Members 100 + Honors and Scholars Students Channeling positive energy into action Recognizing that student engagement would be key to compliance with COVID-19 safety protocols, Austin Hickle organized the College Health Alliance of Texas which conducted student opinion research and became a conduit to Congress for student pandemic concerns. Austin’s leadership skills and proven ability to create change earned the economics and public policy major a Truman Scholarship, a premier graduate fellowship for future public servants. Read More University connections As a triple major at SMU, Kovan Barzani managed a political campaign, started a literacy program for refugees, and turned a finance internship into a full-time job. Read More Charting the Right Path "I think SMU has this remarkable way for charting students on the right course," says Whitney Wolfe Herd, founder and CEO of Bumble. "People will work with you to make sure you're taking the right classes to achieve your big picture dreams." Read More Balancing Science and the Arts As a University Honors student on the pre-med track and through numerous campus opportunities, SMU enabled Sam Weber to explore his interests in the performing arts and sciences. Read More I was really lucky to come here “I know all my professors really well, and the class sizes are perfect. In general, I just really love SMU. I was really lucky to come here,” says, Jasmine Liu, SMU physics student and Hamilton Undergraduate Research Scholar. Read More Previous Next pause play hide show Learning without boundaries From study abroad and research opportunities to local and international internships, Dedman College students graduate with a well-rounded education and relevant, real-world experience. Go ahead, explore your opportunities. Study Abroad Internship Program Why Study in Dedman College First in her family, finding her place “The human rights program helped me tie what I was learning in class to the outside world.” Kaitlyn Contreras Read more Mentoring and Support "I was accepted to the Dedman College Scholars honors program, and I’ve gotten great mentoring and support." Greg Guggenmos Read more Big City Opportunities "With one of fastest growing economies and populations in the country, the city of Dallas is full of fantastic opportunities, and I knew that I wanted to be a part of the city." Bradley Potts Read more 10 Successful People With A Liberal Arts Degree Many of America’s top traditional business people have liberal arts degrees. In fact, literature and philosophy majors often turn up in the profiles of tech entrepreneurs. A liberal arts degree prepared them with the skills to think, communicate, collaborate, design, and make their—and our—futures brighter. Andrea Jung, former Avon CEO Kenneth Chenault, American Express, former CEO Susan Wojcicki, CEO, YouTube Reid Hoffman, LinkedIn founder John Mackey, CEO, Whole Foods Ted Turner, CNN founder Jamie Dimon, CEO of J.P. Morgan Barack Obama, U.S. President Whitney Wolf Herd, Bumble founder Caterina Fake and Stewart Butterfied, Slack founder Apply Visit School Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Minors and Programs Explore Centers and Institutes Campus Administrative Directory Department Directory Alumni Make a Gift Dedman College of Humanities & Sciences P.O. Box 750235 | Dallas, Texas | 75275-0233 214-768-2440 © Southern Methodist University Legal Disclosures facebook twitter youtube