UT University Health Services https://wwww.healthyhorns.utexas.edu/ APPOINTMENTS MyUHS SERVICES ABOUT UHS LOCATION CONTACT Monday - Friday, 8am to 5pm by appointment Coronavirus updates COVID Positive: What To do Medical emergencies and what to do when UHS is closed Nurse Advice Line Charges and Insurance Immunizations and medical clearance requirements Medical and immunization record requests Search a health topic Meet the staff Tour UHS Eligibility to use UHS Affordable UT Student Health Insurance Plan Your feedback Incoming students International students LGBTQIA+ inclusive healthcare Longhorn Wellness Center Emergency HIV risk reduction Pharmacy Resources Sexual Assault Forensic Exams Volunteering FOLLOW US (512) 471-4955 Email UHS LOCATION 100 West Dean Keaton Student Services Building (SSB) https://www.healthyhorns.utexas.edu/ Appointments MyUHS Services About UHS Location Contact UHS Top UHS COVID-19 Information Home Protect Texas Together Symptomatic Testing Asymptomatic Testing Exposure Action Chart Vaccines and Boosters Self-Report a Positive Test Guidance for Ending Self-isolation Travel COVID-19 Self-Test Kit Distribution Self-test kits are now available for any current UT student, faculty or staff member for free at various distribution sites throughout campus. Simply show your UTID to the staff member onsite at any of the locations listed below to receive your kit. Distribution Sites Texas Union, William C. Powers, Jr. (WCP) Student Activity Center, and Student Services Building desks Proactive Community Testing (PCT) clinics The front desks of all residence halls, Dobie Twenty21, 2400 Nueces, and University Apartments University Health Services (made available to students who have an appointment for any reason) Additional distribution sites are being identified Self-test kits will also be made available to those who work off-campus at the ARL Main Building and PRC Commons Conference Center, Lady Bird Johnson Wildflower Center, McDonald Observatory, and Marine Sciences Institute When To Use A Self-Test Kit If you are feeling completely healthy and want to check your COVID-19 infection status If you are experiencing symptoms of COVID-19 and want to test If you have been in close contact with someone who has tested positive for COVID-19, test 3-5 days after exposure If you have participated in large group activities, test 3-5 days after the event If you have recently tested positive, wait to test again until your symptoms have improved but no earlier than the evening of day 5 or morning of day 6 of your infection. Day 1 is marked by the day you tested positive. Before or after travel (to meet airline or other requirements) Note: The use of a self-test kit will not provide Activity Pass clearance. For the Activity Pass, please continue to use PCT. What To Do If You Test Positive If your results are positive, report them to UT Austin and follow the guidance listed in the Exposure Action Chart. Call the Behavior Concerns and COVID-19 Advice Line (BCCAL) at 512-232-5050, option 2 if you need assistance with isolation. Frequently Asked Questions Is there a cost to get a self-test kit? No, self-test kits are being provided to all current UT students, staff and faculty for free. What documentation do I need to provide to receive a self-test kit? Students, faculty, and staff should show their UTID to the staff member onsite at any self-test kit distribution sites on campus. How many self-test kits can I receive? Students, faculty and staff will be given two test kits. To ensure the current supply is widely available to all members of the Longhorn community, please only request/accept the two self-kits at this time. As additional tests become available or you utilize both test kits you receive, we invite you to pick up more supplies. Are self-test kits replacing PCT? No, PCT will still be available. The self-test kit distribution is meant to augment our existing testing efforts by offering a convenient, accessible option. What kind of tests are being distributed? The self-test kits being distributed are rapid antigen tests. They have high sensitivity and specificity and are similar to the types of tests used in the PCT clinics. Where did these self-test kits come from? The self-test kits are provided from the state to the university for distribution to the Longhorn community. Can I receive kits for my family, friends, or others? Self-test kits distributed through the university are intended for current UT students, staff and faculty only. How long will this program last? The longevity of self-test kit distribution depends on supply and demand; however, we have sufficient resources to continue distribution of self-test kits for the foreseeable future. Are there other ways to obtain free self-test kits if I won’t be on campus? Through COVIDtests.gov, every home in the U.S. (residential address including U.S. Territories and overseas military and diplomatic addresses) is eligible to order 4 free at-⁠home COVID-⁠19 tests. Read frequently asked questions on how college students can order their kits. Individuals who have health insurance can also obtain self-test kits that are covered by their plan. Are these tests observed, interpreted by a medical professional, and are official test results provided? No. UHS COVID-19 Information Home Protect Texas Together Symptomatic Testing Asymptomatic Testing Exposure Action Chart Vaccines and Boosters Self-Report a Positive Test Guidance for Ending Self-isolation Travel INFORMATION Home Medical emergencies / After-Hours care Appointments Service extension fee Diversity statement STI Testing Sexual assault forensic exams Tour UHS Eligibility to use UHS Medical withdrawal & course load reductions Medical and Immunization record requests Patient rights and responsibilities Campus concealed carry Hours Parking Jobs Volunteering You Share, We Care Monday - Friday, 8am to 5pm by appointment (512) 471-4955 Email UHS University Health Services is committed to providing high-quality care to patients of all ages, races, ethnicities, physical abilities or attributes, religions, sexual orientations or gender identities/expression. SPECIFIC QUESTIONS? Incoming Students International Students Dell Medical Students LGBTQIA+ Inclusive Healthcare Parents Faculty and Staff LOCATION 100 West Dean Keeton Student Services Building (SSB) FOLLOW US Monday - Friday, 8am to 5pm by appointment (512) 471-4955 Email UHS University Health Services is committed to providing high-quality care to patients of all ages, races, ethnicities, physical abilities or attributes, religions, sexual orientations, or gender identities/expression. INFORMATION Home Medical emergencies / After-Hours care Appointments Service extension fee Diversity statement Get yourself tested Sexual assault exams Tour UHS Eligibility to use UHS Medical withdrawal & course load reductions Medical and immunization record requests Patient rights and responsibilities Campus concealed carry Hours Parking Jobs Volunteering You Share, We Care LOCATION 100 West Dean Keeton Student Services Building (SSB) FOLLOW US SPECIFIC QUESTIONS? Incoming Students International Students Dell Medical Students LGBTQIA+ Inclusive Healthcare Parents Faculty and Staff Home l ©2022 The University of Texas at Austin l UT Emergency Information l Accessibility l Privacy l Finding Credible Health Information Online l Report violence, misconduct, harassment or discrimination l Staff Intranet