Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Undocumented, First-Generation College, and Low-Income Student Center Home About Programs and Services FLi Scholars Program Undocumented Student Program Prospective Students Financial Matters Internships and Other Opportunities DACA Q/A Class Dissonance Series Undocu-Series U-FLi Graduate Student Initiative Get Involved Site Navigation Home About People Our Team Community History News & Updates Digital Archive Programs and Services FLi Scholars Program Undocumented Student Program Prospective Students Financial Matters Internships and Other Opportunities DACA Q/A Class Dissonance Series Undocu-Series U-FLi Graduate Student Initiative Get Involved Alumni and Giving Opportunities Sign-up for our Newsletter Fellowships, Internships and Other Opportunities The College office offers a number of fellowships, research and career path opportunities that are available to all undergraduate students, regardless of citizenship status. Students can also view additional opportunities compiled by the Curricular Resource Center in their Undocumented Student Resource Guide. Specifically: Karen T. Romer Undergraduate Teaching and Research Awards (UTRAs) support Brown students collaborating with Brown faculty on research and teaching projects during the summer or the academic year. All Brown undergraduate students are eligible to apply for UTRAs regardless of citizenship status. Undocumented and DACA enrolled students should contact Associate Dean of the College for Undergraduate Research and Inclusive Science [email protected] to discuss individual circumstances. CareerLAB offers LINK and Signature Award programs through BrownConnect, which are available to all students regardless of citizenship status. The office usually funds nearly 300 of these opportunities each summer. Other opportunities through BrownConnect include Bruno internships (provided by Brown alumni and parents). Undocumented and DACA enrolled students should contact Career Advisor [email protected] for additional information. The Swearer Center for Public Service offers multiple internship and fellowship opportunities that are available to all students, regardless of citizenship status. Undocumented and DACA enrolled students status should contact Swearer Center Assistant Director, [email protected] for additional information and to discuss individual interests and circumstances. Fellowships: Private foundations will vary in terms of eligibility related to citizenship; undocumented or DACA students could be eligible for certain nationally competitive awards such as the Schwarzman and the Projects for Peace. Foundations may consider applicants on a case by case basis as every individual situation is different. Undocumented and DACA enrolled students should contact Associate Dean of the College for Fellowships [email protected] to explore possible options. The Mellon Mays Undergraduate Fellowship (MMUF), funded by the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, supports and prepares eligible undergraduate students to engage in undergraduate research and for doctoral studies in the humanities. The central goal of the MMUF is to increase the number of individuals from historically underrepresented racial and ethnic groups with a demonstrated commitment to eradicating racial disparities in U.S. higher education. Sophomores who identify as African American, Latinx, and Native American and are U.S. citizens, permanent residents, DACA, or undocumented students are eligible to apply. Undocumented and DACA enrolled students should contact Associate Dean of the College and MMUF Director Asabe Poloma ([email protected]) with any questions. For more information, visit the Brown MMUF website. New Short-Term Opportunities: The College, in partnership with CareerLAB, Sheridan Center, and Swearer Center, will offer SPRINT (Short-term Projects for Research, Internships, and Teaching) opportunities this summer. All students are eligible to apply for these opportunities, regardless of citizenship status. Through SPRINT, students can engage in short-termed mentored internships, undergraduate research, community-engaged learning and curriculum development projects. Undocumented and DACA enrolled students should contact BrownConnect team at [email protected] for additional information and to discuss any individual interests and circumstances. Undocumented Student Program Prospective Students Financial Matters Internships and Other Opportunities DACA Q/A Undocumented, First-Generation College, and Low-Income Student Center Undocumented, First-Generation College, and Low-Income Student Center Brown University Box 1998 5th Floor, Sciences Library 201 Thayer Street Providence, RI 02912 Email [email protected] Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top