Skip to Content Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Indiana University Bloomington Indiana University Bloomington IU Bloomington Menu About History Rankings & Campus Statistics Mission & Strategic Planning Leadership & Administration Safety & Emergency Information Visit Campus Transportation & Parking A-Z List Jobs at IU How to Hire IU Students Admissions How to Apply Cost & Finances Visit IU & Bloomington Academics The Academic Experience Degrees & Majors Business Health & Wellness Science, Engineering & Technology Public Service Arts & Culture Schools Academic Opportunities Study Abroad Online Classes & Programs Schedule of Classes & Academic Calendar Academic Advising & Support Libraries Research Hoosier Life Traditions & Spirit Student Organizations Recreational Sports Athletics Health, Wellness & Safety Housing & Dining Visiting Bloomington Attractions & Things to Do Diversity on Campus Career Prep Find Your Passion Get Experience Develop Your Career Use Your Network Alumni & Giving News & Events Indiana University Bloomington Home About Admissions Academics Research Hoosier Life Career Prep Alumni & Giving News & Events Home Academics Degrees & Majors Public Service Public Service Make a career of making a difference We need you. Our planet, our people. You have a vision for what can be. At IU, you’ll find top degrees in public service, one of the nation’s largest international affairs schools—and everything you need to change our world for the better. Where can public service take you? Shape policies If you want to understand the legal side of environmental policy, lead a nonprofit, or work in a government role, learn more about our degree in public affairs. Be a citizen of the world If you want to become a global citizen, influence international policy, and have your sights set on studying abroad, check out our majors in international studies. Don’t just do, teach If you love the classroom and want to help shape the next generation through teaching or counseling, learn more about our majors in education. Maintain our natural resources If you want to have a say in clean energy policy or to combat food insecurities, check out our degree in environmental and sustainability studies. Find other programs in public service and moreExplore all IU degrees Customize your course of study If you want to . . . Learn more about majors in Design clothing with recycled textiles Arts & culture Sharpen your skills in management Business Treat patients in underserved populations Health & wellness Research environmental phenomena Science, engineering & technology Meet Marria Can you imagine learning an entire year’s worth of a language in just eight weeks? As a student in IU’s Chinese Flagship Program, Marria is getting ready to launch a global career—and take on the world. Find out more about a day in the life of this Hoosier. Description of the video: [WORDS APPEAR: Indiana University presents] [WORDS APPEAR: One day/one Hoosier, July 9, 2019, with Marria Peduto] [VIDEO: Marria sits at a table with classmates, listening to a lecturer.] Marria speaks: Ni Hao! My name is Marria Peduto and I'm an incoming sophomore studying International Studies and Chinese language and culture through the flagship program. [WORDS APPEAR: Marria Peduto, International studies and East Asian languages and cultures] I'm also minoring in Southeast Asian Studies, business and the Peace Corps prep program. [VIDEO: A photograph of Marria in front of the Global and International Studies Building. An instructor points to Chinese characters on a screen. A photograph of Marria with a host family in China. I came to IU for a visit to see the Hamilton Lugar School of Global and International Studies and I decided that Hamilton Lugar provided more opportunities for me to explore things about the world that I was interested in. [VIDEO: In a phone video, Marria stands in front of colorful banners with different languages. Words on the screen say “Today is great because I love Indiana University,” “#onedayonehoosier,” “Ask Marria!,” and “how is your day today?” in English and Chinese. Marria answers the question in Chinese and gives a thumbs up.] So, the Flagship Chinese Institute is an intensive summer language workshop where we study Chinese for eight weeks and get through an entire year of language study. [VIDEO: Marria plays a game outdoors with some friends. She sits in a classroom and takes notes. Students leave the classroom. Marria makes a face at the camera as she walks out.] [VIDEO: In a phone video, Maria walks down a hall as she says, “We just came from [Chinese word], which is a lecture class that has a larger amount of people, and now we’re headed to [Chinese word], which is a smaller class where we do a lot of drills and speaking exercises.” Words on the screen say “One class down, now we’re headed to a workshop to focus on honing Marria’s spoken Chinese skills,” “#onedayonehoosier,” “Hamilton Lugar School of Global and Int...,” and “@hamiltonlugar.”] [VIDEO: Marria sits in another classroom, talking to the student next to her.] The language pledge is definitely the most intense part about FCI. I think that, you know, pledging to only speak Chinese and really work on practicing your pronunciation and speaking with other students is one of the most beneficial parts of this program. [VIDEO: A phone video shows a bulletin board with many posters about languages. Words on the screen say “Ask Marria!,” “Is there language summer courses at IU? Or any summer study abroad for flagship lang,” “#onedayonehoosier,” and “IU offers the most Flagship programs out of any university in the US!”] Next summer, I'm planning on participating in the Princeton in Beijing program, where I will study another full year of Chinese in eight weeks. [VIDEO: In a phone video, Maria holds up pamphlets from different countries. Words on the screen say, “IU offers over 350 study abroad programs!” and “For Chinese Flagship, you study abroad every summer and then your entire capstone year.”] [VIDEO: In a phone video, Marria sits in a classroom. Words on the screen say, “At Indiana University and @hamiltonlugar we teach more languages than any other school in America.” I think that every single experience that I have abroad prepares me for not only a career abroad, but a career in the United States working with people from all different backgrounds. [VIDEO: In a phone video, Marria walks down a hallway. Words on the screen say “Wilkie Auditorium, Indiana Univer...,” “4:59 P.M.,” and “Headed to the Arabic Showcase!”] Each program from the summer language workshop hosts a language showcase where they have cultural activities and food for everyone. We're headed to the Arabic one right now. [VIDEO: In a phone video, Marria and two other students do a short dance for the camera. Words on the screen say “thanks for a great time at the Arabic showcase!” and “6:48 P.M.”] One of my friends said if IU is home then Hamilton Lugar is a family and I really think that that's true. [VIDEO: In a phone video, a person uses tongs to get some food from a tray. Words on the screen say “yummy food = [three smiling emojis with hearts for eyes].”] That was one of my biggest concerns coming to IU was that there's 40,000 students and I was just gonna be lost and a number in the crowd but being a part of Hamilton Lugar has really made me feel like I'm an individual here. [VIDEO: In a phone video, Marria and another student play Mahjong. Words on the screen say “The goal is to collect 4 sets of 3 and 1 pair. You can also count 3 of the same symbol . . .” and “Here’s the winning set.” Winning tiles are displayed on the tabletop.] [VIDEO: In a phone video, we see the front of Spruce Hall on the IU Bloomington campus. Marria stands with another student.] So right now, we are in front of Spruce Hall, which houses the Hamilton Lugar LLC. This is a great opportunity for freshmen who are also interested in International Studies. This is one of my floormates from the year, Leo. [VIDEO: In a phone video, Marria stands in front of a world map. Words on the screen say, “Ask Marria!,” “Is there a scholarship for your summer program?,” and “Swipe up to learn about the Women Engaged Globally scholarship.”] [VIDEO: In a phone video, Maria chats with students in class. Words on the screen say “this is week 6 of 8 for these students,” “each day of class is a week’s worth of learning Chinese,” and “plus each hour is a day’s worth of learning the language.”] Being a Hoosier means that Indiana is my gateway to the world and even though you might not think "Oh, International Studies at IU" as the first place to begin a global career, I truly see this as my launching point for a global career where I'm globally ready and ready to take the world. [VIDEO: In a phone video, Marria waves at the camera. Words on the screen say “Thanks for watching Marria’s day with us!” and “#onedayonehoosier.”] [WORDS APPEAR: Indiana University, iu.edu] [END OF TRANSCRIPT] IU advantage Leadership—Most languages taught of any American university Experience—#6 in the nation for number of students studying abroad and nation-leading three Language Flagship programs Research—Sustainability Scholars research program and opportunities at the 1,600-acre Research and Teaching Preserve Resources—Washington Leadership Program, Mentor Collective, Civic Leaders Center, and much more Let’s stay in touch Ready to become an IU insider? Complete this form to join our mailing list. First name * Last name * Email address * Year of high school graduation * Select a year20222023202420252026 Take your next step at Indiana University Visit campus virtually Learn how to apply The Academic Experience Degrees & Majors Business Health & Wellness Science, Engineering & Technology Public Service Arts & Culture Schools Academic Opportunities Study Abroad Online Classes & Programs Schedule of Classes & Academic Calendar Academic Advising & Support Libraries Indiana University Bloomington social media channels Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn Contact, Address and Additional Links Services Canvas One.IU AskIU Find Directory A-Z List Courses Campus Map Required Disclosures Library IU Bloomington Libraries IUCAT OneSearch@IU Resources Knowledge Base IT Services Faculty & Staff Resources Diversity Non-Discrimination Notice Protect IU Email About Email at IU Outlook Web Access INDIANA UNIVERSITY BLOOMINGTON 107 S. Indiana Avenue Bloomington, IN 47405-7000 Phone: 812-855-4848 Accessibility | Privacy Notice | Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of Indiana University