Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts UC student wins prestigious Truman Scholarship Adam Elzarka received the Truman and two other nationally competitive awards By Natalie Ochmann Email NatalieEmail Natalie April 14, 2022 Share on facebook Share on Twitter Pin Story Print Story Like Adam Elzarka is only the second University of Cincinnati student to win the prestigious Harry S. Truman Scholarship, following his passion for refugee and immigrant resettlement toward a future role shaping public health policy. Elzarka’s achievement not only aligns with UC's commitment to academic excellence, but it also provides him an opportunity to make a real-world impact through public service. His pursuit of a liberal arts degree with concentrations in Arabic, psychology and philosophy in addition to a degree in medical sciences is the perfect blend of his background and goals. The Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation's mission is to select and support the next generation of public service leaders with a significant stipend toward graduate studies. Elzarka is one of 58 scholars chosen from more than 700 applicants and from 275 different colleges and universities. "When we look at Adam’s career at UC, it is abundantly clear why he stood out to the Truman Foundation—he truly embodies their public service ideals,” said UC president Neville Pinto, who surprised Elzarka with news of the award ahead of the official announcement. “We look forward to seeing all that he will accomplish in his final year at UC and beyond.” Truman Scholarship winner Adam Elzarka (center) is surprised by UC president Neville Pinto. Photo/Andrew Higley/UC Creative + Brand When we look at Adam’s career at UC, it is abundantly clear why he stood out to the Truman Foundation—he truly embodies their public service ideals. Neville Pinto, UC president Additionally, the Truman Foundation’s summer institute allows scholars to intern at government agencies and nonprofit organizations following their graduation. In his application, Elzarka proposed working with targeted programs at the United States Office of Refugee Resettlement. “What Truman does really well is that it sets the stage for change agents to reach their goals—to occupy more than one hat, to be put in a better position to make changes—that's why I wanted to apply,” said Elzarka. A history of service Adam Elzarka studied Arabic in Oman through the Boren Scholarship program. Photo/provided. As a first-generation American, Elzarka notes that his interest in refugee crises was greatly inspired by witnessing the Arab Spring. He has continued to work with immigrants throughout his undergraduate career at UC and with underserved populations as an early intervention specialist at UC Medical Center. Further, Elzarka’s involvement with Refuge-UC, a mentorship group for refugee students in Cincinnati Public Schools, was critical in the application for the Truman Scholarship and other nationally competitive awards. Prior to receiving the Truman Scholarship, Elzarka was also named a Boren Scholar and received a generous award to study abroad in a region critical to US interests. He spent a semester living with a cohort in Oman, practicing Arabic through a focused language program. During that experience, Elzarka won a third nationally competitive award, the Critical Language Scholarship. In summer 2022, he will continue to master Arabic through a study abroad experience in Morocco. "It is no exaggeration to say that awards of this caliber are life changing. They are horizon openers,” said Jenny Hyest, director of UC’s Office of Nationally Competitive Awards. “National scholarships such as Truman, Boren, and CLS exist to identify and invest in talented, ambitious students like Adam, enabling them to pursue the kinds of experiences—things like language study, research, or graduate study—that will enhance their ability to do the work they hope to do in this world." "Truman is for change-makers, and that is Adam Elzarka through and through. He is an intelligent leader, a compassionate public servant, and a seemingly tireless advocate for refugee health and the medically underserved. Adam has been an exceptional UC student, and I know he will make an equally exceptional Truman Scholar." A future in public policy Adam Elzarka works with refugee students in Cincinnati Public Schools as part of his involvement with student group Refuge-UC. Photo/provided. Elzarka looks forward to the opportunities that the Truman Scholarship will offer, seeing more clearly the path from his undergraduate degrees to his future career. “Through the Truman application, I've connected everything together, from my experiences from my childhood to everything that I'm doing in college and even into the future,” said Elzarka. “It almost brings those possibilities to life. I found myself envisioning what I was writing.” Through the Truman Scholarship, Elzarka is weighing his options for graduate school. He is currently targeting a unique dual-degree program, both a masters in health policy research and medical doctorate, at the University of Pennsylvania. He is not committed to any particular specialty in medicine but says he has set his sights higher than the degree. “I hope to be more than a doctor with a medical degree. Most of my work right now focuses on grassroots initiatives, working with the community, and I hope to end up either in the government, at the CDC (Centers for Disease Control), or in the nonprofit sector to bring my experience of working with grassroots campaigns to a more national, regional or state level.” Featured image at top: Andrew Higley/UC Creative + Brand Discover what's Next The University of Cincinnati prepares our students to make a real-world impact. Learn more about experiential learning opportunities through study abroad and nationally competitive awards. Tags International College of Medicine President's Office College of Arts and Sciences Academic Excellence Academic Health Center Student Experience Related Stories College of Medicine to participate in national effort to assess... May 31, 2022 College of Medicine joins national effort to improve teaching clinical reasoning skills Local 12 News: ‘It’s changing my life’: Ten students awarded... May 30, 2022 Benya Coleman, a recent graduate of Hughes STEM High School, spoke with Local 12 News reporter Jenna Cisneros about her award of the Marian Spencer Scholarship to attend the University of Cincinnati this fall. Imaging Technology News: First FLASH proton therapy trial... May 27, 2022 The University of Cincinnati's John Breneman, MD, spoke with Imaging Technology News about the completion of enrollment of the FAST-01 trial, the first FLASH proton therapy trial completed in humans. Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top