Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Jazz Arranging Certificate (Undergraduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Jazz Arranging Certificate (Undergraduate) Apply Request More Info Jazz Arranging Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Jazz Arranging Undergraduate Certificate Explore your interest in jazz and understand how music is developed for ensembles and solo performances with the Jazz Arranging Undergraduate Certificate in Temple’s Boyer College of Music and Dance. You can diversify your coursework and study a distinctive, eclectic genre of music that has played a pivotal role in American music history. This 12-credit undergraduate certificate program emphasizes jazz composition, music arranging and music theory so you develop your ability to arrange and write music, with a focus on chord substitutions, arrangements for small and large ensembles, and jazz orchestration. The techniques taught in the program are tailored to help you write jazz arrangements for several different instrumental combinations depending on your personal interest, including the drums, guitar, piano, saxophone and trumpet. Undergraduate students interested in the certificate program must be in good academic standing and have completed 15 credits at Temple University by the start of the requested semester of certificate coursework. Classes & Curriculum Students in the Jazz Arranging Undergraduate Certificate program are expected to complete core required courses. There are no exit requirements, comprehensive exams, theses or practica required for the certificate, but the program should be completed within six semesters. Certificate completion will be acknowledged on the official transcript when bachelor’s degrees are awarded. There are four courses required to complete this certificate, which are Jazz Arranging I and II; Seminar in Jazz Composition and Arranging; and Topics in Music Theory. Learn more about the curriculum for the Undergraduate Certificate in Jazz Arranging. Tuition & Fees The tuition for this Certificate Program is based on school or college of your major, program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Academic Advisors The Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts has a centralized advising office with five staff members. This advising team serves all undergraduate students in the Boyer School of Music and Dance and the School of Theater, Film and Media Arts. Advisors help students navigate the undergraduate curriculum for each degree program. The academic advising team for Music, Dance, Theater, and Film and Media Arts majors is located in Mitten Hall, Suite 200 West. To schedule an advising appointment based on your individual needs or for more help, contact the advising team. Phone: 215-204-8301 Schedule an advising appointment. Program Contact Contact the following faculty for more information about the Jazz Arranging Undergraduate Certificate. Terell Stafford is the director of Jazz Studies. Phone: 215-204-8036 Email: terell.stafford@temple.edu Accreditation The Boyer College of Music and Dance is accredited by the American Music Therapy Association, National Association of Schools of Music, National Association of Schools of Dance and Pennsylvania Department of Education. BC-JZAR-CERT Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Jazz Arranging Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info