Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries FAQs You are here Home Life at Temple FAQs Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Preferred Name Use Pronoun Use and Gender Identity Temple Thought Leaders Housing & Dining Health & Wellness COVID-19: Keeping Our Community Safe & Healthy COVID-19 FAQ Testing & Tracing Vaccines Academics, Tuition & Aid Temple HEERF III Grant Student Housing & On-campus Life Work-life for Faculty & Staff Faculty Teaching Information Return Scenario Planning Temple Community Health Advisory Group University Communication Vaccination Rates and Active COVID-19 Cases at Temple University International Campuses and Programs City Life Philadelphia Visiting Temple Accommodations Dining Options Religious Services Information FAQs Safety Main Campus and Philadelphia Safety FAQ Contact Temple RAVE Temple Guardian App Community Programs and Research University News Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Campus Life Arts and Culture Clubs and Organizations Housing, Dining and OWLcards Parking and Transportation Safety Student Banking Student Centers Wireless, Computers and Phone Academics Advising and Academic Support Courses and Calendars International Students Libraries Registration, Grades and Books Schools and Colleges Health and Wellness Athletics and Fitness Health and Counseling Tuition and Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition and Billing Careers and Internships Career Center Internships Student Jobs Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees Presidential Search President University Leadership Board of Trustees Updates Past Presidents 2019 State of the University History & Traditions Russell Conwell Temple Traditions Acres of Diamonds Honorary Degrees Past Honorary Degree Recipients Temple Health News & Media Media Mentions Temple University Wallpapers Temple's Impact Career in Charitable Change Fueled by Temple Experiences Advancing Breast Cancer Research Leaders in HIV Research 21st-century Learning Temple Firsts Paving the Way Medical & Community Support Student Support Contact members of Strategic Marketing and Communications Offices Public Information Facts About Temple Faculty & Staff Resources Working at Temple Calendars and Time Off Holiday Schedule Careers at Temple Human Resources Performance and Training Business Services Catering Exception Policy Double Tree Catering/ Conferences Contact Frequently Asked Questions Trademark Licensing Policy Corporate Responsibility Logo and Graphics Guide Guidelines for Trademark Use The Student, Faculty and Staff Guide to Ordering Licensed Temple Products Becoming Licensed Trademark and Licensing FAQ Where to Buy Temple Gear University-approved Hotels Club Quarters DoubleTree Hotel Hilton Garden Inn Hilton Philadelphia at Penn's Landing Loews Hotel Sonesta Philadelphia The Conwell Inn Campus Services Computers, Email and Phones Conferences and Meetings Health Sciences Center Form Main Campus Meeting Space Howard Gittis Student Center Form Documents & Insurance Facilities and Space ID Cards Parking and Transportation Faculty Resources Calendars, Schedules and Grades Courses and Curricula Instructional Resources Faculty Senate and News Research and Grants Finance and Travel Accounting and Budget Employee Banking and Finance Tuition Remission Travel and Expenses Wellness and Safety Fitness and Health Safety and Alerts Campus Development Frequently Asked Questions Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Data Integrity and Data Verification Unit In-scope Materials Quick Reference Guide Rankings Data Overview and Updates Additional Resources Frequently Asked Questions FAQ: Fox School of Business MBA rankings Enterprise Risk Management Key Terms and Definitions Helpline Frequently Asked Questions Resources Compliance With the Four Pillars Who We Are Libraries Charles Library https://www.temple.edu/coronavirus Return to Campus Learn more about what incoming and returning students can expect when they start the fall 2020 semester, including the latest information about Temple’s plans for a safe return to campus. Learn more about the university's plans for the fall 2020 semester. How can I find out more about my meal plan? Check back throughout the summer to find out when students who have purchased meal plans will be able to use them. Find out more about dining on Main Campus. I’ve moved in. What should I do now? Welcome Week, the traditional time period for all new first-year, transfer, and commuter students to become more engaged with campus programs and services, will be held August 17-22. In partnership with many campus departments and student organizations, Student Activities provides days of exciting programs and unique opportunities to welcome our new Owls and returning students to campus. Whether you’re looking for a fraternity or sorority, campus ministries, athletics, or recreation or just something to do - the first week of school is jam-packed with daily activities for the Temple Community. For a full schedule of activities and events visit welcome.temple.edu and follow us on social media platforms using @TUActivities. I’m an international student, and I’m not sure where to start. The best place for you to start is the Office of International Student and Scholar Services at 1938 Liacouras Walk, Suite 202. It hosts activities that cater specifically to international students and help you make a smooth transition to your new environment. You also may ask your resident assistant or any staff members in your building for assistance. Where is the best place to go if I have a question? Stop by the information desk located in the Howard Gittis Student Center Atrium (1755 N. 13th St.). I don’t know my way around campus. How do I learn that? Campus maps are free at the information desk in the Howard Gittis Student Center Atrium (1755 N. 13th St.) and are posted around campus. Additionally, the Welcome Center—located on the first floor of the TECH Center (1101 W. Montgomery Ave.)—will host daily tours at 11 a.m. and 1 p.m. I want to check out Philadelphia. How can I get around? Philadelphia has an extensive public transportation system called SEPTA. You may take the bus, hop on the subway or ride the regional rail to get around the city. There are SEPTA maps located at the information desk in the Howard Gittis Student Center (1755 N. 13th St.) that can help you learn how to use SEPTA. If you’re just looking to use transportation around campus, you can hop on the Owl Loop at 12th and Berks streets and tell the driver where you need to go. The service is free and operates every day from 5 p.m. to 6:30 a.m. Find out more about SEPTA fares, transit maps and bus schedules. After Welcome Week, how can I stay involved in campus activities? There are many ways to stay involved on campus. During Welcome Week, organizations will be out recruiting new members. Also, take full advantage of the Virtual TempleFest to be held on August 20, 2020. To be notified about a group’s upcoming events and activities, ask to be added to the organization’s listserv. You also can visit events.temple.edu for campus programs and owlconnect.temple.edu to learn more about student organizations. Where can I buy my books? You may purchase your books from the Temple University Bookstore, located on the lower level of the Howard Gittis Student Center (1755 N. 13th St.). Where can I get my Wild Cherry Pass? You can pick up your Wild Cherry Pass at the Liacouras Center box office, located on Broad Street south of Polett Walk. The Wild Cherry Pass costs $45 and guarantees you seats in the student section for all football and basketball home games. You’ll also have chances to win prizes at every game. A Wild Cherry T-shirt, various discounts and opportunities to travel for postseason play are included in your membership. Where can I work out? The Independence Blue Cross Recreation Center (also called the IBC) is the premier place to get or stay in shape on campus. It is located at the corner of 15th Street and Cecil B. Moore Avenue. If you prefer net sports or climbing walls, you can stop by Pearson and McGonigle Halls on Broad Street. You also may take advantage of the track located behind the Student Pavilion on 15th Street and Montgomery Avenue. For updated hours and a current schedule of events, visit Campus Recreation. Go back to Life at TempleMore in Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community.