Skip to site alert. Skip to content Columbia School of Nursing Students Alumni Faculty Contact Us Search Make a Gift About Us About Us Message From the Dean Leadership Faculty Our Culture News Events Facts and Figures Accreditation Make a Gift Contact Us Our Culture Diversity and Cultural Affairs Civility Statement Social Justice and Health Equity and Anti-Racism Commitment Sustainability Our History Jonas Partnership Join Our Team Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Learn about our commitment to social justice and health equality and anti-racism. View Our Progress Academics Academics A Columbia Nursing Education Admissions at a Glance Academic Programs Courses Financial Aid Continuing Nursing Education Helene Fuld Health Trust Simulation Center Academic Programs Doctor of Nursing Practice Doctor of Nursing Practice in Nurse Anesthesia Doctor of Philosophy Masters Direct Entry Program For Non-Nurses Masters in Advanced Clinical Management and Leadership Online Prerequisites for Entry to Nursing Transgender Non-Binary (Trans NB) Health Care for Advance Practice Nurses and PAs Palliative Care Throughout the Lifespan for Advanced Practice Registered Nurses (APRNs) Admissions at a Glance Learn more about Admissions at Columbia Nursing, including important dates and deadlines, and how to apply to all of our programs. Learn More About Admissions Research Research Research Faculty and Postdoctoral Fellows Research Areas of Focus Research Centers and Programs Training Programs Research Resources Research Centers and Programs Center for Health Policy Center for Improving Palliative Care for Vulnerable Adults with MCC Precision in Symptom Self-Management Center Center for Healthcare Delivery Research and Innovations Center for Research on People of Color Center for Sexual and Gender Minority Health Research Linking to Improve Nursing Knowledge Research Areas of Focus Explore the research areas of focus conducted by our faculty, postdocs, and students. View Our Focus Areas Patient Care Global Health Global Health Global Opportunities for Students Global Research International Visitors WHO Collaborating Center Contact Global Opportunities for Students Global opportunities for clinical practicum and research may be available for MDE and doctoral students at Columbia Nursing. Get More Information You are here Home > Academics > Academic Programs > Masters Direct Entry Program For Non-Nurses Masters Direct Entry Program For Non-Nurses Admissions Tuition and Fees Competencies FAQ Masters Direct Entry Program For Non-Nurses Program Director Heidi Hahn-Schroeder, DNP, RN Assistant Professor of Nursing at CUMC Apply Now to the Masters Direct Entry Program For Non-Nurses Masters Direct Entry Program Length of Program: 15 months Application Deadline: October 2022 Decisions Posted: February 2023 Program Start Date: June 2023 The Masters Direct Entry (MDE) Program is a full-time accelerated nursing program for non-nurse college graduates who wish to become registered nurses (RNs). The MDE program prepares students in the provision of evidence-based nursing care with an emphasis on care coordination and religio/cultural care to patients along the wellness/illness continuum and across all care settings. The curriculum provides basic nursing knowledge and practice expertise enhanced with master’s course work in advanced assessment, advanced pharmacology, advanced pathophysiology and global health. Students complete over 1,000 clinical hours in small group clinical settings in areas such as labor and delivery, medical surgical, pediatrics, community health, and psychiatric-mental health. The MDE program offers a unique six-week integration experience in which students work one-on-one with an RN in New York or participate in one of many global integration sites. The fifteen-month program prepares students to enter the nursing profession as masters-credentialed registered nurses better prepared to meet the demands of an evolving health care system. At the end of the program, graduates receive a Master of Science degree in Nursing (MS) and sit for the nationwide test for the licensing of nurses—the National Council Licensure Examination (NCLEX). Students, if interested, are able to move from this program directly into one of two doctoral programs, the clinical-based Doctorate of Nursing Practice (DNP), or the research-based Doctor of Philosophy (PhD). Program Options Applicants can apply jointly into the MDE and doctoral programs: DNP Adult-Gerontology Acute Care Nurse Practitioner Program DNP Family Nurse Practitioner Program DNP Nurse-Midwifery Program DNP Pediatric Primary Care Nurse Practitioner DNP Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) NCLEX Licensure Pass Rates 2019: 94.2% 2018: 83.7% 2017: 94.4% 2016: 77.2% 2015: 92% 2014: 81.7% 2013: 88.2% 2012: 94.5% Curriculum The curriculum is provided to specify the academic requirements of the program. Please be advised that this program plan is a sample, and individual plans of study may vary and are reviewed and approved by the program director. Progression in the program is contingent upon meeting academic policies. Request a Sample Academic Program Plan What is it like to be an MDE student at Columbia Nursing? View Our Student Profiles View Our Student Profiles Courses Course ID Course Name Credits Description NURS8685N Advanced Clinical Assessment 3 Utilizing a systems approach and a background in basic physical assessment, advanced physical assessment skills are studied. The identification and interpretation of abnormalities in the physical exam are emphasized in depth. The approach to the development of the differential diagnosis is introduced. The goal of this course is to provide the critical thinking necessary for the beginning advanced practice nursing student to analyze history and physical exam data. NURS8102N Advanced Pharmacology 3 The goals of this course are to provide students with a knowledge and understanding of the actions of drugs in order to enable them to use therapeutic agents in a rational and responsible manner in patients. Initially, basic principles of pharmacology will be reviewed (from N5375 course), including absorption, distribution, metabolism, and excretion of drugs by the body. Drug-receptor interactions will also be presented and illustrated with appropriate examples. The focus of these lectures will be case-based whenever possible to demonstrate the therapeutic application of these pharmacologic principles and how this translates into efficacy and potential toxicity. NURS7001N Advanced Physiology and Pathophysiology Across the Lifespan I 3 Part one of two. In this course we will examine the normal physiological function of organ systems, the mechanisms for the maintenance of health, and the pathophysiological alterations in body function that lead to disease. Each class will focus on a specific physiologic process or organ system. We will pay particular focus to diseases that commonly occur across the lifespan, examining common etiologies, pathogenic mechanisms, clinical manifestations, and common treatments of each. NURS7002N Advanced Physiology and Pathophysiology Across the Lifespan II 2 Part two of two. In this course we will examine the normal physiological function of organ systems, the mechanisms for the maintenance of health, and the pathophysiological alterations in body function that lead to disease. Each class will focus on a specific physiologic process or organ system. We will pay particular focus to diseases that commonly occur across the lifespan, examining common etiologies, pathogenic mechanisms, clinical manifestations, and common treatments of each. NURS7004N Care Coordination 3 The care coordination course is designed to provide nursing students the skills to provide patient-centered care, deliberately organize patient care activities and share information among all of the participants concerned with a patient's care to achieve safer and more effective care. Reducing high rates of errors, reducing high rates of readmission, improving satisfaction with care, addressing unmet needs in health care and reducing cost burden will also be explored. NURS6010N Global Health Equity and the Responsibility of the Nursing Profession 2 The pursuit of health equity for all in the 21st century is a global mandate and responsibility. This course is designed to provide an overview of critical health disparities within the global community and provide the student with a systematic approach to understanding them within the framework of human rights and social justice. The course will also explore the role and responsibility of the nursing profession to address these with both individual and cooperative strategies. NURS7005N Health and Social Policy in the Context of Practice 3 This core course examines contextual contributors to health status and the current social, legal, and political determinants of healthcare systems, emphasizing the U.S. system. Issues are explored to understand their impact on current and future delivery of health care, in particular on advanced practice nursing. The class focuses on how to bring the professional values of nursing to bear in policy debate and how nurses partner in the policy process to improve health outcomes of populations and quality of the healthcare delivery system. NURS7003N Health Promotion and Disease Prevention 3 This course is designed to provide the student with a systematic approach to the delivery of health promotion and disease prevention in primary health care to individuals, families, communities, and aggregate populations. NURS6400N Integration of Nursing Practice 3 Nursing integration is the capstone immersion experience designed to provide the student with an opportunity to synthesize the knowledge and skills acquired during previous coursework. The student will build clinical reasoning and develop beginning proficiency in patient management and evaluation through assignments in increasingly complex patient care settings. Working closely with staff and faculty, the student will gain the confidence and skill needed to function as a novice nurse who is a designer, manager and coordinator of care. NURS7000N Introduction to Evidence-Based Practice 3 This course is designed for graduate nurses to provide them with the skills to understand and utilize research evidence in decisions about clinical practice. The course is designed to help graduate nurses articulate relevant practice-based questions, search the literature to identify relevant evidence, evaluate the quality of research on which the evidence is based, and discuss the application of the evidence in clinical practice to improve quality of care. NURS7020N Master's Portfolio 0 – 2 The MDE e-Portfolio will be a multimedia collection for the individual student learning experiences. It will allow the student to take part in both summative and formative assessments on work done throughout the program while providing a vehicle for personal growth and development. Upon completion of the MDE Program, the e-Portfolio provides the graduating student with a showcase of acquired skills and knowledge to assist with the pursuit of further academic work and/or transition to professional life. NURS5950N Nursing Leadership and Management 2 This course is designed to introduce concepts of leadership and management for entry-level professional nursing practice. The course addresses building cultures of quality and safety in complex health care delivery systems and introduces management theories and concepts including interprofessional communication, teamwork, delegation, and supervision. NURS6321N Nursing Practice with Adults I 2 This course is designed to provide the student with clinical experience to implement patient-centered care that reflects an understanding of the concepts of human growth and development, pathophysiology, medical management, and nursing management along the health-illness continuum. Emphasis will be placed on nursing care of the adult with acute and chronic illness as well as common geriatric syndromes. Key elements of culture, spirituality, heredity, ethics, and health literacy will be integrated into the planning and provision of nursing care. NURS6323N Nursing Practice with Adults II 2 This course is designed to provide the student with clinical experience to implement patient-centered care that reflects an understanding of the concepts of human growth and development, pathophysiology, medical management, and nursing management along the health-illness continuum. Emphasis will be placed on nursing care of the adult with acute and chronic illness as well as common geriatric syndromes. Key elements of culture, spirituality, heredity, ethics, and health literacy will be integrated into the planning and provision of nursing care. NURS6307N Nursing Practice with Childbearing Families 2 This clinical course is designed to provide the student with experience to utilize evidence-based knowledge and critical thinking skills in providing nursing care to childbearing families. Clinical assignments will include caring for families during the antepartum, intrapartum, postpartum, and newborn periods. Concepts of wellness, culture, infant growth and development, family integrity, and patient advocacy are used as a basis for the provision of care. NURS6309N Nursing Practice with Children 2 This clinical course is designed to provide the student with the opportunity to utilize evidence-based knowledge and critical thinking skills in the planning and provision of comprehensive nursing care to children along the health-illness continuum. Clinical assignments will include caring for the well child as well as the child with acute and chronic illness. Concepts of growth and development, family integrity, wellness, risk reduction and disease prevention will be stressed. Key elements of culture, spirituality, heredity, and patient advocacy will be integrated into nursing care. NURS5375N Pharmacology 3 This is an introductory pharmacology course, and, since pharmacology is an applied science, it builds on several foundational concepts of biology, chemistry, microbiology, anatomy, and physiology in the context of nursing practice. Principles of pharmacology will be discussed, including pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, and toxicities. Major pharmacologic agents used in treating more common disease states will be discussed with emphasis on relating the mechanism of action to the therapeutic use. NURS5300N Physical Assessment 3 This course will develop the knowledge and skills necessary for conducting comprehensive and focused health assessments for individuals with emphasis placed on interviewing skills, health histories, and physical and psychosocial findings in the well person. Communication and record keeping skills are developed. NURS6303N Practice in Psychiatric Mental Health Nursing 2 This clinical course is designed to provide the student with experience to care for the client experiencing a major psychiatric and/or mental health disorder. Emphasis will be placed on the role of the professional nurse in various treatment settings as well as current treatment modalities. The client population includes children, adolescents, and adults along the health-illness continuum. NURS5400N Science of Nursing Practice 3 This fundamental course introduces students to core concepts of nursing science including taxonomy, philosophies of caring, nursing process, and evidence-based care. Concepts from the biological, physical, epidemiological, and behavioral sciences will be utilized as students begin the study of adults experiencing major biophysical health problems. The course is an introduction to the role of the professional nurse in medical/surgical nursing care of the adult client in context of populations. NURS5450N Science of Nursing Practice: Practicum 1 This fundamental course provides the student with clinical experience to implement patient-centered care that reflects an understanding of the concepts of human growth and development, health promotion, nursing management of illness, and patient safety. Philosophies and scientific theories of nursing will serve as a foundation for the development of critical thinking and skill acquisition. Key elements of culture, spirituality, heredity, and ethics will be integrated into the planning and provision of nursing care to individuals and populations. NURS5451N Science of Nursing Practice: Skills Lab 1 Students will gain competency by practicing skills in a supportive and supervised environment in the simulation laboratory. This fundamental course provides the student with practical application of nursing skills and the scientific rationale for performing procedures correctly in order to provide patient-centered care that reflects an understanding of the concepts of human growth and development, health promotion, nursing management of illness, and patient safety. Philosophies and scientific theories of nursing will serve as a foundation for the development of critical thinking and skill acquisition. Key elements of culture, spirituality, heredity, and ethics will be integrated into the planning and provision of nursing care to simulated patients. NURS6320N Sci. of Nursing Practice with Adults I 3 This course builds upon the study of major biophysical health problems affecting the adult population learned in N5400 Science of Nursing Practice. This course is one of two courses designed to provide the student with a sound foundation in medical-surgical nursing care of the adult client. Through integration of knowledge from the biological, physical, epidemiological, and behavioral sciences, concepts of health, environment, risk reduction and disease prevention will be presented. Emphasis will be placed on older adults experiencing common geriatric syndromes. The role of the professional nurse in caring for the adult client continues to be a focus in the context of individual, family, and community. Course I will include Cardiac, Respiratory, Renal, Infectious Diseases, Endocrine Disorders, Shock and Burns. NURS6322N Sci. of Nursing Practice with Adults II 3 This course builds upon the study of major biophysical health problems affecting the adult population learned in N5400 Science of Nursing Practice. This course is one of two courses designed to provide the student with a sound foundation in medical-surgical nursing care of the adult client. Through integration of knowledge from the biological, physical, epidemiological, and behavioral sciences, concepts of health, environment, risk reduction and disease prevention will be presented. Emphasis will be placed on older adults experiencing common geriatric syndromes. The role of the professional nurse in caring for the adult client continues to be a focus in the context of individual, family, and community. Course II will include Neurological, Musculoskeletal, Hematology, Oncology, Immunology, Perioperative, Gastrointestinal and Hepatic. NURS6306N Science of Nursing Practice with Childbearing Families 3 This didactic course focuses on the care of the family during the childbearing years. The processes of normal pregnancy and birth, high risk pregnancy, and the care of the healthy newborn are presented. Through integration of the sciences and evidence-based knowledge, concepts of family, environment, health, wellness, and culture will be emphasized. Issues related to women’s reproductive health and contraception will be covered. NURS6308N Science of Nursing Practice with Children 3 This course focuses on nursing care of the child along the health-illness continuum. Core concepts of growth and development, well child care, family structure, environment, heredity, and psychosocial factors will serve as a basis for designing care. The child with acute, chronic, and life threatening illness will be covered as well as risk factors for morbidity and mortality. Nursing strategies to minimize stressors experienced by children and their families during illness will be presented. Key elements of spirituality, culture, socioeconomic status, and health beliefs will be examined. NURS6302N Science of Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practice 3 This course focuses on the population of clients experiencing acute and chronic psychiatric disorders across the lifespan. Emphasis will be placed on the nurse/client relationship, psychopharmacology, and treatment modalities. Environmental stressors and the effects of mental health disorders on clients and their families will be discussed. NURS5800N Topics in Nursing Practice 0 – 1 This course is designed to introduce pre-licensure students to relevant and emergent topics which affect the practice of nursing in the national and international healthcare system. The focus will be on issues confronting professional nurses including global health, cultural awareness, gender identity, and evidence-based wellness. State mandated topics for licensure will be covered. NURS7102N Advanced Pharmacology for Non-Prescribers 3 The goals of this course are to provide students with an advanced knowledge and understanding of the actions of drugs in order to enable them to use therapeutic agents in a rational and responsible manner in patients. Initially, basic principles of pharmacology will be reviewed, including absorption, distribution, metabolism, and excretion of drugs by the body. Topics will follow regarding principles of advanced clinical pharmacology. The focus of these lectures will be to demonstrate the therapeutic application of these advanced pharmacologic principles and how this translates into efficacy and potential toxicity. NURS5955N Quality Improvement Practicum 2 Quality health care is dependent on consistent, systematic, and collaborative efforts of all healthcare personnel through the shared priority objective of positive patient outcomes. In this practicum on Quality Improvement, students will apply concepts of the NURSN5950 Nursing Leadership and Management course and engage in established healthcare quality improvement initiatives. This interactive course explores quality improvement, research processes, knowledge of health-care systems, and innovative corrective measures as it relates to safe, effective nursing practice. Through the support of student group-led analysis and discussion of selected quality improvement measures, students will explore strategies and roadmaps to quality healthcare through the lens of multidisciplinary collaboration and nursing leadership. NURS5350N Physical Assessment: Lab 1 Students will utilize the knowledge and skills learned to perform a comprehensive or focused health assessment including history and physical examination in a supervised laboratory. Students will record findings in an approved manner and demonstrate utilization of holistic, region-cultural, and ethical approaches to individuals and families. NURS6331N Ambulatory Care Nursing: Seminar 1 This seminar will give the student the opportunity to demonstrate and experience an understanding of ambulatory care nursing practice. A particular focus will be placed on the assessment of communities and populations with an emphasis on social determinants and their impact on health. NURS6330N Ambulatory Care Nursing 3 This course will prepare the student in ambulatory care nursing practice as defined by nursing practice outside of the acute care setting. It will cover the spectrum of ambulatory care nursing roles and responsibilities in caring for individuals, families, communities, and populations across outpatient settings to include, but not limited to outpatient clinics, telehealth service environments, freestanding community facilities, nurse managed clinics, managed care organizations, and patient homes. The course will include an overview of primary palliative care nursing. Total Credits:76 – 79 Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Academics Research Patient Care Global Health Contact Us Students Alumni Intranet Careers Columbia University School of Nursing 560 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Back to top