Skip to main content Skip to main content My Account My Account Give Give Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content SMU Libraries Find & Borrow Research & Teaching Locations & Collections Visit SMU Libraries About Get Help Find & Borrow Find Books Journals & Newspapers Articles Films Music Scores & Recordings Borrow & Request Checkout & Renew Interlibrary Loan Request a Purchase Guest Services Alumni Services Research Card Research & Teaching Scholarship & Publishing GIS@SMU SMU Scholar Research Data Digital Scholarship Scholarly Impact & Publishing Copyright Teaching Support Library Materials for Courses Classroom Instruction Assignment Design Online Guides & Tutorials Locations & Collections Libraries Bridwell Library Business Library DeGolyer Library Fondren Library Hamon Arts Library Underwood Law Library Fort Burgwin Library Exhibits & Digital Collections Campus Exhibits Online Exhibits Digital Collections Special Collections & Archives Visit Visit Hours Maps & Parking Technology & Printing Policies Accessibility Spaces Places to Study Graduate Student Spaces Lockers Class & Event Spaces About About Us Staff Directory Dean's Office Equity, Diversity, Inclusion & Accessibility Faculty & Student Awards Join Us Staff & Student Employment Internships Student Advisory Board Friends of SMU Libraries Connect with Us News Events Social Media Contact Us Get Help Ask Us (email, chat, text, call) Research Guides by Discipline How Do I . . . ? Guides Find Your Librarian Attend Workshops Writing Support ☰ Libraries Visit Accessibility Accessibility SMU Libraries are committed to providing resources for students with disabilities, creating open dialogue in order to better serve all users, and increasing access to our spaces and services. If you have questions or concerns, please contact us or submit your anonymous suggestions on our feedback form. Check Out Materials SMU students, faculty, and staff can have items pulled and ready for you to check out at the desk. For Fondren, Hamon and Bridwell Libraries, request through Library Search. View our FAQ for instructions. For Underwood Law Library, use the Ask a Librarian form. If you cannot come into a library to check out materials you can: Designate a proxy to checkout library material on your behalf. Have library materials delivered to you. Schedule curbside pickup. Request scans of articles and book chapters through Interlibrary Loan. Request Accessible Materials Scanned Articles and Book Chapters Request remediated articles and book chapters through Interlibrary Loan. Select the screen reader option on the request form and we will send a compatible scan. Online Books If you have a documented print disability, we can request online versions of books in the HathiTrust Digital Library through the HathiTrust Accessible Text Request Service. Email us to access these books or for assistance finding what is available. Braille Service We can translate and print materials into Braille for SMU students, faculty, staff, and SMU departments upon request. Email us your request or make an appointment to use the Braille embosser in Fondren Library. Research Help Research help is available at all libraries on campus. Online research help is available via email or chat. Many librarians also offer Zoom research consultations for in-depth research needs. Visit Ask Us for help. Software & Technology For accessibility software and technology questions, or to schedule an appointment for technology help, please contact us. Software & technology can be moved to different library locations upon request. Kurzweil 3000/Firefly Kurzweil reads and translates text aloud. It includes a text highlighter, talking spell checker, note-taking capabilities, and dictionary. SMU students with a documented disability may sign up for an account at DASS. Other SMU students, faculty, and staff can email for an account libraryaccess@smu.edu. On all computers in Fondren Library and Bridwell Library and may be downloaded on personal computers. Zoom Text Magnifier & Reader ZoomText magnifies computer screen displays up to 36 times and has a screen reader function. On one computer in Fondren Library Red 1 Prothro Commons (designated with green light bulb), two computers in Fondren Library Blue 1, and one computer in Bridwell Library. JAWS Screen Reader JAWS provides speech and braille output to enable blind or low vision users to read content online. On one computer in Fondren Library Red 1 Prothro Commons (designated with green light bulb) and two computers in Fondren Library Blue 1. On one computer in Bridwell Library. Dragon Naturally Speaking Voice-to-text software allows you to speak into a microphone and create a document or email. On one computer in Fondren Library Red 1 Prothro Commons (designated with green light bulb) and two computers in Fondren Library Blue 1. ClearView Magnifier Magnifies print materials on a 19" screen. Located in Bridwell Library. Braille Embosser Embosser with Duxbury Translation Software prints text into tactile braille cells. Located in Fondren Library. Email libraryaccess@smu.edu for assistance. Study Rooms For a list of low-distraction study spaces in the libraries, go to the Places to Study page and filter by Quiet. You can reserve a group or individual study space. If you need assistance reserving or accessing these spaces, Ask Us. Building Details Maps SMU Campus Accessibility Map Library Building Maps and Floor Plans Owen Arts Center map (Hamon Arts Library) Bridwell Library It may be difficult for some patrons to navigate the stacks in the basement due to their narrow width and high shelves. You are welcome to place a hold on any items to be picked up at the main desk. Entrances Bridwell Library has one main entrance on the south side of the building, which has a ramp and automatic door openers. Accessible parking is available in the lot north of the building. If you park in this lot, ring for entrance at the north door. Elevators There are two elevators. The south elevator has access to the upper basement, first, and second floors. The north elevator accesses the lower basement and first floor. There is a ramp to connect the upper and lower levels of the basement. Special Collections on the second floor is accessible by the north elevator, but guests must be accompanied by a staff member. Restrooms Each floor has ADA compliant restrooms with a handicap stall. Unisex bathroom in the basement with changing table. Business Library Entrances The Business Library is located on the first floor of the Maguire building. The accessible entrance is on the north side of the building, second floor. Take the elevator to the first floor. Restrooms Accessible restrooms are located outside the library on the first floor of Maguire. DeGolyer Library DeGolyer Library is on the 3rd floor of Fondren Library Gray. The south entrance to the building (facing Hughes-Trigg) is the closest to DeGolyer Library. The library can be accessed from the Gray elevator on Fondren Library Gray 1. Fondren Library Entrances Fondren Library has five entrances. We recommend entering the building from the Laura Bush Promenade via the Main Desk entrances, which are accessible entrances with automatic door openers. The south entrance facing the Hughes-Trigg Student Center also has an automatic door opener and a ramp. Elevators Red, Blue, and Gray sections of the building each have elevator access to all floors. Restrooms • Three ADA-compliant, unisex, single access restrooms – Fondren Main Desk area and Gray 1 near entrance • Men’s and women’s restrooms with one accessible stall – Fondren Red 1, 2, 3, 4 and Fondren Blue 1 Hamon Arts Library Entrances We recommend using the west Hillcrest entrance between Binkley and Granada. There are automatic door openers at the entrance to the building and the entrance to the library. Elevators Elevator in the main lobby of Hamon Arts Library connects to all floors. Restrooms 1st floor restrooms are ADA compliant with accessible stalls. Underwood Library Entrances The Underwood Law Library building has two accessible entrances, west and east. Elevators • Ground Floor - Located in northeast corner. Goes to ground, 1st, and 2nd floors. • Second Floor - Located to the right of the entrance from the 2nd floor lobby. Goes to 2nd, 3rd, and 4th floors. Restrooms One accessible restroom on the ground floor in the hallway leading to the SMU Law Review offices. Events Any person who requires a reasonable accommodation on the basis of a disability in order to participate in an SMU Libraries program should contact the event coordinator or libraryaccess@smu.edu at least one week prior to the event to arrange for the accommodation. Service Animals Service animals are welcome in all SMU Libraries. Special Collections DeGolyer, Bywaters, and Bridwell Special Collections include non-circulating material that may be old, fragile, or rare that may require additional support when in use. We are committed to providing accommodations for our patrons. Please contact libraryaccess@smu.edu ahead of your planned visit, so that we can make sure we are able and equipped to meet your research and accessibility needs. Website Accessibility If you cannot access content or use features on the SMU website due to a disability, contact web-accessibility@smu.edu. The University’s preferred standard is WCAG 2.0 Level A. Many of our collections and online materials are maintained by third-party vendors and may not meet the minimum standard required by SMU. Contact us to report barriers using our collections or to request accessible materials. SMU Libraries participates in the Library Accessibility Alliance through our membership in the Greater Western Library Alliance. The Library Accessibility Alliance engages with vendors to improve usability of online resources for all users, including third-party accessibility evaluations of library e-resources. Visit Hours Maps & Parking Technology & Printing Policies Accessibility Contact Us libraryaccess@smu.edu Related Disability Accommodations & Success Strategies Office of Institutional Access and Equity (IAE) Maps & Directions | Contact Us | Feedback Accessibility | Legal Disclosures © SMU Libraries, PO Box 750135, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share