Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary FOSTER SCHOOL OF BUSINESS BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION MANAGEMENT Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 MGMT 200 Introduction to Law (5) I&S Legal institutions and processes; law as a system of social thought and behavior and a frame of order within which rival claims are resolved and compromised; legal reasoning; law as a process of protecting and facilitating voluntary arrangements in a business society. View course details in MyPlan: MGMT 200 MGMT 275 Management Essentials (3) I&S McPherson Explores management and leadership through understanding individuals, teams, and organizations. Discusses relevant concepts and applications of strategic planning, problem solving, conflict management, negotiation, change management, and control systems. Also covers current issues regarding ethical behavior, social responsibility, and diversity. Not open for credit to students pursuing a business degree. View course details in MyPlan: MGMT 275 MGMT 300 Leadership and Organizational Behavior (4) Focuses on how managers become effective leaders. Examines basic principles of managing people, making use of theories that transcend the workplace, including the psychology of individual and group behavior. Emphasizes leadership, strategic thinking, team building, and performance. View course details in MyPlan: MGMT 300 MGMT 305 Essentials of Management and Entrepreneurship (5) Introduces how to start and run effective businesses. Focuses on key concepts in entrepreneurship and leading effective teams and organizations. View course details in MyPlan: MGMT 305 MGMT 311 Introduction to Strategic Human Resources Management (4) Introduces core human resources management concepts that form the foundation for advanced human resources coursework. Surveys major human resources topics including selection, compensation, performance management/appraisal, and employee governance. Develop skills to design and build human resources management systems that align with organizational strategies and goals. View course details in MyPlan: MGMT 311 MGMT 312 Career Development Workshop (2) Develops career goals in business administration and guides students toward the academic training that achieves their goals. Emphasizes development of the personal skills necessary to market oneself in a competitive marketplace and present oneself to potential employers. View course details in MyPlan: MGMT 312 MGMT 320 Business, Government, and Society (4) Political, social, and legal environment of business. Critical managerial issues from historical, theoretical, ethical perspectives; their impact on organization. Corporate political power, boards of directors, capitalism, industrial policy, business ethics and social responsibility, alternative corporate roles in society. View course details in MyPlan: MGMT 320 MGMT 400 Corporate Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (4) I&S, DIV Focuses on effective leadership through diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI), exploring its evolution over the past 20 years, and its intersection with the law, customer influence, social justice, and employee activism. Considers why DEI is necessary, how to lead through it, what drives it, what makes it flourish, and what keeps it from having optimum impact. Recommended: one of MGMT 300, MGMT 305, or MGMT 320. View course details in MyPlan: MGMT 400 MGMT 401 Leadership Development (4) Develops student's unique and effective leadership style/model and provides a framework/plan for leadership development. Covers relevant leadership models and helps create a toolbox of leadership techniques to foster individual development. Topics include: effectively engaging others to enhance motivation and performance, understanding what constitutes an individual model for leading others, providing feedback to develop others, etc. View course details in MyPlan: MGMT 401 MGMT 402 Negotiations (4) Develops effective negotiators across a variety of contexts including salary negotiations, price discounts, interpersonal norms, and contracts using experiential exercises and analytic frameworks. View course details in MyPlan: MGMT 402 MGMT 403 Developing High Performing Individuals, Teams, and Organizations (4) Introduces evidence-based models for enhancing motivation and performance in organizations. Covers various strategies and methods to facilitate high performing individuals, teams, and organizations. Topics include how to design an effective goal setting program and plan for individuals and teams; designing work and jobs that optimizes individual and team motivation; and issues of current interest. View course details in MyPlan: MGMT 403 MGMT 404 Organization Development and Change (4) Using a systems framework and contemporary methods, explores strategies for executing common change initiatives in organizations. Topics may include talent development initiatives, employee engagement interventions, compensation changes, and leadership development, as well as contemporary shifts towards using different types of communication technology initiatives or appreciate inquiry. View course details in MyPlan: MGMT 404 MGMT 407 Managing a Global Workforce (4) I&S, DIV Explores cross-cultural management issues to enhance cultural intelligence and develop a global mindset with the intent to apply theoretical and analytical tools to management decisions within a global workforce. Recommended: MGMT 300. View course details in MyPlan: MGMT 407 MGMT 411 Recruiting, Hiring, and Retaining Talent (4) Addresses strategies to identify, attract, select, and retain employees who contribute to having a competitive advantage in one's team or organization, to help achieve tactical and strategic organizational goals. Explores workforce forecasting, employee sourcing, legal issues, recruiting, and selection. Helps develop critical thinking and analytical skills to evaluate the effectiveness of an organization's selection and evaluation systems. Prerequisite: MGMT 311. View course details in MyPlan: MGMT 411 MGMT 412 Performance Management and Compensation (4) Explores major compensation tools (e.g., salary, incentives, and benefits) to solicit desirable employee behaviors, which lead to organization success. Covers how to design a pay and reward system that is both internally fair and externally competitive. Prerequisite: MGMT 311. View course details in MyPlan: MGMT 412 MGMT 430 Strategic Management (4) Develops strategic thinking skills for balancing opportunities and risks of business competition to generate superior value for stakeholders. Performs in-depth analyses of industries and competitors, predicts competitive behavior, and explores how firms develop and sustain competitive advantage over time. Prerequisite: FIN 350; MKTG 301; either HRMOB 300 or MGMT 300. View course details in MyPlan: MGMT 430 MGMT 440 Business Consulting (4) Integrates knowledge and tools from the undergraduate business core curriculum with a focus on consulting. Students learn theoretical frameworks and develop proficiencies in a wide range of skills. Students gain practical experiences working in teams and assisting local organizations to solving immediate business issues. View course details in MyPlan: MGMT 440 MGMT 445 Multicultural Marketing and Business Development (4) DIV Integrates tools from marketing, consulting, and multi-cultural business management to provide consulting services to small business in economically-distressed communities. Working in teams with assistance from industry mentors and alumni from the course, students gain practical experience in multi-cultural marketing, consulting, and managing a business. Prerequisite: MKTG 301 or MKTG 305. Offered: jointly with MKTG 445. View course details in MyPlan: MGMT 445 MGMT 450 Women in Leadership (4) I&S, DIV Examines how models of leadership are evolving to become increasingly complex for women balancing career, family, community, and shifting social contexts and movements. Explores personal communication styles and leadership exploration. View course details in MyPlan: MGMT 450 MGMT 490 Special Topics in Management (1-6, max. 12) Topics of current interest to faculty and students. Offered when allowed by faculty availability and sufficient student interest. Content announced in advance of scheduled offerings. View course details in MyPlan: MGMT 490 MGMT 495 Management Internship (1-4, max. 8) Internship with a private firm, nonprofit organization, or government agency, where work experience involves substantial application of management concepts learned in classroom. Prerequisite: MGMT 300. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MGMT 495 MGMT 499 Undergraduate Research (1-6, max. 9) Independent research in selected areas of human resource management, organizational behavior, and business strategy under faculty supervision. Prerequisite: MGMT 300; MGMT 320. View course details in MyPlan: MGMT 499 MGMT 500 Management and Leadership (4) Behavioral aspects of management with emphasis on leadership, motivation, and decision making. May include communication, conflict management, group dynamics, and organizational change. View course details in MyPlan: MGMT 500 MGMT 501 Leading Teams and Organizations (4) Offers a practical framework and empirically validated models and methods that can be used in innovative ways to enhance human capital and its impact, including of course your own capital. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: MGMT 501 MGMT 502 Business Strategy (4) Policy decisions and strategic leadership from the general management point of view. Determination of corporate product-service objectives, development of a network of internal operating policies and methods to achieve objectives at a cost satisfactory to the consumer and to society. Prerequisite: all first-year required courses in MBA curriculum. View course details in MyPlan: MGMT 502 MGMT 504 Ethical Leadership (2/4) Examines the ethical aspects of conducting business. Topics include ethical decision-making, the ethical aspects of leadership and culture, stakeholder management, corporate social responsibility, sustainability, and corporate governance. Prerequisite: first-year MBA required courses. View course details in MyPlan: MGMT 504 MGMT 509 Global Strategy (2) Develops a broad overview of many of the issues that global managers face including government-MNE relations, global strategy, entry modes, country analysis, national culture, and the social responsibility of a global enterprise. Prerequisite: permission of School of Business Administration. View course details in MyPlan: MGMT 509 MGMT 510 Developing Leadership Skills ([0-2]-, max. 2) Assessment, instruction , and coaching to develop leadership abilities. Emphasizes team building and collaboration, written, oral, and interpersonal communication, and applied leadership activities. View course details in MyPlan: MGMT 510 MGMT 511 Leadership and Coaching Practicum (2, max. 4) Gives Leadership Fellows a venue to analyze and assess their coaching activities with first-year MBA student teams, receive feedback from the instructor and their fellow coaches, discuss readings on leadership, coaching, collaboration, and communication, and hear guest speakers on related topics. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: MGMT 511 MGMT 520 Designing a Corporate Strategy (4) Addresses the broad question: what business(es) should we compete in? Focuses on decisions related to an appropriate level of diversification and the means by which that diversification is implemented. Includes the following issues: mergers and acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures, LBOs, and spin-offs. View course details in MyPlan: MGMT 520 MGMT 521 Strategic Management of Technology and Innovation (4) Examines how innovative firms often experience rapid and disruptive levels of growth and change and how without effective management of new technologies, the boom can quickly turn to bust. Investigates the micro-economic drivers of competition in technology industries, explores how technological change affects competition, and examines the implications for competitive strategy. View course details in MyPlan: MGMT 521 MGMT 522 Innovation Strategy (4) Explores how firms tap into external sources of innovation, focusing on user communities, universities, and entrepreneurial ventures. Demonstrates how open, collaborative, community-based models of innovation create successful business options. Offered: jointly with ENTRE 522. View course details in MyPlan: MGMT 522 MGMT 530 Global Strategy (2) H Kevin Steensma Provides a broad overview of many of the issues that managers face including globalization trends, government-multinational firm relations, country risk, entry modes, cross-border collaborative challenges, and various strategies and organizational structures. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: MGMT 530 MGMT 531 Leading Organizational Change (2) Hybrid MBA Program elective course that focuses on how to lead effective organizational change. View course details in MyPlan: MGMT 531 MGMT 533 Dynamics of Negotiations (2) Introduces various theories and processes of negotiation. Discusses research-based negotiation principles from the fields of psychology, social psychology, sociology, industrial-organizational psychology, and organizational behavior. Helps develop the necessary skills to discover optional solutions to problems faced in negotiations and the best means to implement those solutions. View course details in MyPlan: MGMT 533 MGMT 540 Competitive Strategy (4) Develops a T-shaped strategic mindset through development of analytical and diagnostic skills, based on mastery of frameworks and analogical thinking skills that can be applied across a wide set of industry domains. View course details in MyPlan: MGMT 540 MGMT 545 Leading and Managing High-Performance Organizations (4) Focuses on the nature and function of effective leadership in high-performance systems. Includes visionary and transformational leadership, decision-making and empowerment, power and influence in organizations desiring flexibility and innovation, and leading organizational change. Places emphasis on leadership of emerging forms of organization such as learning organizations, virtual organizations, and networks. Prerequisite: either B A 501 or MGMT 500. View course details in MyPlan: MGMT 545 MGMT 546 High Involvement Employees (4) Focuses on two domains: (1) how managers can lead and motivate their people; and (2) how actual organizations, particularly high technology and entrepreneurial firms, employ these strategies. Specific topics include commitment, involvement, enthusiasm, effort, participation, citizenship, and performance. Student teams investigate how local companies utilize these ideas. View course details in MyPlan: MGMT 546 MGMT 547 Successful Negotiations (2) Focuses on a broad array of conflict resolution skills needed for effective management in a constantly changing business environment. Examines methods of conflict resolution - bargaining, distributive and integrative negotiation, mediation, and arbitration. Applies these tools to managerial challenges such as employment contracts, buyer-seller agreements, and mediated and arbitrated agreements. View course details in MyPlan: MGMT 547 MGMT 548 Dealmaking in High Velocity Ventures (2) Focuses on negotiations in ventures that lack conventional customers, suppliers, employees, joint-venture partners, strategic allies, and money. Analyzes negotiations with early potential customers and essential suppliers, sources of funding (e.g., "angels" and venture capitalists), critical partners and/or strategic allies (including established firms), and key employees. View course details in MyPlan: MGMT 548 MGMT 549 Dealmaking in the Global Arena (2) For students who expect to engage in significant international business negotiations. Includes deal-structuring skills needed in a range of cross-border transactions and relationships. Individual segments develop broad analytical themes, cross-cultural dimensions, and distinctive national approaches to corporate governance and their impact on negotiating strategy. Prerequisite: MGMT 547. View course details in MyPlan: MGMT 549 MGMT 550 CEO and Board Governance (4) Prepares students both to be effective board members and to work productively with board members as executives. Focuses on board effectiveness in creating value in oversight and strategic leadership within organizations regardless of size and form of business. View course details in MyPlan: MGMT 550 MGMT 555 Nonprofit Board Fellows Leadership Seminar ([1-2]-, max. 4) Assists students participating in the Board Fellows Program to maximize their service to their assigned organizations by examining the fundamental responsibilities of board members and the challenges faced by board members; ways boards shape the organization's strategic direction; ways board members can strengthen their organizations' financial management and stability; and the strengths and limitations of various board governance structures. View course details in MyPlan: MGMT 555 MGMT 575 Women in Leadership (2) Cate Goethals Explores issues related to women in leadership roles. Includes assessing personal strengths and talents to explore how to hone leadership skills. Draws on the expertise and personal experiences of women in leadership positions. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: MGMT 575 MGMT 579 Special Topics in Management (2/4, max. 12) In-depth study and research on topics of special interest to faculty members and students in the fields of human resources management, organizational behavior, and strategic management. Offered on an ad hoc basis. Content announced before scheduled offering. View course details in MyPlan: MGMT 579 MGMT 580 Psychological Foundations of Organizational Behavior (4) Focuses on attributes the individual brings to the organization. Covers important performance-related processes such as learning, motivation, and decision-making as well as an understanding of personal attitudes and personality traits. View course details in MyPlan: MGMT 580 MGMT 581 Social Processes in Organizations (4) Focuses on ways in which the individual and the organization get things done through working with others. Includes leadership, social influence, and the use and abuse of power, with attention given to positive organizational activities such as citizenship behavior and extra role activities. View course details in MyPlan: MGMT 581 MGMT 582 Contemporary Organizational Behavior Research (4) Facilitates understanding of empirical foundations of theory development and testing in contemporary organizational behavior research. Focuses on assessing ways in which the empirical tradition has evolved in organizational behavior with special attention paid to emerging research areas and research methodologies. View course details in MyPlan: MGMT 582 MGMT 583 Special Topics in Organizational Behavior Research I (4) Focuses on the psychological, social psychological, and sociological factors that shape organizations and their members. Covers concepts such as cognition, emotions, identity, communication, group dynamics, team development, organizational culture, global culture, behavioral ethics, etc. View course details in MyPlan: MGMT 583 MGMT 584 Special Topics in Organizational Behavior Research II (4) Focuses on the psychological, social psychological, and sociological factors that shape organizations and their members. Covers concepts such as cognition, emotions, identity, communication, group dynamics, team development, organizational culture, global culture, behavioral ethics, etc. in more depth. View course details in MyPlan: MGMT 584 MGMT 585 Capstone (4) Culminating experience that focuses on two experiential activities that mirror real life jobs - being on a team running a company and serving on a task force (business case team) to make a recommendation to upper level management. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: MGMT 585 MGMT 590 Economic Foundations of Strategic Management (4) Reviews the economic theories that support strategies pursued by firms and explores the links between market processes, firm strategy, and firm performance. Topics include agency theory, transaction cost economics, resource dependence, population ecology, and neo-Austrian economics. View course details in MyPlan: MGMT 590 MGMT 591 Sociological Foundations of Strategic Management (4) Explores the sociology of organizations from multiple perspectives while introducing fundamental sociological questions and preparing students for conducting research in organizations. Emphasis on structural contingencies, institutions, resource dependence, population ecology, negotiated order and culture, organizational learning and decision making, organizational power and politics, networks, and inter-organizational relations. View course details in MyPlan: MGMT 591 MGMT 592 Contemporary Strategic Management Research (4) Facilitates understanding of empirical foundations of theory development and testing in contemporary strategic management research. Focuses on evaluation of ways in which the empirical tradition has evolved in the strategic management area. Attention to evaluating research methodologies used in the field. View course details in MyPlan: MGMT 592 MGMT 593 Special Topics in Strategic Management I (4) View course details in MyPlan: MGMT 593 MGMT 594 Special Topics in Strategic Management II (4) Focuses on the social and political factors that help shape corporate strategy using stakeholder management as an integrating concept. Topics include corporate governance, corporate political activity, governmental regulation, comparative political economy, and normative aspects of strategic management, including ethics and corporate social responsibility. View course details in MyPlan: MGMT 594 MGMT 599 Doctoral Seminar in Management (1, max. 12) Advanced topics in the fields of human resources management and organizational behavior. May be used by visiting faculty members to present topics of interest to students. View course details in MyPlan: MGMT 599 MGMT 600 Independent Study or Research (*-) View course details in MyPlan: MGMT 600 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022