Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Parents Alumni News/Media Faculty/Staff Apply Give Follow Us Twitter Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Social Stream Search Navigate Search Social SMU About Administration Administration Board of Trustees President 21st Century Council Provost Dean, SMU Libraries Dean, Cox School of Business Dean, Dedman College Dean, Dedman School of Law Dean, Lyle School of Engineering Dean, Meadows School of the Arts Dean, Perkins School of Theology Dean, Research & Graduate Studies Dean, Annette Caldwell Simmons School of Education & Human Development Director of Athletics Chief Investment Officer Vice President for Business and Finance and Treasurer Vice President, Development & External Affairs Vice President, Executive Affairs Vice President, Legal Affairs Vice President for Student Affairs SMU Facts SMU Facts Campus profile Academic offerings Administration Prominent alumni Intercollegiate athletics Location and facilities Student life Undergraduate costs Maps and directions Maps and directions Campus Map Directions to SMU Parking at SMU Download and print maps Building addresses Accessibility SMU-in-Taos Strategic Plan Contact SMU Administration About SMU / Administration / Matthew B. Myers Matthew B. Myers Matthew B. Myers became the ninth dean of the Edwin L. Cox School of Business at Southern Methodist University on August 1, 2017. He holds the Tolleson Chair of Business Leadership and is the David B. Miller Endowed Professor in Business at the Cox School, nationally and internationally ranked. SMU Cox offers undergraduate and graduate degrees to a student population of about 2,000 and maintains an international alumni network in more than 20 countries. Prior to his deanship at SMU Cox, Myers served as dean and Mitchell P. Rales Chair of Business Leadership at the Farmer School of Business, Miami University in Oxford, Ohio. Myers’ research focuses on global marketing and strategy issues. He has written extensively on knowledge sharing in cross-border business relationships, international pricing strategies and comparative marketing systems. He has published in leading journals across multiple disciplines including the Strategic Management Journal, Journal of Marketing, Journal of Operations Management, Journal of International Business Studies and Sloan Management Review. In addition, he was co-editor of the Handbook of Global Supply Chain Management (Sage). His current research investigates the effects of foreign direct investment in supply chain functions on developing economy performance and wealth distribution. His expertise has put him in demand as a consultant with organizations in the global distribution, chemical, insurance, education, pharmaceutical and marketing research industries. He served as visiting faculty at ESSEC-Paris and the University of St. Andrews, Scotland. Myers has taught at the Vienna University of Economics and in other international locations including Italy, Romania, Taiwan and Uzbekistan, and has led executive education courses in China, Vietnam, India, Argentina, Chile, Brazil, Hungary and Poland. Over the course of his academic career, Myers has been recognized three times as the Outstanding Faculty for MBA programs. Hereceived the University of Tennessee’s Chancellor’s Award for Globalization Initiatives and is a member of the Society of Fellows of the Aspen Institute, a nonpartisan organization dedicated to educational and policy issues. Myers received his Ph.D. from Michigan State University, a Master of International Business Studies from the University of South Carolina and a B.A. from the University of Louisville. He served as a medic in the U.S. Army Airborne from 1979 to 1982, and was stationed at Hunter A.A.F., Georgia, and Fort Kobbe, Panama. Dean Myers, his wife, Virginia, and their twin daughters live in Dallas. Administration Board of Trustees President 21st Century Council Provost Dean, SMU Libraries Dean, Cox School of Business Dean, Dedman College Dean, Dedman School of Law Dean, Lyle School of Engineering Dean, Meadows School of the Arts Dean, Perkins School of Theology Dean, Research & Graduate Studies Dean, Annette Caldwell Simmons School of Education & Human Development Director of Athletics Chief Investment Officer Vice President for Business and Finance and Treasurer Vice President, Development & External Affairs Vice President, Executive Affairs Vice President, Legal Affairs Vice President for Student Affairs Apply Visit Schools Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing & Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Report Sexual Harassment Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact SMU Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 SMU Twitter SMU Facebook SMU Instagram SMU Linked In SMU YouTube Social Media Directory"