Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Burkhart Center for Autism Education and Research Menu Search TTU Burkhart Center Burkhart Center for Autism Education & Research The Burkhart Walk for Autism 2022 was held on April 24th from 2-4 p.m. at the TTU John Walker Soccer Complex. Learn More About the Burkhart Walk for Autism 2022 About the Burkhart Center Donate to the Center Join our Mailing List Upcoming Events Family & ABA Services College & Young Adult Services Educator Services Evaluations/Diagnosis Family & ABA Services Autism Resources Our website includes an extensive Autism Resources section. There you will find resources including an array of information about autism, evidence-based intervention practices, navigating the special education process, and links to tools and suggestions you can start using today. This area also includes our downloadable Local Autism Resource Guide. You can use the guide to find out about supports and opportunities in the Lubbock and neighboring areas, including medical providers, specialists, social programming, community events, and family support resources. TTOCA - Texas Telehealth Outreach Clinic for Autism The Burkhart Center was recently awarded a grant from the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board (THECB) that will allow for the creation of the Texas Telehealth Outreach Clinic for Autism (TTOCA) to bring several of the services we currently provided in our clinic to the entire state of Texas. Learn more about TTOCA or contact us by email at mobile.burkhartclinic.educ@ttu.edu. MOCA - Mobile Outreach Clinic for Autism The Burkhart Center was recently awarded a grant from the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board (THECB) that allowed the creation of our Mobile Outreach Clinic for Autism (MOCA). MOCA can now bring several services currently provided in our clinic to rural and migrant communities throughout West Texas. *Information obtained through participation in this project may be used for research purposes. Learn more about MOCA or contact us via email at mobile.burkhartclinic.educ@ttu.edu. Additional Family & Community Services In addition to these resources and clinics, we offer a wide range of family and community services, including the Walk for Autism Awareness, Parents' Night Out, Camp Burkhart, and more! See more of our Family & Community Services College & Young Adult Services CASE - Connections for Academic Success and Employment CASE assists students with developmental disabilities to navigate college to reach their academic goals and to find competitive employment after graduation. Learn more about CASE. Transition Academy The Burkhart Transition Academy assists in the successful transition of people with Autism Spectrum Disorder into higher education, vocational, or other settings. Learn more about the Transition Academy. Educator Services Teacher Training Institute The Burkhart Center's Applied Behavior Analysis - Teacher Training Institute Program (ABA-TTI) offers professional training for teachers or clinicians working with students with autism and who are working towards becoming a Board Certified Behavior Analyst (BCBA). This program is offered through a professional development experience culminating in BCBA supervision and hands-on training in functional behavioral assessment and function-based treatment design. Learn more about the Teacher Training Institute. Evaluations/Diagnosis Families Early Signs of Autism The Burkhart Center is now able to offer Comprehensive Developmental Evaluations. Our goal is to work with families to determine the best route to go in seeking a diagnosis as well as collaborating with your child's school if they are in or being considered for Special Education Services. If you are a family seeking diagnosis, please complete the form found here: https://members.centralreach.com/?public=true#forms/form?id=F39B6573-E4A1-404E-913A-EFECA28A1897 School Evaluations Many schools are currently overwhelmed and understaffed to complete evaluations for special education. Our team of evaluators who are Licensed Specialists in School Psychology, along with students studying to become credentialed can work with schools to help. If you are a school district seeking support for your evaluations for eligibility, please complete the following form: https://members.centralreach.com/?public=true#forms/form?id=417B1331-53E2-4948-914C-6AE383AAC3BA Research Data collected as part of the intake and assessment components of the services provided to you and your child will provide information to possibly be used for research purposes. If you choose not to include your information as part of the research component of our project, you can still receive services through our clinic, but we will exclude your information from statistical analysis and retroactive records review. For more information about your data and how it will be used, contact: burkhart.educ@ttu.edu. Upcoming Events Calendar Check out upcoming Burkhart Center events on our Calendar page. Burkhart Center News Read all about the Burkhart Center in the news on the College of Education's News page. Donate to the Burkhart Center Your generous donation can support the programs of the Burkhart Center. We appreciate your gifts and invite you to learn more about donating. Contact TTU Contact Contact TTUContact Contact TTU News News for NewsNews for News Events EventsEvents Burkhart Center for Autism Education and Research Like Burkhart Center for Autism Education and Research on FacebookLike Burkhart Center for Autism Education and Research on Facebook Follow Burkhart Center for Autism Education and Research on twitterFollow Burkhart Center for Autism Education and Research on twitter Follow Burkhart Center for Autism Education and Research on InstagramFollow Burkhart Center for Autism Education and Research on Instagram Address 2902 18th St., Lubbock, TX 79409 Phone 806.742.4561 Email burkhart.educ@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityMay 4, 2022 9:17 AM Burkhart Center for Autism Education and Research About Burkhart Center for Autism Education and Research About Back About Us Partnerships Calendar News Archive Contact Us Donate Services Burkhart Center for Autism Education and Research Services Back Transition Academy Connections for Academic Success and Employment - CASE Texas Telehealth Outreach Clinic for Autism Clinic Services Family and Community Services Resources Burkhart Center for Autism Education and Research Resources Back Autism Resources Information for Professionals Research Burkhart Center for Autism Education and Research Research Back Research Burkhart Center Grants Events Education and Training Burkhart Center for Autism Education and Research Education and Training Back Degrees Offered Masters of Education - Special Education - ABA Concentration Graduate Certificate in Applied Behavior Analysis Ph.D. in Special Education Education and Training Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index