Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Undergraduate Admissions and Orientation Start Here The UofM Experience Visit Connect Apply Admitted Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact The UofM Experience Academics Campus Life UofM Campuses City of Memphis Take Action Request Information Apply to UofM Campus Visits and Events Contact Us Follow Us Online FacebooktwitterYoutube Home Undergraduate Admissions and Orientation UofM Experience About the University of Memphis About the University of Memphis See What UofM has to Offer YOU Memphis In a city that has changed the world in more ways than one, we're driven to do the same. And starting here, so can you. The University of Memphis has been educating students from all over the world for over 100 years. UofM researchers and faculty are leaders in over 250 fields of study, which means a wealth of academic choices for you. In the heart of the nation's 20th largest city, learning isn't limited to classrooms or labs. Memphis is a hub of international commerce, culture and creativity. Whatever your passion, here you'll discover endless paths toward pursuing it. The UofM Experience Public research university founded in 1912 Located in a residential neighborhood in the heart of Memphis We are consistently ranked as the safest large campus in Tennessee. With a fully commissioned police force and robust technology enhancements, we keep our community safe. Walking friendly campus, small on-campus community 57 undergraduate majors 307 degree programs (135 undergraduate, 43 masters, 48 doctoral, 54 graduate certificates and 27 accelerated degree programs) More than 22,000 students and more than 4,000 are graduate students Maintains a 15:1 student/faculty ratio The UofM achieved U.S. News & World Report ranking as a Top Public University in 2019 and 2020 and was ranked by College Gazette as a Top 10 Public Universities on the Rise. View all rankings > 8 on-campus housing options including graduate and student family options 300+ student organizations including many multicultural organizations Fitness Center with Gym, Sauna, Sports ground, Steam, fitness classes, Two Olympic size swimming pools, nutrition workshops and fitness trainers Tiger Athletics - UofM Tigers are Division 1 Team in AAC Explore the Interactive Viewbook: Driven by doing. Hands-on learning Faculty commitment & involvement Internship opportunities Research Opportunities Home to over 30 Research Centers and Institutes. The 5 prominent Centers of Excellence are: Center for Earthquake Research & Information (CERI) Center for Information Assurance Center for Research in Educational Policy (CREP) Institute of Egyptian Art and Archaeology (IEAA) Center for Excellence in Mobile Sensor Data-to-Knowledge (MD2K) The International Experience Learn why International Students choose the University of Memphis (PDF) > Students represented from 72 countries. The Center for International Education Services (CIES) is the institutional home for International Student Services. CIES is committed to serving the needs of the international community and providing a welcoming environment for international students. International students are enrolled in: computer science, information systems, business administration, earth sciences, English, mathematical sciences, music, biomedical engineering, mechanical engineering Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/28/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.