Skip to content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University Department of Industrial and Manufacturing Systems Engineering Menu Toggle Search Give to IMSE About About the Department Accreditation Chair’s Office Directory Diversity and Inclusion History Industrial Advisory Council New Building Announcement Therkildsen Industrial Engineering Building News and Events News Events Department of Industrial and Manufacturing Systems Engineering 3004 Black Engineering 2529 Union Drive Ames, IA 50011 imse@iastate.edu 515-294-1682 phone 515-294-3524 fax Future Students Future Undergraduate Students Focus Areas of Study (Bachelors degree) Curriculum Plans and Flowcharts Engineering Sales Minor Learning Communities Future Graduate Students Admissions Information Degree Programs Program Learning Goals Research Laboratories More Resources Concurrent B.S./Master’s Degree Programs Laptop Requirement FAQs Life at Iowa State Student Organizations Current Students Undergraduate Resources Academic Advising and Student Services Curriculum Plans & Flowcharts Research Opportunities Resources Library Study Abroad Undergraduate Handbook (PDF) Graduate Resources Handbooks, Guidelines and Procedures Dissertations, Theses, and Creative Components Program Learning Goals More Resources Engineering Career Services Student Organizations Technology Support Faculty & Staff Faculty and Staff Directory IMSE Faculty Governance Document (PDF) Organization Chart (PDF) Department Resources Resources and Services ISU Professional & Scientific Council Employment More Resources ISU Sign-Ons (Email, CyBox, Workday, etc.) Resources for Engineering Faculty and Staff Tools from Human Resources Research Research Focus Areas Advanced Manufacturing Human Factors and Ergonomics Operations Research and Analytics Systems Engineering and Engineering Management Research Infrastructure Research Laboratories Digital Repository/Publications More Resources Capstone Design Investigator/Researcher Resources (Engineering Research Institute) Student Research Highlights Undergraduate Research Opportunities Corporate Alumni Alumni Submissions Give to IMSE IMSE Newsletter ISU Alumni Association Social Media Engineering mindset. Business sensibility. Foundations for Leadership The Industrial Engineering major prepares you for extraordinary flexibility in your engineering career. You’ll learn how to include the human element in technical problem solving to improve processes in any industry from manufacturing to health care to financial services. Whether your goal is systems management or technical innovation, your IE education will equip you to lead with the big picture in view. Undergraduate Areas of Study Graduate Degree Programs Why Industrial Engineering? Request More Info Apply to Iowa State Featured News Building for the Future The department is about to take a historic step forward in its ability to educate professionals ready to pursue creative solutions to today’s challenges and move our economy forward. …Continue reading IE friends will go on to work for competing companies A pair of industrial engineering students who befriended each other at Iowa State University will now go their separate ways as they go to work for competing window manufacturers after graduation. …Continue reading Making parents lives easier A pair of industrial engineering alumni have developed a product that will bring convenience and ease to parents and other caretakers when changing diapers on-the-go. …Continue reading Engineers take to the sky for 3D printing research A team of engineering researchers at Iowa State University is studying the most effective ways for manufacturing materials in outer space, with the hope that astronauts can use these methods while on space missions. …Continue reading All News Dr. Sarah Ryan appointed next chair of IMSE Sarah Ryan has been named the C.G. “Turk” and Joyce A. Therkildsen Department Chair of Industrial and Manufacturing Systems Engineering at Iowa State University. Ryan served as the recent interim department chair and her permanent appointment begins immediately. …Continue reading Upcoming Events University Holiday - Offices Closed, Classes Recessed May 30, 2022 University Holiday, Offices Closed and Classes Recessed May 30, 2022 Coursework Begins, Session II Courses June 13, 2022 All Events Industrial engineers improve processes to help people Quick Links Advising Appointments Curriculum Plans Degree Programs Department Directory Summer Admin Office Hours Monday thru Friday 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m Department of Industrial and Manufacturing Systems Engineering 3004 Black Engineering 2529 Union Drive Ames, IA 50011 Phone: 515-294-1682 Email: imse@iastate.edu Copyright © 1995-2022 Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer Information Loading...