Skip to main School of Social Work College of Health and Human Sciences Main Navigation About Us Academics Advising Research and Scholarship Community Engagement Utility Navigation Request Info Apply Visit Give Menu Search Main Navigation About Us Academics Advising Research and Scholarship Community Engagement Utility Navigation Request Info Apply Visit Give Search our Site Go School of Social Work Advocating for a Better World Join one of the most high-impact learning environments on the CSU campus, and discover how your passion and skills align for a future career in social work. Our programs focus on social justice, equity and equality, anti-oppression, and enhancing human health and well-being. COVID-19 Alert Please visit the CSU COVID Information & Resources website for more information on CSU’s pandemic response. Programs and Degrees Social workers are changemakers. Our challenging programs are designed so you can graduate ready to excel in your professional life. Social work students and faculty are naturally close-knit and supportive. Our bachelor’s and master’s degree programs are fully accredited by the Council on Social Work Education. Explore Programs and Degrees TOP 15% OF PUBLIC UNIVERSITIES Best Graduate Schools in Social Work in the U.S. – U.S. News and World Report, 2020 #1 COHORT PROGRAM and #1 ADVANCED GENERALIST ONLINE PROGRAM Best Master’s in Social Work Degree Programs – Intelligent.com, 2022 Our MSW and BSW programs are accredited by the Council on Social Work Education – the sole accrediting body for social work education. View program outcome reports. The Social Work Research Center conducts applied research, creating university-community partnerships that bridge the gap between research and practice in social work. Learning Spaces Learning in Action We are committed to a shared journey that supports and guides you within a culture of professional excellence. Field Education Drive social change in the community while you practice skills and integrate knowledge in an agency setting through our field placement programs. Research Opportunities Our faculty researchers are bridging the gap between theory and practice in the field of social work. Be part of it through student research opportunities. Student Organizations Engage in campus efforts for social justice, community outreach, and humanitarian goals. We have a student organization for you! Connecting to the Community Committee for Social Justice We actively promote social justice and social change by engaging scholarship, teaching, and service that seek to understand, celebrate, and embrace diversity. Outreach and Engagement The Center for Lifelong Learning, Outreach, and Education provides professional development opportunities. Human-Animal Bond in Colorado elevates the therapeutic benefits of companion animals. Alumni Network Connections Our Alumni Network lists job opportunities for CSU social work graduates, provides support and shared expertise through mentoring, and helps our grads stay in touch with lifelong friends. In this Section Career Opportunities Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and Justice Faculty and Staff Directory Field Education - Internships Give to Social Work Our Alumni Network Student Organizations and Involvement Contact Us School of Social Work Main Office Physical Location: 127 Education Building 450 W Pitkin St. Hours: Monday – Friday, 7:45 a.m. – 4:45 p.m. Mailing Address: 1586 Campus Delivery Fort Collins, CO 80523-1586 Phone: (970) 491-6612 Fax: (970) 491-7280 Email: sswinfo@colostate.edu SSW Facebook SSW Twitter SSW Instagram SSW Newsletter Map to Education Building Links for Our Current Students Program Handbooks and Outcomes Data Advanced Generalist Practice 14% high growth rate for social work jobs projected through 2029 by U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics Top 15% Best Grad Schools - Social Work among public universities in the U.S. ranked by U.S. News & World Report 2020 100% of students complete internships through field education Making an Impact School of Social Work News Read More News School of Social Work Upcoming Events Faculty and Staff Events Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Events calendar powered by Trumba OUR HOME College of Health and Human Sciences Social Work is one of eight academic units housed within the College of Health and Human Sciences. About CHHS We improve health and well-being in all aspects of the human experience. Our goal is to change lives for the better. CHHS Academics Whether you’re building technical skills for a chosen profession or following a passion for helping people, each of our majors and degrees are designed around making connections while you learn — with faculty, employers, professionals, and people in the community. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and Justice in CHHS We emphasize a caring and supportive community where everyone’s contributions are valued and all voices are heard. Research and Creative Scholarship in CHHS As a human-centered college, we believe that research should not only contribute to scientific knowledge, but also be translated into programs, policies, and applications that put that knowledge to work. Visit CHHS Home School of Social Work 127 Education Building 450 W. Pitkin St. 1586 Campus Delivery Fort Collins, Colorado 80523-1586 (970) 491-6612 sswinfo@colostate.edu Info For Health and Human Sciences Alumni Current Students Donors Faculty Emeriti and Retirees Faculty and Staff Prospective Students Quicklinks for Health and Human Sciences Career Development Citrix College Communicators Toolbox Commencement COVID-19 Resources Giving People Directory Technology Webmail Follow Health and Human Sciences News Events Facebook Flickr Instagram LinkedIn Pinterest Twitter YouTube Accessibility Statement Apply to CSU Contact CSU Disclaimer Equal Opportunity Privacy Statement © 2022 College of Health and Human Sciences. All rights reserved.