Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary FOSTER SCHOOL OF BUSINESS BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION ENTREPRENEURSHIP AND INNOVATION Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 ENTRE 370 Introduction to Entrepreneurship (4) Introduction to entrepreneurial practices with an emphasis on learning how to find business ideas, how to evaluate their potential, and how to recognize the barriers to success. Exposure to the stresses of a start-up business, the uncertainties that exist, and the behavior of entrepreneurs. Prerequisite: either ACCTG 219 or ACCTG 225; ECON 200. View course details in MyPlan: ENTRE 370 ENTRE 372 Grand Challenges for Entrepreneurship (4) DIV Explores big problems and opportunities facing society ranging from healthcare, education, big data, and poverty. Examines how solutions to these challenges can be researched, validated, and implemented using entrepreneurial skills such as creativity, business models, pivoting, and execution. View course details in MyPlan: ENTRE 372 ENTRE 422 Innovation Strategy (4) Focuses on starting a hardware or software company. Includes guest entrepreneurs, lawyers, and financiers discussing market identification and analysis; planning the business; financing; and typical operating and administrative problems. View course details in MyPlan: ENTRE 422 ENTRE 432 Software Entrepreneurship (4) Explores the opportunities and challenges of launching a software company. Issues include an overview of the industry, trends and emerging opportunities, funding, technology transfer, industry challenges, and cutting-edge software practices. View course details in MyPlan: ENTRE 432 ENTRE 440 Business Plan Practicum (2) Enables students interested in new venture creation to explore their entrepreneurial aptitude, formulate their ideas, validate the opportunity, develop a business plan, and demonstrate the depth of their knowledge by preparing an executive summary and competing in the UW Business Plan Competition. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: ENTRE 440 ENTRE 443 Environmental Innovation Practicum (2) Focuses on developing innovative solutions to real-world environmental problems and creating new business opportunities. Speakers include experts from the clean-tech community, environmental start-ups, the public sector, as well as corporate environmental strategists. Themes include water, energy, green building, and transportation. Includes the opportunity to participate in the UW Environmental Innovation Challenge. View course details in MyPlan: ENTRE 443 ENTRE 445 Health Innovation Challenge Practicum (2) Explores the biggest challenges in the health field, domestic and global, and how various actors are creating solutions for them through innovation. Students form cross-disciplinary teams around project concepts chosen by the class and present the team's solutions to classmates and a panel of experts. View course details in MyPlan: ENTRE 445 ENTRE 455 Entrepreneurial Marketing (4) Examines the skills and tools entrepreneurs need for bootstrap marketing in their start-up firms. Students learn to identify target market segments, position their products, estimate demand, set prices, gain access to channels, and manage the issues of rapid growth. Prerequisite: MKTG 301; may not be repeated. Offered: jointly with MKTG 455. View course details in MyPlan: ENTRE 455 ENTRE 457 Entrepreneurial Finance (4) Explores financial issues that face entrepreneurs, including the stages of financing, business cash flow models, and strategic positioning of the early-stage company. Examines the role of business angels, venture capital funds, institutional investors, strategic alliances, licensing agreements, and exit strategies. Prerequisite: FIN 350; either B ECON 300 or ECON 300. Offered: jointly with FIN 457. View course details in MyPlan: ENTRE 457 ENTRE 459 Venture Investing (4) Analyzes and makes recommendations on investment opportunities through learning the fundamentals of venture investing and performing due diligence on real companies. Explores the venture investing process from the entrepreneur's and the investor's point of view. Students present their recommendations to the Investment Committee of the W Fund. Offered: jointly with FIN 459. View course details in MyPlan: ENTRE 459 ENTRE 472 Creating a Company I (4-) Two-course sequence with ENTRE 473. Working in teams, students develop a business plan for a new venture, present their plans to a panel of investors, obtain funding, run the business, and exit the firm at the end of the second quarter. Prerequisite: ENTRE 370. View course details in MyPlan: ENTRE 472 ENTRE 473 Creating a Company II (-4) Two-course sequence with ENTRE 472. Working in teams, students develop a business plan for a new venture, present their plans to a panel of investors, obtain funding, run the business, and exit the firm at the end of the second quarter. Prerequisite: ENTRE 472. View course details in MyPlan: ENTRE 473 ENTRE 490 Special Topics in Entrepreneurship (1-6, max. 12) View course details in MyPlan: ENTRE 490 ENTRE 499 Undergraduate Research (1-6, max. 9) Independent research in selected areas of entrepreneurship; new venture strategy and investment; market analysis and financial forecasts; and corporate issues under faculty supervision. Prerequisite: ENTRE 370. View course details in MyPlan: ENTRE 499 ENTRE 509 Foundations of Entrepreneurship (2) Evaluation of new market opportunities and starting a new venture; focuses on identifying and evaluating new venture opportunities, developing and testing market strategies, evaluating test market performance, and evaluating business plans. Emphasizes the interplay between marketing, manufacturing, finance, accounting. and team management. Prerequisite: Permission of Foster School of Business. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: ENTRE 509 ENTRE 510 Entrepreneurial Strategy (4) Uses the tools of competitive strategy to analyze the success and failure of entrepreneurial ventures, identifying general strategic principles that might increase the probability that an entrepreneurial venture will succeed. Draws heavily on the principles of microeconomics and strategy. Prerequisite: B A 500; B A 502. View course details in MyPlan: ENTRE 510 ENTRE 521 Corporate Entrepreneurship (4) Focuses on entrepreneurial activities in large, established corporation. Introduces the theory and best practices on the process of converting new ideas to commercial products and new businesses. Prerequisite: B A 500; B A 501; B A 502. View course details in MyPlan: ENTRE 521 ENTRE 522 Innovation Strategy (4) Explores how firms tap into external sources of innovation, focusing on user communities, universities, and entrepreneurial ventures. Demonstrates how open, collaborative, community-based models of innovation create successful business options. Offered: jointly with MGMT 522. View course details in MyPlan: ENTRE 522 ENTRE 530 Entrepreneurial Decision Making (4) Provides an overview of the major decisions entrepreneurs face when creating a business. Covers the startup lifecycle from idea generation and opportunity recognition to entry strategy, growth, and exit. Prerequisite: B POL 509; B A 501. Instructors: Song Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: ENTRE 530 ENTRE 531 Developing Business Models for Emerging Technologies (4) Focuses on the commercialization of emerging technologies. Topics include conducting feasibility assessments of intellectual property landscape, evaluating business opportunities, analyzing competition, developing business models and strategies, constructing a professional quality business plan, and presenting business plan, transforming a new technology into a market-ready technology-based business. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: ENTRE 531 ENTRE 532 Software Entrepreneurship (4) A case- and project-based course, focusing on starting a software or hardware company. Guest entrepreneurs, lawyers, and financiers discuss market identification and analysis, planning the business, financing, and typical operating and administrative problems. View course details in MyPlan: ENTRE 532 ENTRE 535 Business Models in Global Health (4) Explores many of the models used to tackle these issues in global health, using public-private partnership, corporate, and entrepreneurial cases. Examines and debates the efficacy of efforts in combating the biggest killers: non-communicable diseases (NCDs) such as AIDS, malaria, and Tuberculosis. Includes the economics of eradication efforts, funding architecture, issues around neglected diseases, and pricing models for the developing world. View course details in MyPlan: ENTRE 535 ENTRE 540 Business Plan Practicum (2, max. 4) Gives student entrepreneurs the opportunity to network with the founders/CEOs of companies, explore their entrepreneurial aptitude, and work through the details of their own start-ups. Provides structure, tools, and resources to start of company, and compete in the UW Business Plan Competition. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: ENTRE 540 ENTRE 541 Technology Commercialization Practicum (4) Provides the experience of researching and creating a commercialization plan for a promising technology. Designed to apply the skills and perspectives of students in cross-disciplinary teams so they learn how to work effectively with peers in assessing complex and potentially ambiguous situations. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: ENTRE 541 ENTRE 542 Venture Capital Investment Practicum (2) Provides overview and teaches the mechanics of the venture capital industry and culminates in intramural venture capital competition. Students assume the role of investors in a venture capital firm and real entrepreneurs pitch to them for investment dollars. Teams defend their allocation decisions before a judging panel of venture capitalists. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: ENTRE 542 ENTRE 543 Environmental Innovation Practicum (2) Focuses on developing innovation solutions to real-world environmental problems and creating new business opportunities. Speakers include experts from the clean-tech community, environmental start-ups, the public sector, as well as corporate environmental strategists. Themes include water, energy, green building, and transportation. Students have the opportunity to participate in the UW Environmental Innovation Challenge. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: ENTRE 543 ENTRE 545 Health Innovation Challenge Practicum (2) Explores the biggest challenges in the health field, domestic and global, and how various actors are creating solutions for them through innovation. Students form cross-disciplinary teams around project concepts chosen by the class and present the team's solutions to classmates and a panel of experts. View course details in MyPlan: ENTRE 545 ENTRE 555 Entrepreneurial Marketing (4) Examines the skills and tools entrepreneurs need for bootstrap or guerilla early-stage companies. Covers how to target market segments, position products, estimate demand, set prices, gain access to channels, and manage issues of rapid growth. Prerequisite: B A 501, MKGT 501 or equivalent. Offered: jointly with MKTG 555. View course details in MyPlan: ENTRE 555 ENTRE 557 Entrepreneurial Finance (4) Analyzes the unique financial issues facing entrepreneurial firms. Topics include assessing financial performance, financial forecasting and planning, financial management of rapidly growing businesses, start-up ventures, valuation, sources of financing, venture capital, initial public offerings, and the decision to harvest. Prerequisite: MBA core courses. Offered: jointly with FIN 557. View course details in MyPlan: ENTRE 557 ENTRE 560 Accounting Fundamentals for Entrepreneurs (2) Familiarizes prospective entrepreneurs with the fundamentals of financial and managerial accounting. Covers the principles of accounting decision-making from the perspective of both external investors and internal managers. View course details in MyPlan: ENTRE 560 ENTRE 561 Essentials of Finance for Entrepreneurs (3) Studies the essentials of finance, how individuals make consumption and savings decisions, and how firms make investment and financing decisions, necessary for entrepreneurs to develop a competitive advantage over their peers. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: ENTRE 561 ENTRE 562 Legal Essentials for Entrepreneurs (1) Provides an overview of critical and fundamental aspects of United States contract law, types of business structures, and intellectual property law that are essential for entrepreneurs to make informed business decisions. View course details in MyPlan: ENTRE 562 ENTRE 563 Opportunity Recognition and Validation (2-4) Covers the range, scope, and complexity of issues involved in entrepreneurial startups. Explores how entrepreneurs conceive, adapt, and execute strategies to create new enterprises. View course details in MyPlan: ENTRE 563 ENTRE 564 Competitive Strategy (2-4) Introduces different aspects of the strategic decision-making process. Pays particular attention to the context within which the decision maker operates; the pressures of performance; and both the personal and professional limitations of the individual executive as they try to manage effectively.Also highlights the interplay between competitive strategy and entrepreneurship related topics. View course details in MyPlan: ENTRE 564 ENTRE 565 Entrepreneurial Marketing I (2) Focuses on marketing strategy. Assesses market opportunities by analyzing customers, competitors, collaborators, context, and the strengths and weaknesses of a company. Examines how to design focus marketing strategies to maximize a company's chance of winning in these markets, and better evaluate different potential growth trajectories. First in a two-course entrepreneurial marketing sequence. View course details in MyPlan: ENTRE 565 ENTRE 566 Entrepreneurial Marketing II (2) Focuses on the decisions that entrepreneurs make and the tools that they use to implement an effective marketing strategy. Covers how to communicate and defend marketing recommendations as well as critically examine and build upon the recommendations of others. Second in a two-course entrepreneurial marketing sequence. View course details in MyPlan: ENTRE 566 ENTRE 567 Entrepreneurial Strategy and Decision Making (4) Uses the tools of competitive strategy to analyze the success and failure of entrepreneurial ventures, identifying general strategic principles that might increase the probability that an entrepreneurial venture will succeed. Provides an overview of the major decisions entrepreneurs face when creating a business. Covers the startup lifecycle from idea generation and opportunity recognition to entry strategy, growth, and exit. View course details in MyPlan: ENTRE 567 ENTRE 568 Digital Media Marketing (1-2) Examines the principles and tools related to internet marketing, mobile marketing, and social media. Compares marketing communications in the new media landscape compared to traditional marketing communications. Analyzes business models in new media landscape such as the value proposition and the revenue model of a firm. Covers new media marketing tactics. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: ENTRE 568 ENTRE 569 Strategies for Funding Ventures (4) Provides an in-depth view of the fundraising process including the elements of deal making and working with investors, and sensitizes prospective entrepreneurs to the strategic and people issues around venture finance. View course details in MyPlan: ENTRE 569 ENTRE 570 Persuasion: Pitching, Public Relations, and Public Speaking (2) Examines the role verbal communication, influence, and persuasion play in shaping an entrepreneur's success in starting, growing, managing, leading, and exiting a venture. Follows the progression of different forms of pitching that an entrepreneur needs to be able to deliver. View course details in MyPlan: ENTRE 570 ENTRE 571 Essentials of Sales for Entrepreneurs (2) Introduces the principles and concepts of selling and its strategic role in new ventures. Promotes an understanding of how products or services are used to create value for a customer and how that information is used by entrepreneurs to decide to enter a market and how to remain competitive in the market. View course details in MyPlan: ENTRE 571 ENTRE 575 Entrepreneurial Leadership Seminar (1, max. 4) Covers common issues associated with leading and coordinating people in entrepreneurial ventures. Topics vary by quarter and include individual level of leadership, managing projects, managing teams, and scaling ventures. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: ENTRE 575 ENTRE 579 Special Topics in Entrepreneurship (2-4, max. 12) Topics vary. Offered only when faculty members are available and there is sufficient student interest. View course details in MyPlan: ENTRE 579 ENTRE 581 Theoretical Foundations of Entrepreneurship (4) Focuses on theoretical overview, entrepreneurs, environment and organizational founding, entrepreneurship's links with other disciplines, venture capital and venture capitalists, new venture strategy and performance, growth processes and challenges, and entrepreneurial networks and alliances. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: ENTRE 581 ENTRE 582 Technology, Innovation, and Entrepreneurship (4) Explores issues of how a knowledge-based economy competes and performs using technological innovations and entrepreneurship. Explores research on capabilities of broader entities; processes of learning at the firm, industry, technology, economy-level; development of know-how as evolutionary process; and explorations by firms, sectors and economies exploring new technologies and techniques. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: ENTRE 582 ENTRE 590 New Venture Research Practicum (4) Exposes students to new venture creation phenomena. Teaches how to think about and understand empirical research methods such as case studies, participant-observation, and other field methods while contributing to on-going cumulative data collection process. View course details in MyPlan: ENTRE 590 ENTRE 595 Venture Planning and Execution Independent Study (1-3, max. 10) Independent study focused on venture planning and execution of an entrepreneurial venture of the students' design. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: ENTRE 595 ENTRE 600 Independent Study or Research (*-) View course details in MyPlan: ENTRE 600 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022