Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home Become a Student How to Apply The Process Application Components Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. Application Components FAQ International Students Minimum Work Requirements Application Components FAQ International Students Minimum Work Requirements Application Components Applicants to our MPH, MS, PhD and DrPH will apply using SOPHAS. Applicants to the Executive MHA/MPH, Full-Time and Part-Time MHA programs can submit a HAMPCAS application instead. Applications must be submitted by the scheduled deadline. Materials must be sent directly to SOPHAS or HAMPCAS unless otherwise stated. Jump to materials information: Letters of Recommendation | Standarized Test Scores | Personal Statement | Resume | Domestic Transcripts | International Student Requirements | Doctoral Requirements | Optional Addendum | Letters of Recommendation Applicants will need to submit letters of recommendation from three (3) individuals. Letters should address your academic and research abilities, including your capacity to work independently as well as your ability to comprehend, digest, and assimilate new knowledge. The email address for each recommender must be a professional email address (e.g., with a “.edu” extension or company-related domain). If such an email address is not possible, the student must provide a written explanation to the ph-admit [at] columbia.edu (subject: Using%20a%20Non-Professional%20Email%20Address) (Mailman School of Public Health Admissions Team), for permission to utilize a non-professional email address for the reference. Students who have received a degree in the past 5 years are: required to provide at least 1 academic reference from faculty at that institution and encouraged to provide at least 2 academic references. Students more than 5 years away from their most recent degree are encouraged to provide at least 1 academic reference. Standardized Test Scores In effort to support our applicants during the CoVid-19 Pandemic, standardized test scores for applications to the 2022-2023 academic year are optional for all master’s degree programs. For other programs please confirm requirements by checking our website and individual department pages for detailed information on the application and/or department requirements. Applicants will need to present evidence of quantitative and analytical writing ability. To demonstrate this ability, candidates must complete all questions under the Quantitative & Analytical Assessment section within the application. You will find these questions under the Program Materials section under the Questions tab. Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health will continue our holistic application review process. The admissions committee will make no assumptions if a standardized test score is omitted from an application, but inclusion of a good score may improve the overall application of a candidate with deficiencies in some areas. Applicants with no evidence of quantitative or writing coursework are encouraged to submit test scores. If you plan on submitting your test scores, please use the codes below. GRE: have ETS send scores to SOPHAS using code 2159, HAMCAPS using code 0047 MCAT: have AAMC send scores to SOPHAS using code "SOPHAS" be sure to include your AAMC ID# Other test scores GMAT, LSAT, or DAT send official scores directly to Mailman School of Public Health Statement of Purpose Please submit a Statement of Purpose of no more than 500 words*. Your statement should address: Why are you applying to the Mailman School of Public Health? What interests you about the department and degree you are applying to at the Mailman School of Public Health? How do you hope to use your education from the Mailman School of Public Health to achieve your long-term career goals? *Department of Health Policy and Management applicants may submit a Statement of Purpose of up to 1000 words. CV or Resume Please send an up-to-date CV/resume that includes: Educational degrees Employment Experiences (especially those related to public health) Professional skills and accomplishments Volunteer activities Awards Transcripts (Domestic & English Canada) If you completed your studies in the U.S. or English speaking Canada, an official transcript from all previous institutions must be sent directly to SOPHAS. All other applicants please refer to the "International Students" section. International Students Foreign Evaluation: WES Course-by-Course Evaluation Applicants who have completed their studies outside of the U.S. and English Canada must request a WES course-by-course evaluation and have it sent directly to SOPHAS or HAMPCAS. Refer to the SOPHAS or HAMPCAS sections on connecting evaluations to your application. English Proficiency: TOEFL or IELTS Scores Applicants who obtained their bachelor's degree in a country where the primary language of instruction was not English must submit one of the following: TOEFL: Required score minimum is 100 (or 600 paper based). Scores must be forwarded directly from ETS. SOPHAS applicants use Institutional Code. HAMPCAS applicants use Institution Code #B589. IELTS: Required scores minimum is 7.5. If submitting IELTS, please have them sent directly to our ph-admit [at] columbia.edu (subject: IELTS%20Scores) (Office of Admissions). TOEFL/IELTS waivers: Waivers are seldom granted The Admissions committee will only consider waiver requests for those with expired test scores. Requests without expired test scores will not be considered. Process: You must submit an email request after the submission of your application to ph-admit [at] columbia.edu. You must submit your expired test scores along with your reason for your request stating the reason for your request and strong evidence of speaking, reading, writing, and listening in English. Please note it is within the committee’s discretion to determine whether the standardized test waiver should be granted. The applicant will receive email notification of either the approval of the waiver request or a request that the applicant submit official scores after your completed application has been reviewed. Have more questions? Refer to our FAQS for International Students. Writing Sample - Doctoral Applicants Only A writing sample may be required. For additional details, please log into your SOPHAS application to view the document tab, located in the program tab. Addendum - Optional This section is a space to inform the committee of something you weren't able to state elsewhere on the application. Some example topics include highlighting an additional reason the applicant is an excellent candidate or to address a low GPA. The addendum can be added in the "Other" attachment section of the application. More to Explore Friday 03June COVID-19: From Causes to ConsequencesMay 27 2022 Bench-to-Bedside: A Dream or Reality?Apr 13 2022 Historically Redlined Neighborhoods Burdened by Excess Oil and Gas WellsApr 13 2022 Dean Linda P. Fried Awarded Kober Medal for Scientific and Mentorship AchievementsApr 11 2022 Sign up for Transmission Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers