Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Campus Recreation Campus Recreation right arrow down arrow Hours & Schedules right arrow down arrow Campus Recreation Center (CRC) Fitness Center at CARE/Crawley Aquatics Fitness Classes Intramurals Climbing Wall Severe Weather Policy COVID-19 Operations right arrow down arrow Fitness Floor Map Virtual Resources Visit right arrow down arrow Getting Started right arrow down arrow Fitness Floor Orientation Equipment Tutorials Parking Facility Hours Terms & Conditions Lockers & Towels Pro Shop FAQ Things To Do right arrow down arrow Fitness Classes right arrow down arrow Online Fitness Fitness Programs & Special Events 30 Minute Workout Area Personal Training Trainings & Certifications Aquatics Climbing right arrow down arrow Policies & Waiver Intramural Sports right arrow down arrow Intramural Sports Rules right arrow down arrow Intramural Sports Handbook 3-on-3 Basketball 5-on-5 Basketball 7-on-7 Football 7-on-7 Soccer 11-on-11 Soccer 4-on-4 Volleyball 6-on-6 Volleyball Dodgeball Futsal Kickball Pickleball Softball Spikeball Tennis Ultimate Wallyball FAQ Racquetball REC Kids Camp right arrow down arrow Parent/Guardian Guide Team Building Pickleball Membership right arrow down arrow Rates & Discounts Fitness Floor Orientation Terms & Conditions Facilities & Rentals right arrow down arrow Facility Rentals Birthday Parties Process Rates Policies Reservation Jobs right arrow down arrow Staff Directory Student Employment Home » Campus Life » Campus Recreation » Visit » Terms & Conditions Set Navigation title in component Getting Started Fitness Floor Orientation Equipment Tutorials Parking Facility Hours Terms & Conditions Lockers & Towels Pro Shop FAQ Rules & Regulations Policies have been established by the University of Cincinnati Campus Recreation to ensure fair and consistent treatment of all participants. Questions about policies should be directed to a Campus Recreation staff member. It is each member’s responsibility to read and understand all general and area-specific Campus Recreation rules & regulations. Campus Recreation staff has final authority on all rules and regulations-related matters. Quick Links Aquatics Climbing Equipment Checkout Rules & Regulations Fitness Floor General Facility Rules & Regulations Group Fitness Rules & Regulations Gymnasium & House Rules Intramural Sports Rules Lockers Memberships Racquet Courts Rules & Regulations Track Rules & Regulations General Facility Rules & Regulations Identification Required for Access right arrow down arrow All individuals must present a valid member ID at the Member Services Desk to obtain access to the facility. Any ID presented by someone other than the rightful owner will be confiscated. Campus Recreation staff reserve the right to request identification at any time. Children 11 and Under right arrow down arrow Must be under direct supervision of an adult (18 years of age or older) at all times; Are permitted to use the Aquatic Complex, Climbing Wall, Track, Racquetball Courts and Multi-Purpose Rooms (during non-scheduled activity times) during all hours of operation; Are permitted to use the basketball courts 8 a.m. - 3 p.m., Monday - Thursday and all day Friday, Saturday and Sunday during Fall & Spring Semester. All hours of operation during breaks and Summer Semester May not access any equipment located on the fitness floor at the Campus Recreation Center or the entire Fitness Center at CARE/Crawley Facility. A waiver must be completed and signed by the parent or legal guardian of the child. If the parent or legal guardian will not be the person coming into the facility with the child, the waiver must be completed in advance and signed by the parent or legal guardian. Non-Student Members and Guests Age 12 - 17 right arrow down arrow Members and guests 12 to 17 years of age who are not University of Cincinnati students may access all areas of the Campus Recreation Center and Fitness Center at CARE/Crawley during all hours of operation upon completion of a mandatory Bearcats Fitness Floor Orientation. Once completed, the minor will receive a sticker for their ID card that will need to be visible at all times. A responsible adult must be present in the facility throughout their stay. Participants are expected to act responsibly and respect the rights of others. Those engaging in unacceptable or irresponsible behavior may have their access to facilities revoked or modified indefinitely. A waiver must be completed and signed by the parent or legal guardian of the child. If the parent or legal guardian will not be the person coming into the facility with the child, the waiver must be completed in advance and signed by the parent or legal guardian. Prohibited Items and Activities right arrow down arrow Food or beverages (other than beverages contained in a sealed, closed container with a lid) Digital cameras, Web cams, cameras and video recorders (unless prior permission is granted by Campus Recreation professional staff) Chewing tobacco and smoking Bicycles, strollers and in-line skates Animals (except service animals) Use of the facility while under the influence of alcohol or other drugs Listening to personal music without headphones Posting announcements, flyers, posters, etc., on building walls, windows, lockers and/or doors (unless prior permission is granted by Campus Recreation professional staff) Per University Rule 10-51-01, there shall be no sales and solicitations conducted on university property, outside the parameters of this policy, except by vendors with whom the university has contracted for the sale of goods and services. (or unless prior permission is granted by Campus Recreation professional staff) Dress Code right arrow down arrow Campus Recreation's attire policy is designed to create a welcoming, inclusive, and safe environment for all members. A top and non-marking athletic shoes are required in all areas except for the Locker Rooms and Aquatic Complex. Attire Policy A clean, appropriate athletic top must be worn and cover the breast. Bottoms must fully cover the buttocks and private areas. Attire that could cause damage to equipment or risk safety of members, and see-through garments (specifically private areas) are prohibited. Close-toed, close-heeled, and non-marking athletic shoes that cover the entire foot must be worn. Exception: Climbing Wall where open-toed sandals are permitted. Minimalist shoes that meet the above criteria are allowed. In some Group Fitness formats and Club Sports practices, participants may be asked to remove footwear for the safety of the participant. (Yoga, PiYo, Martial Arts, etc.) Appropriate Swimwear Includes One and two-piece bathing suits, board shorts, wet suits, and rash guards that cover the buttocks and private areas. Clean mesh athletic shorts and/or a shirt may be worn over a manufactured swim suitswimsuit that meets the aforementioned guidelines. FAQ Is it okay to wear just a sports bra? If a sports bra is designed as an athletic piece of clothing designed to be worn by itself when working out, it is allowed. With the number of variations of athletic tops/sports bras, we don’t want our staff to have to make subjective judgement calls about whether something is appropriate (as long as it meets the requirements of being a piece of athletic clothing and covering the breast). What constitutes a top that ‘covers the breast’? For all genders, a top must cover the nipples. We require all private areas (which we consider the nipples of the chest to be for all genders) to be covered in the fitness spaces. What if I only have jeans or khakis to wear as pants, can I still work out? Our goal is to provide as inclusive as an environment as possible, so if someone wants to use the facility and doesn’t have workout shorts/pants, we don’t want to turn them away. If they are wearing some form of bottoms that have excessive pieces that could damage equipment, or the clothing poses an obvious safety concern to our staff, we will address as-needed. What if someone feels uncomfortable with what another member is wearing? Our goal is to be as supportive to individual members as possible by allowing them to wear what makes them feel comfortable being in our facility (as long as it meets the attire policy posted above). We seek to remove as many barriers to utilizing our facility as possible in order to provide a welcoming, inclusive environment. If someone has specific questions they can contact Coordinator of Fitness & Wellness, Daniel Scripter (daniel.scripter@uc.edu), to discuss further. Personal Belongings right arrow down arrow Bags and personal belongings should be secured in lockers. Campus Recreation is not responsible for lost, stolen, or damaged personal property. Reporting Injuries and Equipment Malfunctions right arrow down arrow Please report injuries and facility or equipment problems to Campus Recreation staff immediately. Facility Entry and Exit right arrow down arrow Except in the case of an emergency, members must enter and exit the Campus Recreation Center through the main lobby. Membership privileges of individuals entering or exiting through other doors may be suspended or revoked. Fire Alarms right arrow down arrow All building occupants must exit when the fire alarm sounds. Assumption of Risk right arrow down arrow All members and guests participate in Recreation Center activities at their own risk. Campus Recreation provides individuals the opportunity to participate in intramural sports, informal sports, sports clubs, and indoor/outdoor recreation activities and programs. Regardless of the activity, all participants must realize that they are assuming risks when they take part in an active recreation program. Each person must be aware of this assumption of risk and recognize that his/her participation is voluntary. Each participant also has a responsibility to use prudent and ordinary care in his/her actions. For the safety of the individual and that of fellow participants, any situation perceived as a potential danger must be called to the attention of a Campus Recreation supervisor. This includes but is not limited to the following: Unsafe facilities Equipment that is broken or in disrepair A participant who is not feeling well or who is unduly fatigued A participant who is having unusual difficulty performing an activity Each participant is obligated to follow the rules and regulations for individual safety as set forth by Campus Recreation. This includes dressing appropriately and using protective equipment. Individuals choosing not to use such protective equipment, whether provided or requested, must realize they are doing so at their own peril and that injury might result.  It must be recognized that, even in safe environments, accidents can occur during active, vigorous participation. Campus Recreation makes every effort to keep all facilities and equipment in safe, operating condition. Both supervisors and participants must use good judgment and work together for safe participation. Should an injury occur in the facility and/or during participation in any Campus Recreation program, a Campus Recreation supervisor will make arrangements for emergency transportation whenever appropriate. The injured party is responsible for all financial obligations arising from the injury, emergency transportation, and subsequent treatment. Therefore, the university requires students and strongly encourages all others to have health care insurance.  Prior to participation in Campus Recreation programs, all students should discuss with the Student Health Service medical staff about any known physical problems that may limit their activity.  This statement about participant safety and responsibility is provided for the protection of our participants. Any questions concerning this statement should be directed to the Campus Recreation Associate Director for Facilities/Operations. Lockers Lockers and Locker Rooms right arrow down arrow The Campus Recreation Center is not responsible for lost, stolen, or damaged personal property. Lockers are to be used for legitimate purposes only. Please report the presence of suspicious individuals in the locker room to staff at the Member Services Desk. For the privacy of our patrons, use of cell phones or cameras of any kind is prohibited in the locker room. Children 4 years of age and older may not enter the locker room of the opposite sex.  Family changing rooms are available for members with small children of the opposite sex. Please use discretion when bringing younger children of the opposite sex into the locker room. All lockers are the property of Campus Recreation. A fee will be assessed for locker damage caused by negligence or abuse.  Caution: Wet floors in the locker room may be slippery. Please watch your step. Please report any facility problems and/or injuries to the Campus Recreation staff immediately. Campus Recreation reserves the right to check lockers for unreturned towels, equipment, and to resolve safety/security concerns. Members will be notified should this occur. Day-Use Lockers right arrow down arrow Day-use lockers are available at no charge on a first-come/first-served basis. Members must remove all items in day-use lockers when they leave the facility. Personal locks may not be left on day-use lockers overnight. All locks must be removed 15 minutes prior to facility closing. If day-use lockers are not emptied by closing time each day, Campus Recreation staff will remove locks and all items in the lockers and keep items for 14 days in Lost & Found. After 14 days, all abandoned locker contents will be donated to charity. Campus Recreation is not responsible for locks cut off during this procedure. A $5 fee will be charged to retrieve locker contents. Aquatics Lap Pool right arrow down arrow General Rules Pool use is prohibited unless supervised by a Campus Recreation lifeguard. To ensure proper supervision and safety, Campus Recreation reserves the right to limit the number of individuals in the pool. Swimmers are requested to take a cleansing shower before entering the pool. The use of oils and body lotions is prohibited. Individuals with a communicable disease, skin disease, open sores, bandaged wounds, boils, inflamed eyes, or discharging nasal or ear passages are prohibited from using the pool. Dispose of bandages on minor cuts before entering the pool area. Individuals who have had diarrhea in the last two weeks are asked not to use the pool. Items and activities prohibited in the pool area Running on the pool deck Spitting and otherwise contaminating the pool, pool floors, walkways, aisles, or locker rooms Glass containers Unattended strollers on the pool deck Rough play, horseplay and chicken fights Swimming under the bulkhead Dunking on basketball rims Use of the starting blocks Breath holding longer than 30 seconds as well as the practices of static apnea and hypoxic training Changing clothes or swimsuits on the pool deck. Appropriate swimsuits are required for all swimmers. Street clothes, street shoes, thongs, and see-through swimwear are prohibited. Goggles are recommended. Pool set up varies. Ask a lifeguard which areas are available. Classes and rentals may restrict availability of certain pool areas. Only U.S. Coast Guard-approved flotation devices are permitted. Floaties, inflatable rings, and inflatable devices used in place of swimming skills are not allowed. The lifeguard or supervisor will determine if an item is permitted. Kickboards, fins, and pull-buoys are available for lap swimmers. Please return items to the storage bins after use. Please report any facility problems and/or injuries to a lifeguard or Aquatic Supervisor immediately. The Aquatic staff on duty has the final authority on all safety related issues.  A long whistle blast may signal an emergency. Exit the pool immediately and look to the lifeguard for further instruction. Maximum swimmer capacity: 140 The following policies are in place for swimmers 17 years of age and younger: Children 12 years of age and younger must be accompanied by an adult at all times. Children 12-17 years of age must have a parent or guardian in the Campus Recreation Center for the duration of the activity period Children five years of age and younger must be accompanied in the water by an adult. Lifeguards may require an adult to be in the water with older children who are deemed weak swimmers. One adult may be responsible for no more than three children five years of age and younger. Infants and toddlers requiring swim diapers are not permitted in the lap pool. - Children using arm floats, inflatable rings or toys, or lifejackets must be no more than an arm’s length from an adult in the water at all times. Lap Swim Rules Swimmers must enter the lap pool from the ends of the lanes only. All swimmers must “circle swim” (i.e., remain in the right half of the lane). Slower swimmers should stop at the wall and allow faster swimmers to pass. Hanging on the lane lines is prohibited. Diving Board Rules Use of the diving boards is only available for diving teams during diving team practice. Leisure Pool right arrow down arrow All lap pool Rules & Regulations apply to leisure pool use. Infants, young children, and anyone others not in control of bodily functions must wear leak-proof pants or swim diapers specifically for pool use. Return any leisure pool equipment to the storage bins after using. Maximum bather capacity: 100 Whirlpool right arrow down arrow All lap pool Rules & Regulations apply to whirlpool use. Caution: Elderly persons and persons suffering from heart disease, diabetes, seizures, epilepsy, circulatory or respiratory problems, or high or low blood pressure should not enter the whirlpool without their doctor’s permission. Pregnant women may not use the whirlpool. Do not use the whirlpool while under the influence of alcohol, tranquilizers, or other drugs that cause drowsiness or that raise or lower blood pressure. Children between the ages of six and 14 must be accompanied by an adult in the whirlpool at all times. Children five years of age and younger are not permitted in the whirlpool. Do not use at water temperatures greater than 104° F. Enter and exit whirlpool carefully. Long exposure may result in nausea, dizziness, or fainting. Leave the whirlpool after 10-15 minutes and cool down before returning for another brief stay. Items and activities prohibited in the whirlpool Submerging. Hair/clothing may become entangled in the drain suction. Napping. Do not take a nap or allow others to sleep in the whirlpool. Kickboards and other flotation devices Fitness Floor Cardiovascular Equipment right arrow down arrow Please be courteous. Use of the facility and all equipment is available on a first-come/ first-served basis. Maximum time limit on all machines is 30 minutes when other members are waiting. Wipe down equipment after use. Please do not spray machines directly with cleaning solution. (Disinfectant spray and a cleaning towel are available at each machine) Individuals are responsible for checking equipment prior to each use. Please report broken or damaged equipment and/or equipment malfunctions to Campus Recreation staff immediately. Please ask Campus Recreation staff for assistance when using equipment with which you are not familiar. When using treadmills, the use of the emergency-off clip is strongly recommended. Free weight equipment must remain in the free weight area; its use in conjunction with cardio equipment is prohibited.  All fire lanes and walkways must remain clear. Weight Training  right arrow down arrow Please be courteous. Use of the facility and all equipment is available on a first come/ first-served basis. Allow others to work in when performing multiple sets. Wipe down equipment after use. Please do not spray machines directly with cleaning solution. (Disinfectant spray and a cleaning towel are available at each machine) Individuals are responsible for checking equipment prior to each use. Please report broken or damaged equipment and/or equipment malfunctions to Campus Recreation staff immediately.  Please ask Campus Recreation staff for assistance when using equipment with which you are not familiar.  Individuals using free weights are strongly encouraged to utilize spotters.  Please maintain controlled movement of weights at all times. Free weight equipment must remain in free weight area; its use in conjunction with cardio equipment or on the track is strictly prohibited. Keep dumbbell racks free from obstruction and stand away from mirrors. Individuals must return all bars, plates, dumbbells, collars, etc., to their proper place after use. Please limit stretching and floor exercises to designated areas.  All fire lanes and walkways must remain clear. Items and Activities Prohibited in the Weight Training and Cardiovascular Area right arrow down arrow Personal training conducted by anyone other than a Campus Recreation employee  Leaving belongings on the fitness floor, all personal items should be secured in a day use locker All beverages should be in a closed, sealed container with a lid Olympic lifts (e.g., clean, jerks, snatch)  Leaning weights and equipment against walls, pillars, or mirrors  Standing on equipment benches, frames or weights  Stacking weights under equipment  Top loading  Slamming or dropping weight stacks, plates, or dumbbells  Bringing in personal exercise equipment (barbells, dumbbells, etc) Bands are not allowed to be used on barbells anywhere on the fitness floor, due to safety and equipment capabilities Chalk Sandals, flip flops, open-toed or open-heeled shoes of any kind. Shoes and a shirt must be worn at all times (see dress code for more information) Climbing Climbing Wall right arrow down arrow Campus Recreation climbing staff must be present in order for members to climb or be in the climbing area. All participants must read and understand the climbing rules and sign a Waiver of Liability and Assumption of Risk before being allowed to climb. All participants 17 years of age and younger must wear a helmet at all times. Climbers must be 5 years of age and older and able to fit into a child harness.  Please note: Minors (climbers 17 years of age and younger) must have a parent’s or legal guardian’s signature on all forms. Climbers 13 years of age and younger must be supervised by an adult at all times. Climbers must be 15 years of age and older to take a belay clinic. Please note: Individuals who have a history of epilepsy or any other condition that could alter level of consciousness are not eligible to take a belay clinic or belay at the wall. Please ask the climbing staff if you are unsure if you fit into this category. Climbers’ pockets must be empty. Items and activities prohibited in the climbing wall area: Swinging or jumping on ropes; climbing into a position where you are eye level or higher with top anchors; grabbing bolt hangers. Bolt hangers are for carabiner attachment only. Belaying right arrow down arrow Belayers must lower climbers in a smooth and controlled manner. Belayers must keep their brake hand on the rope at all times. Belay from a standing position only. Climbers should not step under or over an active belay. A follow-through figure-eight knot is required to tie in a climber. Please report any injury or unsafe climbing wall conditions to climbing staff immediately. The number of climbers at any one time may be limited to ensure proper supervision. Access  right arrow down arrow The Campus Recreation climbing staff reserves the right to refuse wall access for the following reasons, including but not limited to: Use of dangerous climbing techniques Suspected recent use of alcohol or other drugs Use of unsafe or unacceptable climbing gear Bouldering right arrow down arrow Boulder climbers are not required to have the ability to belay.  Otherwise, all climbing wall policies, rules, and regulations apply to bouldering. Campus Recreation strongly recommends the use of spotters while bouldering.  We encourage climbers to ask climbing staff about proper spotting techniques. Climbers cannot boulder more than 10’ above the floor. Climbers must check in at the Climbing Wall Desk before bouldering. Climbers may not boulder above or below any other climbers. Climbers, with the exception of climbing staff, may not switch holds.  Climbing staff may switch holds only when necessary. Group Fitness Rules & Regulations Group Fitness  right arrow down arrow All fitness classes are available on a first-come/first-served basis.  Participants may enter the classroom 15 minutes prior to the scheduled class time. Participants may not save bikes, equipment, or spots for others, so please arrive early to reserve your spot. Class size is determined by format. Please check the schedule for exact size limits. Rubber-soled, non-marking athletic, jogging, or running shoes must be worn in ALL group fitness classes – with the exception of yoga or Pilates-based classes, where bare feet are permitted. Sandals, dress, and open-toed shoes are not permitted in the group fitness rooms. Campus Recreation staff reserve the right to turn away anyone deemed to be dressed in a way that compromises member safety. Exceptions may be made for religious purposes. For the safety of all members, please follow the instructor’s routine and keep conversation to a minimum. Members who are five or more minutes late for class will not be permitted into the classroom. All personal items should be kept in provided cubbies. The CRC is not responsible for lost or stolen items.  Equipment provided in a class (resistance bands, weights, jump ropes, etc.) may not be taken out of the room. Members are asked to return all equipment to its proper location at the end of class. For your safety, leaving group exercise classes before cooling down is strongly discouraged. Spinning® class participants: Are required to bring a towel and a water bottle to class. Are not permitted to wear excessively baggy pants and long skirts. May wear Spinning shoes. Gymnasium & House Rules Gymnasium right arrow down arrow A non-marking, athletic shoe that covers the entire foot must be worn at all times (any type of shoe that does not cover the entire foot including sandals and Crocs as well as boots, dress shoes or any other non-athletic shoe is prohibited).  Shirts must be worn at all times - there are no "Shirts" vs "Skins" games allowed. “House rules” are in effect for all basketball and volleyball games. Volleyball and dodgeball are permitted only in specified places at designated times. During open recreation hours, one court will be designated as half-court play for basketball. Shirts are required in the gymnasium area. Items and activities prohibited in the gymnasium: Kicking or throwing basketballs and/or other equipment towards the wall, ceiling, and/or track. Violators will be asked to leave the facility immediately. Hanging on the nets or rim Baseball, football, frisbee, and other activities deemed unsafe in the gymnasium environment (unless prior permission is obtained from the Campus Recreation Office) Martial arts activities (unless prior permission is obtained from the Campus Recreation Office) Fighting, unruly conduct, profanity, or rough play. Violators will be asked to leave the facility immediately. Gambling House Rules right arrow down arrow Basketball Game Rules Basketball games are played to 11, win by 2, cap at 15. Basketball scoring: Three-pointers count as two points and two pointers count as one point. Winning teams continue playing until they lose or choose to give up the court. Winning teams and teams that have “next” are required to have all five team members ready to play at game time. Failure to be ready to play will result in forfeiting the turn and placement at the end of rotation. A team is not permitted to have “next” on more than one court. Volleyball Game Rules Volleyball games are played to 15. Win by two; cap at 19. Rally scoring will be used for all games. Winning teams continue playing until they lose or choose to give up the court. Winning teams and teams that have “next” are required to have at least three team members ready to play at game time. Failure to be ready to play will result in forfeiting the turn and placement at the end of rotation. A team is not permitted to have “next” on more than one court. Racquet Courts Rules & Regulations Court Rules right arrow down arrow Eye guards are strongly recommended for all racquetball, handball, and squash games.   Racquets and balls are available for purchase at the Member Services Desk. Wallyball equipment is available for check-out at the Member Services Desk. One bag of personal belongings may be kept outside the racquet court. Campus Recreation is not responsible for belongings that are left unattended. Activities other than racquetball, squash, handball, or wallyball are prohibited on the courts unless prior permission is granted by the Assistant Director of Facilities/Operations. Unreserved courts are available for play on a first-come/first-served basis for one hour or until the next reservation. Court Reservations right arrow down arrow Reservations can be made no more than 24 hours and no less than one hour in advance by calling the Member Services Desk at 513-556-0604. The maximum reservation time per party is one hour. One person may make no more than one reservation per day. Partners may not reserve courts in consecutive time slots. Play may continue after the initial hour if a court is available. Court reservations begin and end on the hour regardless of when play actually starts; there is no grace period. The Fitness Studio (Racquetball Court 7) is reserved only for Personal Training, Group Fitness, and other Supervised Fitness & Wellness Programming. For more information about reserving the Fitness Studio with an Instructor or Personal Trainer, please visit our Facilities & Rentals Page. Track Rules & Regulations Track Rules right arrow down arrow Track directions change on alternate days: Monday, Wednesday, Friday, and Sunday:   Run/walk counterclockwise. Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday:   Run/walk clockwise. Walkers use the outside lane; joggers/runners use inside lanes. Faster runners have the right of way. Passing should take place in the outer lanes. Baby Joggers may be used in the outside lane Monday-Friday from 8 to11 a.m. and all day Saturday and Sunday.  *Use of Baby Joggers may be discontinued based on facility usage patterns. Members will be notified in advance. Stretching areas are available outside of the track. Railings are NOT to be used as stretching aids. Items and activities prohibited on the track: Standing or in any way blocking lanes Bringing accessory equipment onto the track (e.g., weights, balls, etc.) Watching first-floor activity from the track. (Exceptions may be made in advance for special events.) Equipment Checkout Rules & Regulations Equipment Checkout right arrow down arrow A late fee of $5 will be assessed if equipment rented from Member Services is not returned by close of business. A lost fee will be assessed if equipment rented from Member Services is lost: Lost Basketball - $40 Lost Crutches - $40 Lost Dodgeball - $20 Lost Jump Rope - $20 Lost Towel - $7 Lost Volleyball - $40 Lost Walleyball - $30 Lost Walleyball Net - $200 Lost Weightbelt - $40 Lost Resistance Band - $40 Members will not be allowed back into the facility until fees have been paid. Guests/non-members are not allowed to rent equipment. Memberships Annual Memberships right arrow down arrow Annual memberships are based on a one-year contract. Memberships are non-transferrable and non-refundable unless cancelled within 3 days of purchase. Annual memberships paid via monthly draft will continue on a month-to-month basis after the first-year renewal date unless the membership is cancelled. To cancel a continuous membership, the member must complete the cancellation form by the 15th of the month prior to the desired cancellation date. Please refer to the cancellation policies for more details. Membership pricing is subject to change. Day Passes right arrow down arrow Day passes entitle non-members to access all facilities only on the day issued. Day passes are non-transferable and non-refundable. All day-pass guests must present their photo ID, form of payment at the Member Services Desk and sign an Informed Consent Waiver at the Member Services Desk before entering the facility. Membership Cards right arrow down arrow All Campus Recreation memberships allow access to both the Campus Recreation Center and the Fitness Center at CARE/Crawley. A physical, valid member ID card must be presented at the Member Services Desk for admittance. Any ID that is presented by someone other than the rightful owner will be confiscated. UC student and employee members will use University of Cincinnati ID cards for entrance. All non-university ID holders will be issued Campus Recreation membership cards. Cards will be issued at the time of initial membership application. Staff reserves the right to request identification at any time. Campus Recreation is not responsible for lost, stolen, or damaged ID cards. There is a $10 fee for replacement cards. Account Renewal right arrow down arrow Annual memberships  paid monthly by payroll deduction, credit card, or Electronic Fund Transfer (EFT) will continue unless the member notifies Member Services in writing by the 15th of the month prior to the cancellation month via the cancellation form. Frozen Accounts  right arrow down arrow Annual memberships may be maintained as inactive for a $5 monthly fee. Months paid at a $5 rate do not count toward the completion of an annual contract. Current membership rates will be applied to all reactivated memberships. Transferring Accounts right arrow down arrow Memberships are non-transferable. Membership privileges are to be used only by the person to whom the membership was issued. Refunding  right arrow down arrow The cancellation form is required for all annual membership paid monthly. Cancellation during the initial one- year contract will be permitted after payment of a $75 early cancellation fee. Cancellations after the initial one- year contract will have no fee. A cancellation form must be completed. Monthly deductions will continue past the initial 12th month contract unless Campus Recreation is notified via the cancellation form by the 15th of the month prior to the desired cancellation month. Suspensions & Terminations  right arrow down arrow Campus Recreation (CR) has the right to suspend or terminate CR memberships for violations of CR policies or posted rules, failure to pay dues or student fees, or actions which violate any federal, state, or local laws. Additionally, all UC students must abide by the University of Cincinnati’s Student Code of Conduct.  Consequences of violations may include suspension or termination of CR access privileges and referral to Judicial Affairs. Layoff Guarantee right arrow down arrow Annual monthly members who have been laid off may be eligible to waive two months of membership fees and still retain their membership. If after two months the member is still without a job and would like to cancel the membership, they can do so without penalty. Official documentation from Human Resources is required to take advantage of this opportunity, Campus Recreation must be notified before the next monthly payment is due; refunds will not be issued. As with all cancellations, Campus Recreation must be notified via the cancellation form or membership fees will be reinstated in the third month. Campus Recreation Center | 2820 Bearcat Way | Cincinnati OH 45221 | 513-556-0604 Fitness Center at Care Crawley | 3230 Eden Avenue | Cincinnati OH 45267 | 513-558-0604 campusrec@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Campus Recreation Center | 2820 Bearcat Way | Cincinnati OH 45221 | 513-556-0604 Fitness Center at Care Crawley | 3230 Eden Avenue | Cincinnati OH 45267 | 513-558-0604 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top