Skip to content Enter search text All the UW Current site Search scope All the UW Current site MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW Today Helpful Links Computing/IT Employee Self Service Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Menu Home Topics Preparing to teach Teaching different types of classes Course and syllabus design Hybrid/online course development Teaching the first day of class Lecturing Constructing tests Critiquing student projects Grading Cheating or plagiarism Faculty and TA collaboration Engaging students Active learning Discussion Discussing current events of racial violence Responding to disruptions in the classroom Flipping the classroom Student writing Teaching with technology Large lecture instruction Office hours Service learning Inclusive teaching Inclusive teaching at the UW Inclusive teaching strategies Addressing microaggressions in the classroom Teaching first-generation students Teaching international and multilingual students Teaching students with disabilities Teaching student veterans: Resources for instructors Assessing & improving Self-reflection on teaching Gathering student feedback Collaborating with colleagues Assessing student learning A guide to best practice for evaluating teaching Hybrid/online course assessment Just for TAs Different types of TA appointments What helps students learn? Teaching problem solving Leading quiz sections Teaching in labs Teaching foreign languages Policies & professionalism Teaching remotely Learn with Us Advances in Higher Education Research Seminar CTL services Evidence-Based Teaching Program Faculty Fellows Program TA Program Teaching & Learning Symposium Teaching Online 101 Teaching Remotely Pop-Up Series Technology Teaching Fellows Theater for Change UW News & Events News & events Teaching Awards Award descriptions Award nomination form Nomination process & timeline Teaching Award recipients Frequently asked questions About Mission Partnerships Advisory Council for Technology-Enhanced Teaching Tri-Campus Digital Learning Alliance Staff directory Subscribe to CTL News & Information Contact Center for Teaching and Learning Center for Teaching and Learning Inclusive teaching Inclusive teaching practices, strategies, and resources at the UW. Engaging students Read about student-centered active learning approaches to instruction. Hybrid/ online Tools for designing and refining hybrid and online courses. Pandemic teaching Guidance for emergency remote and in-person teaching. News and events Enhance learner engagement in your online and hybrid courses Join Teaching Online 101: Essentials of Effective Online and Hybrid Teaching, an online, asynchronous course designed to enhance your digital course design and digital pedagogy skill set. Along with tutorials on how to build course elements and use tools in Canvas, we’ll share strategies to help learners more easily access content and interact with others in online learning environments. Teaching with UW Technologies Canvas site Want to learn more about technology you can use to support your online instruction? Based on student feedback about what helped and hindered their learning in spring 2020, UW Learning Technologies has expanded its Canvas site on Teaching with UW Technologies. Self-enroll (UW NetID required). Get inspired: Innovative teaching and learning at UW Using theater to encourage equity and inclusion How can people address racism, sexism, xenophobia, and other forms of oppression if they can’t identify when it happens? These and other forms of discrimination can be nuanced and are not always obvious to everyone. CTL’s Theater for Change UW recently partnered with the Center for Neurotechnology to help build skillsets necessary for identifying and addressing bias in learning environments. Learn more about the project in this Center for Neurotechnology feature story. Virtually physics Doctoral student Jared Canright is exploring the potential of virtual reality to explain physics concepts to UW undergraduates. Read more in the College of Arts & Sciences Perspectives Newsletter. EDU Talks: UW College of Education video series UW College of Education faculty members and researchers who partner with schools, communities and organizations address some of the most pressing issues in education. Watch the video series to learn more about their leading-edge research. Teaching teamwork: Helping students collaborate effectively University students are often asked to work in groups, yet few are taught how to work well in teams and often struggle. In this 5-minute video, UW faculty Randy Beam (Communication) and Erin Hill (Physics) describe how they integrate instruction on teamwork into their regular courses to help students succeed in short-term and long-term class projects. Innovators Among Us: Tips and tools Download top tips and best practices recommended by faculty and instructors featured in the Innovators Among Us series. University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA