Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Journalism and Strategic Media About B.A. Program M.A. Program People Syllabi Student Resources News Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact M.A. Program M.A. Program Courses M.A. Program Emphases Integrated Strategic MediaNews and StorytellingVisual MediaMass Media Research M.A. Capstone Information Graduate Certificate JRSM Graduate CertificatesEntrepreneurial JournalismMultimedia StorytellingSocial Media Analysis and Strategy Graduate Handbook Tentative Schedule How to Apply Take Action Apply to our Undergraduate Program Apply to our Master's Program Contact Us AEJMC 2022 Southeast Colloquium Follow Us Online FacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedn Home JRSM M.A. Program Capstone Information Capstone Information The master's degree in Journalism and Strategic Media is a blend of academic and professional content. While some of the graduates have gone on to academic careers, more graduates have moved up in their jobs at media organizations. You will have eight years to complete your degree. Work closely with your advisor to develop your personal plan at the very beginning of your studies. Graduate Thesis vs. Project What's the difference? Thesis A thesis uses the academic research method to examine a phenomenon in mass communication, or to consider a legal, historical, or visual cases related to journalism and mass communication. A thesis generally is written as an academic article and has five sections: 1. Introduction 2. Literature review 3. Methodology 4. Results and 5. Discussion. A thesis must be theoretically based and collect original data and analyze it, and discuss how your research fits in with established knowledge. A thesis might use content analysis, survey, experiment, focus groups, in-depth interviews, document analysis, ethnography, legal analysis, historical analysis, or visual analysis. The student must defend his or her thesis as a proposal and as the final document. Committee of at least 3 faculty (at least 2 from Journalism and Strategic Media). Students must take 6 credit hours of Thesis credit, and cannot count more than 6 toward graduation, but may take more if needed. Graduate assistants on the thesis path may take only 6 hours of thesis credit in their final semesters and remain on assistantship. A thesis might need approval from the Institutional Review Board, depending on the type of research. Project In a project, students create an original work that can be used by a professional outlet. The way a project is completed depends on the type of work being done. Students are expected to complete a project that would be useful in their careers. A professional project can take many forms. You must include an executive summary to begin your project. You must determine the expectations and guidelines for your project with your chair. The student must create original work. It might be a marketing plan, business startup, a communications plan for a nonprofit organization, a series of research-based journalism articles, or a visual creative project. The quality of work in a project is expected to be equal to a thesis. You must defend your project as a proposal and as the final document. Committee of at least 2 Journalism and Strategic Media faculty; additional outside members are welcome at the students' choice. Students must take 3 credit hours of Project credit, and cannot count more than 3 toward graduation, but may take more if needed. A project might need approval from the Institutional Review Board, depending on the type of research. Graduate committee members Can chair a thesis or project: Dr. David Arant Dr. Robert Byrd Prof. Tori Cliff Dr. Teri Del Rosso Prof. Pam Denney Dr. Matthew Haught Dr. Joseph Hayden Dr. Thomas Hrach Prof. Kim Marks Malone Prof. Joel Nichols Dr. Ruoxu Wang Dr. Jin Yang Can serve on a thesis or project committee: Dr. David Arant Dr. Robert Byrd Prof. Tori Cliff* Dr. Teri Del Rosso Prof. Pam Denney* Dr. Matthew Haught Dr. Joseph Hayden Dr. Thomas Hrach Prof. Candy Justice* Prof. Kim Marks Malone* Prof. Joel Nichols* Prof. Otis Sanford* Dr. Ruoxu Wang Dr. Jin Yang Note: * denotes affiliate or adjunct faculty. Only one committee member can be from this group. Graduate Deadlines Students completing a thesis or project have specific guidelines from the Department of Journalism and the Graduate School. Please check with the Graduate School for semester-specific deadlines. Students must give faculty members two weeks to read the final draft before a defense. Students should check with their chair to schedule deadlines for proposal defenses. Thesis deadlines Fall Spring Summer Final draft to committee October 15 March 15 June 15 Defense deadline November 1 April 1 July 1 Project deadlines Fall Spring Summer Final draft to committee November 1 April 1 July 1 Defense deadline November 15 April 15 July 15 Forms for Graduate Students Please see the Forms page for all Internship forms, Student Travel request forms, Permit request forms or forms related to Projects, Theses, Graduation and Assistantships . Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 9/15/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.