Skip Navigation menu search Sign-ons CyMail Outlook Canvas AccessPlus Workday More Directory Maps Contact Us Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Office of Research Ethics menu Home Compliance Committees Additional ORE Support Areas About Us Reporting Concerns Why Comply? How to Comply Responsible Conduct of Research ClinicalTrials.gov Registration Effective July 1, 2020, Iowa State University’s Office of the Vice President for Research (OVPR) launched the newly formed Office of Research Ethics (ORE), merging and replacing its former Office for Responsible Research and Office of Research Integrity. By combining these units, the Office of Research Ethics will create a one-stop-shop for researchers to assist in meeting the ethics and compliance aspects of carrying out their research. While the website for the Office of Research Ethics is under development, we invite you to utilize this current compliance website for your human subjects research, animal research, research involving biohazards, and research involving radioactive materials needs. The purpose of the compliance review committees shown below is to review and approve all relevant proposals to ensure that they are in compliance with University, local, state, federal, and funding agency regulations for research. For other services of the Office of Research Ethics (ORE) including conflicts of interest and commitment; export controls; unmanned aircraft systems; foreign influence; research integrity; and training/prevention programs, please see the ORE links in the navigation panel to the left. (click on a photo for more information about that committee) Humans - IRB Animals - IACUC Biohazards - IBC Radiation - RSC COVID-19 Information: Notification to Participants About Face Masks in Research Laboratories (NEW: 8.17.2021) Restrictions Lifted on Face-to-Face Human Subjects Research (EFFECTIVE: May 21, 2021) Office Hours: Summer Office Hours: May 16-August 12 ORE staff are available by appointment only from 7:30 am - 4:00 pm, Monday through Friday. Please call 515-294-1516 to make an appointment. What's New? Conflicts of Interest and Commitment (COIC) Disclosure Form moves from AccessPlus to IRBManager Conflicts of Interest and Committment Procedures, Applications, and Guidance (UPDATED: 01-08-2021) Virtual One-on-One Training Sessions Now Offered for a-tune Training Working Remotely with Human Subjects Research: Privacy and Confidentiality Considerations (UPDATED: 10-20-2020) Office of Research Ethics, 2420 Lincoln Way, Suite 202, Ames, IA 50014, 515-294-1516, Contact Us. Copyright © 1995-2022, Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved.