Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Residence Life & Student Housing (RLSH) About Apply for Housing Apply for Housing SMU Housing Portal Rate and Fees Living On Campus Living On Campus Residential Commons Upper-Division Housing Apartments Policies Get Involved Get Involved Dallas Community Departments Faculty Graduate Students Staff Undergraduate Students Make A Request ☰ RLSH Make A Request Work Orders Work Orders Maintenance personnel can help residents with routine repairs such as a clogged drain, a broken blind, a leak, etc. We try to make the process worry-free. Learn more about the work order process managed by SMU's Office of Facilities Management and Planning. Request regular maintenance To request maintenance service, a resident must submit a request using the Facilities Planning and Management Work Order system called SMU Stable. You don't need to wait in their room for maintenance. Whenever a resident submits a request, it gives the staff permission to enter the room and make necessary repairs. If the item is an emergency, the staff may enter without having a work order so the problem can be addressed immediately to prevent further damage. Emergency maintenance issues If a facility issue causes a threat to people or the facilities, please call the SMU Police Department at 214.768.3333 or the Resident Assistant (RA) on call for the building between 8 p.m. and 8 a.m. Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share