Essential Skills Workshops - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Counseling and Psychological Services Submit Close Student Affairs and Enrollment Services Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Counseling and Psychological Services Home About Us Accreditations Contact & Location Information Statement on Diversity Office Hours Mission and Vision CAPS Staff Confidentiality Eligibility for CAPS Services Fees Services First Visit (Triage) Essential Skills Workshops Single Session Therapy (SST) Group Counseling Couples Counseling (Short-Term) Individual Counseling (Short-Term) Community Referrals Crisis Intervention CAPS Defusing and Debriefing Process Conduct Assessment and Response Team Helping Students of Concern Get help for Sexual Assault What to do if you are in crisis Resources Harrassment, Assault/Abuse English Language Learners Faculty & Staff Parents & Loved Ones Race Related Stress Resources Self-Help Resources Students First Generation College Students What is Greek Life? International Students LGBTQIA Career Resources Student Athletes Students of Color Students with Children Students with DisABILITIES Returning Adult Students Veterans Texas Sanctuary Cities FAQ Undocumented Students DACA: What You Need to Know DACA FAQ Dream Scholars UH Resources COVID-19 Resources Outreach Outreach Request College Student Grief Awareness Let's Talk Program CAPS Liaisons Suicide Prevention Training: QPR Coogs Conquer (C-2) Series Support Groups Latinas REACH Sista Circle: Black Grads Rainbow Wellness Group Newsletters Calendar Clinical Training APA Internship Practicum Training Forms Appeals Authorization to Release of Medical Records Informed Consent for Counseling Services Medical Withdrawal Application Giving UH Home Counseling and Psychological Services Services Essential Skills Workshops Services First Visit (Triage) Essential Skills Workshops Single Session Therapy (SST) Group Counseling Couples Counseling (Short-Term) Individual Counseling (Short-Term) Community Referrals Essential Skills Workshops More than 2 out of 3 students who come to CAPS report that anxiety or depression is their main concern. Luckily, very effective techniques and self-help methods exist that can help you feel less depressed and more in control of your anxiety. And the best thing is, you can implement these on your own, with just a little bit of knowledge and practice. CAPS is proud to offer two brand new essential skills workshops that will teach you the skills you need to know to feel more in control and better equipped to deal with the challenges in your life. Anxiety Toolbox: This 2-week workshop helps you to understand and implement some of the latest strategies for preventing and managing excessive and debilitating anxiety and live a calmer and more balanced life. Getting Unstuck: This 2-week workshop helps you understand some of the causes of depression and implement strategies that can help get you unstuck. What is the structure of the essential skills workshops? Workshops are much like attending a class. Students meet for 1.5 hours each week for 2 weeks. Each week a CAPS clinician will provide attendees with new information and guide students to practice new techniques they can implement in their lives. When and where do the workshops take place? We offer essential skills workshops on different days and at different times of the week. Ask your CAPS counselor for more information to find the workshop that works best with your schedule. Can I just show up to an Essential Skills Workshop? No, essential skills workshops are only for CAPS clients and you will need to be referred to a workshop by a CAPS counselor. If you would like to learn skills to better manage anxiety or depression, you can attend a triage appointment and let your counselor know. They will then help you determine if an essential skills workshop is a good fit for you. Is a workshop a good fit? A workshop may be a good fit for you if: You are having a hard time dealing with anxiety or depression You are the type of person who doesn’t just want to talk about your issues but want to know what you can do about your situation and how to take action. You are motivated to learn new skills and ready to implement changes on your own. Here is what students say: “It has assisted on putting my life back on track” “It helped me to be more aware of the situation around me and provided me with several coping/ improvement methods” “It was very insightful” “Topics and methods are very helpful” Ready to take the next step? Attend a free triage appointment to get your needs assessed and see if a workshop is right for you Essential Skills Workshop Schedule Spring 2022 Workshop Dates Time Location Anxiety Toolbox 1/27 and 2/3 1-2:30pm Zoom Anxiety Toolbox 2/8 and 2/15 3-4:30pm Zoom Getting Unstuck 2/15 and 2/22 1-2:30pm Zoom Anxiety Toolbox 2/17 and 2/24 1-2:30pm SSC1 Anxiety Toolbox 2/28 and 3/7 3-4:30pm Zoom Anxiety Toolbox 3/8 and 3/22 1-2:30pm Zoom Anxiety Toolbox 3/22 and 3/29 1-2:30pm SSC1 Getting Unstuck 3/24 and 3/31 1-2:30pm Zoom Anxiety Toolbox 4/4 and 4/11 10:30-12pm Zoom Anxiety Toolbox 4/15 and 4/22 3-4:30pm Zoom Getting Unstuck 4/20 and 4/27 3-4:30pm Zoom Anxiety Toolbox 4/25 and 5/2 1-2:30pm SSC1 Anxiety Toolbox 5/4 and 5/11 10:30-12pm Zoom What is the structure of the essential skills workshops? When and where do the workshops take place? Can I just show up to an Essential Skills Workshop? Is a workshop a good fit? Here is what students say: Ready to take the next step? Essential Skills Workshop Schedule Spring 2022Back to top University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies