How to Apply - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to UH Graduate School Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Graduate School COVID-19 Updates Prospective/Admitted Students Current Students Admissions Where to Begin How to Apply Programs and Colleges Online Programs Graduate Certificate Programs Dual Degree Programs Accelerated Pathway Program Admission Contacts and Deadlines International Students International Applicants English Language Proficiency Transcript Information International Admitted Students I-20 and Financial Backing Information GRE/GMAT Waiver Check Application Status Admitted Students Academics Graduate Programs Masters Programs Doctoral Programs Online Programs Graduate Certificates Dual-Degree Programs Accelerated Pathway Programs Doctoral Characteristics Graduate Program Review Academic Advising Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Student Handbook Thesis & Dissertation Outstanding Thesis Award Outstanding Dissertation Award Dissertation Accelerator CIRTL Co-curricular PD Registration International Students Where to Begin How to Apply International Applicants English Language Proficiency Transcript Information International Admitted Students I-20 and Financial Backing Information Graduate Funding How to Fund Graduate School Tuition & Fees Forms & Procedures Events Graduate Appreciation Week Calendar Graduate Orientation Graduate School Fair 3MT Ombuds About Graduate School Team Graduate & Professional Studies Committee (GPSC) Graduate & Professional Students Association (GPSA) Contact Us Contact Us FAQ's UH Home UH Graduate School Admissions How to Apply How to Apply to UH Graduate School Step 1: Start an Application The University of Houston Graduate School uses ApplyWeb for the processing of graduate applications. Proceed to the link below to create an ApplyWeb account, submit an application, review a submitted application, and access post-submission functionality. Apply Now If you are applying to a professional program, proceed to the appropriate link below to begin your application. Law Nursing Optometry Pharmacy Step 2: Choose a Program Admissions requirements vary by program. Please consult the program website to verify which information is required to complete the application. Step 3: Submit Transcripts Scanned copies of official transcripts can be uploaded as PDF files and may be used by programs to make admission decisions. Please follow these instructions to properly scan and upload your transcript. If admitted, however, you will not be able to enroll without the official transcript(s) showing undergraduate degree conferral on file. For International Students, who wish to enroll after receiving acceptance, official transcripts and degree certificates must be sent to the University of Houston Graduate School in envelopes sealed and stamped by the issuing university. Electronic academic documents sent from international institutions will not be accepted. Students whose universities issue only one set of official documents can have their academic records attested and signed by the university registrar certifying the documents are true copies of the originals or may bring the original document to the Graduate School for authentication upon arrival at University of Houston. Official transcript(s) should be sent to: Regular Mail: Express Mail: Electronic or "Speede" Transcript: University of Houston Graduate Admissions P.O. Box 3947 Houston, TX 77253-3947 University of Houston Graduate Admissions 4302 University Dr, Rm 102 Houston, TX 77204-2012 Within the U.S., the fastest way to send your transcript is electronically. Please inquire at your previous institution about this option. Electronic transcripts can be delivered via email to gradschool@uh.edu. Step 4: Submit Test Scores Test Scores (GRE, GMAT, etc.) should be sent by the testing agency. Refer to the program's website for test score requirements. Use school code 6870 when reporting test scores to University of Houston. International applicants have to satisfy English proficiency requirements via satisfactory scores on the TOEFL or IELTS standardized exams. Use school code 6870 to report TOEFL scores. IELTS scores should be sent electronically to The University of Houston. Step 5: Submit Required Documents Letters of Recommendation are gathered electronically. You will be asked to provide e-mail addresses of your references. Refer to the program's website for the required number of letters. Personal Statement requirements vary by program. Refer to the program's website for instructions. Resume/Curriculum Vitae requirements vary by program. Refer to the program's website for instructions. Additional/Supplemental Materials may include a writing sample, a portfolio, a self-study, etc. Refer to the program's website for instructions. Step 6: Submit Your Application Application fees are $50 for domestic applicants, $80 for international applicants and $25 for non-degree (Certificate based programs). Limited application fee waivers are available. Please check with program regarding eligibility for application fee waivers. International Students (If you have attended an institution outside of the United States, please see the Graduate School's International Applicants Transcript Information for country-specific requirements. International applicants are strongly encouraged to upload the following documents, which will be required to obtain a student visa if admitted: A scanned copy of passport page(s) showing full name, date of birth, passport number and expiration date, photo of the passport holder Financial Backing 4302 University Dr, Rm 102 Houston, TX 77204-2012 (713) 743-5284 A - Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Maps Careers at UH Directory Emergency Information Get Help Health Center Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Parking Sexual Misconduct Reporting & Awareness Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies