COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU Fast Facts Stop Video Shocker Nation an amazing place to be and a rising force in higher education, research and innovation. Here are some of the numbers that prove it. Hover over the panels to get more information, or use the category buttons at the bottom of the page to dive deeper. High quality and affordable tuition make Wichita State a great value. We're among the most affordable four-year colleges and universities in the U.S. See how we stack up Wichita State continues to rise in the National Science Foundation's ranking of U.S. college engineering R&D expenditures Learn more For 10 straight years, WSU has been the top transfer destination for Kansas community college students. Potential transfer students can see how the credits they have already taken can apply to different degrees by using our Transfer Gateway. Learn more Since 2010, Wichita State University is one of the fastest-growing research universities in the United States. Learn more The Master of Innovation Design (MID) degree program merges arts, science and technology courses, creating opportunities for student/faculty collaboration across WSU’s colleges Learn more GoCreate is a creative community workspace open to creators of all ages and experiences. Bring an idea and they will help make it come to life! Learn more Wichita State's research and academic capacity is elevated and expanded by a growing list of centers and institutes that serve as conduits for new knowledge and insight. Learn more The Shocker Innovation Corps nurtures and supports WSU entrepreneurial teams interested in transitioning their STEM ideas, devices, processes or other intellectual activities into the marketplace. Learn more The College of Innovation & Design and the Center for Entrepreneurship collaborate to deliver programming around innovation, education, venture creation, and making connections to support WSU and regional startups. Learn more Wichita State's Center for Entrepreneurship's Shocker New Venture Competition helps student develop and pitch their ideas and business concepts to a panel of business, finance and industry professionals. Learn more WSU's Youngmeyer Ranch, Ninnescah Reserve, Gerber Reserve and Sellers Reserve field stations support research, instruction, conservation and outreach. Learn more WSU Fast Facts Categories: Fast Facts Home Athletics Applied Learning Barton School of Business Campus Expansion College of Applied Studies College of Engineering College of Fine Arts College of Health Professions University Dashboards Fairmount College of Liberal Arts & Sciences Graduate School Honors College College of Innovation and Design Student Life Wichita 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©