COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU Fast Facts: College of Fine Arts WSU Fast Facts Categories: Fast Facts Home Athletics Applied Learning Barton School of Business Campus Expansion College of Applied Studies College of Engineering College of Fine Arts College of Health Professions University Dashboards Fairmount College of Liberal Arts & Sciences Graduate School Honors College College of Innovation and Design Student Life Wichita College of Fine Arts Fast Facts As the state’s only comprehensive college of fine arts, WSU’s College of Fine Arts brings together all of the visual and performing arts within one college It offers students the chance to train with legends (such as faculty opera stars Sam Ramey and Alan Held) and showcase skills in venues big and small throughout Kansas’ center of arts and culture. WSU is a haven for creativity and is home to theaters, labs and studios—and more than 500 annual fine arts performances and presentations each year. The Ulrich Museum of Art’s collection contains more than 6,000 works of modern and contemporary art. The campus boasts one of the largest and most renowned outdoor sculpture collections of its kind. Wiedemann Hall is home to the great Marcussen organ, the first of its kind to be built in North America. WSU students get free admissions to all fine arts performances. Wichita State alumni Joyce DiDonato, Samuel Ramey, Alan Held and James Billings are Grammy-winning opera singers. Karla Burns is a Tony-nominated Broadway performers. The distinctive mural by Joan Miro that adorns the exterior of the Ulrich Museum is composed of more than one million pieces of colored venetian glass. It is the only mural the Spanish master created on the North American continent. WSU students, faculty and staff comprise about 85 percent of the professional Wichita Symphony Orchestra. SHIFTSPACE gallery is WSU’s student-run gallery, located in downtown Wichita, which brings WSU artists and the community together. Shocker Studios offers an interdisciplinary BAA in media arts (one of only a handful in the country)—with creative tracks in animation, audio production, game design and filmmaking. The only dance program in the state to be nationally accredited by the National Association of Schools of Dance (NASD). 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©