By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Life Housing Graduate Students More from this Section South Campus Off-Campus Services Living Learning Communities Residence Facilities & Rates First-Year Housing FAQ Housing for Graduate Students Make a home for you and your family close to or on campus with various housing, childcare, and support options. The University is bordered by both suburban and urban residential neighborhoods. Some students prefer city living and stay downtown, while others reside in apartments that are near or on campus. Begin your housing search early-use the Syracuse University Off-Campus Housing Finder to explore housing options in the Syracuse area. Please note that the University offers additional guidance and support through the Office of Off-Campus and Commuter Services. Search for housing Families & Partners Syracuse University welcomes your spouse/partner and/or children. There are various resources on campus and in the community to help families adapt to life in Syracuse. On campus, all spouses, domestic partners, and dependents may use Syracuse’s fitness facilities (SUID card required). Some on-campus child care and education options may be available for your children, depending upon capacity. And Central New York prides itself on its quality K-12 education. There are a number of public and independent schools to meet your childrens’ educational needs within the city, through the Syracuse City School District, and in the surrounding suburbs. Recreation and Exercise Facilities ID Card Services Psychological Services Center Syracuse University Early Education and Child Care Center Bernice M. Wright Nursery School Public area K-12 schools Private and independent schools Related Pages Accessibility and Diversity We work to educate members of the University about their rights and responsibilities with regard to how they are treated and how they treat others. Connective Corridor The Corridor creates a connection between the City and University, making it easier and more feasible for students to access many great downtown activities. Recreation and Exercise Facilities Our variety of gymnasiums, fitness centers, and recreation areas on campus will help you stay active and healthy. Videos Welcome to the University Neighborhood Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy