Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America Home About Events News Programs + Initiatives How Structural Racism Works Project CSREA Fellows Program Brown Faculty Fellows Visiting Faculty Fellows Postdoctoral Fellows Brown Practitioner Fellows Practitioner Fellows Graduate Student Fellows Faculty Research + Teaching Development Opportunities For Graduate Students Event Recordings Give to CSREA Race & Series Site Navigation Home About History Staff Advisors Postdoctoral, Faculty, and Graduate Fellows Visiting Faculty Practitioner Fellows Message from the Director Location & Contact Information Annual Reports CSREA Q&A with Tricia Rose Events Past Events Co-sponsorship Requests Featured Events Around Campus Signature Series Underlying Conditions The Third Rail Series Writing for a Broken World What I Am Thinking About Now "First Works" Series Race at the Center of the Humanities New Book Talks STEM Conversation Series Dr. Jean Shim Yun Lecture Series Graduate Professionalization Workshop Series Critical Conversations Summer Reading Series News Programs + Initiatives How Structural Racism Works Project CSREA Fellows Program Brown Faculty Fellows Visiting Faculty Fellows Postdoctoral Fellows Brown Practitioner Fellows Practitioner Fellows Frequently Asked Questions Graduate Student Fellows Faculty Research + Teaching Development Faculty Grants Course Innovation Grant Humanities Lab The Mass Incarceration Lab @ CSREA Manuscript Workshops Opportunities For Graduate Students Event Recordings Give to CSREA Race & Series Brown Practitioner Fellows Application deadline: Thursday, March 31st, 2022, for spring 2023. CSREA invites artists, media makers, and writers internal to Brown University (tenured and other long-term faculty) whose work focuses on race, ethnicity, and/or indigeneity in the United States and work that connects the U.S. to related transnational contexts, to apply to be a Brown Practitioner Fellow for the spring 2023 academic term. Applicants should be pursuing creative or nonfiction projects that are primarily non-academic in nature. To workshop scholarly works, please see the application for Brown Faculty Fellows. This program is a virtual spring semester fellowship. The terms of the program may be subject to change. THE FELLOWSHIP Awardees will receive a $2,500 stipend for a semester-long fellowship and have access to up to $1,000 in research/project funds Attendance at the virtual Practitioner Fellows Workshop (number of sessions to be determined) is required Participation at an in-person Practitioner Fellows Capstone where participants will present their work is required Fellows are expected to participate in social community-building activities sponsored by the Center (e.g. Wind Down Wednesdays, lectures, events, etc.) ELIGIBILITY For Brown University faculty of all ranks working on issues of race, ethnicity, and/or indigeneity in the U.S. and in the Americas or in related transnational contexts, who are pursuing creative and nonfiction projects that are non-academic in nature. Applicants must: Be a member of the regular faculty Have the support of their Department Chair for the fellowship APPLICATION PROCESS Applicants must complete this application form to be fully considered. Applications will be reviewed by the CSREA Faculty Advisory Board (FAB). Other relevant faculty within or external to Brown may be consulted at the discretion of the FAB. DEADLINE Applications for the spring 2023 term are due on Thursday, March 31st, 2022. Awardees will be notified in May 2022. The first convening of the selected cohort of fellows will be in January 2023. Questions? Please contact CSREA Program Coordinator, Maggie Murphy. APPLICATION FORM Programs + Initiatives How Structural Racism Works Project CSREA Fellows Program Brown Faculty Fellows Visiting Faculty Fellows Postdoctoral Fellows Brown Practitioner Fellows Practitioner Fellows Graduate Student Fellows Faculty Research + Teaching Development Opportunities For Graduate Students Stay Connected Subscribe to our newsletter Visit Our YouTube Channel The Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America (CSREA) The Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America (CSREA) Brown University Box 2032 96 Waterman Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-5775 Fax: 401-863-5784 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top