Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary COLLEGE OF ARTS & SCIENCES ASIAN LANGUAGES AND LITERATURE HINDI Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 HINDI 101 Elementary Hindi (5) Modern literary Hindi. Reading, writing, and conversation. Introduction to Devanagai script. First in a sequence of three. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: HINDI 101 HINDI 102 Elementary Hindi (5) Modern literary Hindi. Reading, writing, and conversation. Introduction to Devanagari script. Second in a sequence of three. Prerequisite: HINDI 101. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: HINDI 102 HINDI 103 Elementary Hindi (5) Modern literary Hindi. Reading, writing, and conversation. Introduction to Devanagari script. Third in a sequence of three. Prerequisite: HINDI 102. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: HINDI 103 HINDI 201 Intermediate Hindi (5) VLPA Systematic expansion of vocabulary and grammar. Intermediate-level prose and poetry readings. Oral drills. First in a sequence of three. Prerequisite: HINDI 103. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: HINDI 201 HINDI 202 Intermediate Hindi (5) VLPA Systematic expansion of vocabulary and grammar. Intermediate-level prose and poetry readings. Oral drills. Second in a sequence of three. Prerequisite: HINDI 201. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: HINDI 202 HINDI 203 Intermediate Hindi (5) VLPA Systematic expansion of vocabulary and grammar. Intermediate-level prose and poetry readings. Oral drills. Third in a sequence of three. Prerequisite: HINDI 202. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: HINDI 203 HINDI 301 Advanced Hindi (5) VLPA Rapid reading of contemporary Hindi prose, poetry, and drama. Advanced conversation and composition. First in a sequence of three. Prerequisite: HINDI 203. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: HINDI 301 HINDI 302 Advanced Hindi (5) VLPA Rapid reading of contemporary Hindi prose, poetry, and drama. Advanced conversation and composition. Second in a sequence of three. Prerequisite: HINDI 301. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: HINDI 302 HINDI 303 Advanced Hindi (5) VLPA Rapid reading of contemporary Hindi prose, poetry, and drama. Advanced conversation and composition. Third in a sequence of three. Prerequisite: HINDI 302. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: HINDI 303 HINDI 321 Advanced Hindi Third Year: The Short Story (5, max. 15) VLPA Jennifer E Dubrow Surveys the development of the short story in Hindi, with readings of representative texts and discussion of their historical and cultural contexts. Prerequisite: HINDI 203. View course details in MyPlan: HINDI 321 HINDI 323 Advanced Hindi Third Year: The Novel (5, max. 15) VLPA Jennifer E Dubrow Surveys the development of the novel in Hindi, with readings of representative texts and discussion of their historical and cultural contexts. Prerequisite: HINDI 203. View course details in MyPlan: HINDI 323 HINDI 404 Derivational Morphology of Hindi/Urdu (5) VLPA A systematic introduction to the derivational morphology of Hindi/Urdu. Sanskrit, Persian, Arabic, and English elements in Hindi/Urdu. Treatment of derivational prefixes and suffixes, stem alternations, and methods of compound formation. Prerequisite: HINDI 203. View course details in MyPlan: HINDI 404 HINDI 421 Survey of Modern Hindi Literature: Short Story (5) VLPA/I&S H. PAUWELS Survey of Hindi literature from the late nineteenth century to the present. Readings from representative short stories situated in their socio-historical context and related to popular perception, a. o. Bollywood films. Prerequisite: HINDI 303 or instructor's permission. View course details in MyPlan: HINDI 421 HINDI 422 Survey of Modern Hindi Literature: Poetry (5) VLPA/I&S H. PAUWELS Survey of Hindi literature from the late nineteenth century to the present. Readings from representative poems situated in their socio-historical context and related to popular perception, a. o. Bollywood films. Prerequisite: HINDI 303. View course details in MyPlan: HINDI 422 HINDI 423 Survey of Modern Hindi Literature: Novel (5, max. 15) VLPA H. PAUWELS Survey of Hindi literature from the late nineteenth century to the present. Includes readings from representative novels, situated in their socio-historical context, and related to popular perception, a. o. Bollywood films. Prerequisite: HINDI 303. View course details in MyPlan: HINDI 423 HINDI 424 Survey of Modern Hindi/Urdu Literature: Drama (5, max. 15) I&S/VLPA H. PAUWELS Survey of Hindi-Urdu literature from the late nineteenth century to the present. Readings from representative dramas. The modern Hindi-Urdu theater that has developed in North India is important historically and, through its influence on the popular movies of Bollywood, forms an important part of contemporary popular culture of South Asia. Offered: jointly with URDU 424; W. View course details in MyPlan: HINDI 424 HINDI 431 Advanced Conversational Hindi (3, max. 9) VLPA Conversational practice in contemporary Hindi. Prerequisite: HINDI 203. View course details in MyPlan: HINDI 431 HINDI 451 Advanced Hindi Readings (5, max. 15) VLPA Readings in modern standard Hindi prose texts drawn from diverse disciplines. Prerequisite: HINDI 303. View course details in MyPlan: HINDI 451 HINDI 499 Undergraduate Research (3-5, max. 15) Primarily for Hindi language and literature majors. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: HINDI 499 HINDI 501 Studies in Classical Hindi Literature (Braj) (5, max. 15) I&S/VLPA Heidi R Pauwels Introduction to Classical Hindi literature in Braj. Readings of selected prose and poetry by Surdas, Raskhan, Bihari, and others, situated in their socio-historical context and related to popular perception, in contemporary music recordings, theatrical performances, and Bollywood films. Prerequisite: HINDI 303 or higher or instructor permission. View course details in MyPlan: HINDI 501 HINDI 502 Studies in Classical Hindi Literature (Avahdi) (2/5, max. 15) VLPA/I&S H. PAUWELS Introduction to Classical Hindi-Urdu literature in Avadhi. Readings of selected poetry by Tulsidas, Malik Muhammad Jayasi, Qutban Suhravardi, and others, situated in their socio-historical context and related to popular perception, in contemporary music recordings, theatrical performances, and Bollywood films. Prerequisite: HINDI 303 or higher or by special permission. View course details in MyPlan: HINDI 502 HINDI 503 Studies in Classical Hindi Literature (Sant Bhasha) (2/5, max. 15) VLPA/I&S H. PAUWELS Introduction to the language and literature of Sant poets. Readings include works by and about Kabir, Raidas, Dadu, and others, including from Sikh sacred scriptures, situated in the historical context and with reference to contemporary music recordings, theatrical performances, and also Bollywood film and television show versions of poets' lives. Prerequisite: HINDI 303 or equivalent. View course details in MyPlan: HINDI 503 HINDI 504 Studies in Classical Hindi Literature (Rajasthani) (5) VLPA/I&S H. PAUWELS Introduction to the literary language of Rajasthan. Includes reading of extracts from representative selections from Rajasthani literature, situated in their socio-historical context, and related to popular perception in contemporary music recordings, theatrical performances, and Bollywood films. Prerequisite: HINDI 303 or higher or instructor permission. View course details in MyPlan: HINDI 504 HINDI 510 Structure of Hindi (3) Grammatical analysis of Hindi phonology, syntax, and semantics. Readings from both Western and native grammarians. Prerequisite: HINDI 403 or permission of instructor. Instructors: Shapiro View course details in MyPlan: HINDI 510 HINDI 524 Survey of Modern Hindi/Urdu Literature: Drama (5, max. 15) H. PAUWELS Survey of Hindi-Urdu literature from the late nineteenth century to the present. Readings from representative dramas. Modern Hindi-Urdu theater in North India is important historically and, its influence on popular movies of Bollywood, forms an important part of contemporary popular culture of South Asia. Offered: jointly with URDU 524; W. View course details in MyPlan: HINDI 524 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022