Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Accessibility Resources right arrow down arrow Student Resources right arrow down arrow Registration right arrow down arrow Online Application for Services Registration FAQ Communication Access Team right arrow down arrow CAT Resources Interpreter/CART/Captioning Request Form Semester Services Request Form Feedback Form Accommodation Form Purpose and Explanation Accessible Technology right arrow down arrow Alternative Format Request Policy and Procedure Alternative Format Request Form Service Animals and Assistance Animals right arrow down arrow Assistance Animal Student Request Form Service Animal and Assistance Animal Policy Housing Accommodation right arrow down arrow Student Housing Accommodation Request Form College-to-Career Partnership Remote Testing Accommodations FAQ COVID-19 Resources for Students Accommodation Form Request Faculty Resources right arrow down arrow Academic Accommodations and Faculty Responsibility COVID-19 Resources for Faculty Policies and Grievance Procedure Electronic Accessibility AR Staff Home » Campus Life » Accessibility Resources » Electronic Accessibility Electronic Accessibility Creating Accessible Courses Thinking about accessibility from the point of creating courses and course content is a key step in ensuring full and equal access to online course material for all students. We recommend starting with the following strategies: Create an Accessible Syllabus To ensure that your syllabus is accessible, we recommend using the template provided by the Center for the Enhancement of Teaching & Learning (CET&L). The CET&L Course Design Page, contains recommended topics from UC Faculty Senate, including ways to design an accessible syllabus. Provide Alternative Formats for your course materials There are a number of things we can do quickly and easily to make our course content more accessible for all students. The following are a few strategies, tips, and resources to help get you started. Start with accessibility in mind and prioritize new course content. It is much easier and efficient to prioritize making new content accessible, then it is to fix old content. Use this as an opportunity to revistist your old course content and update the resources you provide to your students. The following resources can help you get started with course content, whether you are starting from scratch, or making your existing content more accessible, including guidance, tutorials and checklists for accessible: Documents Websites Video & Media Canvas Courses Purchasing What to do if you have a student requesting Alternative Formats, or Captioning Accommodations You are responsible for providing basic accessibility, such as that provided in the previous resources, but there are times when a student may require additional access to content. If a student makes a direct request for additional accommodation beyond the access you have provided, the student should reach out directly to Accessibility Resources. Accessibility Resources will work directly with the student or reach out to you to address the content. Typical Accommodations for which a student will contact Accessibility Resources: Alternative Formats - this usually entails providing digital or accessible versions of required and recommended texts. You can assist by ensuring that the texts you require students to acquire have alternative formats, which may Kindle versions, or digital versions provided through the library. An Assistive Technologist from Accessibility Resources may contact you if the student requires additional access to other course materials. Captioning - A student may request that all audio or multimedia content be captioned. The student will request material be captioned through the Accessibility Resources website. You can assist by selecting content that already has captions provided, and if you are showing content during class always enable captions. Accessibility Resources University of Cincinnati 210 University Pavilion PO Box 210213 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0213 Tel: (513) 556-6823 Fax: (513) 556-1383 Email: accessresources@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Accessibility Resources University of Cincinnati 210 University Pavilion PO Box 210213 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0213 Tel: (513) 556-6823 Fax: (513) 556-1383 Email: accessresources@uc.edu © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top