Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Preferred Name Use You are here Home Life at Temple Diversity & Inclusivity Preferred Name Use Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Preferred Name Use Pronoun Use and Gender Identity Temple Thought Leaders Housing & Dining Health & Wellness COVID-19: Keeping Our Community Safe & Healthy COVID-19 FAQ Testing & Tracing Vaccines Academics, Tuition & Aid Temple HEERF III Grant Student Housing & On-campus Life Work-life for Faculty & Staff Faculty Teaching Information Return Scenario Planning Temple Community Health Advisory Group University Communication Vaccination Rates and Active COVID-19 Cases at Temple University International Campuses and Programs City Life Philadelphia Visiting Temple Accommodations Dining Options Religious Services Information FAQs Safety Main Campus and Philadelphia Safety FAQ Contact Temple RAVE Temple Guardian App Community Programs and Research University News Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Campus Life Arts and Culture Clubs and Organizations Housing, Dining and OWLcards Parking and Transportation Safety Student Banking Student Centers Wireless, Computers and Phone Academics Advising and Academic Support Courses and Calendars International Students Libraries Registration, Grades and Books Schools and Colleges Health and Wellness Athletics and Fitness Health and Counseling Tuition and Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition and Billing Careers and Internships Career Center Internships Student Jobs Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees Presidential Search President University Leadership Board of Trustees Updates Past Presidents 2019 State of the University History & Traditions Russell Conwell Temple Traditions Acres of Diamonds Honorary Degrees Past Honorary Degree Recipients Temple Health News & Media Media Mentions Temple University Wallpapers Temple's Impact Career in Charitable Change Fueled by Temple Experiences Advancing Breast Cancer Research Leaders in HIV Research 21st-century Learning Temple Firsts Paving the Way Medical & Community Support Student Support Contact members of Strategic Marketing and Communications Offices Public Information Facts About Temple Faculty & Staff Resources Working at Temple Calendars and Time Off Holiday Schedule Careers at Temple Human Resources Performance and Training Business Services Catering Exception Policy Double Tree Catering/ Conferences Contact Frequently Asked Questions Trademark Licensing Policy Corporate Responsibility Logo and Graphics Guide Guidelines for Trademark Use The Student, Faculty and Staff Guide to Ordering Licensed Temple Products Becoming Licensed Trademark and Licensing FAQ Where to Buy Temple Gear University-approved Hotels Club Quarters DoubleTree Hotel Hilton Garden Inn Hilton Philadelphia at Penn's Landing Loews Hotel Sonesta Philadelphia The Conwell Inn Campus Services Computers, Email and Phones Conferences and Meetings Health Sciences Center Form Main Campus Meeting Space Howard Gittis Student Center Form Documents & Insurance Facilities and Space ID Cards Parking and Transportation Faculty Resources Calendars, Schedules and Grades Courses and Curricula Instructional Resources Faculty Senate and News Research and Grants Finance and Travel Accounting and Budget Employee Banking and Finance Tuition Remission Travel and Expenses Wellness and Safety Fitness and Health Safety and Alerts Campus Development Frequently Asked Questions Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Data Integrity and Data Verification Unit In-scope Materials Quick Reference Guide Rankings Data Overview and Updates Additional Resources Frequently Asked Questions FAQ: Fox School of Business MBA rankings Enterprise Risk Management Key Terms and Definitions Helpline Frequently Asked Questions Resources Compliance With the Four Pillars Who We Are Libraries Charles Library Contents Preferred Name Use at Temple UniversityUse in Administrative SystemsFrequently Asked Questions for StudentsFaculty and StaffUniversity Resources Preferred Name Use at Temple University Temple University supports the need or preference for members of its community who identify by a name other than their legal name. The university will accommodate a preferred name, when possible, in the course of university business and education. Beginning in the fall 2019 term, members of the Temple community can update their preferred name via the “update your preferred name” option in the Manage My Account section of TUportal. The preferred name will be used in many university contexts, including the following. Cherry & White directory Canvas learning management software Self-Service Banner (e.g., instructor names in the class schedule, and student names on faculty class rosters and grade rosters) OWLcards Residence hall resident lists Use in Administrative Systems The above list indicates areas for opportunities where Temple students may use their preferred name. For other records, however, your legal name will be required to ensure we can verify your credentials when contacted by outside agencies, as well as to safeguard against identity theft and the production of fraudulent credentials. These records include financial records, human resources records, library records and educational history records, such as transcripts and diplomas. Implementing the use of preferred names will be a process that occurs over time. Please be aware that, when an individual contacts a university office in person or by phone, the staff in that office may only have electronic access to the legal name. Frequently Asked Questions for Students What is a preferred name? A preferred name is a first name and/or middle name that is different than a student’s legal name, and it is the name by which a student wishes to be known within the university community. A student’s legal last name will be added to the preferred first name to form the full preferred name. Students’ last names can be changed only through a legal name change. What is a legal name? A legal name is the name that appears on your birth certificate, driver’s license, passport or U.S. Social Security card. Administrative systems where use of legal name is required include, without limitation, the following. Accounting and taxes Accounts payable Admissions application Educational history records (transcripts and diplomas) Employment and payroll Financial aid Government reporting Healthcare and benefits NCAA eligibility Student accounts (billing, loans and collections) Travel and expenses How do I change my legal name? Current students who wish to change their legal name should complete the Personal Information Update form. How do I get my preferred name on my OWLcard? If a student updates a preferred name through TUportal, it will automatically update on the mobile OWLcard. Any student who wishes to have their preferred name on their printed OWLcard may do so by visiting the OWLcard Office and purchasing a new ID. Incoming students who request a preferred name before orientation will receive a new ID at no cost. How do I get my preferred name to appear as my email display name? Students using Gmail or other third-party mail applications will have to change their name within the application’s account settings. Exchange users will see their display name automatically update. Faculty and Staff University faculty and staff can update their preferred names via the Personal Information section of the Staff Tools tab of TUportal. Preferred name updates made through TUportal will automatically update those administrative systems for which a legal name is not required. Current faculty and staff can also request a legal name change through the Staff Tools tab of TUportal. Go to Personal Information and follow the instructions in the Name Change Information section. TUportal University Resources Human Resources For information about preferred name use for staff and student workers, contact Temple University Human Resources. Phone: 215-962-2244 Email: hrpayroll@temple.edu Main Campus Mitten Hall, Lower Level 1913 N. Broad St. Philadelphia, PA 19122 Health Sciences Center 3340 N. Broad St. Suite 300 Philadelphia, PA 19140 Temple Administrative Services Building 2450 W. Hunting Park Ave., 1st Fl. Philadelphia, PA 19129 Alumni Relations For Temple alumni who wish to update their preferred name in the directory, contact Temple University Alumni Relations. Phone: 215-204-7521 Email: alumrel@temple.edu OWLcards For information about preferred name use on OWLcards, contact the OWLcard Office. Phone: 215-204-3140 Email: owlcard@temple.edu Howard Gittis Student Center, Suite 101 1755 N. 13th St. Philadelphia, PA 19122 Contact If you have more questions about requesting a preferred name, please send an email to preferredname@temple.edu. Go back to Life at TempleMore in Diversity & Inclusivity Preferred Name Use Pronoun Use and Gender Identity Temple Thought Leaders Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community.