Skip to content marquette.edu // Search // Contacts // A-Z Index Marquette UniversityService Learning Service Learning About Us About Us Overview of Service Learning Mission, Goals, and Objectives Program Operation Awards and Honors Projects and Stories Service Learner Service Learning Courses MUEngage Forms Checklist of Important Dates Service Learner Responsibilities Safety Helpful Hints Frequently Asked Questions Faculty MUEngage Quick Guide for Faculty Service Learning Models Prospective Faculty Resources Service Learning Bibliography Program Operation Frequently Asked Questions Problem Solver Seed Grants Community Partners Current Community Partners Prospective Community Partners Important Documents for Community Partners Reflection Sessions Contact Us Our Mission Statement Following in the Jesuit tradition of faithful service, the Service Learning Program at Marquette University facilitates student academic learning through meaningful service experiences, which encourage and enable Marquette's faculty and students to positively impact the community. The Service Learning Program seeks to bring campus and community together in partnership to share resources, meet real community needs, and help to educate women and men to become the change agents of tomorrow. Learn more Commitment to Anti-Racist Community Engagement and Service The Center for Teaching and Learning- Service Learning Program recognizes that throughout the history of the United States and the world, community service and charity work have often led to problematic, ethnocentric, racist, oppressive, and unjust situations, where even good intentions had hurtful and harmful outcomes. Given this, our office commits to working through an anti-racist framework in our attempts to meet real community needs and work with our community to make it a better place for all. It is our belief that as part of our Jesuit mission, we must share our gifts and talents to meet the world’s greatest hungers and needs. Service with others is an important aspect of our faith tradition, our own formation, and is the very fabric of a good and moral life. Further, Marquette University has a vested interest in the empowerment and success of our community. However, we must engage in a way that does not patronize the oppressed, but instead holds our neighbor up as our allies in the fight for a more just world. We commit to: Decolonizing community engagement work by including those that have been historically marginalized in decision making, program formation, teaching, training, and feedback. We seek to center and amplify the voices of those pushed to the margins. Continually reviewing and revising taken for granted structures, policies, and procedures that may reinforce a colonialist or white supremist approach to service and engagement. Providing the necessary preparation, training, and reflection to make sure service participants and leaders understand problematic power dynamics and blinding privilege. We will prepare our constituents to approach their work in the spirit of solidarity, co-learning, and partnership versus being experts, helpers, and saviors. Preparing a student body, faculty, and a program staff that continually seeks to build their own cultural competency, cultural empathy, and understands that this is a life-long learning journey. We stand in solidarity with people of different backgrounds and beliefs as our own, including differences in class, gender, sexuality, religion, ability, nation of origin, age, ethnicity, aboriginality, language, education, geographic location, and immigration status. As Program leaders, we embrace a willingness to be disturbed and be open to critique. We will hold ourselves accountable as a team to reimagine and build a community of learning and service based in anti-racism, social justice, and liberation. News and Events Join Our Team The Service Learning Program is HIRING for the Fall 2021 semester. Applications are being accepted until positions are filled. APPLY TODAY. Check out the job description and apply today! Quick Links Checklist of Important Dates Contact Us List of Service Learning Courses MUEngage In-Class Orientation Presentation Reflection Sessions Current Student Coordinator Job Openings FAQs for Students PROBLEM WITH THIS WEBPAGE? Report an accessibility problem To report another problem, please contact kimberly.jensen@marquette.edu Awards and honors Marquette was named to the President’s Higher Education Community Service Honor Roll for its eighth consecutive year. Problem-solver grants Seed grants available to faculty members who wish to integrate service learning and/or community-based research. Projects and stories Stories from community partners, faculty and students about how service learning transforms classrooms and communities. Location Marquette University 1102 W. Wisconsin Ave., 303 Milwaukee, WI 53233 Phone: (414) 288-0250 Fax: (414) 288-3259 Key Resources Campus contacts Campus map Contact us Search marquette.edu eMarq CheckMarq D2L MyJob MARQUETTE A to Z ABCDEFGHIJKLM NOPQRSTUVWXYZ Privacy Policy Legal Disclaimer Non-Discrimination Policy Accessible Technology © 2022 Marquette University ©