Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Coronavirus COVID-19 right arrow down arrow COVID-19 Data Dashboard Academics right arrow down arrow Academic Calendar Off Campus Learning Campus Life right arrow down arrow Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Campus Recreation & Athletics Transportation Testing & Quarantine right arrow down arrow Quarantine & Isolation COVID Check App Self-Administered Wellness Check Self Reporting Campus Safety Measures right arrow down arrow Visitors Events Travel & Study Abroad Research Facial Masks Social Distancing Vaccines Home » Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) » Testing & Quarantine » Self Reporting Set Navigation title in component COVID-19 Data Dashboard Academics Academic Calendar Off Campus Learning Campus Life Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Campus Recreation & Athletics Transportation Testing & Quarantine Quarantine & Isolation COVID Check App Self-Administered Wellness Check Self Reporting Campus Safety Measures Visitors Events Travel & Study Abroad Research Facial Masks Social Distancing Vaccines Self Reporting Please remember Students, if you test positive for COVID-19 or are having symptoms that may be related to COVID-19, you are required to  contact UC’s COVID Response Team immediately. The expectation is that you will use the UC COVID Check app or send an email to uccovidcheck@ucmail.uc.edu for self reporting if you have symptoms. The App provides a simple way to conduct self reporting and self assessment and report any symptoms.   Employees who have tested positive for COVID-19 or are not feeling well with COVID-related symptoms should report any expected absence from work to their supervisor, are strongly encouraged to immediately contact their health care provider and the COVID Response Team via the App or web-based tool or email to uccovidcheck@ucmail.uc.edu. All information gathered through the university’s reporting process will be stored in a secure database and used in accordance with FERPA and UC’s Privacy Statement. The reporting requirement will allow University Health Services/the COVID Response Team to provide education, guidance and care monitoring; and to make decisions regarding campus safety and mitigation measures. More about reporting The App and the web-based tool asks about the following: COVID-19 diagnosis, a positive test result for COVID-19 or testing due to symptoms suggestive of the infection. Close contact with an individual confirmed to have COVID-19 by laboratory testing or with a presumptive diagnosis of COVID-19, meaning not tested but diagnosed by a physician as likely to have the infection. Anyone having symptoms consistent with COVID-19, including flu-like symptoms with chills, muscle aches, diarrhea, cough, shortness of breath or fever. In addition, the sudden loss of the sense of smell or taste can be an early sign of COVID-19 and should be immediately reported. Travel from international locales or hot-spot states. What if I have any questions about use of the UC COVID Check App Call the UC COVID Check Response Team hotline at: (513) 558-1772 (513) 558-1773 The hotline is staffed Monday - Thursday from 9:00 a.m. - 9:00 p.m. and Friday through Sunday from 9:00 a.m. - 3:00 p.m. You can also email uccovidcheck@ucmail.uc.edu for assistance. University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-6000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-6000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top