Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Financial Aid Home Getting started Eligibility How need is determined Expected family contribution Net price calculator Student budgets Husky Promise Applying for aid Key dates and deadlines Application process Award process Maintain eligibility Summer quarter Types of aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Childcare Assistance Program Veterans Benefits Emergency aid Emergency Food Assistance Other assistance Receiving aid Disbursement Appeals and special circumstances Request changes to your award Satisfactory academic progress Forms & resources Forms Consumer Information Glossary of Terms for Award Notifications Loan repayment Tax benefits Withdrawal and refund Financial aid code of conduct Money management Emergency Relief Fund Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund III Washington Emergency Relief Grant Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund II CARES Act FAQs Processing and Response Timelines Contact us My Financial Aid Withdrawal and refund Menu Financial Aid Home Getting started Eligibility How need is determined Expected family contribution Net price calculator Student budgets Husky Promise Applying for aid Key dates and deadlines Application process Award process Maintain eligibility Summer quarter Types of aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Childcare Assistance Program Veterans Benefits Emergency aid Emergency Food Assistance Other assistance Receiving aid Disbursement Appeals and special circumstances Request changes to your award Satisfactory academic progress Forms & resources Forms Consumer Information Glossary of Terms for Award Notifications Loan repayment Tax benefits Withdrawal and refund Financial aid code of conduct Money management Emergency Relief Fund Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund III Washington Emergency Relief Grant Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund II CARES Act FAQs Processing and Response Timelines Contact us My Financial Aid Home Student Financial Aid Forms and resources Withdrawal and refund Forms and resources Home Forms and resources Loan repayment How to pay Repayment options Cancellation Postponing repayment Consolidation Avoiding default Tax benefits Withdrawal and refund Financial Aid code of conduct The policy below describes aid refund requirements for the federal aid programs such as, Federal Pell Grants, Iraq and Afghanistan Service Grants, TEACH Grants, Direct Loans, Direct PLUS Loans, Federal Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grants (FSEOGs), and Federal Perkins Loans as well as any state, institutional, or private scholarship programs (as required by the donor). If you are a financial aid recipient and withdraw from all of your classes, any refund of university charges will be returned to the financial aid programs. (The general tuition refund policy for the University is available at Student Fiscal Services.) The proportion of aid that must be returned by you and the university is based on the number of days remaining divided by the number of days in the quarter. The UW is required to refund the portion of your institutional costs equal to the portion of the quarter remaining to the aid programs. You must pay the remainder of the funds that must be returned as well as any final tuition or forfeiture fee payments that had to be returned to the aid programs. You do not have to repay a grant overpayment if the original amount of the overpayment is $50 or less. No aid funds must be repaid if you attend more than 60% of the quarter before withdrawing. If you did not receive all of the funds that you earned, you may be due a post-withdrawal disbursement. If your post-withdrawal disbursement includes loan funds, we will ask your permission before we disburse any additional funds. You may choose to decline some or all of the loan funds so you don’t incur additional debt. We will use all or a portion of your post-withdrawal disbursement of grant funds for tuition, fees, and UW room and board charges. We will use the post-withdrawal grant disbursement for all other school charges, unless you indicate that you do not want us to do so. However, it may be in your best interest to allow the UW to use the funds to reduce your debt at the school. The refund of university charges and any additional refunds or payments will be credited to the aid programs in the following order, up to the amount you received for that quarter: Federal Direct Unsubsidized Stafford/Ford Loan Federal Direct Subsidized Stafford/Ford Loan Federal Perkins Loan Federal Direct Parent Loan for Undergraduate Students Federal Pell Grant Federal Supplemental Education Opportunity Grant Other Title IV aid programs. Washington State grant aid, institutional aid, and private scholarships will be assessed a repayment on a prorated basis as well if you did not attend classes or withdrew from classes before 50% of the quarter had elapsed. If any refund remains after crediting these accounts, the balance will be refunded to you. Please be aware that if you withdraw from all classes within the first 60% of the quarter, you may owe immediate repayment of a portion of the aid you received. If you remain enrolled but fail to pass any classes, we are required to consider you to have withdrawn unless you provide acceptable documentation of your attendance. If you do not provide the required documentation, you will be required to repay all the aid you received, and since you failed to take the appropriate steps to withdraw officially, you will still owe the university for your tuition and other costs incurred. Please see a Financial Aid Counselor in Schmitz 105 (no appointment required), for further information about withdrawing from classes and the effect on your financial aid. Home Forms and resources Loan repayment How to pay Repayment options Cancellation Postponing repayment Consolidation Avoiding default Tax benefits Withdrawal and refund Financial Aid code of conduct Resources Applying for Financial Aid Parent Plus Loan New Borrowers of Federal Student Loans Contact us Send us a message Visit Contact us for office location, directions and mailing address. Federal School Code Our Title IV federal school code is 003798. This code is used for Seattle, Bothell and Tacoma campuses. About us Our mission is to provide educational access and opportunity for all students. We promote participation in higher education by providing programs of assistance to help bridge the gap between the cost of attending the University and the family’s own resources. We believe students from all economic backgrounds should have the opportunity to attend the University of Washington. Finances should not be a barrier to getting a world-class education. University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA