SMU Cox Display Navigation and Site Search SMU Cox School of Business SMU Cox Utility Navigation Students Companies Alumni Apply Contact Us smu.edu Display Navigation Display Search Search SMU SMU Cox Main Navigation At SMU Cox Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu An exceptional school in the heart of a vibrant, global, business-friendly city. Collins Center Cox News Cox Events Graduate Outcomes CoxToday Magazine Academic Departments Career Growth Global Programs Degrees & Programs Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Rigorous programs within a truly customized academic experience. Master of Science MS in Accounting MS in Business Analytics MS in Finance MS in Management MS Health Promotion Management MS in Sport Management MBA Full-Time Two-Year MBA Full-Time One-Year MBA MBA Direct Professional MBA Online MBA Executive MBA Joint Degrees JD/MBA MA / MBA MS Engineering / MBA Undergraduate Bachelor of Business Administration Non-Degree Executive Education Summer Business Institute Diversity & Inclusion Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Shaping Leaders for a Changing World. Diversity at Cox Latino Leadership Initiative I Am Latino in America Subiendo Academy at SMU Cox School Dean’s Message Executive Education Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Meet your career challenges head-on by mining the expertise of the nation's top business leaders. Programs for Individuals Custom Solutions Latino Leadership Initiative HR Roundtable Graduate Certificates Collins Center Learning Culture Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu An innovative learning culture influences the way the world does business. Centers and Institutes Academic Departments Research Business Library NextGen Cox Curriculum People & Community Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu A community where professors know students by name and help them create powerful networks. Students Alumni Faculty Companies Cox Executive Board Cox100 Press Releases Display Search Utility Navigation Students Companies Alumni Apply Contact Us smu.edu Home At SMU Cox Campus Facilities Collins Center James M. Collins Executive Education Center Less than a decade after Dallas and SMU formed a partnership to build “a great university west of the Mississippi,” the Dallas business community rallied to help create the Department of Commerce at SMU in 1920. From that beginning, the Cox School of Business has risen to its current stature as one of the world’s top business schools. With the opening of the James M. Collins Executive Education Center, the Cox School reaffirms its commitment to serving the educational needs of working professionals and businesses. Located on the northeast corner of Ownby Drive and Binkley Avenue, the Collins Center houses the Cox School’s Executive MBA and Executive Education programs, which offer lifelong learning opportunities for professionals worldwide. It also serves as home for the Southwestern Graduate School of Banking. A number of events for Cox’s full-time MBA and Professional MBA programs also take place in the center. The Collins Center is part of SMU’s east quadrangle, which includes the Jerry R. Junkins Engineering Building, the Laura Lee Blanton Student Services Building, and the Caruth Engineering Building. Maps The quadrangle, east of SMU Boulevard and Airline Road, is the eastern gateway to SMU and provides a connection to the George W. Bush Presidential Center. Hours of Operation Normal Operating Hours Monday through Friday: 8:30 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. Saturday: 8:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Sunday: 12:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. Summer Operating Hours Monday through Friday: 8:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Saturday: Closed. Sunday: Closed. Architectural Design and Features The exterior of the building reflects the University’s traditional Georgian architecture, while the interior looks to the future, with academic areas featuring the latest technology to support a variety of instructional techniques, as well as dramatic reception and gathering areas. Four tiered classrooms, each with seating for 66 students 24-seat boardroom; one 40-seat classroom with flexible seating arrangements 15 seminar rooms with seating for groups from six to 10 to promote teamwork and student interaction 297-seat Crum Auditorium Modern business center Executive lounge Dining room with seating for 72. Gracious outdoor plaza on the north side of the building, offering additional event space Rooftop terrace provides a relaxing environment for networking Supporting the Collins Center Many opportunities to support the Center still exist, such as personalized bricks, benches, and corporate sponsorships. To find out more about giving options Contact Us. facilities Collins Center Room Reservations Directions Donors About Events James M. Collins Crow Building Fincher Building Maguire Building SMU Cox Footer Utility Nav Give Contact Us Apply © Cox School of Business Southern Methodist University PO Box 750333 Dallas, Texas 75275-0333 214-768-2000 SMU Cox Legal Home SMU Cox on Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter