Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home News How the Biden Administration Can Revitalize the Sciences General Earth Institute How the Biden Administration Can Revitalize the Sciences Three goals for the Biden administration as it seeks to put science-based responses at the center of its policy initiatives. By Adam Sobel January 28, 2021 Photo by CHUTTERSNAP on Unsplash The Biden-Harris administration takes office in the wake of the most anti-science administration in memory. Indeed, the assault on science under Donald Trump—like the one on the media—has served to promote autocracy, by delegitimizing an institution that is an independent arbiter of truth. It also served to promote private profit over public well-being, by clearing the path for extreme deregulation of polluting industries. The new administration should move quickly to re-establish that science is essential to both democracy and ethical governance. The early signs are very promising. Biden has named an unprecedentedly strong “climate team” and announced that his science adviser, geneticist Eric Lander, will be elevated to the Cabinet. Perhaps even more exciting, he has appointed social scientist Alondra Nelson (a Columbia faculty member from 2009-2019) as the Office of Science and Technology Policy’s deputy director for science and society, a newly created position. Someone with Nelson’s expertise in the connections between science, technology, medicine, and social inequality has, to my knowledge, not been this high up in U.S. government before. Science will be in good hands for the next four years. Here are three broad goals I hope the new administration will pursue. 1. Rebuild the Agencies Critical agencies have been decimated under Trump. Government entities with missions that bear most directly on policy—and that are most essential to addressing ongoing crises—such as the Environmental Protection Agency and Center for Disease Control, have been hardest hit by censorship, political interference, budget cuts, and staff losses. Besides working to reverse the damage agency-by-agency, Biden could define and publicize a federal policy on the role of science. Key points should include that scientists can communicate freely with the media, that political appointees will not meddle in research, and that the content of scientific reports from agencies, advisory boards, and the like will not be subject to political oversight. Such a policy could underscore a strong hiring program to draw new scientific talent to demoralized and understaffed agencies. 2. Put the Public Interest First While the private sector has an important role to play in many science-related public policy issues, government’s first priority should be to look out for the public interest, defined broadly and inclusively. Trump’s steps at disbanding scientific advisory panels in favor of industry-friendly committees selected by political appointees should be reversed. This concern applies most acutely to regulation of polluting industries—including, of course, the fossil fuel industry. But in addition to protecting the public from pollution, the government should resist privatization of key public goods: observational data used by government for weather and climate research and forecasting, as just one example, should remain free and open. 3. Justice at the Forefront Harms from the COVID-19 pandemic, air and water pollution, climate change, and artificial intelligence are distributed unequally along racial and economic lines. Solutions that don’t acknowledge these inequities will be unjust. Nelson’s appointment shows that Biden recognizes this; now we can ask to see it manifest in policy. In the context of climate change, the emerging “standards, investments, and justice” framework, already endorsed by Biden, offers new hope for progress where the idea of an economy-wide carbon price (long viewed as theoretically preferable by economists) has largely failed. More broadly, government should “listen to the science,” but also recognize that the most critical scientific issues before it are actually trans-scientific—meaning that science must be coupled to democratic values to best serve the public. At a time when much of the population believes in conspiracy theories and lies—not least about Biden’s own election—governing on this basis will be challenging. On the other hand, truth and justice have never been more urgently needed. This story was originally published by Columbia News. It forms part of a series in which faculty members identify the most pressing issues facing the country and offer possible solutions for the Biden administration to pursue. Tags Biden-Harris Administration Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Viewpoints News May 31, 2022 Aurora Barone Looks for Equitable Ways to Cut Carbon Emissions May 27, 2022 Sylhet City, Geology, and Packing Up May 25, 2022 Community-Led Science Uncovers High Air Pollution From Fracking in Ohio County May 20, 2022 Start of the Mini-Field School May 17, 2022 Lazy Bears and Confused Birds: What a Warming Planet Means for Wildlife Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close