Skip to main content Toggle Tools navigation Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Search University of Cincinnati UC Home Support UC Directories UC Tools Canopy & Blackboard Catalyst OneStop Student Email Faculty / Staff Email Shuttle Tracker UCFileSpace UC Flex/ESS IT Help UC VPN Concur Success Factors Enter a search term to search UC pages or the directory. Search String University of Cincinnati Students Contact your Advisor Advising Resources and Tools Transfer Credit Home Overview and Checklist Types of Transfer Credit Transfer Equivalency Database Credit Evaluation Forms Transfer Articulation Agreements Accreditation for Transfer Credit COVID-19 FAQs for Credit Evaluation College Credit Plus Home CCP Admission Requirements Apply to CCP Academic Advising Textbooks & Supplies High School Partnerships FAQ Contact 15 to Finish Students FAQ Resources For Advisors UC Advising Conference About Organization Advising Strategic Plan Assessment Home 15 to Finish FAQ FAQ What is full-time enrollment? How many credit hours are included in my tuition? Do I need to complete exactly 15 hours every semester? What if I’m in a co-op program? How much time do I need to commit to my college education to be successful? Is 15 hours right for everyone? What is full-time enrollment? Full-time enrollment at the university and for federal financial aid status is 12 or more credit hours. However, to complete a degree program on-time, completing at least 15 hours per semester or 30 hours per year is necessary. How many credit hours are included in my tuition? Tuition is the same for students enrolled in 12-18 credit hours. So you can complete extra classes for no extra tuition cost! Do I need to complete exactly 15 hours every semester? No. Students can complete any combination of credit hours over the Fall, Spring and Summer semesters to total 30 hours per year. Two common examples: 14 hours in Fall + 16 hours in Spring = 30 hours 12 hours in Fall + 12 hours in Spring + 6 hours in Summer = 30 hours Some semesters, enrollment will not result in exactly 15 or more hours because of 5 credit hour courses such as foreign language or Calculus. What if I’m in a co-op program? Co-op programs are 5-year programs by design and generally have highly structured course requirements for each semester that is not a co-op term with an employer. How much time do I need to commit to my college education to be successful? At minimum, students should plan to spend two (2) study hours per (1) credit hour, on average. So the minimum time commitment would be: 15 credit hours + 30 study hours = 45 hours per week (That’s a full-time job!) 12 credit hours + 24 study hours = 36 hours per week (That’s still a full-time job, but graduation will take an extra year.) For more challenging courses, more than two study hours per credit hour will be necessary. Is 15 hours right for everyone? No. Students who have extensive time commitments involving work, family care, etc. should talk with their advisor about the best strategy to complete the degree. It is critical that students have sufficient time to study for their courses in addition to in-class hours. Office of Advising & Academic Services 2618 McMicken Circle University Pavilion Cincinnati, OH 45221-0202 Alerts Clery and HEOA Notice Notice of Non-Discrimination eAccessibility Concern Privacy Statement Copyright Information © 2018 University of Cincinnati This website offers many PDF files for download, which require Adobe Reader to view.