Skip to main content FSU >> FSU LIBRARIES Top Right Search Box Search Our Website... * OneSearch | My Account Florida State University Libraries Search & Find Advanced Search Find a Database Journal Search Special Collections Search DigiNole Search Services & Research All Services Subject Librarians Distance Learning Digital Research & Scholarship Special Collections & Archives Government Information About the Libraries Libraries Overview Member Libraries Departments Accessibility @ FSU Libraries Diversity & Inclusion Giving to the Libraries Facts & Figures Strategic Plan Advancement Board Materials & Borrowing Borrowing Materials Library Express Delivery Interlibrary Loan Materials Purchase Request Help & Support Get Help Library Hours Maps & Directions Visitor Information COVID Guidelines Home >> Services & Research >> Library Forms Library Forms Book Search : Ask us to search for a book you can't find Claim Returned : Returned an item but still see it listed on your account? Community Borrowing Card : Community members may receive a borrowing card Consultation Request : Scheduled One-on-one help with a librarian subject specialist. Faculty ID Authorization : Form that gives permission to graduate students to check out materials for faculty Faculty Extended Time Individual Study Room Request : Form for requesting a study room for a semester Giving materials to the libraries : When you give items to the libraries, like books, DVD's, etc. this form is a request for a tax document. Graduate Student Extended Time Individual Study Room Request : Form for requesting a study room for two weeks Instruction Request : A form for instructors wishing to arrange instruction for courses Interlibrary Loan Account Assistance : Are you having trouble logging into to your ILL account? Library Express Delivery service (LEDs) is for Faculty and Teaching Assistants to ask for materials to be delivered to their departments. LED Library Express Delivery Materials Pickup Request LED Library Express Delivery Registration LED Library Express Delivery Service Request Panama City, FL Campus Library Express Delivery Service Request Westminster Oaks Delivery Materials Purchase Suggestions : Faculty may suggest items to purchase using this form -- requires log-in Need data about the library? : The Libraries Assessment Department can help you find the data you need for your research about the Florida State University Libraries. Off-Campus Access Solutions : Can't connect from off-campus? Start here. Open Access Fund Proposal : Funding consideration for Open Access Publishing. Pay for Lost Materials : Use this form to report that you lost an item. Bradley Reading Room (Scholars Commons) Access : Faculty and graduate student request for access to the reading room in Scholars Commons Reserve Item Request : Faculty and TA's may request items be placed on reserve for a course Special Borrowers Permit Application : for visiting scholars, Florida state and county, and Federal employees Website Problem or Suggestion : Notice a mistake, or something wrong? We would really like to know Special Collection Forms Special Collections & Archives Research Consultation Request Form : If you want to consult with Special Collections & Archives faculty on research with primary source materials, use this form to set an appointment Special Collections & Archives Class Visit Request Form : If you want to bring your class or community group to Special Collections & Archives for an instructional visit, use this form to schedule it Special Collections & Archives Reproduction Request Form : If you need a digital image of materials in Special Collections & Archives, use this form to request it I Need To... Find an Article Find Books and More... Find a Journal Find a Database Cite a Resource Access Course Reserves Find Tutoring Information Get Help My Account and Renewals About The Florida State University Libraries The mission of the University Libraries is to support and enhance the learning, teaching, research, and service activities of the Florida State University... READ MORE > Library Hours Maps and Directions Our Libraries Staff Directory Subject Librarians All Forms Library News Library Departments Library Events Library Services Employment Visiting the Libraries Giving to the Libraries Policies About the Libraries FAQ Government Information Staff Intranet Content Editor Login Internal Knowledge Base © Florida State University Libraries 116 Honors Way Tallahassee, FL 32306 Website Suggestions Privacy Principles Copyright Policy Contact Us (850) 644-2706 Search Articles, Books and More... * Connect with us!