Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Office of the Registrar Menu Baylor>Registrar>FAQs Frequently Asked Questions Search: BearWeb: Registration + Planning 1. Can BearWeb automatically attempt to register for a plan when my time ticket opens? 2. If I plan for a specific section does that guarantee a seat in that class? 3. How do I know when I am actually registered for a class? 4. Will I be able to put courses/sections on my Plan, regardless of whether or not I've met the requirements to take that class? Early Registration 1. What if I cannot register at my specified Early Registration time? 2. Where can I find my registration time once it appears on BearWeb? Extended Drops in BearWeb 1. Can students drop their last class? 2. How long will the student have to drop their class once the advising flag is removed? 3. What about students wanting to both add and drop a class at the same time? 4. What if a student misses their 72 hour window to drop the advised class? Grading - Faculty 1. What do grades of "FE", "FAE", "NCE", "FNA", "FSA", "FANA", "FASA", "NCNA", and "NCSA" stand for? 2. Which grades require a last date of attendance/engagement? 3. Am I required to add a last date of attendance/engagement on a grade change? 4. Can I see courses in multiple terms when submitting grades through BearWeb? 5. Can I view the new grading portal on a phone or tablet? 6. If a student stops attending class but continues to submit assignments through the end of the term, which failing grade option is appropriate? 7. If a student stops attending class but continues to submit assignments for a few more weeks but ultimately stops all participation prior to the end of the semester, which failing grade option is appropriate? 8. Do the new "F" grade values apply to all levels? 9. If a student stops attending or participating in class prior to the end of the term, but the student already earned a passing grade, do I need to assign a failing grade (because the student stopped attending)? Grading - Student 1. Are instructors required to assign plus and minus grades? 2. Will students be able to repeat courses in which they have made a C- without seeking permission? 3. May students seek permission to repeat a course in which they earned a "C+" or "B-"? 4. Does Baylor have a set standard that equates a percentage in a class to a specific letter grade? 5. How do I appeal (or submit a complaint about) the grade I received in a class? Online Baylor Summer 1. How will students know whether the online course they choose will apply to their degree or major? 2. How will students register for the course? 3. Will students who are taking a regular summer course at Baylor be allowed to take an online course? 4. Will the maximum hours allowed for enrollment in the summer term apply to online courses? 5. Can students enroll in multiple institutions, including online courses, during the summer? 6. Can Baylor students take courses from multiple institutions including online courses during the Fall and Spring semesters? 7. May non-degree seeking students take these online courses? 8. May incoming freshmen take these online courses? 9. May tuition remission be used for these online courses? 10. Is there a cost difference for online classes? 11. When will I be billed for online classes? 12. When is the bill due for online classes? 13. What do you mean by "anytime, anywhere" courses? 14. Will I be able to complete all required course work online? 15. How often should I be logging into my online course? 16. How many hours do online courses require each week? 17. Will I be able to speak to my instructor and to other students in my online class? 18. What are the computer requirements to take an online course? 19. Where do I login to access my online course? 20. If I want to take an online undergraduate course this summer either while in the US or in another country, is there anything special I need to know? 21. What do I need to know regarding technology in order to take an online course? 22. If I decide to sign up after I am in another country, can I still register for an online class as long as it is open? 23. As an international student, is there a potential Visa problem if I take a Baylor online summer course while I am in another home country? Pass/Fail Grading Conversion in Spring 2020 1. Who is eligible to elect to convert assigned grades to a Pass/Fail basis once grades are submitted by instructors? 2. Must a student's decision to convert assigned grades to a Pass/Fail basis apply to either all or none of the student's classes for Spring 2020? 3. What grades will qualify for a "Pass" on a Pass/Fail basis? 4. What grades will qualify for a "Fail" on a Pass/Fail basis? 5. What will be the impact on a student's gpa by choosing to convert an assigned grade to a Pass/Fail basis? 6. What will be the impact of converting a A, A-, B+, B, B-, C+, C, or C- to a "Pass" on a Pass/Fail basis? 7. What will be the impact of converting a D+, D, or D- grade to a "Fail" on a Pass/Fail basis? 8. What will be the impact of converting an F grade to a "Fail" on a Pass/Fail basis? 9. What process will be utilized for students to elect to convert an assigned grade to a Pass/Fail basis? 10. Once a student decides to convert an assigned grade to the Pass/Fail grading basis, will there be further opportunity to reverse that decision? 11. What resources will be available to help a student decide whether to convert their assigned grade to a Pass/Fail basis? 12. If a student elects to convert an assigned grade of C- or better to a "Pass," will that "Pass" be eligible to meet the prerequisites for subsequent courses? 13. If a student elects to convert an assigned grade of C- or better to a "Pass," will that "Pass" be eligible for completion of degree requirements and progression standards? 14. How will a Pass/Fail grade impact a student's ability to utilize academic forgiveness toward a course being repeated in Spring 2020? 15. During what periods of time may undergraduate students elect to convert assigned grades to a Pass/Fail basis? 16. How will the introduction of the three-day window for undergraduate degree candidates to elect to convert one or more assigned grades to a Pass/Fail basis impact the timing of Spring 2020 degree conferral? 17. Will undergraduate students that are assigned an incomplete grade or have a missing grade at the end of the Spring 2020 semester be eligible to later choose to convert their assigned grade to a Pass/Fail basis? 18. How will a student's decision to convert an assigned grade to a Pass/Fail basis impact academic actions (i.e. academic probation, suspension, and dismissal)? 19. How will a student's decision to convert an assigned grade to a Pass/Fail basis impact the determination of qualifications for Dean's List recognition for Spring 2020? 20. How will a student's decision to convert an assigned grade to a Pass/Fail basis impact the student's opportunity to be recognized with Latin Honors when s/he graduates? 21. Will elected Pass/Fail grades for Spring 2020 count toward institutional limits on Pass/Fail grades during a student's undergraduate career? 22. Should a student considering applying to Law School, Medical School, or another similar program of study elect to convert an assigned grade to a Pass/Fail basis? 23. Will the Pass/Fail options for Spring 2020 become permanent options for students? 24. Will this Pass/Fail conversion opportunity impact the grades instructors submit at the end of the semester or how they do so? 25. Will a student that elects to convert their assigned grade to Pass/Fail be eligible to repeat that course in the future under the Undergraduate Course Repeat Policy? 26. Will a student that elects to convert their assigned grade to a "Fail" on a Pass/Fail basis have used one of their attempts under the Undergraduate Course Repeat Policy, and therefore, be bound by the requirement that it may not be repeated at another institution for transfer to Baylor University? 27. Are there any universal requirements for a student to earn the minimum C- grade that will be eligible to be converted to a "Pass"? 28. Are undergraduate post-baccalaureate students eligible to elect the Pass/Fail grading conversion option that is available for Spring 2020 to undergraduate students? 29. If an undergraduate student chooses to convert an assigned grade to a Pass/Fail basis at the end of Spring 2020 semester, will the assigned grade continue to appear on the student's transcript? 30. For a freshmen or transfer undergraduate student that currently has a Pre-Law designation requiring a cumulative gpa of at least 3.20 at the end of 24 Baylor University credit hours (i.e. the end of the Spring 2020 semester), how will this semester's changed format, and the Pass/Fail grading conversion option, impact the ability to retain that designation? 31. Will undergraduate students enrolled in Spring 2020 semester classes that ended prior to Spring Break (i.e. prior to March 7, 2020) be eligible to elect for the Pass/Fail grading conversion for those classes at the end of Spring 2020? 32. How might a student's VA education benefit be impacted by electing to convert an assigned grade to the Pass/Fail grading basis that results in a "Fail"? 33. If a student elects to convert an assigned grade to a Pass/Fail basis, will potential employers view this negatively when reviewing the transcript of a student? 34. Can a current undergraduate student receive or send a transcript during the Pass/Fail Election period? Records 1. Where can I get a statement of academic standing or verification of enrollment? 2. What is FERPA? 3. Is there a consent form that students can complete in order to allow their parents to view their grades and progress in courses? If so, how may this be submitted? Registration 1. Why can't I register or drop/add on BearWeb? 2. How do I register for a closed class? 3. If I have a DF or WF on my transcript from a past term, how does that affect my GPA? 4. How can I audit a class, take a class pass/fail or take more than 18 hours in a semester? Returning Student Reactivation 1. Do I need to complete a Student Reactivation Application? 2. Do I need to pay a fee to apply for reactivation? 3. Is a deposit required for enrollment following reactivation? 4. When one begins an application reactivation, which type of application should be initiated? 5. Where do undergraduate students applying for reactivation send transcripts? 6. Are high school transcripts required if I have been previously enrolled as a student at Baylor University? 7. Do students that have been suspended (academic or disciplinary) need to initiate an application through the reactivation process in order to return to the University? 8. As a "Returning User" what does one need to do if they do not remember their BearID and/or Password? 9. What is a Banner ID? 10. How long does the reactivation process take? 11. Once I am reactivated, what do I do next? 12. Who do I contact if I have questions about submitting the reactivation form? 13. If I am pursuing reactivation at Baylor and want to change my major, is there a way to do that through the reactivation process? 14. Do Graduate, Seminary, or Law students need to complete a Student Reactivation Application? 15. What is the last day to submit the reactivation application for an upcoming term? 16. I just graduated in May/December but wish to take undergraduate classes in the succeeding semester. Do I need to complete the reactivation process? 17. I wish to return to Baylor in order to take additional undergraduate classes after graduating a few semesters ago. Do I need to complete the returning student reactivation process? 18. I graduated from Baylor University and wish to return as a Post-Bacc and retake some classes in which I did not do well. Will I be able to use Academic Forgiveness for the classes I retake? Transcripts 1. How many transcripts can I order in one week? 2. What do you charge for a transcript? 3. If I attended Baylor for more than one degree, can I send part of my transcript separately? 4. Will you send my transcript electronically? 5. What is Parchment? 6. When placing my order online (through BearWeb or Parchment), I cannot fit all of my recipient's address into the space allotted. 7. How long does it take for an eTranscript to be delivered? 8. I have created a self-register account for Parchment, and I sent the consent form (by upload, fax, or email). However, the consent hold remains on my account. 9. How early can I get a final transcript showing my degree after graduating? 10. I am a recent graduate. Should I still use BearWeb to enter Parchment or use the Former Student Online Ordering option to self-register for a Parchment account instead? 11. I am a former student, and I do not remember if I have a Parchment account and/or do not remember the email address I used to set it up. 12. I am placing an order through Parchment and need to send a transcript to myself, a specific department, or an individual. How do I do this? 13. Where can I add an attachment to my Parchment order? 14. Where can I request FedEx delivery through Parchment? Transfer Credit 1. Does Baylor accept online courses? 2. How can I determine if a course I want to take elsewhere is equivalent to a Baylor course? 3. If a course I intend to take IS found using the Equivalent Course Tool (ECT), do I need to submit an Equivalent Course Request (ECR) in order to take the course? 4. What are the steps for the Equivalent Course Request approval process? 5. What documentation will I need when I submit an Equivalent Course Request? 6. When I click on the link for the Equivalent Course Tool, my browser keeps spinning and nothing comes up. Is there something wrong with the Equivalent Course Tool? 7. What are the deadlines for submitting an Equivalent Course Request? 8. How does Baylor determine which courses are equivalent? 9. After I have completed a course elsewhere, what address should I use when sending a transcript to Baylor? 10. The transfer credit policies use the terms "pre-matriculation" and "post-matriculation". What is the difference? 11. How can I tell if my completed transfer work has been added to my Baylor record? 12. How often do course equivalencies change? 13. Assuming that a course is equivalent, how do I know if the course will satisfy a requirement within my degree plan? 14. Can I earn credit by exam at Baylor? 15. Does a grade of "C-" meet the requirement of "a grade of 'C' or better" that must be earned in all courses transferred to Baylor? 16. If an international student plans to take a class at a university in his or her home country, how can they request equivalency? Undergraduate Course Repeat and Academic Forgiveness Policy 1. What is the Undergraduate Course Repeat and Academic Forgiveness Policy? 2. When did the current undergraduate course repeat and academic forgiveness policy take effect? 3. Will the changes to the undergraduate course repeat policy in 2017 impact grades that have already been excluded from my gpa due to a repeat. 4. How will students identify which class/grade that they want excluded from the calculation of their gpa under the course repeat policy? 5. If a student has received a W notation as the result of dropping a class prior to Fall 2017, will he or she be able to take that class at another institution and transfer it to Baylor University? 6. The policy indicates that a student will only have a maximum of three attempts at any one course. What counts as an attempt? 7. What if a student has already attempted a course three times prior to Fall 2017? Are those previous attempts grandfathered? 8. If a student has already had three or more class grades excluded from his or her gpa under the former repeat policy, will he or she be eligible to have additional repeated grades excluded from his or her gpa under the new Academic Forgiveness Policy, which began in Fall 2017? 9. If a student takes the same class three times and the resulting grades in order are F, D, and A, which grade or grades may be excluded under the Academic Forgiveness policy? 10. If a student takes the same class three times and the resulting grades/notations in order are W, D, and A, which grade or grades may be excluded under the Academic Forgiveness policy? 11. Is there an opportunity for Academic Forgiveness to be applied to a grade received prior to Fall 2017? 12. May I request Academic Forgiveness for a course that was previously taken and has since changed numbers or been discontinued? 13. May a student request Academic Forgiveness after their undergraduate degree has been conferred? Waitlist 1. Will there be any limit on the number of students that can be added to a particular Waitlist? 2. Will time conflicts with other registered or Waitlist classes be allowed? 3. Are students allowed to Waitlist a course that they are either enrolled or Waitlisted for? 4. Are any students excluded from using a Waitlist? 5. How will a student know if a section has a Waitlist? 6. Will students be able to see where they are on a Waitlist? 7. Are students added into Waitlisted courses automatically? 8. When does Waitlisting open? 9. Is the student guaranteed a seat if they get on a Waitlist? 10. How are students notified when a seat becomes available on a Waitlisted class? 11. Which email address will the student receive the notification? 12. What happens if a student drops a class that has an active Waitlist? 13. Is there a maximum number of hours a student can Waitlist? 14. Is a student left on the Waitlist if they don't register within the 24 hours? 15. Are Waitlisted classes counted toward the student's credit hours? 16. Do registration restrictions prevent a student from getting on the Waitlist for a Waitlisted class? 17. What happens if the student misses the 24 hour timeline and still wants the class? 18. What happens if the student is placed on Academic Suspension? 19. Will the Waitlist continue during University Holidays (e.g. Christmas, Easter, etc.)? 20. What should students do if they try to add a Waitlisted class that they received an e-mail notification about, they receive a fatal error (e.g. Time Conflict), and once the conflict is cleared up, the Waitlist option is no longer available? 21. What should a student do if they are having a problem adding a section to their schedule, once they have received a Waitlist notification for that section? 22. Can Waitlisting a class impact a student's financial aid, or full-time status? 23. What should students do if their class isn't opening up and they're not registered for a full schedule? 24. What happens to the Waitlist after the add deadline each term? BearWeb: Registration + Planning 1. Can BearWeb automatically attempt to register for a plan when my time ticket opens? No. Since most schedules require additional action at the time of Registration, you still need to be actively involved to register for classes. 2. If I plan for a specific section does that guarantee a seat in that class? No, a registration does not guarantee a seat in the class. 3. How do I know when I am actually registered for a class? You will know when you are truly registered for a class section when "Registered" is displayed in the status column of your summary. "Pending" or "Waitlisted" are not registered statuses. 4. Will I be able to put courses/sections on my Plan, regardless of whether or not I've met the requirements to take that class? Yes, no registration error checking occurs while planning. Registration error checking takes place when you select submit to register for a class in the Register for Classes section. BACK TO TOP Early Registration 1. What if I cannot register at my specified Early Registration time? You will have continuous access to register and add through the 5th class day, and drop classes through the 12th class day in the fall/spring semesters. You should plan to register as soon as possible once your early registration time arrives in order to have the best selection of available classes. 2. Where can I find my registration time once it appears on BearWeb? Logon BearWeb, select Student Academic Services>Registration>Registration Status. The date and time for your registration will be listed under Registration Status. BACK TO TOP Extended Drops in BearWeb 1. Can students drop their last class? No. We will be setting minimum credit hours to 1 to prevent students from dropping their last class beginning the first day of the semester. The only exceptions will be international students, whose Visa's depend on maintaining a certain number of credit hours, and student athletes. Those students will have minimum hours of 12 (UG), or 9 (GR). (Note: This minimum credit hour process has been in place for many years for student athletes.) 2. How long will the student have to drop their class once the advising flag is removed? 72 hours 3. What about students wanting to both add and drop a class at the same time? When a student is both adding and dropping a class at one time (i.e. dropping ENG 1302 and adding STL 1101), continue to use the existing paper form since students will not be able to add classes via BearWeb after the 5th class day. The Office of the Registrar will accept completed add/drop form signed by the student via email directly from advisors. 4. What if a student misses their 72 hour window to drop the advised class? It is the student's responsibility to drop the advised class within the allotted time. If the student missed their window, it is up to each advising unit to determine how this situation will be handled (requiring a new conversation/appointment, or just via email). The only way a student will be able to drop the class section is if a new advising notation is added to UAS. BACK TO TOP Grading - Faculty 1. What do grades of "FE", "FAE", "NCE", "FNA", "FSA", "FANA", "FASA", "NCNA", and "NCSA" stand for? Grades ending in "E" indicate the failing grade was earned. Grades ending in "NA" indicate the student never attended or participated in the class. Grades ending in "SA" indicate the student stopped attending or participating in the class. 2. Which grades require a last date of attendance/engagement? "FSA", "FASA", "NCSA", and "I" all require a last date of attendance to be entered. 3. Am I required to add a last date of attendance/engagement on a grade change? Yes, if the grade is being changed to "FSA", "FASA", "NCSA", or "I" you will need to add the last known date of attendance/engagement in the comment box (DD/MM/YYYY). 4. Can I see courses in multiple terms when submitting grades through BearWeb? Yes. Use the search box in the top right to search and filter by CRN or term (i.e. 202110). 5. Can I view the new grading portal on a phone or tablet? Yes. Viewing in landscape mode will result in optimal performance. 6. If a student stops attending class but continues to submit assignments through the end of the term, which failing grade option is appropriate? Since the student participated in the course for the full term, the final grade should be an "FE" to indicate an earned "F" grade. 7. If a student stops attending class but continues to submit assignments for a few more weeks but ultimately stops all participation prior to the end of the semester, which failing grade option is appropriate? Since the student did not participate in the course for the full term, the final grade should be an "FSA" to indicate an "F" grade due to the student stopping attendance. The date to submit for the last date attended would be the date of the last academically related activity (e.g. the last date of assignment submission). 8. Do the new "F" grade values apply to all levels? The "F" grade values will apply to Undergraduate, Graduate, Seminary, and Law courses. These new grade values will go in to effect beginning with the Spring 2021 semester grading period on 4/29/2021. Any grades submitted prior to that date will not utilize the additional "F" grade values. 9. If a student stops attending or participating in class prior to the end of the term, but the student already earned a passing grade, do I need to assign a failing grade (because the student stopped attending)? No, you are not required to assign a failing grade. However, if stopping attendance leads to a failing grade, then you should choose the Failing-Stopped Attendance value and provide a last date of attendance/participation. If the student earned something other than a failing grade, then that grade should be assigned. BACK TO TOP Grading - Student 1. Are instructors required to assign plus and minus grades? No. The use of plus and minus grades will be at the discretion of the instructor. Students should refer to individual course syllabi to determine how instructors intend to use the grading scale. 2. Will students be able to repeat courses in which they have made a C- without seeking permission? Students having earned a C- or lower will be able to repeat the course without seeking permission from the appropriate academic dean. 3. May students seek permission to repeat a course in which they earned a "C+" or "B-"? Students having earned a "C+" or "B-" may seek permission from the appropriate academic dean. 4. Does Baylor have a set standard that equates a percentage in a class to a specific letter grade? No. Equating a percentage in a class to a specific letter grade will vary depending upon instructor, class, and/or college/school. 5. How do I appeal (or submit a complaint about) the grade I received in a class? Procedures for academic appeals, including the appeal of a grade in a class, may be found here. BACK TO TOP Online Baylor Summer 1. How will students know whether the online course they choose will apply to their degree or major? Students should check requirements on their degree audit in BearWeb and confer with their advisor for guidance. 2. How will students register for the course? Provided they have no registration holds and have been advised, if required, students will register on BearWeb the same as for other courses taken at Baylor. 3. Will students who are taking a regular summer course at Baylor be allowed to take an online course? Yes. 4. Will the maximum hours allowed for enrollment in the summer term apply to online courses? Yes. Maximum credit for students enrolled in the two traditional summer terms is eight hours per term or sixteen hours total. For students enrolled in the minimester, a maximum load for all three terms (Minimester, plus two regular summer terms) may earn a total of 19 hours. 5. Can students enroll in multiple institutions, including online courses, during the summer? During summer sessions, course credits can be earned at Baylor concurrently with other institutions as long as the total course load does not exceed 19 semester credit hours for the entire summer. The University strongly recommends against students being enrolled in greater than 8 hours simultaneously for a term(s) that is fewer than 8 weeks in duration. 6. Can Baylor students take courses from multiple institutions including online courses during the Fall and Spring semesters? Concurrent enrollment is not permitted during Fall and Spring semesters without approval from an academic dean's office. 7. May non-degree seeking students take these online courses? Non-degree seeking students must seek approval from the department offering the class in order to enroll in an online class. 8. May incoming freshmen take these online courses? Yes. Incoming students must be admitted for the summer term. 9. May tuition remission be used for these online courses? Yes. For further information, please visit the Tuition Remission webpage. 10. Is there a cost difference for online classes? Tuition for online classes is the same as traditional summer on-campus classes. 11. When will I be billed for online classes? Students that register in March or April will be billed by email in early May. Those registering later will receive an electronic billing notification on the business day following their registration. Because of the short timeframe, summer bills are only available online; no paper bills are mailed, so be sure to check your Baylor email. 12. When is the bill due for online classes? Summer bills are due in mid-May for students registered by that time. All students should look for the due date on their eStatement in the E-Bill System and complete financial settlement by that date to avoid a late fee. 13. What do you mean by "anytime, anywhere" courses? "Anytime, anywhere" learning simply means that you do not have to be at a specific location at a specific time or date. Online courses, for the most part, take place where and when you choose. This could be early in the morning or late at night at home, when you are traveling, or during your lunch break at work. However, your instructor may schedule and host live sessions at specific times during your course. Participation in these sessions can occur from "anywhere." 14. Will I be able to complete all required course work online? Yes. Baylor online courses are available via the Internet. You will never have to step foot on campus for fully online courses. 15. How often should I be logging into my online course? For summer online courses, students should be logging in at least once a day to check for reading and assignment requirements, messages from the instructor, and grades. However, you can choose what times work best for you. 16. How many hours do online courses require each week? The time you spend on an online class can vary. Online courses generally require 6-15 hours per week including readings, weekly discussions, sending/receiving e-mail, Web-based research, and completing assignments. 17. Will I be able to speak to my instructor and to other students in my online class? Yes. Online courses offer a variety of tools in order to communicate and interact with your instructor and classmates. These tools may include e-mail, discussion boards, blogs, video conferencing, social media, and other forums. 18. What are the computer requirements to take an online course? The minimum computer requirements are provided here. 19. Where do I login to access my online course? To access your online Baylor course, visit Canvas and click on the "Canvas Login" button. Log in using your Bear ID (firstname_lastname) and password. Once you are logged in, you will find a link to your individual course under the "Courses" menu in Canvas. 20. If I want to take an online undergraduate course this summer either while in the US or in another country, is there anything special I need to know? You will access your course(s) through Canvas and complete an online orientation class before you begin. 21. What do I need to know regarding technology in order to take an online course? First and foremost, you must have regular, reliable access to a broadband (DSL, cable, or satellite) internet connection. A dial-up modem will not be able to handle the multimedia format of an online course. You will need a webcam and microphone for most classes. Headsets are highly recommended for minimester audio feedback and some headsets commonly come with built in microphones. These come standard with many laptops, but it would be prudent to test your equipment for quality before you begin class. Your webcam and mic do not need to be top-of-the-line, but they need to be good enough to be a help, not a hindrance. If your computer is no more than four-years-old, it likely has the specifications to keep up with an online course. If you are considering purchasing a new computer, or want to estimate how your current computer may fare, you can find Baylor's minimum and recommended requirements for incoming students here. If you find that you need to upgrade your computer, you are eligible for special student pricing on Apple and PC systems through the Baylor Bookstore. Additionally, you will need Microsoft Office Suite 2007 or later. If you don't currently own a version of Microsoft Office, you are eligible for an educational copy at a reduced rate through the Baylor Bookstore. 22. If I decide to sign up after I am in another country, can I still register for an online class as long as it is open? As long as you have reliable Internet access where you are, there is no reason why you cannot register for an online class if it is still open. 23. As an international student, is there a potential Visa problem if I take a Baylor online summer course while I am in another home country? There should not be a Visa problem, but it is advisable for you to register for fall classes at BU before you enroll for the summer online courses. This would show your intention to be physically present in the U.S. for fall term. BACK TO TOP Pass/Fail Grading Conversion in Spring 2020 1. Who is eligible to elect to convert assigned grades to a Pass/Fail basis once grades are submitted by instructors? Undergraduate students enrolled for courses numbered 4999 and below. 2. Must a student's decision to convert assigned grades to a Pass/Fail basis apply to either all or none of the student's classes for Spring 2020? No. A student may decide with each class individually whether to convert assigned grades from Spring 2020 to a Pass/Fail basis. 3. What grades will qualify for a "Pass" on a Pass/Fail basis? Assigned grades of A, A-, B+, B, B-, C+, C, and C- will all be eligible for conversion to a "Pass" on a Pass/Fail basis. 4. What grades will qualify for a "Fail" on a Pass/Fail basis? Assigned grades of D+, D, D-, and F will all be eligible for conversion to a "Fail" on a Pass/Fail basis. 5. What will be the impact on a student's gpa by choosing to convert an assigned grade to a Pass/Fail basis? The Pass/Fail grade, whether "Pass" or "Fail," will not be calculated in the student's gpa. 6. What will be the impact of converting a A, A-, B+, B, B-, C+, C, or C- to a "Pass" on a Pass/Fail basis? The earned credit will be retained, and the assigned grade will not be factored into the calculation of the gpa. 7. What will be the impact of converting a D+, D, or D- grade to a "Fail" on a Pass/Fail basis? The earned credit will be forfeited, and the assigned grade will not be factored into the calculation of the gpa. 8. What will be the impact of converting an F grade to a "Fail" on a Pass/Fail basis? The F grade will not be factored into the calculation of the gpa. 9. What process will be utilized for students to elect to convert an assigned grade to a Pass/Fail basis? The University is preparing a BearWeb form that will allow students to elect to convert an assigned grade to Pass/Fail. The form will be available for graduation candidates from 5:00 pm CDT on 5/12 to 5:00 pm CDT on 5/15, and all other undergraduate students from 5:00 pm CDT on 5/13 to 5:00 pm CDT on 5/20. Detailed information for Pass/Fail election submission will be distributed before the window of time that the form is available. 10. Once a student decides to convert an assigned grade to the Pass/Fail grading basis, will there be further opportunity to reverse that decision? No. Once a student decides to elect to convert an assigned grade to a Pass/Fail basis, it will be irrevocable with no appeal. 11. What resources will be available to help a student decide whether to convert their assigned grade to a Pass/Fail basis? Students should consult an academic advisor, dean's office, financial aid officer, or any other campus resource with whom they regularly work on decisions related to registration, add/drop, repeating coursework, or academic forgiveness. Students are responsible for completing their own due diligence to be fully aware of the implications of their decision to convert an assigned grade to Pass/Fail. Taking this step will be especially significant as students consider the impact of converting a course (or courses) to Pass/Fail and its impact on scholarships (athletics or other), other forms of financial aid, veterans' benefits, licensure, graduate/professional school admission, and/or other professional goals. 12. If a student elects to convert an assigned grade of C- or better to a "Pass," will that "Pass" be eligible to meet the prerequisites for subsequent courses? Yes. The "Pass" will be eligible to satisfy subsequent prerequisites. However, if there is any question or doubt about a student's preparedness for a subsequent course, the student should seek advice from his/her academic advisor and/or the department offering the course. 13. If a student elects to convert an assigned grade of C- or better to a "Pass," will that "Pass" be eligible for completion of degree requirements and progression standards? Yes. This is an exception to normal standards and will only apply to Pass/Fail grades for Spring 2020. 14. How will a Pass/Fail grade impact a student's ability to utilize academic forgiveness toward a course being repeated in Spring 2020? Assuming the repeated course is otherwise eligible for academic forgiveness, the previous earned grade will be excluded from the gpa calculation without a new grade being included. 15. During what periods of time may undergraduate students elect to convert assigned grades to a Pass/Fail basis? Undergraduate degree candidates may do so from May 12, 2020 at 5:00 pm CDT until May 15, 2020 at 5:00 pm CDT All other undergraduate students will have from May 13, 2020 at 5:00 pm CDT until May 20, 2020 at 5:00 pm CDT. There will be no exceptions granted to extend this election window. 16. How will the introduction of the three-day window for undergraduate degree candidates to elect to convert one or more assigned grades to a Pass/Fail basis impact the timing of Spring 2020 degree conferral? The anticipated impact is that this window of opportunity for undergraduate degree candidates will delay degree conferral by approximately three days (compared to previous spring semesters). 17. Will undergraduate students that are assigned an incomplete grade or have a missing grade at the end of the Spring 2020 semester be eligible to later choose to convert their assigned grade to a Pass/Fail basis? No. Assigned incomplete and missing grades at the end of the Spring 2020 semester will not be eligible to be converted to a Pass/Fail basis unless the final grade is assigned and the election made during the available window. For missing grades, it is the responsibility of the instructor to ensure all grades are submitted by the University's grading deadlines. 18. How will a student's decision to convert an assigned grade to a Pass/Fail basis impact academic actions (i.e. academic probation, suspension, and dismissal)? The normal academic action processes will occur after the Pass/Fail conversion window of opportunity has passed. Academic dean's offices will determine whether to apply academic probation, suspension, or dismissal to individual students based on the student's academic record in accordance with the policies articulated in the Undergraduate Catalog. 19. How will a student's decision to convert an assigned grade to a Pass/Fail basis impact the determination of qualifications for Dean's List recognition for Spring 2020? Dean's list will be recognized for undergraduate students in Spring 2020 using the University's standard criteria. Please note that dean's list recognition does require a student to have a minimum of 12 graded (A-F) credit hours in a term. 20. How will a student's decision to convert an assigned grade to a Pass/Fail basis impact the student's opportunity to be recognized with Latin Honors when s/he graduates? The minimum cumulative gpa for Latin Honors is 3.75. Given that threshold, if a student chooses to elect the Pass/Fail grading basis wisely, the opportunity to elect this option should only be advantageous to students. 21. Will elected Pass/Fail grades for Spring 2020 count toward institutional limits on Pass/Fail grades during a student's undergraduate career? No. Elected Pass/Fail grades during Spring 2020 will not count toward any standard limits. 22. Should a student considering applying to Law School, Medical School, or another similar program of study elect to convert an assigned grade to a Pass/Fail basis? Students pursuing these professional goals are eligible to make this choice, but they should do so only after careful consultation with the Prehealth Studies Office or the Pre-Law Office. 23. Will the Pass/Fail options for Spring 2020 become permanent options for students? No. These Pass/Fail election options and exceptions will only apply for Spring 2020. 24. Will this Pass/Fail conversion opportunity impact the grades instructors submit at the end of the semester or how they do so? No. At the end of the spring 2020 semester, instructors will submit course grades based upon the grading scale in their syllabi as they would do at the end of any other semester. 25. Will a student that elects to convert their assigned grade to Pass/Fail be eligible to repeat that course in the future under the Undergraduate Course Repeat Policy? It depends on the final grade: Pass - No. A student will not be able to repeat the course unless the course repeat is approved by the appropriate academic dean. Fail- Yes. A student will be able to repeat the course under the existing Course Repeat Policy. 26. Will a student that elects to convert their assigned grade to a "Fail" on a Pass/Fail basis have used one of their attempts under the Undergraduate Course Repeat Policy, and therefore, be bound by the requirement that it may not be repeated at another institution for transfer to Baylor University? Yes. Regardless of the Pass/Fail election opportunity, for any course attempt that leads to a letter grade (i.e. A, A-, B+, etc.), a pass or fail, or a "W" withdrawal notation that course will not be able to be repeated at another institution for transfer to Baylor University. 27. Are there any universal requirements for a student to earn the minimum C- grade that will be eligible to be converted to a "Pass"? The accepted proposal for Pass/Fail grading conversion in Spring 2020 indicates that in order for a student to earn a grade of C-, the student will need to remain engaged with all course assignments throughout the spring 2020 semester. (In general, students will be expected to complete all course assignments, quizzes, tests, projects, and other assignments required by the instructor.) 28. Are undergraduate post-baccalaureate students eligible to elect the Pass/Fail grading conversion option that is available for Spring 2020 to undergraduate students? Yes. Undergraduate post-baccalaureate students are eligible to elect the Pass/Fail grading conversion option for courses numbered 4999 and below for Spring 2020. 29. If an undergraduate student chooses to convert an assigned grade to a Pass/Fail basis at the end of Spring 2020 semester, will the assigned grade continue to appear on the student's transcript? No. Once a student elects to convert an assigned grade to a Pass/Fail basis, then the assigned grade will not appear on the student's transcript. 30. For a freshmen or transfer undergraduate student that currently has a Pre-Law designation requiring a cumulative gpa of at least 3.20 at the end of 24 Baylor University credit hours (i.e. the end of the Spring 2020 semester), how will this semester's changed format, and the Pass/Fail grading conversion option, impact the ability to retain that designation? All students who have added the Pre-Law designation, and during the Spring 2020 semester are still in their first 24 credit hours at Baylor, will have the minimum cumulative gpa requirement for Pre-Law waived for this academic year (2019-20). However, in the event that a student's cumulative gpa does not meet the required 3.20 threshold at the end of the Spring 2021 semester, the student will have the Pre-Law designation removed, in accordance with the normal policies outlined in the undergraduate course catalog. 31. Will undergraduate students enrolled in Spring 2020 semester classes that ended prior to Spring Break (i.e. prior to March 7, 2020) be eligible to elect for the Pass/Fail grading conversion for those classes at the end of Spring 2020? No. Because the Pass/Fail grading conversion option was made available as a result of the impact of COVID-19 on the academic calendar and instruction that followed Spring Break 2020, classes that ended by March 7, 2020 will not be eligible for the Pass/Fail grading conversion option. 32. How might a student's VA education benefit be impacted by electing to convert an assigned grade to the Pass/Fail grading basis that results in a "Fail"? A "Fail" on a Pass/Fail basis may negatively impact VA Education Benefits and those implications vary by benefit chapter. We have provided details of "Fail" implications by benefit chapter below. More Information: https://www.baylor.edu/registrar/index.php?id=968005 33. If a student elects to convert an assigned grade to a Pass/Fail basis, will potential employers view this negatively when reviewing the transcript of a student? Employers typically do not closely analyze each semester's grades. Most often, the transcript may be used to verify that a degree was earned or verify a student's GPA. We anticipate that organizations around the world will view Spring 2020 as a unique semester with unique circumstances that resulted in many universities offering similar opportunities to their students. Please also see FAQ's #11 and #22. 34. Can a current undergraduate student receive or send a transcript during the Pass/Fail Election period? A currently enrolled undergraduate student will be able to request a transcript, but Baylor will not fulfill the request during their Pass/Fail election period until they have: - Exhausted all Pass/Fail options for the Spring 2020 term. - Indicated that they do not intend to make any Pass/Fail elections on the Pass/Fail Options page in BearWeb. BACK TO TOP Records 1. Where can I get a statement of academic standing or verification of enrollment? The Office of the Registrar - Suite 380 Robinson Tower 2. What is FERPA? FERPA is the Family Education Rights and Privacy Act of 1974, also known as the Buckley Amendment. The Act is designed to protect the rights of students and to safeguard the privacy and accuracy of education records. The Act applies to all institutions that are recipients of federal aid administrated by the United States Secretary of Education. More information on FERPA may be found at www.baylor.edu/registrar/Ferpa 3. Is there a consent form that students can complete in order to allow their parents to view their grades and progress in courses? If so, how may this be submitted? There is not an option at Baylor, such as a parent portal, that allows parents to see current grades or progress for their students in a particular class. Students can view their grades and progress via their BearWeb or Canvas accounts. The Office of the Registrar has a form available that students can complete in order for parents to request an official transcript on the student's behalf. This form also allows instructors, at their discretion, to speak to the student's parents regarding information from the student's educational record. In addition, some units have developed their own form to be used on an ad hoc basis for similar purposes. Grades will NOT be discussed over the telephone with either the student or a parent by the Office of the Registrar, even if a consent form has been submitted. The student must visit the Office of the Registrar, located in Robinson Tower suite 380, to complete the form. BACK TO TOP Registration 1. Why can't I register or drop/add on BearWeb? NEW - Beginning in Fall 2018, classes in a fall or spring semester may be added through the first five class days of the semester via BearWeb. Also, a Fall 2018 pilot will allow students to drop classes via BearWeb through the 50th class day in a regular Fall or Spring semester. Students will need to seek approval from their advisor for a drop beginning on the 13th day of the semester. Another reason for not being able to register is an INACTIVE student status, which may result from having graduated or withdrawn from the university during a prior semester. 2. How do I register for a closed class? A closed class means that the enrollment has met maximum capacity. You may contact the academic department and request they issue a permit. If they do, go to the Add/Drop option of Bearweb and enter the five-digit CRN (course reference number) of the course and SUBMIT. 3. If I have a DF or WF on my transcript from a past term, how does that affect my GPA? A grade of DF or WF (last used for Spring 2013) calculates in your GPA as a grade of F. 4. How can I audit a class, take a class pass/fail or take more than 18 hours in a semester? Students must receive permission and a petition from their academic Dean's office. - Arts & Sciences - Business - Education - Engineering - Music - Nursing - Social Work - Health and Human Sciences BACK TO TOP Returning Student Reactivation 1. Do I need to complete a Student Reactivation Application? Did you withdraw from Baylor during the fall or spring semester immediately before your desired return term? Were you not enrolled at Baylor for the fall or spring semester immediately before your desired return term? If you are an Undergraduate student and answered yes to either question above, you must complete a Student Reactivation Application. 2. Do I need to pay a fee to apply for reactivation? No. 3. Is a deposit required for enrollment following reactivation? No. 4. When one begins an application reactivation, which type of application should be initiated? Please choose the option for a "Returning Student" along with your planned year of return. 5. Where do undergraduate students applying for reactivation send transcripts? Please direct those to the Baylor University, Office of the Registrar, One Bear Place #97068, Waco, TX 76798. 6. Are high school transcripts required if I have been previously enrolled as a student at Baylor University? No. 7. Do students that have been suspended (academic or disciplinary) need to initiate an application through the reactivation process in order to return to the University? Yes. They should also refer to any additional requirements that may have been communicated to them at the time of the suspension. 8. As a "Returning User" what does one need to do if they do not remember their BearID and/or Password? Visit or contact the Helpdesk at: 254/710-4357 or Email: Helpdesk@baylor.edu 9. What is a Banner ID? This is a nine-digit id number that typically begins with an "8" (not your SSN). 10. How long does the reactivation process take? The amount of time it takes to review a reactivation application varies based on the circumstances of each student. Depending on the items to be reviewed, it could take a day or it could take a matter of weeks. In order to facilitate a timely opportunity to register for the desired term, it is recommended that you submit the application as early as possible. 11. Once I am reactivated, what do I do next? Once activated, a student will be assigned a registration time-ticket for the term that they are reactivated for. An e-mail notification will be sent to their baylor.edu email address once the time-ticket has been assigned. 12. Who do I contact if I have questions about submitting the reactivation form? For questions about the reactivation process, please contact the Office of the Registrar at: registrar@baylor.edu. 13. If I am pursuing reactivation at Baylor and want to change my major, is there a way to do that through the reactivation process? Students that are inactive and want to change their major will need to be reactivated first. Once reactivated, then they can pursue a change of major. 14. Do Graduate, Seminary, or Law students need to complete a Student Reactivation Application? No. The Student Reactivation Application is currently only for Undergraduate Students. Graduate and Seminary Students should contact Graduate Admissions or Seminary, while Law students should contact the Law School. 15. What is the last day to submit the reactivation application for an upcoming term? We have provided specific deadline information on the reactivation webpage www.baylor.edu/registrar/studentreactivation. 16. I just graduated in May/December but wish to take undergraduate classes in the succeeding semester. Do I need to complete the reactivation process? No. The reactivation process is for former Baylor students who have been away for at least one Fall or Spring semester. If you graduated and plan to return to Baylor the next semester, your record will need to be reopened as a Post-Baccalaureate student. Please contact the Office of the Registrar at 254-710-1181 to open a Post-Baccalaureate record. 17. I wish to return to Baylor in order to take additional undergraduate classes after graduating a few semesters ago. Do I need to complete the returning student reactivation process? Yes. If you graduated from Baylor and have been away for at least one Fall or Spring semester, you will need to complete the reactivation process. 18. I graduated from Baylor University and wish to return as a Post-Bacc and retake some classes in which I did not do well. Will I be able to use Academic Forgiveness for the classes I retake? No. The Academic Forgiveness option ends once a degree has been awarded. BACK TO TOP Transcripts 1. How many transcripts can I order in one week? Ten official transcripts can be ordered in one week. 2. What do you charge for a transcript? Baylor University does not charge for Official transcripts. 3. If I attended Baylor for more than one degree, can I send part of my transcript separately? No, we will only send your complete Baylor record. 4. Will you send my transcript electronically? Baylor now offers secure PDF eTranscript delivery through Parchment. For more information, please see instructions for current students or former students. 5. What is Parchment? Parchment is the online transcript ordering service Baylor uses to send all eTranscripts. Orders for mailed transcripts, including transcripts going via FedEx or transcripts with attachments, can also be ordered through Parchment. Current students can access Parchment via BearWeb by choosing the "eTranscript or Special Delivery (FedEx or Attachments)" option. Former students will need to register for a Parchment account using their current email address. Please see our Transcript Information page for more information about current and former student ordering options. 6. When placing my order online (through BearWeb or Parchment), I cannot fit all of my recipient's address into the space allotted. The name and street address lines are limited to 30 characters each, and the city field is limited to 20 characters. Please abbreviate your address appropriately or divide it up into additional address lines. 7. How long does it take for an eTranscript to be delivered? If we have your consent (through BearWeb or an already approved signed consent form) and you have no other holds, it can take as little as 30-60 min. for your order to process. When servers are busy, the process may take longer. If you are turning in your consent form for the first time, please note that we must manually review and approve the form. If you attended prior to 1987, we will need to complete additional record research to fulfill your order, which generally takes 1-2 business days. 8. I have created a self-register account for Parchment, and I sent the consent form (by upload, fax, or email). However, the consent hold remains on my account. Please note that consent forms are manually approved by our office. We check for new consent forms several times a day, so it should be approved within one business day. We cannot approve forms during evenings, weekends, or Baylor holidays. If you continue to receive emails about the consent form after one business day, we have not received and/or approved a form for you. Please resend the form. If you send it via email, we can reply back to let you know it was received. 9. How early can I get a final transcript showing my degree after graduating? Your degree and graduation date should be posted on your transcript by the end of the week after graduation. You can keep an eye on the "screen optimized version" of your unofficial transcript in BearWeb to see when your degree has posted. Once it has posted, you can order your transcript through BearWeb. For December graduates: The Office of the Registrar will be closed during the official holidays for the University; any paper transcripts you request during that time will not be mailed out until after the new year. 10. I am a recent graduate. Should I still use BearWeb to enter Parchment or use the Former Student Online Ordering option to self-register for a Parchment account instead? If you attended very recently, you will possibly still be able to access Parchment through BearWeb. However, after a few months most former students are no longer able to access BearWeb. For this reason, we recommend that all former students go ahead and establish a new self-register Parchment account by following the Former Student Online Ordering instructions. 11. I am a former student, and I do not remember if I have a Parchment account and/or do not remember the email address I used to set it up. We only began offering Parchment in June of 2015. If you last ordered a transcript prior to this date, you did not use Parchment and you will need to set up a new account as a first-time user. If you are still uncertain, you may contact us for further assistance at 254-710-1181 or email Registrar@baylor.edu. 12. I am placing an order through Parchment and need to send a transcript to myself, a specific department, or an individual. How do I do this? Instead of searching for a recipient when asked, "Where would you like your document sent?" you will need to select the option to "Send to Yourself, Another Individual, or Third Party" (below the search field). You will then need to supply the email address to which you wish to send the transcript. 13. Where can I add an attachment to my Parchment order? You can add an attachment (such as a transcript matching form) in Step 3 of the Parchment ordering process (the same step in which you will enter/confirm the recipient's address/email address). Please note that some centralized application services now accept electronic transcripts and will not require an uploaded matching form. Instead you will need to enter identification numbers when prompted, in order to match your transcript with your application. Here is a partial list of some of these services: ACCEPT ELECTRONIC TRANSCRIPTS FROM BAYLOR (will need to enter applicant ID#) AMCAS (will also need to enter transcript ID#) Centralized application services managed by Liaison International- NursingCAS, AACOMAS, VMCAS, PharmCAS, DICAS, PTCAS, etc. (For full list, see Liaison partners ) DO NOT CURRENTLY ACCEPT ELECTRONIC TRANSCRIPTS FROM BAYLOR (order mailed copy of transcript and attach PDF copy of matching form with order) LSAC TMDSAS 14. Where can I request FedEx delivery through Parchment? You can change the Mail Method to "FedEx" and enter your FedEx account number in Step 3 of the ordering process (the same step in which you will enter/confirm the recipient's address). Please note that we will send by FedEx Priority Overnight (for domestic orders) or FedEx International Priority (for international orders). BACK TO TOP Transfer Credit 1. Does Baylor accept online courses? Courses taught electronically or in hybrid (meaning partly electronic or partly face-to-face) format are acceptable provided that they meet all other expectations with regard to the course characteristics used to determine equivalencies (see question #5). 2. How can I determine if a course I want to take elsewhere is equivalent to a Baylor course? Course equivalencies can be found using the Equivalent Course Tool. 3. If a course I intend to take IS found using the Equivalent Course Tool (ECT), do I need to submit an Equivalent Course Request (ECR) in order to take the course? No. Once you have found the course you intend to take using the Equivalent Course Tool, you should use the print feature to print a copy of the equivalency for your records. Before enrolling in the course, however, you need to make sure that you have read all transfer credit policies carefully to ensure that you are eligible to complete any additional transfer courses. 4. What are the steps for the Equivalent Course Request approval process? The steps are as follows: -Once submitted, your request will be reviewed by the Office of the Registrar to determine if you are eligible to transfer hours at this point in your Baylor career (please refer to the post-matriculation transfer credit policies for more information). -If approved by the Office of the Registrar, your request will be reviewed by the appropriate academic department to determine if the requested equivalency is acceptable for transfer. -Once the review is complete, you will receive an email instructing you to check the results of the request by clicking the "View My Requests" link on the ECR web page. At any time, a student can check the status of their requests by clicking on "My Requests" at the top right of the opening page of the ECR process. 5. What documentation will I need when I submit an Equivalent Course Request? When submitting an Equivalent Course Request, students must have the following information/documentation regarding the course they would like to take elsewhere. Students should have this information at hand prior to starting a request: -Name of Institution and the state in which it is located -Title of course -Course prefix and number -Credit hours -Course description from the catalog -Course syllabus (as recent as possible) -Name of textbook (Name, author, and edition) Students also must have the following information about the potential Baylor equivalent course: -Course prefix and number -Credit hours 6. When I click on the link for the Equivalent Course Tool, my browser keeps spinning and nothing comes up. Is there something wrong with the Equivalent Course Tool? No. If this occurs, the problem is with the browser that you are using, not with the Equivalent Course Tool. If you experience this problem, you need to clear the history in your browser, including the "cookies". Once you have cleared the history and all cookies (which will empty the cache), restart the browser and try the Equivalent Course Tool again. That should fix the problem. If you are using Mozilla Firefox or Internet Explorer as your browser, switching to Safari or Google Chrome may fix the problem as well. If you experience further difficulties, contact the Baylor HELP desk at (254) 710-HELP (4357). 7. What are the deadlines for submitting an Equivalent Course Request? The deadlines are as follow. Students MUST meet these deadlines if they expect to have a request considered for the term indicated. -For all summer terms, student requests must be received by MAY 15th. -For all fall terms, student requests must be received by AUGUST 15th. -For all spring terms, student requests must be received by DECEMBER 15th. 8. How does Baylor determine which courses are equivalent? Equivalent courses are determined by department chairs based upon the following course characteristics: course description, textbook, course objectives, assignments, number of credit hours, course prerequisites, and program quality (determined based on a process designed by Institutional Research and Testing in consultation with the relevant department chair and the Vice Provost for Undergraduate Education). Courses found using the Equivalent Course Tool have already been determined as equivalent. 9. After I have completed a course elsewhere, what address should I use when sending a transcript to Baylor? Increasingly, colleges can deliver PDF transcripts directly to Baylor. However, if you are ordering a paper transcript, the address to use is as follows: Office of the Registrar Attn: Transfer Credit Evaluation One Bear Place #97068 Waco, TX 76798 10. The transfer credit policies use the terms "pre-matriculation" and "post-matriculation". What is the difference? Pre-matriculation means before enrolling as an official Baylor student. Post-matriculation means after a student has officially enrolled at Baylor. A student's matriculation date is the date they begin coursework at Baylor. 11. How can I tell if my completed transfer work has been added to my Baylor record? Students will receive notification emails from the Registrar's Office when transcripts are received and when transfer credit has been added. Students should then check their degree audit using BearWeb to verify that all transfer work is appearing as expected. 12. How often do course equivalencies change? Department chairs participate in an equivalent course review process at least every three years. The review normally takes place during the summer, and any changes made are effective for the following summer. 13. Assuming that a course is equivalent, how do I know if the course will satisfy a requirement within my degree plan? To answer this question, students need to check their degree audit to determine where the course fits within their academic requirements. For accurate information, be sure to contact your assigned academic advisor. You can find contact information for your advisor by logging into Bearweb and then following "Student Services and Financial Aid", then "Advisement", and finally "Advisement Contact Information". 14. Can I earn credit by exam at Baylor? Credit by Exam information is available through Student Testing Services. More Information: https://www.baylor.edu/studenttesting 15. Does a grade of "C-" meet the requirement of "a grade of 'C' or better" that must be earned in all courses transferred to Baylor? No, a grade of "C-" is not sufficient to meet this requirement and cannot be transferred to Baylor. 16. If an international student plans to take a class at a university in his or her home country, how can they request equivalency? The student will need to complete and submit the Abroad Equivalent Course Approval Form prior to studying abroad independently. More Information: https://www.baylor.edu/registrar/index.php?id=948449 BACK TO TOP Undergraduate Course Repeat and Academic Forgiveness Policy 1. What is the Undergraduate Course Repeat and Academic Forgiveness Policy? There are two parts to the policy: Course Repetition and Academic Forgiveness Course Repetition A student may repeat a course for which his or her highest earned grade is a C- or below. A student may also repeat a course, when approved by the appropriate academic dean, for which he or she needs to earn a higher grade in order to fulfill a prerequisite or a course requirement for a degree, major, or minor (see specific degree/major/minor requirements for policies governing minimum grades needed in those areas). A student will have a maximum of three attempts at any one course, where a class with a grade or a W notation counts as an attempt. Courses attempted at Baylor University, which includes courses for which a student received a W notation, may not be repeated at another institution for transfer to Baylor University. All grades earned at Baylor University will be calculated in the term and cumulative grade point averages (see Academic Forgiveness for exceptions). Academic Forgiveness A student may request to have the first grade earned (not a W notation) from a repeated course excluded from the calculation of the grade point average (GPA) for a maximum of three courses during one's undergraduate career, where the original grade earned was a C- or below. If a student attempts a course a third time and Academic Forgiveness is applied, then all grades except the first will be used to calculate the GPA. Once applied to a particular course, Academic Forgiveness cannot be cancelled or removed (this rule may not be appealed). 2. When did the current undergraduate course repeat and academic forgiveness policy take effect? The undergraduate course repeat and academic forgiveness policy was effective with the Fall 2017 term. 3. Will the changes to the undergraduate course repeat policy in 2017 impact grades that have already been excluded from my gpa due to a repeat. No. Grades that were excluded from gpa calculations under the previous course repeat policy will remain excluded. 4. How will students identify which class/grade that they want excluded from the calculation of their gpa under the course repeat policy? Once the repeat of the course is completed, Bearweb will allow students to request for a grade to be excluded from calculation of their gpa and will enforce the rules defined in the Academic Forgiveness policy. Special provision will be made for students completing a repeated course in the semester they are graduating. 5. If a student has received a W notation as the result of dropping a class prior to Fall 2017, will he or she be able to take that class at another institution and transfer it to Baylor University? No. Beginning in Fall 2017, if a student has received a grade or a W notation for a course taken at Baylor University, that student may not take the course elsewhere with the expectation that it may be transferred to Baylor. 6. The policy indicates that a student will only have a maximum of three attempts at any one course. What counts as an attempt? For purposes of this policy, an attempt includes registration for any course that results in either a grade or a W notation on a student's record. 7. What if a student has already attempted a course three times prior to Fall 2017? Are those previous attempts grandfathered? No. The limit of three attempts for any one course will include all attempts whether they occurred before the Fall 2017 effective date of the policy or not. Thus, if you have attempted a course three or more times before Fall 2017, you would no longer be eligible to register for that course beginning with Fall 2017. 8. If a student has already had three or more class grades excluded from his or her gpa under the former repeat policy, will he or she be eligible to have additional repeated grades excluded from his or her gpa under the new Academic Forgiveness Policy, which began in Fall 2017? Yes. Each undergraduate student will have the opportunity to have three class grades excluded from the calculation of his or her gpa beyond those excluded prior to Fall 2017. Thus, the additional three would result from repeated classes occurring Fall 2017 or later. 9. If a student takes the same class three times and the resulting grades in order are F, D, and A, which grade or grades may be excluded under the Academic Forgiveness policy? Assuming that a student has not already used his or her three grade exclusions available beginning Fall 2017 through the Academic Forgiveness policy, then the original earned grade of F may be excluded from calculation of the gpa upon the student's request. The grades of D and A would be included in the calculation of the gpa. 10. If a student takes the same class three times and the resulting grades/notations in order are W, D, and A, which grade or grades may be excluded under the Academic Forgiveness policy? Assuming that a student has not already used his or her three grade exclusions available beginning Fall 2017 through the Academic Forgiveness policy, then the original earned grade of D may be excluded from calculation of the gpa. 11. Is there an opportunity for Academic Forgiveness to be applied to a grade received prior to Fall 2017? Yes. A student may use Academic Forgiveness to exclude a grade received prior to Fall 2017 if the second grade received for the course is for Fall 2017 or later. 12. May I request Academic Forgiveness for a course that was previously taken and has since changed numbers or been discontinued? Maybe. If you complete a new course that is set as an equivalent course to one you previously completed, then the original completion would be eligible for academic forgiveness within the other standard parameters. For example, if you previously earned a grade that was eligible for forgiveness in "PSC 2302", and retook the course under "PSC 1387", the original grade in PSC 2302 would be eligible for academic forgiveness. However, some courses that are discontinued do not have a new equivalent replacement course. In those circumstances, previous courses will not be eligible for academic forgiveness. For further information, please consult with your academic advisor, academic dean's office, and/or the Office of the Registrar. 13. May a student request Academic Forgiveness after their undergraduate degree has been conferred? Academic Forgiveness may not be requested once a degree to which the course applied has been conferred. BACK TO TOP Waitlist 1. Will there be any limit on the number of students that can be added to a particular Waitlist? Baylor sets an unlimited capacity to section Waitlists so that the University can accurately gauge the full demand for individual courses. 2. Will time conflicts with other registered or Waitlist classes be allowed? While time conflicts are not allowed on a students schedule, the student can choose to be on a Waitlist even if the Waitlisted class has a time conflict with another class on the schedule. When the student is notified of an opening, the student will have to decide which class to take. If the Waitlisted class is preferred, the student must drop the currently enrolled class before adding the Waitlisted class. 3. Are students allowed to Waitlist a course that they are either enrolled or Waitlisted for? A student may not Waitlist for multiple sections of a course or Waitlist for a section when they are already registered for another section of the same course. 4. Are any students excluded from using a Waitlist? No student groups will be excluded from a Waitlist. 5. How will a student know if a section has a Waitlist? Waitlist information is available on the Schedule of Classes in the Students Waitlist column. It is also available in the Look-Up Classes pages in BearWeb. Waitlisted sections have a red WL to the left of the CRN and the WL Actual field displays the number of students currently on the Waitlist. 6. Will students be able to see where they are on a Waitlist? Students will be able to view their position on a Waitlist in BearWeb by viewing their Student Detail Schedule. 7. Are students added into Waitlisted courses automatically? No. The student will receive an email notification once a seat comes open and will have the option to register into the class. If the student does not complete the registration process within 24 hours, they will be removed from the Waitlist and the next student on the list will be notified via email. 8. When does Waitlisting open? The Waitlist will become available via BearWeb once the class is closed. 9. Is the student guaranteed a seat if they get on a Waitlist? No. Waitlisting does not guarantee a seat in the class. Students should check their Waitlist position regularly. If they are not moving up on the Waitlist, they may want to consider alternate classes to register for. 10. How are students notified when a seat becomes available on a Waitlisted class? The student will automatically receive an email notifying them the class has a seat available. The student will then have 24 hours from the time the seat opened to register into that class. If the student does not register into the class by the deadline, they will be removed from the Waitlist and the next student in line will be notified of the available seat. This is the only notification the student will receive. 11. Which email address will the student receive the notification? Waitlist notifications will be sent to the students Baylor email address. It is the students responsibility to check their email. 12. What happens if a student drops a class that has an active Waitlist? If a student drops a class which has an active Waitlist, they cannot re-enroll into the class. They must add themselves on the Waitlist or enroll in a different section that does not have a Waitlist. 13. Is there a maximum number of hours a student can Waitlist? No. There is no maximum for the number of Waitlisted hours for a student. 14. Is a student left on the Waitlist if they don't register within the 24 hours? No. After the 24 hours has ended, they are dropped off the Waitlist. The student can get back on the Waitlist if the student wishes to do so. 15. Are Waitlisted classes counted toward the student's credit hours? No. Waitlisted classes do not count into the student credit hours. 16. Do registration restrictions prevent a student from getting on the Waitlist for a Waitlisted class? Yes, all registration restrictions (pre-requisites, minimum test score, departmental approval, etc.) apply to Waitlist. 17. What happens if the student misses the 24 hour timeline and still wants the class? The student will be dropped from the waitlist, but can add himself or herself back on the end of the waitlist. 18. What happens if the student is placed on Academic Suspension? If a student is scholastically dropped, all classes including any classes on the waitlist will be dropped. 19. Will the Waitlist continue during University Holidays (e.g. Christmas, Easter, etc.)? Yes. Once the Waitlist is active for a given term it will remain open (even during holidays) until the last day to add a class for that semester through BearWeb. Students who are on a Waitlist should check their Baylor email account throughout the holidays in case a notification is sent that a seat has opened. Once a notification has been sent, students have twenty-four hours to act on a notification. 20. What should students do if they try to add a Waitlisted class that they received an e-mail notification about, they receive a fatal error (e.g. Time Conflict), and once the conflict is cleared up, the Waitlist option is no longer available? When students experience this, they should log-out of BearWeb, close their browser, and then log back into BearWeb. The Waitlist option will be available upon logging back into BearWeb. 21. What should a student do if they are having a problem adding a section to their schedule, once they have received a Waitlist notification for that section? Do NOT drop yourself from the Waitlist. This will automatically initiate an email to the next student on the Waitlist. - Make sure the section you are trying to add does not have other required components (i.e. BIO 2106 requires both lecture (01) and lab (A) AND BIO 2306 (01)) - Look through the Student Instructions document on our website (Waitlist instructions begin on page 6). - If your problem persists, take a screen shot and contact our office as soon as possible. 22. Can Waitlisting a class impact a student's financial aid, or full-time status? Waitlisted sections do not count toward a student's enrolled hours. Financial aid eligibility and full-time status are determined by a student's enrolled credit hours. Academic scholarships or other awards may not be applied to a student's bill if the student is not enrolled in sufficient credit hours. 23. What should students do if their class isn't opening up and they're not registered for a full schedule? Students should try to create a full schedule with other available classes (See FAQ#2 regarding Waitlisting for Time Conflicts). If a student is uncertain of other courses that will allow progress toward graduation, the student should speak to his or her advisor. In the event that a Waitlisted section does not open up, a full schedule that enables progress toward graduation is better than "the perfect schedule" that is unavailable. 24. What happens to the Waitlist after the add deadline each term? The waitlist is automatically purged at 11:59 pm on the last day to add classes. After this point, students are no longer able to add themselves to classes and therefore the waitlists are cleared. The system automatically drops all students from their respective waitlists. If the course was required for graduation or progression, the student should reach out to their advisor immediately. BACK TO TOP Registrar Dates and Deadlines Registering for Classes Steps for Registration Registration + Planning Instructional Videos View Class Schedule in BearWeb Summer/Fall 2022 BearWeb Early Registration Schedule Waitlist Information Waitlist FAQs Returning Student Reactivation Returning Student Reactivation FAQs Wintermester Academic Services Transcript Information Additional Information Current Student Online Ordering Former Student Online Ordering Name and Address Change Enrollment/Degree Certification Commencement Information Non-certified Commencement Participation Policy Diploma Information Diploma Distribution for Current Graduates Duplicate Diploma Orders for Alumni Duplicate Diploma Order Form Dean's Academic Honor List Degree Audits GPA Slip/Final Grades Enrollment Status Undergraduate Course Repeat Policy FAQ's - Undergraduate Course Repeat and Academic Forgiveness Policy U.Achieve Instructional Videos Schedule of Classes & Catalogs Schedule of Classes University Catalogs Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Law School Catalog Seminary Catalog Final Exam Schedule Spring 2022 Fall 2022 Transfer Credit Transfer Credit Policies Equivalent Course Tool (ECT) Search by Outside Institution Search by Baylor Course Equivalent Course Request (ECR) Transfer Credit FAQs Abroad Equivalent Course Approval VA Education Benefits Announcements Apply for VA Educational Benefits Meet our VA Benefits Team VA Benefits Contact Information Military Scholarships VA Chapter Benefits Chapter 33 John Fry Scholarship Chapter 35 Chapter 31 Chapter 30, 1606 VA Forms / Resources FAQs Ineligible Programs The Effects of Schedule Changes (Debt Info) Terminology VA COE Submission Yellow Ribbon Program Room Scheduling Faculty/Staff Resources Class Scheduling Schedule Build Timeline Development Grading Resources Class Roster Verification Electronic Catalog Implementation FERPA FERPA Policy Faculty/Staff Quick Guide Student Annual Notification FERPA Consent Form FAQs Office Information Mission Statement Staff Directory Activities and Responsibilities Organizational Chart Search the Site Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright  Baylor University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University  Waco, Texas 76798  1-800-229-5678 Dates and Deadlines Registering for Classes Steps for Registration Registration + Planning Instructional Videos View Class Schedule in BearWeb Summer/Fall 2022 BearWeb Early Registration Schedule Waitlist Information Waitlist FAQs Returning Student Reactivation Returning Student Reactivation FAQs Wintermester Academic Services Transcript Information Additional Information Current Student Online Ordering Former Student Online Ordering Name and Address Change Enrollment/Degree Certification Commencement Information Non-certified Commencement Participation Policy Diploma Information Diploma Distribution for Current Graduates Duplicate Diploma Orders for Alumni Duplicate Diploma Order Form Dean's Academic Honor List Degree Audits GPA Slip/Final Grades Enrollment Status Undergraduate Course Repeat Policy FAQ's - Undergraduate Course Repeat and Academic Forgiveness Policy U.Achieve Instructional Videos Schedule of Classes & Catalogs Schedule of Classes University Catalogs Undergraduate Catalog Previous Undergraduate Catalogs Graduate Catalog Law School Catalog Seminary Catalog Final Exam Schedule Spring 2022 Fall 2022 Transfer Credit Transfer Credit Policies Equivalent Course Tool (ECT) Search by Outside Institution Search by Baylor Course Equivalent Course Request (ECR) Transfer Credit FAQs Abroad Equivalent Course Approval VA Education Benefits Announcements Apply for VA Educational Benefits Meet our VA Benefits Team VA Benefits Contact Information VA Benefits Appointment Scheduling Military Scholarships VA Chapter Benefits Chapter 33 Chapter 33 Application Process - Veterans or Active Duty Chapter 33 Application Process - Spouses or Dependents Chapter 33 - Private School Tuition & Fee Cap Timeline of VA Chapter 33 Certification Procedure VA CH 33 Refund Procedure Example Email John Fry Scholarship Chapter 35 Chapter 31 VA CH 31 Refund Procedure Chapter 30, 1606 VA Forms / Resources FAQs Ineligible Programs The Effects of Schedule Changes (Debt Info) Terminology VA COE Submission Yellow Ribbon Program Room Scheduling Faculty/Staff Resources Class Scheduling Schedule Build Timeline Development Grading Resources Class Roster Verification Electronic Catalog Implementation FERPA FERPA Policy Faculty/Staff Quick Guide Student Annual Notification FERPA Consent Form FAQs Office Information Mission Statement Staff Directory Activities and Responsibilities Organizational Chart Search the Site