Skip to Content Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Indiana University Bloomington Indiana University Bloomington IU Bloomington Menu About History Rankings & Campus Statistics Mission & Strategic Planning Leadership & Administration Safety & Emergency Information Visit Campus Transportation & Parking A-Z List Jobs at IU How to Hire IU Students Admissions How to Apply Cost & Finances Visit IU & Bloomington Academics The Academic Experience Degrees & Majors Business Health & Wellness Science, Engineering & Technology Public Service Arts & Culture Schools Academic Opportunities Study Abroad Online Classes & Programs Schedule of Classes & Academic Calendar Academic Advising & Support Libraries Research Hoosier Life Traditions & Spirit Student Organizations Recreational Sports Athletics Health, Wellness & Safety Housing & Dining Visiting Bloomington Attractions & Things to Do Diversity on Campus Career Prep Find Your Passion Get Experience Develop Your Career Use Your Network Alumni & Giving News & Events Indiana University Bloomington Home About Admissions Academics Research Hoosier Life Career Prep Alumni & Giving News & Events Home About Visit Campus Visit Campus Explore art, architecture, and nature Nestled in the rolling hills of southern Indiana, IU Bloomington showcases the kind of landscape you’d expect from the quintessential college campus. You’ll travel through time as you walk the grounds, with the Victorian-era buildings of the Old Crescent giving way to Romanesque, Gothic, Collegiate Gothic, Art Deco, Modern, and postmodern architectural styles of the last 200 years. From its original 10 acres south of downtown, IU Bloomington has grown to nearly 2,000 acres in the northeast quadrant of the city. Stroll through such memorable landmarks as Dunn’s Woods and the Fine Arts Plaza. Enjoy a picnic on the bank of the Campus River. Experience a moment of Zen in the Commemorative Garden at the Indiana Memorial Union. Whatever you seek, find it at IU Bloomington. Find your way around IU The IU interactive campus map includes IU and non-IU buildings, construction zones, visitor parking lots, bike racks, and emergency phone locations.View the IU campus map Visiting campus? The IU Visitor Information Center and plenty of IU Hoosiers are ready to help you find where you need to go. Need to know how and where to park, and the best ways to travel? We’ve got you covered. Learn about IU transportation and parking Students: see your visit options History Rankings & Campus Statistics Mission & Strategic Planning Leadership & Administration Safety & Emergency Information Visit Campus Transportation & Parking A-Z List Jobs at IU How to Hire IU Students Indiana University Bloomington social media channels Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn Contact, Address and Additional Links Services Canvas One.IU AskIU Find Directory A-Z List Courses Campus Map Required Disclosures Library IU Bloomington Libraries IUCAT OneSearch@IU Resources Knowledge Base IT Services Faculty & Staff Resources Diversity Non-Discrimination Notice Protect IU Email About Email at IU Outlook Web Access INDIANA UNIVERSITY BLOOMINGTON 107 S. Indiana Avenue Bloomington, IN 47405-7000 Phone: 812-855-4848 Accessibility | Privacy Notice | Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of Indiana University