Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music About Us Admissions Academics Ensembles Faculty Support Events Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact We're making music all summer long! Calling all musicians and music lovers! Come stretch your creativity and grow your musical skills. Double Your Donation Today Support the future of music at the University of Memphis Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music Enjoy live streamed concerts! Watch our talented students from the comfort our your own home on our live stream. A Mighty Sound Learn more about the University of Memphis Marching Band, the Mighty Sound of the South PreviousNext Take Action Apply Now Alumni Support Us Scheidt Family Music Center Contact Us Follow the School of Music Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedInVimeo Home Music Learning Scored By Real Life Located in the heart of music-rich Memphis, Tennessee, The Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music provides the best of both worlds: personal instruction in music from accomplished artist-scholars, and all the benefits of a large, world-class university. With an international reputation for excellence, we have always attracted top talent. Our renowned music program offers bachelor's through doctoral degrees in 29 areas of concentration. As Tennessee's only doctoral degree granting program in music, we are setting the tone for creativity and excellence. We are a comprehensive music school, known for our diversity and dedication to our role as a cultural and intellectual resource for the university, the city, and the wider musical world. We present more performances than any other music organization in the Mid-South. Our teaching and research are deeply devoted to the preservation and growth of music as an art, a craft, a profession, and a treasury of human wisdom. Apply to the School of Music Apply to the School of Music APPLY Find Your Program Find Your Program View Academic Programs Meet Your Professors Meet Your Professors Meet the Faculty Join an Ensemble Join an Ensemble View Ensembles Attend a Concert Attend a Concert View Concerts Scholarships Scholarships View Scholarships Community Programs Community Programs Explore Programs See what's on Livestream Livestream View Livestream News & Events Strike a Chord: Scheidt School of Music Drive for Excellence Fund Launches with Matching Grant The Scheidt Family Commits $500,000 to create a matching fund to secure donations to support students who will be learning and performing in the new Scheidt Family Music Center. Read More > University of Memphis Hosts Annual Jazz Week Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music annual showcase celebrates Jazz legends and up-and-coming Jazz greats throughout the city of Memphis culminating with a show-stopping performance featuring UofM Alumni Charlton Johnson. Read More > GRAMMY Nominations Recognize School of Music Alumni Talent and Dedication The University of Memphis Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music’s legacy of producing excellent musicians and music professionals and our dedication to preserving music for generations to come helps to earn multiple alumni GRAMMY nominations. Read More > Memphis Alumna Wendy Moten takes The Voice by storm The four-time Emmy Award-winning musical competition series, The Voice, featured a showstopping Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music alumni, Wendy Moten. Read More > For more news, The Blue Note blog is the best way to keep up with what's happening at the Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music. Stay Connected Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/26/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.