Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Coronavirus COVID-19 right arrow down arrow COVID-19 Data Dashboard Academics right arrow down arrow Academic Calendar Off Campus Learning Campus Life right arrow down arrow Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Campus Recreation & Athletics Transportation Testing & Quarantine right arrow down arrow Quarantine & Isolation COVID Check App Self-Administered Wellness Check Self Reporting Campus Safety Measures right arrow down arrow Visitors Events Travel & Study Abroad Research Facial Masks Social Distancing Vaccines Home » Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) » Testing & Quarantine » Quarantine & Isolation Set Navigation title in component COVID-19 Data Dashboard Academics Academic Calendar Off Campus Learning Campus Life Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Campus Recreation & Athletics Transportation Testing & Quarantine Quarantine & Isolation COVID Check App Self-Administered Wellness Check Self Reporting Campus Safety Measures Visitors Events Travel & Study Abroad Research Facial Masks Social Distancing Vaccines Quarantine & Isolation For Spring 2022, quarantine may be required for students exposed to COVID-19. Isolation will be required for those who have viral symptoms associated with COVID-19 and for those who test positive with COVID-19. Please note: Individuals with a diagnosis of COVID-19, symptoms of COVID-19, in quarantine, or within 10 days of an exposure to someone with COVID-19 are required to wear a mask indoors regardless of broader campus-wide masking policies and regardless of vaccination status. Members of the UC community who test positive for COVID-19 are expected to respond to UC's COVID Check Team in a timely manner to begin the contact tracing process. Full cooperation with contact tracers is critically important in our efforts to keep other students and members of the UC community safe. What are quarantine and isolation? Quarantine Quarantine is generally utilized when a person who is not fully vaccinated has potentially been exposed to COVID-19 and needs to separate from others for a period of time to see if they develop symptoms. Important Protocols: Non vaccinated students, faculty and staff and those who are not up to date on their COVID vaccination (vaccinated and eligible for booster but not yet boosted) and are exposed to COVID-19 should quarantine away from others for 5 full days (day 0 through 5) after the last exposure, get tested on day 5 and if that test is negative, self-monitor for symptoms for 10 days. If you develop symptoms get tested immediately. If you are vaccinated and up to date (meaning you have either had a booster shot or have been recently vaccinated and are not yet eligible for a booster) you do not need to quarantine, unless symptomatic, but must test 5 days following exposure. If the test result is negative, self-monitor for symptoms for 10 days. If symptoms develop get tested immediately. If you are vaccinated (with a booster if recommended) you do not need to quarantine, unless symptomatic, but must test 5 days following exposure.   Additional information can be found on the CDC website. Isolation Isolation is utilized when an individual has symptoms or is confirmed to have COVID-19 via a PCR test. Important Protocols: Individuals who test positive for COVID-19 or are symptomatic, regardless of vaccination status, must isolate from others for at least 5 full days (day 0 is the first day of symptoms or the day of the positive viral test for asymptomatic persons). To end isolation after 5 days, you must test negative, have no fever, and have improving or no symptoms. This test does not have to be a PCR test. Rapid antigen tests are accepted. If an at-home rapid antigen test is used, a photo of the test result stick with the test box showing the serial number of the test kit must be submitted to uccovidcheck@ucmail.uc.edu. If you test positive on day 5 you must isolate for another 5 days for a total of 10 days of isolation. You do not need to test on day 10 to end isolation. Wear a mask when around others at home and in public for an additional 5 days. Individuals who are confirmed to have COVID-19 or are showing symptoms of COVID-19 need to isolate regardless of their vaccination status, including while awaiting test results. People with symptoms should isolate even if they do not know if they have been in close contact with someone with COVID-19. Additional information about isolation can be found on the CDC website. As we move forward together as a community, let’s also remember our campus practices may need to change as conditions or health guidance changes.   COVID 19 Guidelines: Symptoms and Exposure The university has developed the below guidelines to assist students, as well as faculty and staff, with appropriate action steps if they become symptomatic or have had close contact with an individual who has tested positive for COVID-19. Let’s remember that vaccination is currently the best way to prevent the need to quarantine or isolate.  Student Guidelines right arrow down arrow COVID-19 Symptoms: One of the following: new cough, shortness of breath, loss of taste or smell OR Two of the following: sore throat, vomiting and/or diarrhea, aching throughout the body, headache, fatigue not due to a known cause such as insufficient sleep. If I Have COVID-19 Symptoms: Stay home and isolate. Report using the COVID-Check app, notify your health care provider and your supervisor (if applicable). A member of UC’s COVID Check Response Team will contact you within several hours to collect information and provide next steps, including testing. Isolate except to get tested for COVID-19 as directed by your health care provider and/or UC’s COVID Check Response Team. If you are tested at an off-campus testing location, report your test results using the COVID-Check app. If I am Exposed to Someone that Tested Positive for COVID-19: Close contact is defined as being within 6ft of an individual positive with COVID-19 for 15-minutes or more over a 24-hour period. Report using the COVID-Check app If exposure has occurred and you are you are vaccinated and up to date (meaning you have either had a booster shot or have been recently vaccinated and are not yet eligible for a booster) you do not need to quarantine, unless symptomatic, but must test 5 days following exposure. If you are unvaccinated or are not up to date with your vaccination, you must quarantine. A member of UC’s contact tracing team will contact you within several hours to collect information and provide next steps. If I Test Positive for COVID-19: Stay home and isolate. Report using the COVID-Check app, notify your health care provider and your supervisor (if applicable). A member of UC’s Contact Tracing Team will typically contact you within 24-hours (see above) to collect information and provide next steps. Once a positive test is reported the contact tracing process is initiated. If you are tested for COVID-19 at an on-campus testing site your results will automatically be shared with UC’s COVID Check Response Team. Contact tracers will contact you to determine close contacts and if those individuals must be notified and/or quarantine. This depends on social distance, duration of expose and vaccination status. Your name and test result will not be shared with these individuals. UC’s COVID Check Team will follow-up with you often. Students will also receive outreach from Student Affairs. It is important to answer your phone and check your emails. UC’s COVID Check Response Team will call or email with next steps when your isolation period ends. Identified as a Close Contact?: Answer the call from contact tracers from UC’s COVID Check Response Team to help stop the spread of the virus. Monitor your health and if you develop symptoms report using the COVID Check app. Get tested on the fifth day after your exposure. Faculty & Staff Guidelines right arrow down arrow COVID-19 Symptoms: One of the following: new cough, shortness of breath, loss of taste or smell OR Two of the following: sore throat, vomiting and/or diarrhea, aching throughout the body, headache, fatigue not due to a known cause such as insufficient sleep. If I Have COVID-19 Symptoms: Stay home and isolate. Faculty and staff are expected to report using the COVID-Check app. You should also notify your health care provider and your supervisor. Once reported via the app, a member of UC’s COVID Check Response Team will contact you within several hours to collect information and provide next steps, including testing. Get tested for COVID-19 as directed by your health care provider and/or UC’s COVID Check Response Team. If you are tested at an off-campus testing location, report your test results using the COVID-Check app. If I am Exposed to Someone that Tested Positive for COVID-19: Close contact is defined as being within 6ft of an individual positive with COVID-19 for 15-minutes or more over a 24-hour period. Faculty and staff are expected to report using the COVID-Check app. If exposure has occurred and you are you are vaccinated and up to date (meaning you have either had a booster shot or have been recently vaccinated and are not yet eligible for a booster) you do not need to quarantine, unless symptomatic, but must test 5 days following exposure. You may continue to work as long as you do not have symptoms and must self-monitor for symptoms. If you are unvaccinated, or not up to date with your vaccination you must quarantine. A member of UC’s contact tracing team will contact you within several hours to collect information and provide next steps If I Test Positive for COVID-19: Stay home and isolate. Faculty and staff are expected to report using the COVID-Check app. You should also notify your health care provider and your supervisor. Once reported via the app, a member of UC’s Contact Tracing Team will typically contact you within 24-hours (see above) to collect information and provide next steps. Once a positive test is reported the contact tracing process is initiated. If you are tested for COVID-19 at an on-campus testing site your results will automatically be shared with UC’s COVID Check Response Team. Contact tracers will contact you to determine close contacts and if those individuals must be notified and/or quarantine. This depends on social distance, duration of expose and vaccination status. Your name and test result will not be shared with these individuals. UC’s COVID Check Team will follow-up with you often. It is important to answer your phone and check your emails. UC’s COVID Check Response Team will call or email with next steps when your isolation period ends. Identified as a Close Contact? Answer the call from contact tracers from UC’s COVID Check Response Team to help stop the spread of the virus. Monitor your health and if you develop symptoms report using the COVID Check app. Get tested on the fifth day after your exposure. Submit booster dose information Students, faculty and staff may voluntarily submit booster dose information via email to uccovidcheck@ucmail.uc.edu: Name Date received booster dose Brand/type of booster (eg- Pfizer, Moderna) The UC COVID Response Team will maintain the vaccination information in a secure database and will use it in accordance with FERPA and the UC Privacy Statement to monitor the health and vaccination status of the UC community. As we move forward together as a community, let’s also remember our campus practices may need to change as conditions or health guidance changes.   If you are traveling to campus from other states or international destinations There is no current automatic quarantine requirement for domestic students traveling from other states to move in to UC Housing or to return to campus classes/spaces. FAQ Can students in UC Housing in quarantine or isolation leave their quarantine and isolation to pick up carry-out food? right arrow down arrow Generally, no. Students in quarantine and isolation who are in Q&I due to viral symptoms, a known exposure, and/or a positive test will have food delivered to them. As we approach the start of the school year, those international students who are quarantining due only to their status as international travelers may go out for carry-out food. If an employee has been vaccinated but is exposed to an individual with COVID-19, are they required to quarantine?  right arrow down arrow Employees with a known exposure should report any expected absence from work to their supervisor, are strongly encouraged to immediately contact their health care provider and may contact the COVID Response Team via the App or web-based tool.  Individuals who test positive for COVID-19 must isolate. If you test negative on day 5, are experiencing improving symptoms and are fever free you may return to campus, but must wear a mask for the remaining 5 day of the traditional isolation period. Anyone who is up to date with vaccination and is exposed to someone with COVID-19 is not required to quarantine but must wear a mask for the full 10 day period. Up to date vaccination is considered a two-dose vaccine sequence within the last 5 months or J&J within the last 2 months, as well as a booster dose. Reporting exposures to UHS is always encouraged (513-585-6600), and you can report via the UC COVID Check App or a web-based link. If an employee has NOT been vaccinated but is exposed to an individual with COVID-19, are they required to quarantine?  right arrow down arrow Employees with a known exposure should report any expected absence from work to their supervisor, are strongly encouraged to immediately contact their health care provider and may contact the COVID Response Team via the App or web-based tool.  Anyone with an exposure to COVID-19 who is not up to date on vaccination (two-dose vaccine sequence within the last 5 months or J&J within the last 2 months, and a booster) must quarantine. A negative test at day 5 along with improving symptoms and no fever allows you to return to campus, but you must wear a mask for the remaining 5 days of the traditional quarantine period. Individuals who test positive for COVID-19 must isolate. If you test negative on day 5, are experiencing improving symptoms and are fever free you may return to campus, but must wear a mask for the remaining 5 day of the traditional isolation period. See the CDC guidelines. Reporting exposures to UHS is always encouraged (513-585-6600), and you can report via the UC COVID Check App or a web-based link. University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-6000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-6000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top