Indoor face covering requirements reinstated through June 13. More COVID-19 information. × Skip to main content A to Z Listing Campus Map Find People News Skip to main content University of California, Riverside Search Quicklinks Visit Events Make a Gift Campus Map Jobs Library Parking and Transportation Apply UC Riverside University of California, Riverside University of California, Riverside Search About About Overview Rankings and Facts Impacts History Visitors International Leadership Find Information for... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Colleges and Schools UCR Extension Find Information For... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Admissions Admissions Overview Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions International Admissions Transfer Admissions Cost Veteran Admissions Find Information For... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Research Research Overview Undergraduate Research Graduate Research Centers and Facilities Library Find Information For... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Campus Life Campus Life Overview Events Campus Map Arts and Culture Athletics and Recreation Health and Safety Botanic Gardens Housing Dining About Riverside Find Information For... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Quicklinks Visit Events Make a Gift Campus Map Jobs Library Parking and Transportation Apply Visitors Breadcrumb Visitors Explore our Dynamic Campus Community As a member of America’s most prestigious public university system, UC Riverside is one of the most dynamic campuses in the nation. We invite you to explore everything we have to offer — in person or online. Start your journey with UCR: View our campus map, explore our degree programs, or schedule your campus visit today. The Riverside Experience The vibrant city we call home boasts arts, culture, entertainment, family fun, outdoor life, festivals, sports, nightlife, and more – including the top ranked holiday lights display in the United States. You can even explore Riverside’s rich history through a self-guided walking tour of downtownor a guided walking food tour from alumna, Jennifer Kolb with her company Riverside Sites and Bites. If you want to venture outside our city limits, all of Southern California is within easy reach — by plane or car. Ontario International Airport (ONT) is a quick 20-minute drive from campus. Related Topics Rankings and Facts Impacts History Visitors International Leadership Riverside: Things to Do, See and Experience This historical city consists of arts and innovation, culture, entertainment, outdoor life, family fun, festivals, sports, nightlife and plenty of special events throughout the year. Inland Southern California UCR's main campus is in Riverside in the geographical center of Inland Southern California. Located near the junction of the 91, 215 and 60 freeways, UCR is approximately 50 miles east of Los Angeles and 100 miles north of San Diego. Vibrant City The city of Riverside is a vibrant, culturally diverse center of commerce, finance, industry, and education with a population of more than 294,000. Riverside is home to libraries, art and history museums, theaters, concert venues, a convention center, fine restaurants, quaint shops, modern shopping malls, and a wide variety of sports and other recreational activities that make living comfortable and fun. An Award Winning City The City of Riverside has won numerous awards for excellence in city governance, public service, and intelligence. Previous Next Great Things to Do and See Whether you want to hop in your car and see the sights or stay close to home here in Riverside, there are plenty of things to do and see. From the desert to the sea, all of Southern California is within reach. Flying in to visit us? The closest airport to fly into is Ontario (ONT) - only 20 minutes away from the campus. Our location puts us within an easy drive of: The Mission Inn More Information Riverside Plaza More Information Riverside Art Museum More Information California Citrus State Historic Park More Information UCR ARTS More Information University Village More Information March Field Air Museum More Information Sherman Indian Museum More Information Less than an hour away! Miles Minutes Auto Club Speedway (Fontana) 17 23 Victoria Gardens (shopping and cinemas) 18 25 Hyundai Pavilion (Devore) 24 27 Angels' Stadium (baseball) 36 36 Disneyland (Anaheim) 36 40 Snow Valley Mountain Resort 40 45 Knott's Berry Farm (Orange County) 41 43 Newport Beach (Orange County) 47 50 Huntington Beach (Surf City USA) 51 56 Palm Springs 56 60 Staples Center (Los Angeles) 56 60 Dodger Stadium (Los Angeles) 56 60 Campus Tours Accommodations City of Riverside UCR is tobacco free ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Printable Campus Map View and print a campus map ahead of your visit. Printable Map Visitor Parking Information on where to park and how to purchase a permit. Parking Information Real Time Traffic Alerts Give yourself enough time to get here! Traffic Alerts Campus Safety Your safety while on campus is very important to us. Learn more about our services. Safety Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR University Communications 1156 Hinderaker Hall tel: (951) 827-1012 email: webteam@ucr.edu Find Us Related Links Campus Return UCR Admissions UCR News Colleges and Schools Graduate Division UCR Jobs UCR Health Giving Follow Us: Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search Cancel