SMU Cox Display Navigation and Site Search SMU Cox School of Business SMU Cox Utility Navigation Students Companies Alumni Apply Contact Us smu.edu Display Navigation Display Search Search SMU SMU Cox Main Navigation At SMU Cox Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu An exceptional school in the heart of a vibrant, global, business-friendly city. Collins Center Cox News Cox Events Graduate Outcomes CoxToday Magazine Academic Departments Career Growth Global Programs Degrees & Programs Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Rigorous programs within a truly customized academic experience. Master of Science MS in Accounting MS in Business Analytics MS in Finance MS in Management MS Health Promotion Management MS in Sport Management MBA Full-Time Two-Year MBA Full-Time One-Year MBA MBA Direct Professional MBA Online MBA Executive MBA Joint Degrees JD/MBA MA / MBA MS Engineering / MBA Undergraduate Bachelor of Business Administration Non-Degree Executive Education Summer Business Institute Diversity & Inclusion Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Shaping Leaders for a Changing World. Diversity at Cox Latino Leadership Initiative I Am Latino in America Subiendo Academy at SMU Cox School Dean’s Message Executive Education Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Meet your career challenges head-on by mining the expertise of the nation's top business leaders. Programs for Individuals Custom Solutions Latino Leadership Initiative HR Roundtable Graduate Certificates Collins Center Learning Culture Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu An innovative learning culture influences the way the world does business. Centers and Institutes Academic Departments Research Business Library NextGen Cox Curriculum People & Community Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu A community where professors know students by name and help them create powerful networks. Students Alumni Faculty Companies Cox Executive Board Cox100 Press Releases Display Search Utility Navigation Students Companies Alumni Apply Contact Us smu.edu Energy Management Energy Management Home Degrees & Programs Bachelor of Business Administration Curriculum Business Analytics and Supply Chain Management Energy Management The specialization in energy management is designed to complement the student’s major in preparing them for careers in energy and natural resource companies, power generation companies, financial institutions, government, and non-profit groups. Students will develop a real-world foundation in the areas of industry structure and operations, energy economics and financial analysis, energy and natural resource law, and the role of global energy markets and policy. The curriculum reflects the current global energy mix, focusing primarily on hydrocarbons, but reflects the growing role of renewables in the years to come. Jump To A Section Required Courses Required Courses The specialization in energy management is designed to complement the student’s major in preparing them for careers in energy and natural resource companies, power generation companies, financial institutions, government, and non-profit groups. Students will develop a real-world foundation in the areas of industry structure and operations, energy economics and financial analysis, energy and natural resource law, and the role of global energy markets and policy. The curriculum reflects the current global energy mix, focusing primarily on hydrocarbons, but reflects the growing role of renewables in the years to come. The following courses (12 hours) are required for the specialization in energy management: BUSE 3331: From Prospect to Production to Kilowatts: The Business of Energy. FALL & SPRING BUSE 4332: Energy and Environmental Law. SPRING ONLY BUSE 4333: Business Management, Planning and Analysis in Energy. SPRING ONLY BUSE 4334: Global Energy Markets, Business and Policy: Spikes, Myths and Risks. FALL ONLY FINA 5345 (Not Required): Energy Project Valuation and Finance. SPRING ONLY BUSE 3331: From Prospect to Production to Kilowatts: The Business of Energy. This course provides the business student with an overview of the business of the modern energy industry. The course will provide students an in-depth understanding of the petroleum, natural gas, coal, power generation and alternative fuels market segments with a focus on structure, key business drivers, and technologies. The course will also explore key business issues facing the industry including sustainability, globalization and business/government relations. Prerequisites: ACCT 2301, FINA 3320 or ECON 4368or EMIS 2360. GEOL 1301 recommended. BUSE 4332: Energy and Environmental Law. This course examines the legal and regulatory issues applicable to energy as they relate to finance, investment and the economics of the business. The goal is to provide the students with the basic tools of the energy professional so they can identify and analyze the legal and regulatory issues related to energy and resource development and operation, property acquisition and divestiture, and project valuation and financing. Prerequisite: BUSE 3331, BL3335 BUSE 4333: Business Management, Planning and Analysis in Energy. This course examines analytical, economic, and financial concepts of the modern energy industry as they relate to planning and decision making in the firm, with a particular emphasis on oil and gas and power generation. Topics include capital structure, reserve valuation, royalties, production sharing agreements, and managing risk and uncertainty. Prerequisite: BUSE 3331 BUSE 4334: Global Energy Markets, Business and Policy: Spikes, Myths and Risks. This course examines the interrelationship between the economics of global energy markets, business profitability and public policy as it relates to the energy business. Topics include the principles of exhaustible resource economics and their impact upon business decision-making, the impact of price shocks on the industry and the overall economy, and the global policy and regulatory environment faced by the industry. Prerequisite: BUSE 3331 or permission of instructor. FINA 5345 (Not Required): Energy Project Valuation and Finance. Learn valuation, organization and funding of major energy industry projects. Examine sources of external finance, energy banking, non-recourse financing and links between project structure and financial performance. Recognize the volatility of energy prices and master techniques to assess and manage commodity price risk, basis risk and effective hedging strategies. Laptops with MS Excel and advanced spreadsheet tools required in class. Prerequisites: FINA 3320, finance or financial consulting majors, senior standing. Reserved for Cox majors. SMU Cox Footer Utility Nav Give Contact Us Apply © Cox School of Business Southern Methodist University PO Box 750333 Dallas, Texas 75275-0333 214-768-2000 SMU Cox Legal Home SMU Cox on Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter