Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries English PhD You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs English PhD Apply Request More Info English PhD Admissions Careers & Opportunities Curriculum Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid English PhD Prepare for a career in academia that focuses on literary theory and criticism with the Doctor of Philosophy in English in the College of Liberal Arts at Temple University. The curriculum integrates foundational and advanced coursework with rigorous independent research so you gain the expertise to pursue tenure-track positions at colleges and universities. You can choose to focus in one or two specific areas of study, each of which serves to prepare you for high-level teaching and research roles. Areas of study include American literature, British literature, critical and cultural theories, ethnic and African American literature, gender and sexuality, literature and visual studies, poetry and poetics, and postcolonial and global literature. Foundational courses in English literature provide the broad background needed to undergo independent research, while advanced graduate classes engage with cutting-edge faculty research and publication projects. Learn more about English PhD faculty and their areas of expertise. Special topics courses cover highly focused subject areas that have included the following. Documentary poetics Environmental studies Literary aesthetics Photography and literature Queer poetry and poetics Transatlantic feminist theory In recent years, English PhD program graduates have found work in tenure-track positions and non-tenure teaching positions, and many are currently working in non-teaching positions for which a PhD is a qualification. Graduates often find placement throughout the Northeast, continuing a long tradition of serving and enriching the region. Increasingly, graduates have secured positions across the country, including in California, New York, Ohio and Wisconsin. Our Community The College of Liberal Arts at Temple comprises many disciplines and research areas. Now more than ever, an interdisciplinary liberal arts education is invaluable for your future pursuits. It offers the opportunity to further push your drive to create real change in the world, here at Temple and beyond. In this graduate program, you’ll work closely with diverse faculty members who are highly esteemed in their field and with a curious, passionate community of peers. Program Format & Curriculum The 48-credit, full-time Doctor of Philosophy in English must be completed within seven years. Classes are offered on Temple’s Main and Center City campuses. The department also offers the Rome Seminar in Art and Culture. Courses offered in this program include the following. 20th and 21st Century American Literature Anglophone Literatures Book History Early American Literature Early British Literature Translation Study The culminating event of the English PhD is a dissertation that demonstrates students’ ability to conceive, research, write and support a major scholarly paper. Learn more about the requirements of the English PhD. Related Graduate Degrees Creative Writing MFA Journalism MJ* Media and Communication PhD* *Klein College of Media and Communication Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Doctor of Philosophy offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $966.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,329.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Program Contact With questions regarding the English PhD, contact the following staff members. Roland Williams is chair of the English Department. Email: rolandw@temple.edu Miles Orvell is the director of graduate studies in the English Department. Phone: 215-204-1796 Email: orvell@temple.edu LaTasha Goodman is the manager of administration within the College of Liberal Arts. Email: lgoodman@temple.edu Phone: 215-204-8516 Tara Lemma is a program coordinator in the English Department. Phone: 215-204-1796 Email: tara.lemma@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Supplement your English PhD coursework and enhance your graduate education experience through student clubs and organizations. You’ll meet and network with other students, become involved with the community, and build invaluable skills to help you realize your personal and professional goals. The following clubs and organizations are available to English PhD students. The Graduate English Association is open to all graduate students in the English department. The group makes recommendations to the faculty on departmental issues and enriches the graduate experience with developmental workshops and social events. The Journal of Modern Literature features scholarly research covering literature in the 20th century and beyond. Two English department professors serve as editors for the journal, while several other faculty members hold roles on its advisory staff. TINGE Magazine is an online literary journal that publishes twice annually. Edited by graduate students of the Master of Fine Arts in Creative Writing program, submissions to TINGE are open to all students. Learn more about Temple’s student clubs and organizations. Study Away Temple’s study away programs offer you the opportunity to spend an academic year, semester or summer abroad. Complete graduate coursework, participate in internships or collaborate in research while immersing yourself in the culture, history and people of your host city. Enrich your experience in the English department by immersing yourself in the Rome Seminar in Art and Culture at Temple University’s Rome campus, the Villa Caproni. This six-credit seminar explores the human sciences as well as current trends of thought in postmodern culture. The seminar combines classwork, field trips and guest lectures. The city of Rome is used extensively as a resource. Learn more about your options for studying away. Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-ENG-PHD Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in English PhD Admissions Careers & Opportunities Curriculum Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info