Skip to main content Exit Search Request Information Search College of Science Resources for Current Undergraduates Future Undergraduates Graduate Students Parents Alumni Faculty and Staff Media Main Navigation Admissions Applying and paying for college Undergraduates Transfer Graduate International Students Post-Baccalaureate How to Apply Admission Requirements Cost and Financial Aid First-Year Experience Academics Our majors, programs and teaching Majors, Minors, Health Professions Pre-Med, Pre-Dental and Pre-Pharmacy Graduate Studies Advising Teaching Innovation Departments Tutoring Centers Hands On Experiences See the world beyond the classroom Internships Study Abroad Leadership Opportunities Student Life Undergraduate Research Outreach Student Resources Events Careers Prepare for your career goals with our resources Career Development Career Paths Follow Your Passion Career Events Alumni Success Research Major research areas and facilities Marine Science Materials Science Biomedical Science Data Science Research Areas Centers and Facilities Research and Innovation Seed Program (SciRIS) Undergraduate Research Our College Vision, people, facts and figures Leadership and Administration Mission, Vision and Values Our Faculty Equity, Access & Inclusion Diversity Action Plan Corvallis IMPACT News Share Feedback Directory Resources for ... students, parents, faculty, alumni and friends Current Undergraduates Future Undergraduates Graduate Students Parents Alumni Faculty and Staff Media Request Information Plan your visit Apply today Support science Top pre-med advising The OSU pre-medicine program provides extensive resources to support pre-med students through all aspects of their preparation and application, and this is reflected in the high success rate of our students who are admitted to medical schools. Pre-med at Oregon State Choosing a major Finding your advisor Post-bacc students Pre-med student guide Applying to med school CLOSE Medicine is a highly respected career which brings many rewards. Physicians and surgeons diagnose and treat injuries or illnesses. Physicians examine patients, take medical histories, prescribe medications, and order, perform and interpret diagnostic tests. They counsel patients on diet, hygiene, and preventive healthcare. Surgeons operate on patients to treat injuries (such as broken bones) and disease (such as cancerous tumors and deformities). Career outlook is strong. Employment is expected to grow by 13% from the period of 2016–2026, faster than the average for all occupations. Learn more about the occupation outlook for physicians and surgeons "It is an extraordinary time to be a doctor. You will be entering medicine at a time when the country needs your services most." Darrell Kirch, MDPresident and CEO, Association of American Medical Colleges Our students are well-regarded and well-prepared. Generally about 60–70% of our applicants are admitted compared to 33–40% nationally to medical schools all across the United States. Our students have been admitted to Harvard, Yale, OHSU, University of Chicago, UCLA, Western University, Campbell University and others. Pre-med at Oregon State University prepares you for success Read College of Science pre-med alumni insights Post-bacc students with successful first degrees looking to change careers are welcome at OSU. In our post-bacc program, students take the courses they need along with the regular students, and take advantage of all the extensive support services available in the pre-med program. More information for pre-med post-bacc students Pre-med frequently asked questions regarding COVID-19 From the pre-med student listserv survey Pre-med COVID-19 FAQ Navigating your pre-medical journey As a pre-medical student, you will chart your course to medical school with academic advising and rigorous courses as well as opportunities to explore laboratory, field and clinical training to acquire a solid foundation in science. You will have access to outstanding research, volunteer and internship opportunities on or off-campus and through international study programs to broaden your experiences and knowledge. Pre-Med student guide First through senior year Undergraduate timeline First through senior year Applying to med school Junior through senior year Getting the most out of your education Student Listserv Finding your advisor Shadowing + experience MCAT resources Student organizations Recommended reading Request Information Learn more about us Visit us Get to know Oregon State Apply today Join #teamscience Support can transform the world Oregon State Science is leading change in critical areas of science that reflect our unique strengths and our determination to improve the world. Your current use, endowed or annual gift will not only support our students and faculty but will also have a meaningful impact. Support science today Ways to give College of Science 128 Kidder Hall Oregon State University Corvallis, OR 97331 science@oregonstate.edu +1 541 737 4811 Do you need any information on this site in a different format? We can help! Contact the Science Success Center at ScienceSuccess@oregonstate.edu © Oregon State University College of Science, 2022 Log In Feedback