Skip to main content Skip to main content SMU Home Giving Giving Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Simmons About Dean's Message Programs, Degrees, and Certifications Faculty and Staff Directory Simmons Governance Simmons School History Executive Board Simmons Luminary Award XPRIZE Honor Code Simmons Resources Travel-Study Programs Simmons Lecture Series AERA 2022 Graduation Ceremony May 2022 Paving the Way to Inclusion Conference Simmons Graduate Council Faculty and Administrative Position Openings Simmons Blogs and Social Media Hub Annette Caldwell Simmons Hall Harold Clark Simmons Hall Photo Tour Contact Us Academic Departments & Areas of Study Applied Physiology & Wellness B.S. | Applied Physiology & Sport Mgmt. Undergraduate Specializations Applied Physiology and Health Management Sport Management Sport Performance Leadership M.S. | Health Promotion Management M.S. | Sport Management Non-Degree | Wellness Dispute Resolution & Counseling M.S. | Counseling Specialties Clinical Mental Health Marriage, Couple and Family School Counseling M.A. | Dispute Resolution Non-Degree | Dispute Resolution Specialties Executive Coaching Education Policy & Leadership M.Ed. | PK-12 School Leadership M.Ed. | Higher Education Ed.D. | PK-12 School Leadership Ed.D. | Higher Education Graduate Liberal Studies MLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities DLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities Non-Degree | Science, Arts, & Humanities Ph.D. in Education Teaching & Learning B.S. | M.Ed | MBE | Ph.D. Graduate Specializations Bilingual Special Ed ESL Gifted Literacy Math STEM Urban Education Research Research A comprehensive list of Simmons research projects Faculty Research Publications & Presentations Recent research publications and presentations Center on Research & Evaluation (CORE) Offers comprehensive program evaluation services, largely in the non-profit sector, and performs education research Research in Mathematics Education Conducts research in mathematics education and disseminates findings Integrative Physiology Laboratory Investigates autonomic function and thermoregulation in healthy and clinical populations Locomotor Performance Laboratory Studies terrestrial locomotion and the relationship of muscle function to metabolic energy expenditure and performance Center for VR Learning Innovation Investigates the use of virtual, augmented and mixed reality for education and human development Youth Sports Impact Partnership SMU and the Children’s Health Andrews Institute have launched a collaboration dedicated to improving the health, activity levels, and well-being of kids. Research Resources for Simmons Faculty and Staff Technology and Education Cluster Our Faculty Community Engagement Advanced Placement Summer Institute Summer Institute for AP and Pre-AP Teachers The Budd Center Partners with community agencies to offer educational opportunities for disadvantaged children Center for Family Counseling Counseling services in Plano for individuals and families College Access Programs Programs and workshops that help students advance academically Institute for Leadership Impact Leaders in education, health and social enterprise enhance skills to lead organizations and solve real-world problems Project Connect A repository of ideas, activities and videos for educators interested in improving instruction for English Language Learners West Dallas STEM-Focused School Preparing students for the next generation of STEM jobs Alumni Search Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Simmons About Simmons About Simmons Graduation Ceremony May 2022 Simmons COVID-19 Information Fall 2021 Important Student Information Dean's Message Faculty and Staff Directory Academic Integrity and Code of Conduct History: from 1920 Executive Board Simmons News Catalogs Giving Academic Services Simmons Strategic Plan Simmons Resources Travel-Study Programs Simmons Lecture Series AERA 2022 Simmons Luminary Award Paving the Way to Inclusion Simmons Graduate Council Faculty and Administrative Openings Simmons Governance Simmons Newsletters Simmons Blogs and Social Media XPRIZE Alumni Contact Us Academics Academics Applied Physiology and Sports Management Dispute Resolution Counseling Education Policy and Leadership Graduate Liberal Studies Ph.D. Teacher Education Programs & Degrees Fall 2021 Graduate Student Orientation Our Faculty Our Faculty Faculty Research Publications & Presentations Research Research Research Projects Archive 2020-21: Research Snapshot Research Resources Virtual Reality Surgery Simulator (VRSS) Integrative Physiology Laboratory CORE Locomotor Performance Laboratory Research in Mathematics Education Center for VR Learning Innovation Youth Sports Impact Partnership Faculty Research Publications and Presentations Dallas Noyce: A Community-Focused Mathematics Teacher Pipeline Technology and Education Cluster Community Engagement Community Engagement Advanced Placement Summer Institute College Access Programs The Budd Center: Involving Communities in Education Institute for Leadership Impact Center for Family Counseling Project Connect West Dallas STEM-Focused School Alumni ☰ Center for VR Learning Innovation The Future of Immersive Learning Simmons Research Center for VR Learning Innovation Mission The mission of the Center for VR Learning Innovation (CVRL) is to advance interdisciplinary research and innovation at SMU in augmented reality (AR), virtual reality (VR), and game-based learning (GBL) for education, health and human development. In addition, the Center supports digital learning with mixed reality, virtual coaching, and interactive learning design for research and online and hybrid courses in Simmons. The Center provides infrastructure for interdisciplinary research in this signature area for Simmons and SMU. We collaborate with faculty and students across SMU, including ongoing strategic collaboration with SMU Guildhall, the Institute for Leadership Impact, and the AT&T Center for Virtualization, as well as with other universities including King’s College, UNC Chapel Hill, UT Dallas, and UT Southwestern The Center explores educational interactions in immersive augmented and virtual reality environments using commercially available technologies. The recent release of affordable AR and VR commercial technologies have provided opportunities for global audiences that did not previously have access to this technology for costly simulations and other immersive learning experiences. Our research focuses on practical applications of the latest AR and VR technologies to address global problems in education and human development. It is sometimes necessary to develop new games, prototypes, techniques, or algorithms to address key research questions so we also engage in design-based research focusing on new ways to produce educational AR and VR simulations and games when necessary. Labs The Center includes two Teaching and Research Labs in Harold Clark Simmons Hall. The Olamaie Curtiss Graney VR Design Lab The Graney VR Design Lab provides AR and VR technology and space for research and development collaboration. The focus in this lab is on the design of innovative VR, AR and game-based learning prototypes for research proposals. This lab also provides a teaching space for Educational Technology courses and other technology courses related to the mission of the lab. The Mixed-reality Simulation Lab The Mixed-reality Simulation Lab provides a space for students to practice their skills in a mixed-reality classroom with simulated students or other virtual meetings for parent conferences and interactions with other adult avatars. This lab provides a safe environment to learn and grow with real-time coaching and without placing real people at risk. Research and Development The Center for VR Learning Innovation Research and Development programs fall under four strategic areas: Augmented Reality and Virtual Reality for STEM Collaborative Learning Virtual Reality in Medical Education and VR Surgery Simulations Mixed Reality for Education Game-based Learning Literacy Applications Principal Faculty Members The Center for VR Learning Innovation Research and Development programs align with faculty members across SMU, including: Eric Bing Tony Cuevas (Center Director) Candace Walkington Paige Ware Center for VR Learning Innovation Graney Design Lab Mixed-reality Simulation Lab AR and VR for STEM Collaborative Learning Medical Education and VR Surgery Simulations Game-based Learning Literacy Applications Contact Simmons Contact Us 214-768-7587 sehd@smu.edu Visit Us Annette Caldwell Simmons Hall Southern Methodist University 3101 University Boulevard Dallas, Texas 75205 Connect with Us Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 facebook twitter