Skip banner navigation Skip to main content Close Navigation Screen Login to myCoyote View the Campus Directory CSUSB Library CSUSB Maps and Directions CSUSB Palm Desert Campus Make a Gift to CSUSB CSUSB Admissions - Global Site Navigation Admissions Overview - Global Site Navigation Apply to CSUSB - Global Site Navigation After I'm Admitted - Global Site Navigation First-year Students - Global Site Navigation Transfer - Global Site Navigation International Students - Global Site Navigation English Language Program - Global Site Navigation Undocumented Student Center - Global Site Navigation Osher Lifelong Learners - Global Site Navigation Military Veterans/Dependents - Global Site Navigation Financial Aid & Scholarships - Global Site Navigation Student Financial Services - Global Site Navigation Summer Session - Global Site Navigation Academics - Global Site Navigation Academic Calendar - Global Site Navigation Academic Advising - Global Site Navigation Degrees & Programs - Global Site Navigation Colleges & Departments - Global Site Navigation Course Catalog / Bulletin - Global Site Navigation Class Schedule - Global Site Navigation Online Programs - Global Site Navigation Academic Success and Undergraduate Advising - Global Site Navigation Graduate Studies - Global Site Navigation Office of the Registrar - Global Site Navigation Academic & Support Resources - Global Site Navigation Academic Research - Global Site Navigation Graduation Initiative 2025 - Global Site Navigation CSUSB Athletics Men's Sports Men's Sports Baseball Men's Sports Basketball Men's Sports Golf Men's Sports Soccer Women's Sports Women's Sports Softball Women's Sports Cheer & Dance Women's Sports Track & Field Women's Sports Cross Country Women's Sports Volleyball Women's Sports Soccer Women's Sports Basketball Campus Life - Global Site Navigation Events Calendar - Global Site Navigation Get Involved - Global Site Navigation Student Services - Global Site Navigation Recreation & Wellness - Global Site Navigation Student Health & Safety - Global Site Navigation Housing & Dining - Global Site Navigation Music & Arts - Global Site Navigation Student Employment - Global Site Navigation Campus Safety & Emergency Info - Global Site Navigation Palm Desert Campus Life - Global Site Navigation About CSUSB - Global Site Navigation Inside CSUSB - Global Site Navigation COVID-19 Campus Map - Global Site Navigation President's Office - Global Site Navigation Shared Governance - Global Site Navigation Strategic Plan 2015-2022 - Global Site Navigation Administrative Divisions - Global Site Navigation Organizational Chart - Global Site Navigation Strategic Communication - Global Site Navigation Mission, Vision & Core Values - Global Site Navigation Accreditation Assessment Site Header Region CSUSB Home We Define the Future Login to myCoyote View the Campus Directory CSUSB Library CSUSB Maps and Directions CSUSB Palm Desert Campus Make a Gift to CSUSB Search CSUSB Search CSUSB CSUSB Main Menu Page Header Shared Governance Page Menu Home Expand Menu Item Home Statement on Shared Governance Resources Shared Governance Steering Committee Feedback Main Content Region Shared Governance Introduction In 2018/19, President Morales charged the Shared Governance Steering Committee, consisting of representatives of the Associated Students, Faculty Senate, Staff Council, and Administration, to conduct a national search for an experienced consultant who could assist CSUSB with strengthening shared governance across the university. The steering committee reached a consensus and recommended that the Association of Governing Boards (AGB) and Dr. James Lyons be selected to serve CSUSB in this capacity. The desired goal of the Shared Governance Steering Committee is to work collaboratively with campus stakeholders to develop a statement on shared governance to guide CSUSB forward. Dr. Lyons began his work with CSUSB in Spring 2019, meeting with the various governance groups and to get their impressions of shared governance on campus. Dr. Lyons’ next campus visit will be on October 14 – 15, which will focus on obtaining stakeholder thoughts and guidance on what should be included in the CSUSB Statement on Shared Governance. Dr. Lyons has confirmed a time to meet with each governance group with additional campus forums available. The schedule may be found below. Dr. Lyons will continue his work with CSUSB into Winter Quarter 2020, with the goal of sharing the finalized statement on shared governance at that time. What is Shared Governance? Shared governance is the process by which various constituents (traditionally governing boards, senior administration, and faculty; possibly also staff, students, or others) contribute to decision making related to college or university policy and procedure. When done well, shared governance strengthens the quality of leadership and decision-making at an institution, enhances its ability to achieve its vision and to meet strategic goals, and increases the odds that the very best thinking by all parties to shared governance is brought to bear on institutional challenges. When done well, shared governance engenders an institutional culture of collective ownership and accountability for the institution’s present and future. Further, when faculty, administrators, and boards are actively and collaboratively involved in decision-making processes, decisions are implemented more quickly and more effectively. Source: 2017 AGB Shared Governance: Changing with the Times Features of Shared Governance Partnerships between community constituents and leadership. Including and integrating input from all impacted stakeholders. Being facilitative rather than directive (e.g. mutually planned agendas for meetings). Embracing flexibility within boundaries. Listening to all perspectives as much as possible. Sharing accountability and ownership. Establishing a charter, or public document, that process of engagement, collaboration, and decision-making within the community. Establishing guidelines for how to practice shared governance. Ensuring formal and informal opportunities to communicate within the community. Source: SDSU Open Conversation about Shared Governance What Shared Governance is Not Sharing governance does not mean that everyone gets to participate at every stage of planning or in every decision, nor does it mean that anyone exercises complete control over the process. It also does not mean that decision-making is always the result of a vote. Importantly, shared governance aims to ensure that no one person is arbitrarily making important decisions absent the input and feedback from key constituents. Source: SDSU Open Conversation about Shared Governance Benefits of Shared Leadership and How to Promote It Studies of shared leadership have identified many positive outcomes for teams and organizations that adopt this approach. These include improvements in attitudes and cognition, such as increased satisfaction and trust among team members; improved behavior, such as more constructive interaction and social integration; and improved effectiveness, including in task performance and student learning. New research shows great promise in the use of shared leadership on college campuses. Findings show that shared leadership can create greater cognitive complexity, innovation and peer support in times of challenge and crisis. It can increase accountability within organizations and improve the implementation of organizational decisions. Source: The Whys and Hows of Shared Leadership in Higher Education AGB’s Winter 2020 Campus Open Forum Tuesday, January 21, 2020 9:00- 10:00 am Eucalyptus Room, Lower Meeting Center Footer Region CSUSB California State University, San Bernardino 5500 University Parkway San Bernardino, CA 92407 +1 (909) 537-5000 Follow Us CSUSB's Facebook CSUSB's Twitter CSUSB's YouTube CSUSB's Instagram CSUSB's LinkedIn CSUSB's Social Media Column 1 Login myCoyote Login Canvas Blackboard Login Student Email Login Faculty & Staff Email Login CSUSB Drupal Login Of Interest to... Future Students Interests Current Students Interests Faculty & Staff Interests Full-Time Faculty Interests Part-Time Faculty Interests Community & Visitors Interests Alumni & Friends Interests University Partners Interests Military/Veterans Interests Column 2 Employment CSUSB Job Listings - CSUSB Faculty Jobs - CSUSB Career Center - CSUSB Human Resources - CSUSB Student Employment - CSUSB Resources Contact CSUSB Clery Act Annual Safety Reports - CSUSB Title IX Notice - CSUSB Disclosure of Consumer Information - CSUSB Column 3 Campus Services Academic Advising - CSUSB Housing & Residential Life - CSUSB Ombuds Services - CSUSB Parking - CSUSB Police - CSUSB Psychological Counseling - CSUSB Services to Students with Disabilities - CSUSB Student Health Center - CSUSB Transcripts - CSUSB Accessibility Privacy and Security Non-Discrimination Notice Website Copyright/DMCA Policy