Toggle navigation About University of Houston UH-Clear Lake UH-Downtown UH-Victoria Mission Statement Planning and Performance UHS Leadership Board of Regents Board Members Former Regents Committee Structure Meetings Code of Ethics Bylaws Policies Priorities Galleries FAQ Historical Office Staff Chancellor About Renu Khator Communications Governmental Relations Texas Legislature US Congress Useful Links Offices Compliance & Ethics Internal Audit Legal Affairs Real Estate Services Treasury News Quick Links Crossroads (Title IX - Sexual Misconduct) Online Degree Programs Student Pathways DACA Information Public Art Home ITLS ITLS Keynote Archive Innovative Teaching and Learning Symposium Overview Schedule Location Keynote Archive We regret to inform you that we will need to cancel the ITLS event due to the COVID-19 outbreak. CDC guidelines recommend that events with 50 or more should be cancelled and this event typically has 250-300 in attendance. Thanks to everyone who sent in proposals and already started to work on this conference. We appreciate your support!! Learn. Network. Create. ITLS is a hub for creative networking with colleagues who are passionate about teaching, nerdy about technology, and interested in raising the bar for student learning. Robyn Hrivnatz Senior Manager, Education Strategy, Microsoft Robyn Hrivnatz is an education professional with 19 years of experience serving in the education industry as an educator and student advocate. Joining Microsoft in 2014 after dedicating 14 years in public K-12 education in the state of Texas as a classroom teacher and instructional technology leader, she has devoted her time to growing educator fans, building a robust learning community for educators, and leading trainers and consultants to scale the Microsoft in Education mission through teacher training and social evangelism grounded in community focus. She currently works on the Microsoft Education team a Senior Manager on the U.S. Education Strategy and Leadership team where she travels the U.S. working with school systems as they undergo transformations. Recognized as creative decision maker, active learner, social influencer, and diplomatic relationship builder, Robyn excels in her ability to lead by leveraging her passion for learning, an understanding for humanity, and her deep desire for education transformation. She resides in Houston, Texas embarking each day living her personal philosophy to ‘embrace the uncomfortable, be thankful, live passionately and be awesome.’ A Day in the Life of Modern Teaching and Learning In the fast-paced movement of society, how does an instructor keep up with it all and ensure our students leave our institutions life ready? Join Robyn Hrivnatz as she shares what a typical day in the life of an instructor or student can be like when leveraging key technology tools, such as the Office 365 suite, to increase productivity and collaboration while preparing students for career success. The audience will leave this session understanding how to weave these tips and tools into the modern teaching and learning environment. Sharpen your skills with fast-paced Breakout Sessions We've chosen a lineup of speakers and topics that cover accessibility, active learning, collaboration, community, and technology. View Full Schedule Get Inspiration from Faculty + Instructional Designers. Learn new teaching ideas and technology applications for designing dynamic learning environments. Location University of Houston Student Center South 4455 University Dr. Houston, TX 77204 View Details → Who attends? ITLS brings together over 250 faculty, instructional support staff and administrators from around the Houston area for a fast-paced, one-day conference. Who should attend? Anyone willing to explore the affordances of educational technology, embrace universal design strategies to create accessible learning environments for all students, create out-of-the-box active learning experiences, and connect with colleagues from disciplines you rarely get the chance to speak with. The Innovative Teaching and Learning Symposium, a joint venture for all four UH System Universities (UH, UH-Downtown, UH-Clear Lake, and UH-Victoria), is designed to bring together individuals interested in the review and evaluation of emerging technologies. We are interested in interactive sessions for workshops, discovery sessions, information sessions, and hands-on demonstrations that engage and inform participants. Questions about ITLS? Send us an email. fdis@uh.edu Houston Texas 77204 © 2022 University of Houston System Contacts • Report Copyright Infringement • Texas.gov • Texas Homeland Security • TRAIL • Fraud Reporting • Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline • Linking Notice • Privacy Notice • Open Records/Public Information Act • Institutional Résumé • Required Reports • Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility • Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness • UH System Policies