Skip to Main Content apply now ☰ Students Parents Alumni People WyoWeb Virtual Tour Give Events A-Z Directory Admissions UW Admissions First Year Transfer International Graduate Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Scholarships Academics Explore Colleges Academic Affairs Catalog/Schedules Degree Plans Graduate Education Honors College Majors/Degrees UW at a Distance Art Museum UW Libraries Athletics NCAA Athletics Athletics Traditions Cowboy Joe Club Athletics Tickets Campus Recreation Club Sports Rodeo Intramural Sports NOLS Research Research & Econ Dev Wyoming INBRE Neuroscience Ctr Tech Business Ctr Nat Parks Service Research Prod Ctr Supercomputing Water Research WY EPSCoR/IDeA Amer Heritage Ctr UW Life Campus Safety Campus Maps Transit & Parking Res Life & Dining Diversity Student Orgs Cultural Prgms Fine Arts Campus Activities University Store UW Pride About UW Points of Pride Alumni Association Geological Museum Foundation Cowboy Parents UWyo Mag Brand Center Visit Campus Download Viewbook Give to UW Welcome to the Office of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Welcome to the Office of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion. This office was made possible due to the vision, commitment, and hard work of past President Laurie Nichols, the support of the Board of Trustees, the Office of the President, and members of the University of Wyoming campus community both past and present. The doors to this office opened on July 17, 2017. Dr. Emily Monago served as the inaugural Chief Diversity Officer. Message from the President and Provost on Concerns about Legislative Budget & Gender Studies Feb. 28, 2022. As many of you know, a state budget amendment was proposed late last week that would restrict our ability to teach gender studies and possibly other courses as well. We share many concerns that have been expressed to us by our faculty and staff. We disagree with the Senate position, which thankfully was adopted on the thinnest possible margin. We agree with the House that this amendment should not be considered germane to the bill, in addition to other serious concerns of both practice and principle that we have with it. We will be monitoring this closely, and as always, we are working to ensure the best outcomes for the university and state in this legislative session. Inclusionary and Global Leadership Program Loyola Project Film Screening and Panel Discussion April 19, 2022 | 6:30 p.m. | Education Auditorium ODEI COVID-19 Resources and Information Strategic Diversity Plan Through this Strategic Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Plan, we strive to make UW a place that values, celebrates, manifests, and supports all aspects of diversity, equity, and inclusion. How to Self-Identify in HCM Civic Engagement Resources: During, and After the 2020 National Election DACA Updates Please click here for the most up to date information regarding DACA and the University of Wyoming's policies and services. Black 14 Social Justice Summer Institute Diversity Initiatives & Offices Main phone number: 307-766-6672 Accessibility Committee Council on DEI CDO's Outbox Diverse Grad Student Network Diversity Resources Diversity Staff Employee Networks (E-Nets) Equal Opportunity Report and Response Fairness Hiring and Training Religious Calendar Search Equity Advisors Social Justice Research Center 1000 E. University Ave. Laramie, WY 82071 UW Operators (307) 766-1121 | Contact Us | Download Adobe Reader Accreditation | Virtual Tour | Emergency Preparedness | Employment at UW | Privacy Policy | Harassment & Discrimination | Accessibility