Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music About Us Admissions Academics Ensembles Faculty Support Events Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Majors and Programs Composition Commercial Music Conducting Jazz Studies Music Business Music Education Music History Pedagogy Performance BrassKeyboardPercussionStringsVocal Arts Woodwinds Recording Technology Vocology Certificate Take Action Apply Now Alumni Support Us Scheidt Family Music Center Contact Us Follow the School of Music Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedInVimeo Home Music Academics Jazz Studies Grow your skills and develop your style while you prepare for a thriving professional career in music. Jazz and Studio Music studies fuse performance, composition and arranging into a program that lets you express yourself musically. With an emphasis on practical skills, our NASM-accredited program will equip you to appreciate and play the wide variety of music demanded of professional musicians today. Through applied lessons, private instruction and extensive performing opportunities in both large and small ensembles, you’ll not only master your primary instrument but develop new and improved skills to bring out the music inside you. Through performances in the Southern Comfort Jazz Orchestra, Jazz Singers, ComboNation or the 901 Jazz Band, you’ll emerge from the program well-prepared to launch a successful multi-faceted career as a musician. You will enjoy state-of-the-art music facilities, and work with a large and diverse community of faculty, students, and industry professionals. You’ll have the opportunity to attend numerous concerts, clinics, and master classes given by students, faculty, and visiting artists that will broaden your experience of jazz music. Additionally, the University’s location allows limitless opportunities to secure performances in a variety of venues. Admission + Audition Requirements Interested students should complete the University of Memphis application and apply to the School of Music. Jazz and Studio Music auditions are held to determine admission into School of Music programs and to award performance scholarships and graduate assistantships. All students who want to major or minor in music, or who seek a music scholarship must audition. What degrees do we offer? Bachelor of Music in Jazz & Studio Composition/Arranging The Composition/Arranging Concentration provides professional training for students who intend to pursue careers as composers and arrangers. You receive intensive instruction in a core of technical studies that includes performance, composition and arranging into a program that lets you express yourself musically. The jazz composition major will develop skills sufficient to pursue a professional career as a jazz writer or to gain entry to graduate programs in jazz studies in preparation for an academic career in the fields of jazz theory, composition, and improvisation. In addition to our world-class faculty, our state-of-the-art facilities and performance venues give you all the experience you need to enter the world of professional music with the confidence of a seasoned musician. Scholarships available. Outcomes Jazz and Studio Composition students will master knowledge of pedagogical methods to assist in the conceptual and technical development of students new to the jazz experience. Jazz and Studio Composition students will posses technical and conceptual mastery of jazz phrasing in a variety of historical jazz styles. Jazz and Studio Composition students will achieve professional-level artistry and skills as composers through the development of original material, technical mastery of their instruments, interpretive skill, ensemble experience. Map out your college experience! View Bachelor of Music in Jazz and Studio Composition/Arranging Concentration for required courses for degree completion. APPLY NOW > Bachelor of Music in Jazz & Studio Performance The Performance Concentration provides professional training for career and leadership roles in jazz and related fields of contemporary music by promoting flexible musicianship and an understanding of the jazz tradition. You receive intensive instruction in jazz performance, composition, arranging, history, theory, aural skills and pedagogy. The jazz performance major will develop skills sufficient to pursue a professional career as a jazz musician or to gain entry to graduate programs in jazz studies in preparation for a career as a professional performer, music arranger or composer, or teacher. In addition to our world-class faculty, our state-of-the-art facilities and performance venues give you all the experience you need to enter the world of professional music with the confidence of a seasoned musician. Scholarships available. Outcomes Jazz and Studio Performance students will master the knowledge of pedagogical methods to assist in the conceptual and technical development of students new to the jazz experience. Jazz and Studio Performance students will exhibit excellence through technical mastery of their instruments, superior listening ability and the development of a personal conceptual approach to improvisation and composition. Jazz and Studio Performance students will achieve professional-level artistry and skills as performers through the development of original material, technical mastery of their instruments, interpretive skill, ensemble experience. Map out your college experience! View Bachelor of Music in Jazz and Studio Performance for required courses for degree completion. APPLY NOW > Master of Music in Jazz & Studio Music The Master of Music degree program with a jazz studies specialization focuses on individual jazz instruction, improvisation, ensemble work, history and pedagogy. You will further develop professional-level skills with an emphasis on the art of jazz and the professional side of being a studio musician. Our MM program provides you with a wide range of academically rigorous and inspiring courses; high-level solo performing and ensemble opportunities; and personal attention from distinguished faculty. Graduate assistantships and scholarships are available but highly competitive. Outcomes Jazz and Studio Music students will master the ability to write musical arrangements for both jazz combos and big bands using current notational software. Jazz and Studio Music students will posses critical and aesthetic judgment while improvising, composing or arranging that is informed by extensive listening to and analysis of the recorded legacy of jazz. Jazz and Studio Music students will cchieve professional-level artistry and skills as performers and composers through the development of original material, technical mastery of their instruments, interpretive skill, ensemble experience. Map out your masters program experience! View the Master of Music in Jazz & Studio Music sample degree plan. APPLY NOW > Student + Alumni Success John Hagen (MM '12, DMA In progress) Assistant Band Director, Houston High School in Germantown, TN. Greg Fallis (MM '19) Elementary Music Teacher, Christian Brother Services, New Orleans, Louisiana. Sarah Dietsche (PhD '16) Social Media/Events Area Coordinator; Assistant Professor, Mike Curb Institute for Music at Rhodes College, Memphis, TN I Adjunct Professor, Belmont University, Nashville, TN Paul Morelli (DMA '15) Instrumental Director, Wallace Community College, Dothan, Alabama. Jeremy Warren (BM '12) Owner, J & D Warren Music, New York City, NY Kyle Millsap (DMA '11) Associate Professor of Trumpet and Jazz, Texas A&M University-Kingsville, Kingsville, TX Faculty click here > Ensembles click here > Scholarships click here > Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/25/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.