Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Student Affairs Center for Internships & Community Engagement Main Navigation For Students Show Extended CICE Registration (CalStateS4) Permit/Course Approval Form About Academic Internships Academic Internship Instruction Cards About Service Learning For Community Partners Show Extended Hosting our Students Recruit Academic Interns Recruit Service-Learners For Faculty Show Extended Academic Internships Service Learning CICE Programs Show Extended Titans ASES Jumpstart SHINE Spotlight Awards Contact Us CICE Help Desk The Center for Internships & Community Engagement is available to answer Student and Community Partner questions. login required Students Community Partner / Employers Faculty - please contact CICE staff directly Students - Prefer to talk in person? Call the office on (657) 278-3746 or book a Virtual Appointment CICE Vision California State University, Fullerton prepares our diverse student body for academic and professional success. The Center for Internships & Community Engagement provides the infrastructure to ensure that up to one-third of all students each year participate in high impact practices that link degree, career and community through quality academic internships, service-learning courses, and community engagement programs. CICE Mission The Center for Internships & Community Engagement supports student learning that both inspires and transforms our students and the community, through academic internships, service-learning courses and community engagement programs offered locally, nationally, and internationally. CICE Objectives Build CSUF-wide capacity to advance community engagement. Raise awareness and visibility for the importance of community engagement and its connection to CSUF strategic plan and goals. Mobilize partnerships to fuel and expand community engagement. Strengthen the capacity of the Center for community engagement. Service-learning efforts at Cal State Fullerton are supported in part by the CSU Chancellor's Office Call to Service Initiative. Student Success Initiative funds support CICE's efforts to increase the number of opportunities for students to participate in service-learning and academic internships. This site is maintained by Center for Internships & Community Engagement. Last Updated 5/9/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact rpierce@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.11 This page uses AJAX data import which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled. This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.