Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Nursing RN (BSN) – RN-BSN Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Nursing Department(s) Nursing Systems In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Nursing, R.N. to B.S.N. may be completed fully online, although not all elective options or program prerequisites may be offered online. Newly admitted students choosing to complete this program exclusively via UCF online classes may enroll with a reduction in campus-based fees. Click here for more information about the online program. BSN completion program for individuals who are licensed RNs. Students must complete all university-wide graduation requirements (general education, civic literacy, foreign language, Gordon Rule, etc.). All courses are available online and some courses may be offered face-to-face as well. For more information, see http://distrib.ucf.edu/home, and http://www.nursing.ucf.edu. Students must be licensed RNs to participate in this RN to BSN Program. Additional certification may be available in this field of study; however, this program does not lead to such licensure or certification upon graduation. Out-of-state instructional limitations apply to this degree program. For more information, please visit https://apq.ucf.edu/files/Licensure-Disclosure-Nursing-Online-RN-to-BSN.pdf Online Nursing, BS View Full Description Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Career Opportunities UCF prepares you for life beyond the classroom. Here, you’ll experience a wide range of opportunity, like learning diverse skills from world-renowned faculty to networking with top employers across Central Florida to gaining first-hand experience in internships nearby. Achieve your degree and more as a Knight. Advanced Nursing Professor CCU Nurse CNS Clinical Nurse Specialist Clinical Nursing Instructor Clinical Nursing Professor Community Health Nurse Coronary Care Unit Nurse Emergency Room RN Endoscopy Registered Nurse Hospice Registered Nurse Oncology Registered Nurse PACU Nurse Pediatric Registered Nurse Post-Anesthesia Care Unit Nurse Psychiatric Nurse RN Registered Nurse Registered Nursing Professor Triage Registered Nurse Show More Career Opportunities Degree Search College of Nursing programs Bachelors Nursing RN (BSN) - RN-BSN University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management × Nursing, R.N. to B.S.N. may be completed fully online, although not all elective options or program prerequisites may be offered online. Newly admitted students choosing to complete this program exclusively via UCF online classes may enroll with a reduction in campus-based fees. Click here for more information about the online program. BSN completion program for individuals who are licensed RNs. Students must complete all university-wide graduation requirements (general education, civic literacy, foreign language, Gordon Rule, etc.). All courses are available online and some courses may be offered face-to-face as well. For more information, see http://distrib.ucf.edu/home, and http://www.nursing.ucf.edu. Students must be licensed RNs to participate in this RN to BSN Program. Additional certification may be available in this field of study; however, this program does not lead to such licensure or certification upon graduation. Out-of-state instructional limitations apply to this degree program. For more information, please visit https://apq.ucf.edu/files/Licensure-Disclosure-Nursing-Online-RN-to-BSN.pdf Online Nursing, BS Degree Requirements Core Requirements: Advanced Level 59 Total Credits Complete all of the following UCF Core Complete the following: NUR3805 - Dimensions of Professional Nursing Practice (3) NUR3065 - Health Assessment (2) NUR3065L - Health Assessment Lab (1) NUR3125 - Pathophysiology for Nursing Practice (3) NUR3165 - Nursing Research (3) NUR3616 - Health Promotion Across the Lifespan (2) NUR4837 - Health Care Issues, Policy, and Economics (3) NUR4604L - Practicum in Community and Public Health Nursing for RNs (4) NUR4828 - Nursing Leadership, Management and Role Transition (3) NUR4637 - Public and Community Health Nursing (3) Upper Division Credit Complete all of the following Complete the following: NUR3028 - Essentials of Nursing Practice (3) NUR3028L - Essentials of Nursing Practice Lab (1) NUR3755L - Essentials of Nursing Practice Clinical (2) NUR3225 - Nursing Care of the Adult I (3) NUR3225L - Nursing Care of the Adult I: Clinical Practice: (2) NUR3445 - Nursing Care of Families (4) NUR3445L - Nursing Care of Families Clinical (2) NUR4227 - Nursing Care of the Adult II (4) NUR4227L - Nursing Care of the Adult II: Clinical Practice (3) NUR4535 - Psychiatric Mental Health Nursing (3) NUR4535L - Psychiatric Mental Health Clinical (2) NUR3145 - Pharmacology for Nursing Practice (3) Upper division credit may be met by validation and RN license. Restricted Electives 3 Total Credits Earn at least 3 credits from the following types of courses: One College of Nursing elective. A list of approved restricted elective courses is found in the myKnight audit. Grand Total Credits: 62 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida