Skip to main content Close search Search for people, topics, events, etc. Search Go to homepage Toggle menu Toggle search Close menu Events & Exhibitions Visit Upcoming Events Past Events Fellowship Fellows Become a Fellow Schlesinger Library About the Library Research Services Collections Visit the Library News & Ideas Opportunities For Students For Researchers For Educators Toggle search About Give Media Harvard and Slavery Opportunities For Students For Researchers For Educators About Give Media Harvard and Slavery News & Ideas News & Ideas Director’s Letter: Meeting the Moment Toggle information Close detail panel Changes at the Library include protocols for marking the time when materials were last handled. Share This page S h a r e T h i s Share this page on Facebook F a c e b o o k Share this page on Twitter T w i t t e r Share this page on LinkedIn L i n k e d I n Remember faces? Watching researchers smile, frown, raise an eyebrow, or scratch their heads when they make discoveries in our collections as the sun streams into the Carol K. Pforzheimer Reading Room is one of the great joys of working at the Schlesinger. Author By Jane Kamensky Published 02.17.2021 Share Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Share this page on LinkedIn Copy Link Related Staying Connected Still Processing The World Stopped, the Queries Didn’t How shocking it feels to write that we last welcomed patrons to the reading room, and students to our seminar space, in early March 2020, nearly a year ago. We were just learning to take advantage of the expansive new capabilities of our renovated spaces when the pandemic locked us down. In the intervening months, the Library has been transformed in ways we could scarcely have imagined, with exhibition and meeting spaces turned into solitary berths for staff to safely eat, bespoke digitization stations set up in remote corners of each floor, the classroom empty, and the reading room turned into a massive staging and decontamination space. Since July, a rotating crew of Library staff has come to work daily, carefully following Harvard Library and Radcliffe Institute COVID safety protocols. The core of our emergency operations is patron facing: staff from every department of the Library—curators, archivists, cataloguers, photo processors, digital services specialists, and administrative personnel—have devoted themselves to paging, scanning, and remotely delivering materials to patrons across the Harvard campus and around the world. Since July, we have shipped out nearly 100,000 scanned pages, every one of them an opportunity for discovery, a chance to help a researcher sustain momentum, a teacher to innovate in the classroom, or a student to learn a richer and more complete history of the United States. Play video Jane Kamensky gives us an inside look at how the Library has shifted its operations in order to continue its mission during the pandemic. But other facets of our work have continued, too, massively transformed yet uninterrupted. As you’ll read in this issue, Schlesinger archivists are experimenting with new ways of appraising, processing, and describing manuscripts and printed materials. Curators have undertaken virtual visits to “see” the dizzying number of exciting new collections that the pandemic has yielded, as their owners—idled from work and travel—have taken time to discover the treasure buried in their file cabinets, storage units, and basements. Some of our longest-serving and most deeply cherished professionals have seized the moment for another kind of transformation, embarking on new projects in retirement. Ruth Edmonds Hill, the pioneering oral historian who worked at Schlesinger for more than four decades, retired in December. Dr. Kathryn Allamong Jacob, who served brilliantly for 20 years as curator of manuscripts, acquiring roughly 2,000 new collections during her tenure, passed the torch to Jenny Gotwals, who brings her deep experience as a scholar of women’s history and as lead archivist at the Schlesinger to the reimagined position of curator for gender and society. Marilyn Dunn, the Lia Gelin Poorvu Executive Director of the Library, concluded 15 transformative years as the Schlesinger’s leader at the end of January. Marilyn cannot be replaced, only succeeded. As we begin the search for our new executive director, we do so with the advantages of the organization she built: a Library applauded internationally for its work at the cutting-edge of the field, an institution more vibrant and flexible than she found it. Flexible enough, in fact, to meet the moment—and indeed to transcend it. Jane Kamensky is the Carl and Lily Pforzheimer Foundation Director, Arthur and Elizabeth Schlesinger Library on the History of Women in America, Harvard Radcliffe Institute, and Jonathan Trumbull Professor of American History, Harvard Faculty of Arts and Sciences. Share: Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Share this page on LinkedIn News & Ideas Harvard Radcliffe Institute Awards 2022 Fay Prize for Outstanding Theses Harvard Radcliffe Institute Announces 2022–2023 Fellows Harvard’s Walking Tour App Highlights Overlooked History Some of Boston’s Legacy of Slavery is Hidden in Plain Sight The Prison as Petri Dish Zooming the Archives Constance Baker Motley, Then and Now In Process: Adrienne Kennedy Papers and Dorothy I. Height Papers Back to top B a c k t o t o p Get the latest Radcliffe news delivered to your inbox Enter your e-mail address Continue Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study Harvard University 10 Garden Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Directions Give Now Contact Visit Careers Housing Meeting Spaces Site Map Digital Accessibility Accessibility Harvard University Policies Follow us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Follow us onInstagram Subscribe to our RSS feed Visit our LinkedIn page Visit our YouTube channel © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College