Skip to main content Close search Search for people, topics, events, etc. Search Go to homepage Toggle menu Toggle search Close menu Events & Exhibitions Visit Upcoming Events Past Events Fellowship Fellows Become a Fellow Schlesinger Library About the Library Research Services Collections Visit the Library News & Ideas Opportunities For Students For Researchers For Educators Toggle search About Give Media Harvard and Slavery Opportunities For Students For Researchers For Educators About Give Media Harvard and Slavery News & Ideas News & Ideas The Fight of Her Life: Gender Equality Toggle information Close detail panel This 1974 portrait is among the personal photographs in the Bernice Resnick Sandler Papers. Share This page S h a r e T h i s Share this page on Facebook F a c e b o o k Share this page on Twitter T w i t t e r Share this page on LinkedIn L i n k e d I n A footnote put Bernice Sandler on the path to making headlines as a pioneer for women’s rights—“the godmother of Title IX,” as described by the New York Times. Published 06.19.2019 Share Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Share this page on LinkedIn Copy Link Related Writing from the Library (Spring 2019) The Schlesinger Library Reopens September 12 Unpacking Angela Davis “I was reading a report evaluating the enforcement of civil rights legislation prepared by the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights when I came across a little known Presidential Executive Order, which prohibited federal contractors from discriminating in employment on the basis of race, color, religion, and national origin,” Sandler wrote in an article for the Cleveland State Law Review in 2007. The note explained that the order had recently been amended to include gender discrimination. Sandler had found a powerful response to the gender-based rejections she’d experienced as a lecturer looking to climb the ranks at the University of Maryland in the late 1960s. “I was alone at home and it was a genuine ‘Eureka’ moment. I actually shrieked aloud for I immediately realized that many universities and colleges had federal contracts, were therefore subject to the sex discrimination provisions of the Executive Order, and that the Order could be used to fight sex discrimination on American campuses. Working with the Women’s Equity Action League, Sandler, who died at 90 on January 5, would go on to file administrative complaints with the US Labor Department against more than 250 colleges and universities. The research behind those complaints helped to set in motion legislative efforts by US Rep. Edith Green, a Democrat from Oregon, that in time would produce Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972: “No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance.” The Schlesinger Library, which holds Sandler’s papers, mourns her loss while celebrating her legacy. Share: Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Share this page on LinkedIn News & Ideas Harvard Radcliffe Institute Awards 2022 Fay Prize for Outstanding Theses Harvard Radcliffe Institute Announces 2022–2023 Fellows Harvard’s Walking Tour App Highlights Overlooked History Some of Boston’s Legacy of Slavery is Hidden in Plain Sight The Prison as Petri Dish Zooming the Archives Constance Baker Motley, Then and Now In Process: Adrienne Kennedy Papers and Dorothy I. Height Papers Back to top B a c k t o t o p Get the latest Radcliffe news delivered to your inbox Enter your e-mail address Continue Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study Harvard University 10 Garden Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Directions Give Now Contact Visit Careers Housing Meeting Spaces Site Map Digital Accessibility Accessibility Harvard University Policies Follow us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Follow us onInstagram Subscribe to our RSS feed Visit our LinkedIn page Visit our YouTube channel © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College