By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Academics Commencement In this Section Join the Class of 2020 Celebration! Commencement Syracuse University’s Commencement is an annual milestone that marks a profound rite of passage in our students’ lives and honors their achievements. Rich in tradition and ritual, Commencement envelopes our campus in celebration each May. Families unite with pride and emotion as graduating students cherish the final moments of their college experience. Faculty and administrators recognize candidates’ accomplishments, affirming the bonds that have been forged among friends and mentors in the Orange family. And through it all, more than 150 years of footsteps echo deeply across campus as graduates begin the next phase of their life journey. View 2022 commencement details Annual Events Commencement Weekend is a flurry of activity on campus, from formal award ceremonies and luncheons to informal photos and gatherings that mark the significance of the occasion. Convocation Ceremonies Each school and college hosts a celebratory Convocation ceremony recognizing individual degree candidates and presenting special awards in the days leading up to the Commencement ceremony. Commencement Ceremony The Commencement ceremony is a Universitywide event at which the Chancellor and President formally confers degrees for all undergraduate, graduate and doctoral candidates. Traditions Syracuse University graduates, 1891. Syracuse University Photograph Collection, University Archives. Ever since the University’s first Commencement ceremony in 1872, we have embraced time-honored graduation traditions that are imbued with meaning—from carrying the charter mace to planting ivy at the Hall of Languages to singing the alma mater. Each tradition speaks to a University heritage full of spirit, honor, dedication and accomplishment. Commencement Colors and Regalia The caps, gowns and hoods associated with graduation ceremonies date back to the Middle Ages, when monks and students wore them as a shield against the dampness and drafts of castles and monasteries. Today, Syracuse University’s Commencement regalia is a colorful spectacle that identifies graduates by their level of achievement and field of study. Bachelor’s gowns are distinguished by long, pointed sleeves and may be worn open or closed. Master’s gowns are worn open and feature square sleeves that are closed at the end with the forearm coming through a slit near the elbow. Doctoral gowns carry broad velvet panels down the front and three velvet bars on full, round, open sleeves. This trimming may be black or a color representing a specific discipline. Doctoral caps may be velvet with gold tassels. In the student procession, the University’s schools and colleges are distinguished by the accent colors of the banners carried by the class marshals, which match the colors of the tassels on the degree candidates’ caps. Learn more about school and college colors . Syracuse University Mace Gordon Hoople, mace bearer, carrying the original mace in the Commencement procession in Archbold Stadium, 1956. Syracuse University Photograph Collection, University Archives. The Syracuse University charter mace is an ancient symbol of authority and represents the University’s mission and integrity. It was first carried by University Registrar Keith J. Kennedy in the 1949 Commencement procession. The current charter mace was commissioned with funds donated by Gordon D. Hoople, an alumnus, professor and Board of Trustees chair who also served as mace bearer. It was first used in the 1959 Commencement. Class Marshals Each year, two outstanding seniors are selected as class representatives who embody school spirit, academic excellence and active campus involvement. These senior class marshals have traditionally led the student procession at the Commencement ceremony. Meet the 2021 Class Marshals Other Traditions Alma Mater. Syracuse University’s alma mater was first sung in public on March 15, 1893, by the University Glee and Banjo Club. The original piece was written by Junius W. Stevens, Class of 1895. Planting Ivy. In spring 1873, several graduates placed a sprig of ivy in the ground in front of the Hall of Languages. Though that sprig did not make it through the harsh Syracuse winter, the following class decided to try again. This one survived, and for the next seven decades graduates continued to plant ivy along the famed building’s exterior walls. History Syracuse University held its first Commencement on June 27, 1872 in Wieting Opera House in downtown Syracuse, bestowing bachelor’s degrees on 19 students. One of those graduates was Mary L. Huntley, the only female class member at a University that was co-ed from the start. Since then, Commencement has been held in several locations as the University has grown in size, including Crouse College, Archbold Stadium and the stadium. Learn more about the history of Commencement . Commencement Speakers The Syracuse University Commencement speaker is chosen through a selection process that starts more than a year in advance, when students, staff, faculty, alumni and others in the community offer suggestions. Past speakers include such distinguished guests as Joseph R. Biden Jr. L’68, Aaron Sorkin ’83, Ted Koppel ’60, Bill Clinton, Jane Goodall, Kathrine Switzer ’68, Kurt Vonnegut, Eileen Collins ’78, Nelson A. Rockefeller and Phylicia Rashad. Watch past Commencement speeches . Honorary Degrees Onondaga Faithkeeper Oren Lyons ‘58, honorary degree recipient, 1993. Syracuse University Portrait Collection, University Archives. Honorary degrees recognize individuals who have made exceptional and notable contributions to Syracuse University or to society more broadly. The Senate Committee on Honorary Degrees nominates candidates and provides recommendations to the full Senate, which makes the final decision. Honorary degrees are typically awarded annually during Commencement Weekend. Past recipients include: Floyd Little ’67 (doctor of humane letters) Joyce Carol Oates ’60 (doctor of letters) Jane Goodall (doctor of science) Onondaga Faithkeeper Oren Lyons ’58 (doctor of laws) See all honorary degree recipients . Share Your Story Link We’d love to see your pictures from Commencement Weekend! Tag @SyracuseU in your Commencement photos on social media. Stay Connected Link Being Orange embodies a lifelong connection to a global network of innovators, thinkers and creative solution finders. Orange communities celebrate being part of something bigger and can be used to connect, cultivate new relationships and help drive future impact. Commencement News Link The University is buzzing with excitement and activities surrounding Commencement Weekend. Visit Syracuse University News for the latest information and announcements about Commencement. Featured Stories Staying the Course Champion rower Kate Ryan’s love of water is propelling her toward a career in environmental policy. Shaping the Future of Climate Journalism Journalism and international relations student studies the power of communication to drive change. Orange Crush We all love Otto. Now get to know the seniors behind our spirited mascot. Related Pages Accessibility at Syracuse University Syracuse University is an inclusive community, which seeks to provide equal opportunities for all, including individuals with disabilities. The University supports these services by committing to the accessibility of the campus environment, facilities, and digital presence, including its websites, online communications, and technology. Campus Traditions Syracuse University has a rich history dating back to 1870. Along with that history comes a number of beloved traditions that are passed down from student to student, year after year—thus linking our past and present. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy