Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu School of Social Work About Programs Apply Now Students Faculty & Staff Research Community Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Student Information Prospective Students Current Students Student Success Field Financial Aid & Scholarships Student Organizations SSWOPhi Alpha Take Action Learn more about Social Work Explore the School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy Support Social Work Education Contact Us Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Home Social Work Student Information Prospective Students Global Perspective with a Local Focus Social workers are highly trained, licensed professionals that provide valuable services that can enhance the quality of life for their clients. Social work is a unique profession that allows one to work in a variety of settings with a variety of populations. Our academic programs prepare students for excellence in generalist and specialized practice. Students have the opportunity to receive their Baccalaureate in Social Work, Master in Social Work, and Doctorate of Social Work at the University of Memphis. Our faculty is nationally and internationally recognized for their scholarship in social work and social welfare. Our research projects and centers bring in over $1 million annually in external funding and make a significant impact on the Memphis and greater Midsouth community. The School of Social Work seeks to be a leader in social work education by preparing students with cutting-edge social work skills necessary to practice in complex settings; creating knowledge through research and engaged scholarship; reducing poverty, inequality, and social and economic injustice through evidence based practices; and addressing the needs of the Mid-South within a global perspective. What does a Social Worker Do? A social worker can work with the elderly, children, those taking care of the elderly or children, married people, single people, sick people, poor people, recent immigrants, urban dwellers, people living in rural areas, people grieving, people with a substance addiction, people at a career crossroads, or people organizing a community. A social worker can help find the resources you need, understand your feelings, define your goals, process grief, organize communities, advocate for you, craft policy, and so much more. Unmatched Opportunities The University of Memphis is located in the 25th largest city in the United States. Memphis provides so much opportunity for students to begin their journey as a social worker. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 6/10/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.