We use cookies to make your website experience better. To learn about how we keep your information safe, view our Privacy Policy. Accept Safer Return to Campus Masks Strongly Recommended. Notification of Potential Workplace Exposure. Skip To Main Content Prospective Students Current Students Faculty/Staff Parents/Family Alumni MyCPP Popular Searches × Cal Poly Pomona 1 2 3 4 5 This slide contains video without audio. The description of the video is "montage of moments from the Friday, May 20th commencement ceremonies. " Congratulations to the Class of 2022! CPP bids adieu to the Class of 2022 during 12 commencement ceremonies. Read PolyCentric Story Commencement 2022 Watch the spring 2022 commencement ceremonies. Watch Video Class of 2022 Star track athletes and twins Ayana and Ryan Fields on the fast track to earn undergraduate degrees. Read Story on PolyCentric This slide contains video without audio. The description of the video is "Scenes from the ribbon cutting and grand opening of the Rose Float Lab." Rose Float Lab Ribbon Cutting Cal Poly Pomona celebrates the grand opening of the Rose Float Lab. Read PolyCentric Story Previous Next University News Another Year of Transforming Lives and Communities In her latest video message, President Soraya M. Coley thanks the Cal Poly Pomona community for another year of transforming lives and communities and congratulates the Class of 2022. 2022 Richard Neutra Award for Professional Excellence Mexico City-based architect Tatiana Bilbao is the 2022 medalist of the Richard Neutra Award for Professional Excellence. COVID-19 Testing Moves to Student Health Center (46) Students and employees can participate in required and voluntary testing. Testing is available by appointment or walk-in, Monday through Friday, 8:30 a.m. to 4 p.m. Awards Gala Recognizes Prominent Broncos CPP hosted its 60th anniversary of the Alumni Awards Gala at the historic W.K. Kellogg Horse Stables, honoring 10 alumni representing the eight colleges and the athletics department. Read More News “Being a Cal Poly Pomona alumni is owning the pride you feel for being a Bronco, if you’re going to do one thing in your college career, [you should] experience things [and] take risks. That is an important piece of the learning and the journey.” - Michelle Gendreau (’83, hospitality management) More on Michelle Gendreau Featured Sites CLA Tower and Registrar Building Demolition The iconic but structurally flawed CLA Tower and adjoining Registration section will be demolished to pave the way for a multi-use green space. Campus Tours Schedule your tour - prospective, admitted, and returning students can register for in-person tours. Summer Orientation Welcome to the Bronco family. Orientation begins in June for new freshman and transfer students. MyCPP Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Colleges Don B. Huntley College of Agriculture College of Business Administration College of Education and Integrative Studies College of Engineering College of Environmental Design The Collins College of Hospitality Management College of Letters, Arts, and Social Sciences College of Professional and Global Education College of Science Administration President's Office Academic Affairs Administrative Affairs Student Affairs Information Technology University Advancement CPP Philanthropic Foundation Associated Students Incorporated Campus Safety Annual Security Report Campus Safety Plan Safety & Emergency Info Title IX Systemwide Hate Crimes Report (PDF) Additional Resources University Catalog Academic Manual Library Directory Calendar Change/Reset Your Password A-Z Index eHelp Email News For the Media Info for Undocumented Community Athletics Bronco Athletics Schedule Apply Giving Jobs Maps & Directions Contact Us 3801 West Temple Avenue, Pomona, CA 91768 ©2021 California State Polytechnic University, Pomona All Rights Reserved About Cal Poly Pomona Feedback Privacy Accessibility Document Readers