Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation College of Design Main navigation About Contact Information Visit Us Buildings and Facilities Digital Fabrication Lab Employment Opportunities Support the College History John Portman Dean's Chair Future Students FOCUS On Design Day Pre-College Design Program Undergraduate Portfolio Guidance Current Students Academics Degree Programs Undergraduate Academics Graduate Academics Study Abroad Schools Research Welcome to Research in the College of Design Research Centers and Labs School Labs People News and Events Open Search Search Design, the Georgia Tech Way Design, the Georgia Tech Way We think it's important to understand how technology enables better design, and how to fuse that technology into buildings, products, lifestyles, cities, regions, and even healthcare. About the College Our Schools A Local Perspective, Globally Realized School of Architecture students recently explored one of the world’s rarest ecosystems to study how architecture can simultaneously protect the environment and elevate human community. As the habitat of the mountain gorillas in Rwanda grows, farmers are being displaced. Georgia Tech student architects met with relocated communities, visited the Ellen DeGeneres Campus of the Dian Fossey Gorilla Fund, and presented designs for model communities to house the relocated people. Read the full story Georgia Tech Team Wins Solar Decathlon The Georgia Tech student team, "English Avenue Yellow Jackets", is the 2022 Design Challenge Residential Division Grand Winner for the Department of Energy's Solar Decathlon. They also took home first place in the contest's new Retrofit Housing division. Their winning entry retrofitted a 102-year-old house in Atlanta's English Avenue neighborhood. In addition to a net positive retrofit, the English Avenue Yellow Jackets provided solutions for rainwater harvesting and graywater reuse, a financial model that included land trust subsidies, and an additional 60 years' worth of projected weather data that proved the house would stay net positive even in cases of extreme weather. Read the Full Story Student Achievement Graduating with Empathy: Timothy Min Candace Washington Wins Tower Award GT Team Named 2022 ULI Hines Finalists Board of Regents Approves Global Development Degree The new Master of Science in Global Development at Georgia Tech is a one-year collaborative degree that combines courses in the Sam Nunn School of International Affairs, the School of City and Regional Planning, and the School of Economics. Read the Full Announcement Recovering History with Digital Design School of Architecture Assistant Professor Danielle Willkens can do amazing things with digital architecture reconstructions, including taking people back to Selma, Alabama in 1965. A Georgia Tech team exhibit, which won a People’s Choice Award while on display in the Smithsonian’s National Museum of American History recently, will be on display in the School of Architecture. Willkens leads the team of student researchers who created the exhibit. Read the full story Majors and Degrees Undergraduate Programs Our bachelor of science degrees combine creativity, collaboration, and technology. Graduate Programs Our graduate students use design to solve real-world problems and develop new technologies. Degrees and Certificates A full list of the College of Design degrees, minors, and certificates. Design Research Our six research centers focus on a range of crucial issues, many of which impact our daily lives. Our topics include the development of cities and regions, the healthcare environment, helping those with physical limitations, and new ways to create music. Research Centers ADR Welcome Honors and Recognition Gentry Chairs GA Carbon Bank Committee Andris Appointed to Geospatial Advisory Committee Brittney Boykin at the Kennedy Center Tech Team Named 2022 ULI Hines Finalist Willkens Wins AIAS Educator Honor Award Hong Wins 2022 ARCC Dissertation Award Flourishing Communities Wins Pit-UN Grant Dunham-Jones Wins National Book Award Media Inquiries Ann Hoevel Director of Communications College of Design E-mail Ann Hoevel +1 404-385-0693 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN User account menu Log in Design Footer 4 College Resources Intranet IT Resources