Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary COLLEGE OF ARTS & SCIENCES ASIAN LANGUAGES AND LITERATURE BENGALI Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 BENG 101 Elementary Bengali (5) Offers a balance of all four skills: speaking, reading, listening, and writing. Consists of lectures on grammar, drill sections, oral and written exercises, aural comprehension exercises, and readings in elementary-level texts. First in a sequence of three. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: BENG 101 BENG 102 Elementary Bengali (5) Offers a balance of all four skills: speaking, reading, listening, and writing. Consists of lectures on grammar, drill sections, oral and written exercises, aural comprehension exercises, and readings in elementary-level texts. Second in a sequence of three. Prerequisite: BENG 101. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: BENG 102 BENG 103 Elementary Bengali (5) Offers a balance of all four skills: speaking, reading, listening, and writing. Consists of lectures on grammar, drill sections, oral and written exercises, aural comprehension exercises, and readings in elementary-level texts. Third in a sequence of three. Prerequisite: BENG 102. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: BENG 103 BENG 200 Introduction to modern Bengali language, literature and culture (5) VLPA Evolution of modern Bengali language, literature, and culture from the fifteen hundreds to the present. Topics may include the Bengali "renaissance"; the works of the Nobel Laureate Rabindranath Tagore, Nazrul Islam, and other writers; films of Satyajit Ray and other film-makers; or the emergence of Bangladesh. Texts in English. View course details in MyPlan: BENG 200 BENG 201 Intermediate Bengali (3/5) VLPA Develops proficiency in reading, writing, listening, and speaking standard colloquial Bengali at an intermediate level. Readings in fiction and non-fiction literature, vocabulary and grammar exercises, writing of essays and creative pieces, aural comprehension exercises, and topic-based conversation and role-play. First in a sequence of three. Prerequisite: BENG 103. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: BENG 201 BENG 202 Intermediate Bengali (3/5) VLPA Develops proficiency in reading, writing, listening, and speaking standard colloquial Bengali at an intermediate level. Readings in fiction and non-fiction literature, vocabulary and grammar exercises, writing of essays and creative pieces, aural comprehension exercises, and topic-based conversation and role-play. Second in a sequence of three. Prerequisite: BENG 201. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: BENG 202 BENG 203 Intermediate Bengali (3/5) VLPA Develops proficiency in reading, writing, listening, and speaking standard colloquial Bengali at an intermediate level. Readings in fiction and non-fiction literature, vocabulary and grammar exercises, writing of essays and creative pieces, aural comprehension exercises, and topic-based conversation and role-play. Third in a sequence of three. Prerequisite: BENG 202. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: BENG 203 BENG 301 Advanced Bengali (3/5) VLPA Further development of proficiency in reading, writing, listening, and speaking standard colloquial Bengali at an advanced level with the aim of preparing students to do research. Readings in fiction and non-fiction literature, vocabulary and grammar exercises, writing of essays and creative pieces, aural comprehension exercises, and topic-based conversation. First in a sequence of three. Prerequisite: BENG 203. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: BENG 301 BENG 302 Advanced Bengali (3/5) VLPA Further development of proficiency in reading, writing, listening, and speaking standard colloquial Bengali at an advanced level with the aim of preparing students to do research. Readings in fiction and non-fiction literature, vocabulary and grammar exercises, writing of essays and creative pieces, aural comprehension exercises, and topic-based conversation. Second in a sequence of three. Prerequisite: BENG 301. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: BENG 302 BENG 303 Advanced Bengali (3/5) VLPA Further development of proficiency in reading, writing, listening, and speaking standard colloquial Bengali at an advanced level with the aim of preparing students to do research. Readings in fiction and non-fiction literature, vocabulary and grammar exercises, writing of essays and creative pieces, aural comprehension exercises, and topic-based conversation. Third in a sequence of three. Prerequisite: BENG 302. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: BENG 303 BENG 499 Independent Study (3-5, max. 15) Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: BENG 499 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022