Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Site Navigation By the Numbers Mission & Values People Our History Accreditation Strategic Plan Wellness Podcasts Service & Community Engagement SPH Policies and Guidelines Events Accreditation The Council on Education for Public Health (CEPH) is a non-profit agency authorized by the US Department of Education to accredit schools of public health. CEPH accreditation indicates that a school meets or exceeds criteria for the delivery of high-quality public health education as evaluated through a peer-review process. Between September 2019 and March 2021, the Brown School of Public Health, under the leadership of Associate Dean of Academic Affairs, Melissa Clark, engaged its stakeholders in a rigorous self-study process. This entailed the active participation of faculty, staff, students, senior administrators, alumni, and community members in the assessment of all aspects of the School’s operations, including its resource sufficiency, academic effectiveness, and mission accomplishment. The result was a 380+-page report bolstered by hundreds of pages of supporting evidence. In addition to reviewing the report and evidentiary documentation, an evaluation team of public health leaders spent more than two days interviewing stakeholder groups. The team determined that the Brown School of Public Health fully met all eight CEPH criteria: a significant achievement. The culmination of this intensive review process was CEPH’s decision that the Brown School of Public Health be re-accredited for seven years, which is the maximum award. Brown’s CEPH accreditation extends to December 31, 2028. CEPH Accreditation Self-Study Report Brown's 2021 Self-Study Report is available for download. For questions about the report, please contact Jill Allison Kern, PhD, Brown School of Public Health Director for Accreditation and Assessment Download the Report (PDF) About By the Numbers Mission & Values People Our History Accreditation Strategic Plan Wellness Podcasts Service & Community Engagement SPH Policies and Guidelines Events School of Public Health Admissions School of Public Health Admissions Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top