Your browser does not support iframes. Skip to main content Menu Scheller College of Business Request More Information Attend an Info Session Contact Us Directory Apply Now Search Why Scheller? Programs Executive Education Academics Centers & Initiatives News & Events Overview & History Dean's Message and Report Meet Ernest Scheller Jr. Advisory Board Accreditation Strategic Plan Business at Tech Graduates Get Hired Return on Investment Faculty and Advisors Global Perspective A Good Fit Corporate Engagement Trading Floor Georgia Tech Community Student Life Making Connections and Learning Opportunities Diversity Diversity News Career and Recruiter Services Career Services for Students Hire Our Students Giving to the College Meeting the Challenge Priorities and Needs Faculty Support Student Support Program Enrichment Unrestricted Endowment The Impact of Your Gift How to Make a Gift FAQs Scheller MBA Annual Fund Alumni Network Alumni News Alumni Resources Update Contact Information Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Full-time MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQsEvening MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Advancement Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQs Executive MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Student & Alumni Profiles FAQsMBA Programs Which Georgia Tech MBA is Right for Me? Commitment to Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Dual Degree Options Experiential Learning For Engineers For Military Community MD/MBA Option MBA Early Admission for Undergrads Rankings The Intersection Podcast Earn Your MBA in Atlanta Graduate Certificate Business Analytics Certificate Undergraduate Admissions Curriculum Career Services Student Services Student Life Scholarships & Awards Rankings & Stats Connect With Us The Intersection Podcast, Undergrad PhD Concentrations Program Milestones Faculty and Staff Funding Admissions FAQs Recruiting Events Student Bios Program News Request Program Information Interdisciplinary M.S. M.S. in Quantitative & Computational Finance (QCF) Master of Science in Analytics at Georgia Tech Lean Six Sigma Certification Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Certification Lean Six Sigma Black Belt Certification FAQs Custom Programs FAQs Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Engineering Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship International Management Management of Technology Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results Academic Speaker Series Guest Speakers in Accounting Guest Speakers in Finance Guest Speakers in Marketing Current Faculty Opportunities Business Analytics Center Engage with Us Executive Council News Research Education People Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics About Cecil B. Day The Cecil B. Day Prize Speakers and Events Faculty Support Net Impact Center for International Business Education and Research Projects Research Events Books People at CIBER Inside CIBER News and Events Archives International Management Certificate Sign Up for Future CIBER News Financial Analysis Lab Subscribe to Reports Institute for Leadership and Social Impact About Us Programs News Impact Speaker Series Leadership for Social Good Study Abroad Program Social Impact Fellows Ideas to Serve (I2S) Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Servant Leadership Programs Minor in Leadership Studies Excel Alumni Other ILSI Programs Partnerships Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business About Us Sustainable Business Insights Research Briefs Sustainable Business Events Sustainable Business News Blog Research & Thought Leadership Empowering Students Industry Engagement Newsletter Participating in the Drawdown Georgia Compact Drawdown Georgia Business Compact Meet the Team Alumni Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program Director's Message About Steven A. Denning T&M Curriculum Program Faculty & Staff Admissions T&M Corporate Affiliates Denning T&M Program News TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta Program Network TI:GER MBA & PhD FAQs News Apply Inquire Resources in Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller See all news Scheller News Home » News & Events » articles Russell Toon, Ben McCormack, Robert “RED” Daniel, Deepthi Krishnan, and Chris Staufer Published on: 05-24-2022 Meet the Georgia Tech Scheller 2022 Executive MBA Student Council Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Executive MBA (EMBA) students have an opportunity to lead and serve their fellow students through a Student Council. Students are nominated and selected by their peers and the Council acts as liaison between program management, College leadership, and the EMBA student body. During the spring semester, the 2022 EMBA Student Council was elected. 2022 Executive MBA Student Council Executive Committee Chair: Russell Toon Executive Committee Co-Chair/Communications Representative: Robert "RED" Daniel Academic Chair: Deepthi Krishnan Career Chair: Ben McCormack Community Chair: Chris Staufer Social/Service Chair: Robert "RED" Daniel Each member of this year’s student council decided to run for a variety of reasons, but the most common theme among them was that they want to serve their current students and influence the direction of the program moving forward. “I wanted to be a part of the Student Council because it is an opportunity to serve my peers and help influence the direction of the EMBA program for future generations of students,” said McCormack. “For the current EMBA class, the future value of our degree is determined in large part by Georgia Tech's ability to attract the best students to the program. Any investment into making the program better in the future is an investment in a degree earned today. I want to be part of shaping that.” For Daniel, getting involved at Georgia Tech isn’t something new to him. Daniel, a Double Jacket, attended Tech as an undergraduate and was involved in serving his classmates through the Student Foundation and Student Government Association, and wanted to do the same as an EMBA student at Scheller. “I wanted the opportunity to serve my class at this level,” said Daniel. “I enjoy having the opportunity to help improve the program, address concerns of my classmates, and come up with new ways to build engagement among us. We are all sharing a unique and special experience right now; the goal is trying to make it the best version that it can be.” The EMBA Student Council not only serves their current classmates, but they will also welcome in the newest incoming EMBA class when they begin in the fall. “I’m looking forward to working with the rest of the Student Council to serve as the go-to resource for both the class and program whenever feedback or issues arise,” said Staufer. “We also want to do the same for the new class starting in the fall so they immediately feel like they have that support from the start of the program.” As the Executive Committee Chair, Toon’s goals are to set a solid foundation between students, faculty, and staff, to help keep Scheller a top-rated program. Toon knows how important it is to build a strong infrastructure. It’s one of the reasons he decided to go back to school. “I decided to go back to school for my EMBA because I had reached a point in my career where I was getting exposure across the company and interacting with many departments from a senior level,” said Toon. “While everyone was wonderful about helping ensure I’m comprehending the discussion, I wanted to ensure I could walk into any meeting across the company and be able to add immediate value. This program has already proven extremely beneficial in that aspect.” Krishnan decided to join the EMBA program to be exposed to different perspectives from various industries. Joining the EMBA Student Council also has provided her an opportunity to learn more about the program and be involved in enacting change for future students. “I believe that for anyone to accomplish their true potential, the environment also needs to support that,” said Krishnan. “One of the great things about Scheller is that the culture is very accepting and encourages everyone to be themselves. I am excited that I am a part of a globally reputed College, I am learning from best-in-class professors, and I will be a member of a broad and prestigious alumni network.” TwitterFacebookLinkedIn CONTACTS News News Contact Profile, Scheller College of Business Home Why Scheller? Overview & History Business at Tech Georgia Tech Community Career and Recruiter Services Giving to the College Alumni Network Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Programs MBA Undergraduate PhD Interdisciplinary M.S. Executive Education Lean Six Sigma Certification Custom Programs Academics Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Academic Speaker Series Current Faculty Opportunities Centers & Initiatives Business Analytics Center Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics Center for International Business Education and Research Financial Analysis Lab Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta News & Events Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller LinkedIn Instagram Facebook Twitter Youtube Flickr Georgia Institute of Technology Scheller College of Business 800 W. Peachtree St. NW Atlanta, GA 30308 404.894.2600 © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology Intranet Emergency Information Contact the College Privacy & Legal Notice Accountability Web Accessibility Resources for People with Disabilities Plugins Youtube Usage Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures