Back On-Campus On-Campus Overview Degree Programs Tuition & Costs Financial Aid Admissions Requirements Admissions Counselors Accepted Students Campus Life Dual Enrollment OneLife Gap Year Program Transfer Students International Students Military Students Step Into SWU Apply See Campus Online/Graduate SWU Online At Southern Wesleyan, we understand the needs and commitments of busy adults. Our career-ready online programs are specifically designed to allow you to earn a degree online while still meeting your personal and professional responsibilities. SWU Online Home Degree Programs Graduate Certificates Graduate Education Courses Program Format Tuition & Costs Financial Aid The SWU Difference Online FAQ Career Services Military Students Apply Request Info Academics Innovative Learning Degree Programs University Catalog Non-Degree Seekers Academic Opportunities Academic Support & Resources Library Divisions Division of Fine Arts Division of Humanities Division of Religion Division of Science Division of Social Science Schools School of Education Benson School of Business Professional Development OneLife Gap Year Program Dual Enrollment News & Events Special Events Box Office Events Graduation Ceremonies Summer Camps Calendars Master Calendar Athletic Schedule Chapel Schedule Fine Arts Series News & Resources SWU News SWU Blog SWU Social Media About About SWU Southern Wesleyan University is a Christ-centered, student focused learning community dedicated to transforming lives by challenging students to be dedicated scholars and servant leaders who impact the world for Christ. Who We Are SWU Profile Core Values and Outcomes Our History Our President Our Area Contact Us Office Directory Employment Student Consumer Info Athletics Show me information for: Future Students Located in South Carolina, Southern Wesleyan University is a Christ-centered, student-focused learning community dedicated to transforming lives. On-Campus Program Majors & Minors Admissions Campus Life Tuition and Costs Financial Aid Request Info Visit Campus Apply Online Program Degrees & Certificates Program Format Admission Process FAQ for Online Programs Tuition and Costs Financial Aid Request Info Apply Additional Resources OneLife Gap Year Program Transfer Students Dual Enrollment / Gateway International Students Military Students Career Outcomes Financial Literacy Campus Map Alumni & Friends Warriors at heart. Your campus experience may only last a few years, but your connection to Southern Wesleyan can last a lifetime. Stay connected to SWU through events, publications, and social media. Alumni Alumni Awards Alumni Association Board Alumni Home Alumni E-Newsletter Alumni Benefits Alumni Bricks Homecoming Transcript Request Connect Warrior Merchandise Give to SWU Event Calendar Submit Your Alumni News Update Your Info Employment Contact Alumni Office Resources The faith-filled community at SWU is comprised of students, faculty and staff who are passionate about learning and growing, both inside and outside of the classroom. Services Career Services Conference Services Student Care Services Technology Services Other Resources Course Schedule Online Bookstore Online Bookstore FAQ Quicklinks Blue Hill Coffee & Tea Campus Dining CATBus Email Login Quicklinks: Apply Calendar Directory Give Map mySWU COVID-19 Updates Located in South Carolina, Southern Wesleyan University is a Christ-centered, student-focused learning community dedicated to transforming lives. On-Campus Program Majors & Minors Admissions Campus Life Tuition and Costs Financial Aid Request Info Visit Campus Apply Online Program Degrees & Certificates Program Format Admission Process FAQ for Online Programs Tuition and Costs Financial Aid Request Info Apply Additional Resources OneLife Gap Year Program Transfer Students Dual Enrollment / Gateway International Students Military Students Career Outcomes Financial Literacy Campus Map Warriors at heart. Your campus experience may only last a few years, but your connection to Southern Wesleyan can last a lifetime. Stay connected to SWU through events, publications, and social media. Alumni Alumni Awards Alumni Association Board Alumni Home Alumni E-Newsletter Alumni Benefits Alumni Bricks Homecoming Transcript Request Connect Warrior Merchandise Give to SWU Event Calendar Submit Your Alumni News Update Your Info Employment Contact Alumni Office The faith-filled community at SWU is comprised of students, faculty and staff who are passionate about learning and growing, both inside and outside of the classroom. Services Career Services Conference Services Student Care Services Technology Services Other Resources Course Schedule Online Bookstore Online Bookstore FAQ Quicklinks Blue Hill Coffee & Tea Campus Dining CATBus Email Login Top Searches: Calendar Catalog Directory Employment Map Transcripts Future Students Alumni & Friends Resources Apply Calendar Directory Give Map mySWU COVID-19 Updates On-Campus Online/Graduate Academics News & Events About Athletics On-Campus Overview Degree Programs Tuition & Costs Financial Aid Admissions Requirements Admissions Counselors Accepted Students Campus Life Dual Enrollment OneLife Gap Year Program Transfer Students International Students Military Students Step Into SWU Apply See Campus SWU Online At Southern Wesleyan, we understand the needs and commitments of busy adults. Our career-ready online programs are specifically designed to allow you to earn a degree online while still meeting your personal and professional responsibilities. SWU Online Home Degree Programs Graduate Certificates Graduate Education Courses Program Format Tuition & Costs Financial Aid The SWU Difference Online FAQ Career Services Military Students Apply Request Info Innovative Learning Degree Programs University Catalog Non-Degree Seekers Academic Opportunities Academic Support & Resources Library Divisions Division of Fine Arts Division of Humanities Division of Religion Division of Science Division of Social Science Schools School of Education Benson School of Business Professional Development OneLife Gap Year Program Dual Enrollment Special Events Box Office Events Graduation Ceremonies Summer Camps Calendars Master Calendar Athletic Schedule Chapel Schedule Fine Arts Series News & Resources SWU News SWU Blog SWU Social Media About SWU Southern Wesleyan University is a Christ-centered, student focused learning community dedicated to transforming lives by challenging students to be dedicated scholars and servant leaders who impact the world for Christ. Who We Are SWU Profile Core Values and Outcomes Our History Our President Our Area Contact Us Office Directory Employment Student Consumer Info A Christian University where inventive learning and transformative experiences happen through faith-filled community Request Info Visit Campus Apply Now On-Campus Online Graduate On-Campus Online Graduate Take the Next Step to Begin Your Journey On-Campus Majors Read More Online Majors Read More Freshmen Read More Transfer Read More International Read More OneLife Gap Year Read More Dual Enrollment Read More Military Friendly Southern Wesleyan University is dedicated to the educational success of members of the armed forces. Military and veteran students will find SWU's online programs to be affordable, flexible, and relevant. Military Students Southern Wesleyan University Southern Wesleyan University was originally established in 1906 as the Wesleyan Methodist Bible Institute whose mission was to develop Christian character in its students while giving thorough intellectual training. Now, a private, four year Christian university, Southern Wesleyan University is committed to providing liberal arts and professional education. In addition, we are proud to be an institution of The Wesleyan Church, a worldwide body of evangelical Protestant believers. Though our name has changed over the years, our mission—to be a Christian community of learners that recognizes God as the source of all truth and wisdom—has remained. Learn More About SWU Why Choose SWU Faith-Filled Community For the SWU community, Christian faith is the foundation for everything—truth, learning, developing servant leaders, living in community, and serving others. Read More Inventive learning Our students have relevant, experiential learning opportunities in many programs, using inventive ways to best prepare our students for successful careers. Read More Contagious Generosity This community is one of contagious generosity—finding new ways to serve our communities with our resources, facilities, and ideas. Read More #4 Best Online college In South Carolina Top 25% Transfer Friendly Colleges #5 Best College in South Carolina Homeschool Friendly University #8 Best Online Christian College in the South SWU News SWU Spring 2022 Dean's List CENTRAL, S.C. – The following Southern Wesleyan University students earned a term... Keep Reading Johnson Receives John Martin Second Timer Award CENTRAL, S.C. – Dr. Staci Johnson, Chair of the Division of Science and Coordinator of... Keep Reading U.S. Department of Education Announces Second Chance Pell CENTRAL, S.C. – On April 26, 2022 the U.S. Department of Education announced that in honor... Keep Reading SWU Alumni Run in 126th Boston Marathon CENTRAL, S.C. – The 126th Boston Marathon was held on April 18, 2022 and hosted by the City of... Keep Reading View All SWU News NONDISCRIMINATORY POLICY AS TO STUDENTS In compliance with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, Title IX of the Educational Amendment of 1972 and with Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, Southern Wesleyan University does not discriminate on the basis of race, national origin, sex, or physical handicap in any of its policies, practices, or procedures. The university reserves its right to operate as a church-related institution and to develop policies consistent with the religious tenets of its sponsoring denomination, The Wesleyan Church. Additional information related to SWU’s non-discrimination policies include: Equal Employment Opportunity Statement Sexual Misconduct Policy (Title IX) Step into SWU. Are you ready to take the next step? Choose at least one way to connect with us. We'd love to get to know you! Request Info Visit Campus Apply Now Accreditation Consumer Information Title IX Privacy Policy Marketing & Communications Southern Wesleyan UniversityPhysical: 907 Wesleyan Drive Mail: PO Box 1020 Central, South Carolina 29630864-644-5550 864-644-5000