Skip to main content Skip to main content Contact UH Drug Discovery Institute Hamburger Button Icon About Research Disease States Drug Discovery Pipeline Technologies & Platforms Seed Grant Program Undergraduate Research Programs UH-HEART Program UH-DRUG Program People Researchers Steering Committee News & Events News Events Discovering and designing novel drugs to improve Health Outcomes Modernize Drug Discovery Through a cross-disciplinary approach, the UH Drug Discovery Institute will integrate new technologies, such as AI, to streamline and modernize the drug-discovery process. White Featured Events View All Events > 475959 May 3 12:00 PM A Small Molecule Activator of the TET2 Tumor Suppressor with Bin Guo, Ph.D., associate professor in the UH College of Pharmacy 475960 May 17 12:00 PM Discovery of Novel Biomarkers and Drug Targets in Cancer with Meghana Trivedi: UH College of Pharmacy, director of clinical and translational research Latest News View All News > Can't HEART-ly Wait Organizers and Mentors Pumped for Return of Paid Summer Cardiovascular Research Program for Undergra… UH College of Pharmacy HEART-y Start 5 Texas Undergraduates Complete UH-HEART Program to Encourage Graduate Study, Careers in Cardiovascu… UH College of Pharmacy Focusing on the Unhealthy Brain to Speed Drug Discovery UH collaboration with National Institutes of Health delivers toolkit to accelerate process. University of Houston Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Next page Next › Last page Last » Research Capabilities The University of Houston has far-reaching research across disciplines that focuses on a variety of impact areas, such as cancer, infectious diseases, autoimmune disorders, heart disease, neurological disorders, mental health, substance abuse, women’s health and more. Over 100 faculty university-wide are working on drug discovery-related research. Browse by Disease State Browse by Drug Discovery Pipeline Browse by Technologies Cream White UNDERGRADUATE RESEARCH PROGRAMS The UH Drug Discovery Institute is developing several programs to provide students with the tools, resources and knowledge to pursue careers in research for the development of novel drugs for unmet medical needs. UH-Heart Program Funded by the American Heart Association (AHA), the UH-HEART program provides summer research experiences that prepare participants for future careers in cardiovascular-related research. All eligible students are invited to apply! Image Location Right Column Image Image Shape Rectangular Image Image Join DDI Become a part of UH’s newest institute focused on the development of novel drugs for unmet medical needs! JOIN Houston, TX 77204 (713) 743-2255 Quick Links All Faculty Steering Committee UH-Heart Program UH Research Calendar Read our Newsletter Email HP ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies