Utah State University sites use cookies. By continuing to use this site you accept our privacy and cookie policy. I agree Skip to content Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries QUICK LINKS MyUSU SEARCH University Advancement Close search Search Utah State University: I want to search All USU sites People Search terms Submit search AdvancementOpen main menu Close Open search Home See the Impact Back See the Impact Impact Stories Annual Impact Report Advancement News Find Your Cause Make Your Impact Back Make Your Impact How to Give Types of Gifts Giving Programs Engage With Us Back Engage With Us Alumni Association Alumni Events Foundation Board Old Main Society Heritage Society Connect on Social Share Your Story Update Contact Info Connect with Alumni Contact Us Donate Quick Links Close Quick Links Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries MyUSU Create Your Aggie Impact Utah State Aggies are leaders, groundbreakers, and trendsetters who create transformational impact through their actions. Create Your Aggie Impact is a university-wide, comprehensive fundraising campaign to accelerate student access and opportunity, elevate the educational experience, develop solutions to the world's challenges, and build a university of distinction. Help us continue to effect change by creating opportunity with an eye to the future. Accelerating Access & Opportunity Student access and success are the lifeblood of our university. Providing the tools and educational experiences to students seeking a brighter future is central to our mission. A gift to student scholarships, programs, and special use funds can change the course of a student’s life and open a world of opportunities after graduation. Elevating the Educational Experience Utah State is built on faculty who create learning experiences where our students can thrive — those who challenge themselves to improve the college experience for every student that enters our doors. Faculty funding helps us continue to recruit the best and brightest scholars and creative minds whose advances transform the educational environment. Developing Solutions to the World's Challenges As a national leader in undergraduate programs for research and creative inquiry, USU pushes boundaries in pursuit of discoveries that change lives, communities, and the world at large. Empowering undergraduate and graduate students with hands-on research experiences keeps us on the front lines of groundbreaking innovation. Building a University of Distinction The Utah State experience is unlike any other. Throughout time, USU has remained true to its roots as a statewide institution dedicated to the land and its people. Our academic prowess, athletic success, community service, and unparalleled experiential learning, reflect our status as a university of distinction with a commitment to excellence in all we do. Impact Stories Read Story March 16, 2022 Master Tradesman and Educator Inspire Alumni Couple to Create Memorial Scholarship Two men with contrasting career paths inspired a Utah State University alumni couple to give back to their alma mater and help undergraduate engineering students working to earn a degree. Read Story March 9, 2022 Gift Inspires Second Chance for USU Online Special Education Student There is an old thought that says if you are living only for yourself, you are not living at all. If true, Utah State University alum Mehdi Heravi is an embodiment of what it means to live. Read Story March 8, 2022 New Scholarship Honors Former Water Lab Director Utah State University Civil and Environmental Engineering alumna Zhida Song-James (’91) has created an endowed scholarship in honor of her late husband, L. Douglas James, a former Utah Water Research Lab director. View more impact stories Making Impact by the Numbers Aggie license plates have raised more than $2.3 million for scholarships $30 million in donor-funded scholarships awarded in 2020-21 8,667 students received donor-funded scholarships in 2020-21 University Advancement CONTACT Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Flickr USU Alumni Center 1540 Old Main Hill Logan, UT 84322 435-797-1320 or 1-888-653-6246 Fax: 435-797-1364 advancement@usu.edu QUICK LINKS How to Give Update Your Info Connect on Social Gift Investment Fee Info Gift Acceptance & Crediting Staff Resources Staff Homepage Alumni Home Alumni Events Alumni News Aggie Network Maps & Directions Search USU Campus Safety Jobs Contact Terms of Use Copyright Privacy Accessibility Non-Discrimination Admin Back to top of the page