Skip to main content Restrict my search to Office of the Provost Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Office of the Provost About Provost Paula Myrick Short Initiatives Deans of Colleges and Libraries Provost's Cabinet: Vice and Associate Provosts Office of the Provost Staff Presentations by Provost Paula Myrick Short Faculty Current Faculty Faculty Resources Underrepresented Women of Color Coalition Faculty Engagement and Development Faculty Awards Cougar Chairs Leadership Academy Grants Faculty Grievance Non-Tenure Track Faculty New Faculty Prospective Faculty Presidential Frontiers Faculty Faculty/Staff Administrators Student Success Undergraduate Academic Advising Current Students Undergraduate Student Success Center Provost Prizes for Prose & Poetry New Coogs UHin4: Four Year Graduation Plan Cub Camp: Student-Run, Student Led Provost Summer Read Program Peer Assistants Global Students Learning Abroad International Students Graduate Students University Success SACSCOC University Accreditation UH Global Global Initiatives Global Citizens Credential Peace Corps Prep Program Center for ADVANCING UH Faculty Success Cougar Initiative to Engage (CITE) Houston Guided Pathways to Success About People Memorandum of Understanding Foundations of Excellence About Year 1: Foundational Dimensions Year 2: Themes Success Indicators Dashboard Postdoctoral Fellows at UH Academic Program Planning Committee on Academic Centers and Institutes Planning and Budgeting Policies and Resources Academic Honesty Policy Frequently Asked Questions Student Policies and Resources Student Resources Faculty Policies, Programs, and Resources Policies Programs Resources University Policies and Resources FERPA Resources Senate Bill 4 Frequently Asked Questions Honorary Degrees COVID-19 Updates and Resources News News Travels With Shasta Cougar Milestones UH Office of the Provost Marketing and Communications UH Home Office of the Provost Students New Coogs New Coogs UHin4 Provost Summer Read Program Cub Camp Peer Assistants Contact Information For questions regarding these programs, visit our Staff page to find the appropriate contact. New Coogs Information for newly admitted students. UH in 4 The UH in 4 program is a partnership between the University and students to support graduation within four years. The program provides a comprehensive plan to help students navigate their four-year college experience. Learn More Cub Camp Cub Camp is an extended orientation program where first-year students go just before classes begin to come together as a class, have fun, make friends, and learn more about creating a successful life at UH and in Houston. Join us for this opportunity that helps you build your new UH community before you ever arrive on campus. For three days and two nights, you along with other incoming students and upperclassmen leaders will head to an off-campus retreat center and learn more about UH, its traditions, and your new UH family. Filled with fun activities, student success tips and new friendships, Cub Camp is one event that you definitely do not want to miss! Learn More Provost Summer Read Program The Provost Summer Read Program is built around a common book that is read over the summer by all first year students. After first year students arrive on campus to begin their fall semester of classes, they will participate in a meaningful dialogue with faculty and your peers, inside and out of the classroom. Learn More Peer Assistants There are two dynamic ways to become involved as a Peer Assistant in our office. College Peer Assistants are hired in the spring and work through the summer assisting colleges with enrollment during orientations for freshmen and transfers. Peer Assistant Leaders are hired in the fall and work fall to spring, providing assistance and coaching to all UHin4 students. Learn More University of Houston Ezekiel W. Cullen Bldg., Room 203 Houston, TX 77204 832-842-0550 About the Office of the Provost Travels With Shasta Cougar Milestones Office of the Provost Staff Faculty Awards Student Success Undergraduate Academic Advising UHin4: Four Year Graduation Plan Provost Summer Read Program Cub Camp: Student-Run, Student Led University Success Policies and Resources SACSCOC University Accreditation ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies