Skip to main content Iowa State University Office of Admissions Menu Toggle Search Visit Apply My Account Main navigation Admissions Admissions Freshman Admissions Transfer Admissions International Admissions Graduate Admissions Next Steps / Timeline Financial Aid Request info Contact Us Related Links Nontraditional Nondegree Veterinary Medicine Military Why ISU Academics Academics Academic Programs Colleges Transfer Credit Credit by Exam Orientation Honors Program Learning Communities Apply Visit Related Links Course Equivalency Guides Transfer Plans TRANSIT Supplementary Course List Admissions Partnership Program Destination Iowa State Cost + Aid Campus Living Campus Living Housing ISU Dining Diversity and Inclusion International Students and Scholars Clubs and Organizations Recreation Services Student Health Athletics Apply Visit Related Links Student Leaders Sorority and Fraternity Entertainment Traditions Distinguished Alumni Why ISU Visit Application Visit Visit Log in Schedule an On-Campus Visit Latino Family Visit Day Multicultural Student Experience Day Daily On-Campus Visit Experience Iowa State Admitted Student Options Transfer Student Visit Days Group Visits Visitors Guide Directions to Campus Evaluate Your Visit Meet the STARS Schedule a Visit Iowa State is more than cornfields in America’s heartland. Since 1858, we’ve been growing industry leaders on a campus that has been rated the 5th most beautiful in the country. See for yourself our state-of-the-art learning facilities, dining halls, residence halls, and meet with your professors, advisors, and future friends. On-Campus Visit OR Update my Visit Daily Campus Visit A Daily Campus Visit allows you to check out campus as well as have an enrollment presentation. Other activities can be arranged based on the things you like! Learn More Experience Iowa State Experience Iowa State is a daily visit and much more! You will be able to enjoy more academic opportunities such as talking with students, checking out interest sessions, and touring different areas of campus. Learn More Group Visits A group visit is a great educational opportunity to show your students, organization, or club around Iowa State. We’ll customize your visit to make sure it’s a memorable one! Learn More Multicultural Student Visit Days These visit days are designed to give students and their family members a chance to learn about the opportunities and services available to our multicultural students. Learn More Transfer Student Visit Days Transfer Student Visits include a Continuing your Adventure at Iowa State admissions presentation and an opportunity to learn from current students during a student panel. Learn More Admitted Student Visit Days Admitted Student Visits include a Be a Cyclone - Next Steps admissions presentation, student panel, academic information session with an advisor in your academic interest area, and various campus resource sessions. Learn More Resources and Guides Visitors Guide While in Ames, we invite you to explore our campus and community. You will find Ames is a great city in which to learn, live, work, and play. View PDF Student Visit Guide We encourage you to take advantage of the time you’ll have on campus and prepare a list of questions. Here are a few questions to think about before your visit. View PDF Directions to Campus Ames is located 30 minutes north of Des Moines, Iowa's state capitol and business center. Our campus is easy on the eyes and easy to find. More Info Iowa State University Office of Admissions Contact Office of Admissions Enrollment Services Center Ames, IA 50011 Call or text: 515-294-5836 Soults Family Visitors Center 2229 Lincoln Way Ames, IA 50014 Quick Links New Student Programs Counselor Directory Chat with students and staff Request Information Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Analytics Disclaimer Loading...