Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Center for Long-Term Care Quality & Innovation Home About Research People For Providers News & Events Site Navigation Home About Mission & Vision History Giving Diversity & Inclusion Research Expertise Data Methods RAPT Model Portfolio Opportunities Issue Briefs People Advisory Council Alice Bonner Mary Ousley Neil Pruitt, Jr. Robert Van Dyk Team Collaborators For Providers Infection Tracking Log LTC Data Cooperative News & Events News Events Opportunities Nursing Center Data Cooperative With the American Health Care Association/National Center for Assisted Living and other partners, Q&I launched an initiative to enable public health surveillance of COVID-19 and other potential threats by aggregating data in near real-time. Read more LeaRRn Rehabilitation Research Network One of two Q&I training and infrastructure initiatives, LeaRRn provides funding and training opportunities to support expanded national capacity for research conducted in partnership with learning health systems. Read more IMPACT Collaboratory One of two Q&I training and infrastructure initiatives, the IMPACT Collaboratory provides training and grant funding to expand capacity for pragmatic research and propel efficacious non-drug dementia interventions to full-scale trials. Read more New Nursing Center Infection Tracking Log We added a new Google Sheets version of the infection tracking log in January 2022. This new version includes tracking metrics specific to COVID-19. Use it to digitize, link, and map infections in your nursing center. Download & use this tool Research Portfolio Since 2015, we’ve established a diverse, multi-million dollar portfolio of grants and studies to establish the evidence base for innovative practices to improve care for older adults. Learn more The Center for Long-Term Care Quality & Innovation, which we call Q&I, is unique among academic research centers nationwide in our focus and approach. Our mission is to catalyze interventional research that improves care for people receiving post-acute and long-term care. We partner with innovators, researchers, and healthcare providers to use real-world pragmatic methods that accelerate testing interventions and translating findings into practice. Our website includes details about what we do and how. Upcoming events Jun 21 11:00am - 5:00pm Virtual Institute - Rehabilitation Payment Models: Innovation, Research, Policy View full calendar > Tweets by Brown Q&I Center In the news ... Community Champions to increase vaccine acceptance among nursing center staff Mar 31, 2022 Read More Infection control shift coaching program update Jan 18, 2022 Read More Understanding the impact of COVID-19 in nursing centers Jan 18, 2022 Read More more news Center for Long-Term Care Quality & Innovation (Q&I) Center for Long-Term Care Quality & Innovation (Q&I) Brown University Box S-121-6 121 South Main Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-5533 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top