Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About Us Leadership School Diversity Committee Uniquely Frost The Frost Method Ensembles Student Life Campus & Facilities COVID-19 Update Admissions Message from Dean Berg Undergraduate Graduate Visit Contact Us Programs & Degrees Programs by Department Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Frost Online Stamps Ensembles Henry Mancini Institute International Programs Community & Summer Programs Faculty Faculty by Instrument Faculty by Program Department Chairs Events Frost Music Live Event Calendar Concert Tickets Live Stream Hire a Musician Winter Wonderful Giving How to Give Donate Now Donation Form Ever Brighter Campaign Student Emergency Fund Travis Quinn Opportunity Scholarship Fund Sue Miller Fund Impact Alumni Alumni Association Distinguished Alumni Awards Score Magazine Submit Your Updates Stay Connected About Us Admissions Programs & Degrees Faculty Events Giving Alumni Search Leadership Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Initiatives at Frost Mission Statement Uniquely Frost The Frost Method Frost School History Ensembles Student Life Sizzling Miami Art Scene Frost Store Social Media Sitemap About Us Leadership School Diversity Committee Uniquely Frost The Frost Method Ensembles Student Life Campus & Facilities COVID-19 Update Admissions Message from Dean Berg Undergraduate Graduate Visit Contact Us Programs & Degrees Programs by Department Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Frost Online Stamps Ensembles Henry Mancini Institute International Programs Community & Summer Programs Faculty Faculty by Instrument Faculty by Program Department Chairs Events Frost Music Live Event Calendar Concert Tickets Live Stream Hire a Musician Winter Wonderful Giving How to Give Donate Now Donation Form Ever Brighter Campaign Student Emergency Fund Travis Quinn Opportunity Scholarship Fund Sue Miller Fund Impact Alumni Alumni Association Distinguished Alumni Awards Score Magazine Submit Your Updates Stay Connected Leadership Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Initiatives at Frost Mission Statement Uniquely Frost The Frost Method Frost School History Ensembles Student Life Sizzling Miami Art Scene Frost Store Social Media Sitemap Home About Us Uniquely Frost AAA Uniquely Frost Leadership Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Initiatives at Frost Mission Statement Uniquely Frost The Frost Method Frost School History Ensembles Student Life Sizzling Miami Art Scene Frost Store Social Media Sitemap GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply Where you study today impacts where you are tomorrow. As a Frost student, you will graduate excelling scholastically, musically, and with an expanded imagination. Real-world experiences will give you a broader vision and the ability to integrate into today’s entrepreneurial world. The Frost Method® Learn by Doing: We call it "The Frost Method®." This innovative experiential course work removes you from large theory and lectures and places you into small ensemble classrooms where you will build accompaniments, compose, improvise on the spot, create and perform together. Whether you're a performance or a non-performance major, you will leave Frost with all the skills and experience necessary to succeed in the music industry. No Barriers or Labels We are one of the broadest and most musically diverse schools in the country. At the highest level, we do classical, jazz and pop, as well as music engineering, music education, music therapy, and music industry. However, unlike other schools, there are no silos at Frost. We are the school with a tuba player songwriter, a jazz musician music engineer, and a classical pianist who improvises with jazz bands. At Frost, you can become the best version of you across all genres. Cane Records & CAT 5 Music Publishing Cat 5 Music Is a student-run music marketing enterprise with a focus on the songwriter. Cat 5 Music provides a learning opportunity for music industry students to gain experience performing some of the functions of a music publishing company while helping to springboard up-and-coming songwriters. Artist Launch Artist Launch provides the next level of support to selected students and alumni with networking opportunities, a performance at Carnegie Hall, and career seed money. HMI The critically acclaimed Henry Mancini Institute (HMI) is exclusive to Frost and allows students to have real-world experiences performing jazz, film scores, classical and world music. Imagine working with prominent composers, conductors, and artists such as Joshua Bell, Jeff Beal, Denyce Graves, and Bobby McFerrin. Stamps Scholarships The Stamps Scholars Program provides full-tuition scholarships plus expenses to Stamps Scholars at the Frost School of Music through the generosity of South Florida philanthropists and music lovers E. Roe Stamps and his late wife, Penny. Bruce Hornsby Creative American Music Multi-GRAMMY® Award-winning alumnus Bruce Hornsby offers an exclusive Creative American Music program at Frost that develops excellent musicianship through immersion in the diverse traditions of modern American songwriting. Interdisciplinary by nature, it incorporates courses from musicology, composition, performance, media/industry, and jazz. Music Engineering First of its Kind in U.S. We are pioneers in music engineering and technology—a first of its kind in the U.S—with a focus on physics and engineering. The program was designed after in-depth visits to recording studios, live sound companies, and pro-audio equipment manufacturers. Frost continues to trail blaze with a unique music engineering program with three integrated mixing consoles. Industry-Leading Recording Studio Our newly renovated one million dollar recording studio is another first of its kind in the nation. In addition to state of the art analog and digital outboard gear, it features three integrated mixing consoles: an Avid S6 digital controller, an all-analog API 1600 series console and a hybrid analog/digital SSL AWS 948 console. Instrumental to Success At Frost, classical performance majors have the opportunity to learn theory like a jazz musician; business like an arts production major; arranging and improvisation like a composer, and studio playing like professional session musician while studying with a world-class faculty that will help them to achieve the highest level of instrumental excellence. Conducting Fellowship with Seraphic Fire The Frost Choral Studies program is proud to partner with the GRAMMY®-nominated professional choir Seraphic Fire to offer workshops for students, free concert attendance, and a conducting fellowship for graduate students in conducting. This unique mentorship program allows podium time with one of the country’s most creative choral ensembles. Real World Training for Music Therapists Frost Music Therapy students complete clinical and research requirements at Miller School of Medicine's hospitals and clinics gaining real-world, hands-on experience. The curriculum is based on a neurologic paradigm regarding specific ways the body and brain perceive and respond to music. Students learn standardized techniques that translate to functional patient outcomes and, ultimately, 100% career placement. Latin American & Caribbean Musicology Studies Celebrating Miami's location as a multicultural gateway to the Americas, Musicology faculty focuses their research on past and current music of Brazil, Cuba, Haiti, Jamaica, and the United States. In addition to being award-winning scholars, some faculty members are also renowned performers and composers in their own right. Jazz Writers Conduct and Produce The Frost Recording Ensemble gives Studio Jazz Writing and Jazz Composition majors an opportunity to hone their skills in a number of areas including: composition, arranging, conducting, recording, and mixing. Each session gives students ample time to rehearse and record their work. Past students have won DownBeat awards based on their Recording Ensemble work as both writers and recording engineers. Cross-Genre Ensemble Experience Imagine the broad experience you will gain by performing in ensembles ranging from classical and jazz to contemporary, no matter your major. At Frost, you can practice your unique craft in very high-caliber ensembles. When you study at Frost, you're joining the major leagues. Piano with a Twist Frost piano students learn improvisation and gain historical perspectives on all composers. At Frost, you will also learn how to promote and market yourself in the real world. No Boundaries for Music Educators Music education majors experience the most innovative and flexible curriculum in the country. Frost students can study jazz, classical, and/or popular music with a chance to customize the degree to suit professional, artistic, and scholarly aspirations. Choral Studies Conference Funding As a Frost choral graduate student, you will have opportunities to present your research at state, regional, and national conventions through ACDA, NAfME, NCCO, and more. Frost helps jump-start your pedagogical contributions to the field by providing financial assistance with expenses associated with conference presentation and attendance. Study Abroad in Salzburg Our exclusive study abroad program changes the horizons and perspectives of Frost students with this once-in-a-lifetime academic and musical experience in Salzburg, Austria, the birthplace of Mozart. It's one of the most exciting places to be in Europe! Unique Instruments We not only equip promising students with revolutionary training but we also understand the need for great instruments. We recently purchased the rare 1714 Giuseppe Guarneri ‘filius Andreae’ violin purchased through a major donation. This one million dollar violin is now on loan every year to a talented Frost violin student. Master Your Future from Home or Work Frost Online offers two innovative and dynamic master’s degree programs that combine a passion for music and performance with industry knowledge and skills. Degrees include Music Industry as well as Live Entertainment Management. Online graduate certificates are also available. Partner Degrees with Other UM Schools Together with the UM School of Law, the Frost School of Music offers a joint Juris Doctor and Music Industry master’s degree (J.D./M.A.). Both schools also offer a joint Juris Doctor and Entertainment Management master’s degree (J.D./M.A.). Classical Improvisation Our unique improvisation curriculum for classical performance students opens the door to a lifetime of opportunity. If you are a classical undergraduate student, you will learn how to hear, improvise, compose, and perform your own classical repertoire. Opera Theater Connections Frost Opera Theater students proudly lay claim to first-hand encounters with today's foremost opera composers and their work. The Frost Opera Theater produces new and recent operas, alongside core repertory, each and every year. We create a unique and educational foundation for students devoted to the future of opera. MADE for Success The Modern Artist Development and Entrepreneurship (MADE) program is for the business-minded musician. MADE is an industry leader in that it not only instills and fosters a do-it-yourself attitude necessary for any entrepreneur but is also inclusive of a Music Industry minor degree. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Frost School of Music Messinger Music Executive Building 5501 San Amaro Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-2241 305-284-2241 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard Toppel Career Center UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Frost Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-instagram social-twitter social-youtube Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices