Skip to main content Skip to main navigation School of Engineering and Computer Science Menu Students & Academics Student Services Career Center Student Leadership Learning Resource Center Scholarships List of ECS Scholarships Student Organizations Incoming Students Summer Accelerate Program Summer of Discovery Freshmen Fall Incoming Freshmen Equipment Requirements and Computer Recommendations Transfer Course Recommendations Entrance and Progression Standards ECS Scholars Program Academic Advising Meet with an ECS Advisor Advising Walk-in Hours Course Drops Academic Actions Certification for Graduation ECS Summer Courses Advising Resources Pre-Engineering Requirements ECS Course Repeat Policy Final Exam Policy Teal Residential College ECS ID Management ECS Scholars Program Degree Programs Flow Charts Capstone Meet Our Alumni ECS Digital Brochure ECS Student Organization Fair Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research Bioinformatics Computer Science Electrical and Computer Engineering Mechanical Engineering Engineering Materials Science About Education Materials Science Faculty Get Involved Give Dean's Funding Initiatives Quick Impact Giving Planned Giving Matching Gifts Corporate Collaborations Engineering Corporate Affiliate Program Computer Science Corporate Affiliate Program Cybersecurity Corporate Affiliate Program Alumni ASEE Gulf Southwest Conference 2021 About the ASEE GSW Conference Abstract and Paper Submission Conference Agenda and Program Conference Host Conference Registration Conference Organization About Mission Statement Dean's Welcome Office of the Dean Staff Directory ABET Board of Advocates Board Members Synergy Magazine Synergy Magazine - Archives News Events Admission & Aid Departments Informatics About Us Degree Programs Bachelor of Science in Informatics: Bioinformatics Bachelor of Science in Informatics: Data Science major Research Computer Science About Us ABET Chair's Welcome Degree Programs Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Bachelor of Science in Computer Science: Software Engineering Concentration Bachelor of Science in Computer Science: Cybersecurity Concentration Bachelor of Arts Bachelor of Science with Computer Science Fellows Major Online Master of Science Master of Science Doctor of Philosophy Research Bioinformatics Competitive Learning Cybersecurity & Networking Data Science Human-Computer Interaction Machine Learning Software Engineering VLSI Design Giving Electrical & Computer Engineering About Us ABET Welcome from the Chair eBears Seminars Cadence University Program Programs Bachelor of Science B.S. & M.S. Joint Program B.S. & Master of Engineering Joint Program B.S. & M.S. Joint Program Master of Science Doctor of Philosophy Research Biomedical Computing Engineering and Cyber-Physical Systems Material and Devices Sustainable Energy and Power Systems Wireless & Microwave Circuits & Systems Alumni Giving Open Faculty Positions Mechanical Engineering About Us ABET Welcome from the Chair Programs Bachelor of Science B.S. & M.S. Joint Program B.S. & M.S. Joint Program B.S. & M.E. Joint Program M.S. Ph.D. Research Advance Materials and Additive Manufacturing Biomechanics and Biomedical Engineering Energy Systems Engineering Geriatric Engineering Humanitarian Engineering and Engineering Ethics Sustainable Engineering Thermo-Fluids Engineering Open Faculty Positions Engineering About Us ABET Programs Bachelor of Science B.S. & M.S. Joint Program B.S. & M.E. Joint Program M.B.A. & M.E. Joint Program Master of Science Master of Engineering Research 25th Anniversary School of Engineering and Computer Science Timeline Stories Rick Tullis Kimmie Sandusky Mario Lopez Heather Benoit Jay D. Battershell Denton Wood Videos Marques Jones Heather Benoit Spotlight Timeline Merchandise SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING AND COMPUTER SCIENCE Engineering For those students who are looking for the less trodden path, for those who are willing to blaze the trail, a degree in Engineering could be for you! General Engineering majors are able to choose a concentration that fits their passion in the field - biomedical, geo/petro, environmental, or humanitarian. Explore APPLY NOW VIRTUAL TOUR All Undergraduate Joint Graduate Bachelor of Science Engineering B.S. & M.S. Joint Program Engineering Biomedical Engineering B.S. & M.E. Joint Program Engineering M.B.A. & M.E. Joint Program Business Administration Engineering Master of Science Biomedical Engineering Master of Engineering Engineering Research Engineering and Computer Science students have an opportunity to participate in innovative engineering applications alongside dedicated faculty members. Learn More About Our Research Project Spotlight: Disney Theme Park Design Competition Andrea De Oliveira, senior mechanical engineering major, Erin Saylor, senior electrical and computer engineering major, and Josh Martin, senior art design major, comprised one of six teams selected as finalists in the Walt Disney Imagineering design competition, alongside teams from Muhlenberg College, Otis College of Art and Design, Penn, and Savannah College of Art and Design. Learn More Alumni Series: Heather Benoit Heather Benoit, a senior mechanical engineer and program manager at M3 Design, Inc., in Austin, Texas, talks about her experience as a student at Baylor University and how her education prepared her for her dream career. Learn More Learning in the Field: Uganda BUV Going on a mission trip to learn, apply and teach engineering is more than just professional growth. Every aspect of the experience was meaningful at some point for each person on the trip. Whether it was deep conversation over morning fry bread and homemade peanut butter, learning how to use a hand saw to cut metal, playing soccer, sharing daily stories over communal dinners, worshiping together or praying with each other through challenges and praises every night, the impact of the trip will last a lifetime. Learn More News See More News Oct. 7, 2020 Dr. Kenneth Van Treuren Announced in AIAA Class of 2021 Associate Fellows The American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA) announced its Class of 2021 Associate Fellows. Kenneth Van Treuren, PhD, Associate Dean of Research and Faculty Development and Professor of Mechanical Engineering, was among those who were honored with the designation this year. Read More Sep. 14, 2020 Baylor Rises to No. 76 in Latest U.S. News Rankings, in Top 10 for Undergraduate Entrepreneurship, Among 'Most Innovative Schools' Baylor University moved up three places to No. 76 among National Universities – with several academic programs and opportunities for undergraduates highly rated – in the latest rankings for 2021 released today by U.S. News & World Report. Read More Aug. 25, 2020 Meet the Baylor researchers who will highlight BU’s national brand campaign Dr. Annette von Jouanne, professor of energy systems: Long recognized as a “Celebrated Woman Engineer” by the National Academy of Engineering, von Jouanne came to Baylor from Oregon State and brought her nationally-regarded research into renewable energy and electric vehicles to campus. She worked on the first hybrid SUV, and currently partners with the Navy on the development of electric ships. Read More Aug. 21, 2020 Baylor Professors Receive Grant to Study Simulated Hippotherapy Treatment for Children with Autism An interdisciplinary team of Baylor University scientists and engineers has been awarded a nearly $600,000 grant from the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board to study the effectiveness of a device that simulates the motion of horseback riding as a treatment for children with autism. Read More Events See More Events School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Engineering & Computer Science One Bear Place #97356 Waco, TX 76798-7356 Computer Science One Bear Place #97141 Waco, TX 76798-7141 (254) 710-3890 ECS_Student_Services@baylor.edu Apply Give Questions for Undergraduate Programs Questions for Graduate Programs General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Students & Academics Student Services Career Center Student Leadership Learning Resource Center Scholarships Student Organizations Incoming Students Academic Advising Teal Residential College ECS ID Management ECS Scholars Program Degree Programs Flow Charts Capstone Meet Our Alumni ECS Digital Brochure ECS Student Organization Fair Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research Bioinformatics Computer Science Electrical and Computer Engineering Mechanical Engineering Engineering Materials Science Get Involved Give Dean's Funding Initiatives Quick Impact Giving Planned Giving Matching Gifts Corporate Collaborations Engineering Corporate Affiliate Program Computer Science Corporate Affiliate Program Cybersecurity Corporate Affiliate Program Alumni ASEE Gulf Southwest Conference 2021 About the ASEE GSW Conference Abstract and Paper Submission Conference Agenda and Program Conference Host Conference Registration Conference Organization About Mission Statement Dean's Welcome Office of the Dean Staff Directory ABET Board of Advocates Board Members Synergy Magazine Synergy Magazine - Archives News Events Admission & Aid Departments Informatics About Us Degree Programs Research Computer Science About Us Degree Programs Research Giving Electrical & Computer Engineering About Us Programs Research Alumni Giving Open Faculty Positions Mechanical Engineering About Us Programs Research Open Faculty Positions Engineering About Us Programs Research 25th Anniversary School of Engineering and Computer Science Timeline Stories Rick Tullis Kimmie Sandusky Mario Lopez Heather Benoit Jay D. Battershell Denton Wood Videos Marques Jones Heather Benoit Spotlight Timeline Merchandise