Menu Close Menu Skip to content Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters A to Z index Search for: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Email People Departments Calendar Careers my.harvard Giving About Faculty & Research Admissions & Aid Academics Executive/Continuing Ed News News > News > In the News > 2022 > Machine learning tool can predict which COVID variants will cause case surges News Menu Search for: News Home Press Releases 2020 Releases 2019 Releases 2018 Releases 2017 Releases 2016 Releases 2015 Releases 2014 Releases 2013 Releases 2012 Releases 2011 Releases Search the press releases archive Features In the News Multimedia 2021 Multimedia 2020 Multimedia 2019 Multimedia 2018 Multimedia 2017 Multimedia 2016 Multimedia 2015 Multimedia 2014 Multimedia 2013 Multimedia 2012 Multimedia HPH Magazine Faculty Stories Faculty News, Notes, and Accolades Student Stories Student News, Notes, and Accolades Alumni Stories Explore Research by Topic Office of Communications Make a Gift Machine learning tool can predict which COVID variants will cause case surges May 27, 2022 – Scientists at the Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard and the University of Massachusetts Medical School have developed a machine learning model that can predict which SARS-CoV-2 viral variants are likely to cause surges in COVID-19 cases. Pardis Sabeti, an institute member at the Broad, a professor at the Center for Systems Biology and the Department of Organismic and Evolutionary Biology at Harvard University, and a professor of immunology and infectious diseases at Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, was part of the research team that developed the model, called PyR0, which was described in a May 24, 2022 paper in the journal Science. The model, which was trained using more than six million SARS-CoV-2 genomes from the GISAID (Global Initiative on Sharing Avian Influenza Data) database, can estimate how genetic mutations will impact the fitness of a particular coronavirus variant, according to a May 25 article in Genetic Engineering & Biotechnology News. When researchers tested the model using viral genomic data from January 2022, it predicted the rise of the BA.2 variant, which caused surges in many countries in March 2022. The model would also have identified the alpha variant (B.1.17) by late November 2020, a month before the World Health Organization dubbed it a variant of concern. Information about which mutations help a variant survive can also help experts identify vaccine targets—because those mutations are likely to be the ones that remain in the virus over time. “This kind of machine learning-based approach that looks at all the data and combines that into a single prediction is extremely valuable,” Sabeti said. “It gives you a leg up on identifying what’s emerging and could be a potential threat.” Read the Genetic Engineering & Biotechnology News article: Which SARS-CoV-2 Variant Will Cause the Next Wave? An AI Tool Predicts Read Broad Institute coverage: Computer model predicts dominant SARS-CoV-2 variants Share this:FacebookTwitterLinkedInReddit Subscribe The COVID-19 Update Our researchers are on the front lines of the global response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Sign up here to receive our weekly newsletter highlighting their efforts. Join mailing list Additional newsletters and mailing lists Related Articles COVID-19 genetics ‘Ebola hunter’ Jean-Jacques Muyembe receives Harvard honorary degree The latest on the coronavirus Sikhulile Moyo named one of TIME magazine’s 100 most influential for 2022 More on this topic Botswana researcher who sequenced Omicron urges more genomic surveillance, vaccinations in Africa Methodology from genome-wide association studies accurately flags more deadly SARS-CoV-2 variant Stress of racism can affect health across generations More on this topic Explore HSPH research by topic Harvard Chan School News on Twitter In the wake of a May 24 mass shooting at a Uvalde, Texas, elementary school that left 19 students and two teachers… https://t.co/x8GHo0fMZS RT @dengdiit: This week,I had the honor and responsibility of receiving a master’s degree in public health with concentration in health pol… RT @Harvard: “Don’t let your generation be defined by the pandemic. Let it be defined by public service,” said Attorney General Merrick Gar… RT @HarvardCCHANGE: Looking for ways to take action on #climate? The Climate Health Organizing Fellowship trains health professionals to u… RT @HarvardCCHANGE: Creativity is turning coal mines, landfills, and toxic waters into opportunities for #CleanEnergy. Your lights yearn to… RT @HarvardCenterHH: What is the relationship between #technology and #happiness? This @Forbes article offers potential considerations, wit… Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters About Key Facts Renaming the School Office of the Dean Location and Facilities Administrative Offices Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty and Researcher Directory Academic Departments, Divisions and Centers International Research Postdoctoral Research Fellows Office of Faculty Affairs Faculty Searches Office of Diversity and Inclusion Admissions & Aid Why Harvard Chan Degree Programs Non-Degree Programs Financial Aid Student Experience Career Advancement Apply Academics Academic Departments Divisions Research Centers Flagship Initiatives International Research Research Administration and Support Degree Programs Fellowships and Residencies Summer Programs Continuing Professional Education Interdisciplinary Concentrations Academic Calendar Harvard Chan Viewbook Executive/Continuing Ed Program Offerings Custom Programs Request Information News and Resources About ECPE Contact News Featured News Press Releases Student Stories In the News Newsletters HPH Magazine Why Public Health? Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College