HOME Make a Gift Clemson Home Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift Toggle navigation HOME DIVISIONS Medical Services Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) Healthy Campus HEALTH TOPICS ADHD Alcohol and Other Drugs Antibiotics Body Image Building Social Connections Fitness Interpersonal Violence Mental Health Nutrition Social Media and Internet Use Sexual Health Sleep Spring Break Safety Stress Suicide Sustainibility Tobacco Wellness When to See a Provider CONTACT ABOUT POLICIES & RECORDS Advance Directives Diversity Eligibility Health Fee Privacy Practice Records & Confidentiality Rights & Responsibilities New Students Welcome to Clemson University Student Health Services! We are an integrated, outpatient organization comprised of three divisions: Medical Services, Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS), and Healthy Campus. Please click on the information below to learn more about our services, programs and new-student requirements. Requirements and Recommendations Immunizations All entering undergraduate and graduate students are REQUIRED* to: Complete Student Immunization Forms or obtain a verified** copy of your immunization record. Upload completed documents and enter immunization dates in MyHealth-e*** (Student Health Services' secure, online health portal). Log in to MyHealth-e using your Clemson username and password. Click "Medical Clearances" to upload your documents and enter vaccine dates. Complete the Tuberculosis Risk Assessment Questionnaire in MyHealth-e. In the “Medical Clearances” tab, click “Update” for the “High Risk Tuberculosis Screening Questionnaire.” If you have trouble logging in to MyHealth-e, you can print and mail/fax *** the form: Tuberculosis Risk Assessment Questionnaire All forms should be submitted prior to July 1 for summer/fall enrollment and December 1 for spring enrollment. Students not in compliance with the immunization requirements may have a hold placed on future registrations and may be subject to a late fee. *Exception: If you are only enrolled in online courses, you do not need to comply with medical clearance requirements. However, if you receive notices of non-compliance, contact Health Information at 864-656-2234 or e-mail redfern@clemson.edu. **Acceptable forms of verification include one of the following: Personal shot records that are verified by doctor's stamp or contain a health provider's signature Personal shot records with a clinic or health department stamp Military Records or World Health Organization (WHO) documents Previous college or university records that are verified ***You may also mail or fax completed documents to: Redfern Health Center Clemson University Box 344054 Rm: 34 Clemson, SC 29634-4054 Fax: 864-656-0760 Pharmacy Insurance We file as an in-network provider for most pharmacy insurance plans in our pharmacy at Redfern Health Center. Our goal is to have your prescriptions ready when you need them, so please use our online form to: Submit your pharmacy insurance card information Request any prescriptions be transferred to Redfern You may also complete the Pharmacy Prescription Card Information Form and/or Prescription Transfer Form and fax or mail them to the pharmacy in Redfern Health Center: Redfern Health Center Clemson University 735 McMillan Rd. Clemson, SC 29634-4054 Fax: 864-656-2500 Medical Insurance Undergraduate Students Clemson University offers a comprehensive Student Health Insurance Plan (SHIP) for which we are an in-network provider; claims are filed in-house. If you want to enroll, please follow instructions for Voluntary Students. Learn more on the SHIP website: clemson.myahpcare.com If you already have insurance coverage, we courtesy file as an out-of-network provider for many commercial medical insurance plans. Insurance cards can be uploaded to MyHealth-e so we have your information on file. Please know that some plans will not reimburse for out-of-network services. You are responsible for any charges not paid by your insurance. If you are an undergraduate international student, please view the drop-down box below. Graduate and International Students Clemson University offers a comprehensive Student Health Insurance Plan (SHIP) for which we are an in-network provider. Claims are filed in-house. Health insurance is REQUIRED for the following students who are considered Mandatory Students: Graduate students enrolled in nine or more credit hours on the main campus in Clemson Graduate students classified as graduate assistants (GAs) at all campus locations (GAs receive a per-semester student insurance subsidy when enrolled in the SHIP) All F-1 and J-1 international students If you fall into one of these categories, you are charged for the SHIP on your bill in iROAR. Please follow the steps below to activate your enrollment. You may submit a waiver if you have alternate insurance coverage that meets university requirements. If you do not fall into one of these categories and are not charged for the SHIP on your bill in iROAR, you can still enroll in the SHIP as a Voluntary Student . Activate Enrollment (SHIP) If you are considered to be a Mandatory Student (students required to have health insurance and are charged for the SHIP on their bill in iROAR) and you do not submit a waiver, you must complete the steps below to activate your enrollment. This can only be done during the open enrollment period. Register for classes and wait 48 hours. When it’s been 48 hours since you registered for classes, visit clemson.myahpcare.com. Click on the link for "Mandatory Students" and follow the steps. Commercial Insurance If you have alternate insurance coverage, we courtesy file as an out-of-network provider for many commercial medical insurance plans. Insurance cards can be uploaded to MyHealth-e so we have your information on file. Please know that some plans will not reimburse for out-of-network services. You are responsible for any charges not paid by your insurance. To contact the Insurance and Billing Office, call 864-656-3561 or email RedfernInsBilling@clemson.edu . Aspire to Be Well and AlcoholEdu Healthy Campus coordinates Aspire to Be Well, a CU 1000 requirement. Aspire to Be Well is a peer-led health, safety and resiliency focused dialog presented by Healthy Campus student facilitators. This 90-minute dialog covers areas key to maintaining a healthy and safe lifestyle, including overall well-being and resilience, alcohol and other drug misuse prevention, mental health and suicide prevention, and interpersonal violence prevention, while focusing on bystander intervention and campus resources. You will receive session and sign-up information in your @clemson.edu email account during the first week of classes. Online sign-up is required before attending a session. AlcoholEdu is also required for new undergraduate students. In this online educational activity, students learn about the mental and physical effects of alcohol, prepare to be active bystanders, and review state laws and University policies related to alcohol use. AlcoholEdu must be completed as part of Orientation. Information and Resources Learn More About: CONTACT DIVISION OF STUDENT AFFAIRS 202 Sikes Hall, Clemson, SC Copyright 2020 Webmaster