Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Student Affairs Menu Main Nav Student Affairs Contact Back Back Close About Overview Meet Shawna Cooper Whitehead Contact & Hours Meet Our Staff Student Affairs Policies Involuntary Leave of Absence Policy Communication Updates Related Links Mission and Ministry Student Services Departments & Programs Overview BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Center for Student Wellness Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women's Center Related Links Assessment Program Eagle Path Cross Currents Seminars Divisional Committees Mission and Ministry Student Services How Can We Help You? Events Overview Weeks of Welcome 2021 Community Webinar FAQs Contact Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Division of Student Affairs Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Departments & Programs Home Departments & Programs Departments BAIC The Thea Bowman AHANA and Intercultural Center develops, implements, and coordinates programs designed to support undergraduate AHANA students. Visit Site BC Bands Student musicians can contribute their talents to a variety of ensembles run by Boston College Bands, including the 'Screaming Eagles' Marching Band. Visit Site Business Service Center The Student Affairs Business Service Center processes financial transactions for all Student Organizations as well as the Student Affairs departments. Visit Site Career Center The Career Center helps students prepare for successful futures by connecting them with career coaching, internships, and job search techniques. Visit Site Counseling Services University Counseling Services works with students, faculty, and administrators to address the mental health needs of the community. Visit Site Graduate Student Life The Office of Graduate Student Life provides outreach to graduate students at BC through a variety of programs, services, and advocacy efforts. Visit Site Center for Student Wellness The Center for Student Wellness directs programs and services that foster the health and well-being of the Boston College community. Visit Site Health Services University Health Services provides confidential medical care and educational programs to safeguard students' physical and mental health. Visit Site Residential Life The Office of Residential Life includes a robust staff of professionals who support student development in the residence halls and in all aspects of community life. Visit Site Robsham Theater The Robsham Theater Arts Center houses a variety of performing arts spaces used for dance, student-directed productions, theatre classes, and exhibits. Visit Site Student Conduct The Office of Student Conduct facilitates the growth of all students by educating and fostering the civility, communality, and social decorum required of an educational institution. Visit Site Student Involvement The Office of Student Involvement provides co-curricular opportunities for students that foster leadership development, self-exploration, social interaction, and student formation. Visit Site Student Outreach and Support The Office of Student Outreach and Support assists all students in achieving their goals, with specific resources for students with disabilities and LGBTQ students. Visit Site Women's Center The Women's Center offers a comfortable atmosphere to seek information, find peer support, participate in programming, and meet new friends. Visit Site Initiatives The Division of Student Affairs developes collaborative programs and initiatives that support and promote student learning, health and wellness, leadership development, and community engagement. Some of these include: Assessment Assessment efforts in the Division of Student Affairs are driven by our curiosity to know in what ways our programs and services help students to learn more about themselves and others. Visit Site Eagle Path Eagle Path is a guided approach to supervision to help undergraduate student workers reflect upon, recognize, develop, and articulate their career aspirations. Visit Site Cross Currents Cross Currents Seminars is a collaboration between Student Affairs and Academic Affairs and are one-credit courses that provide upper-level undergraduate students with an opportunity to explore a topic in greater depth. Visit Site DiversityEdu DiversityEdu is an online course that seeks to promote diversity and inclusion by teaching students skills in addressing unconscious biases and stereotypical thinking. Visit Site First-Year Student Diversity and Inclusion Programs Boston College offers a variety of programs and resources to first-year students related to diversity and identity. Visit Site Mentorship Opportunities Boston College offers a variety of mentorship programs students can take advantage of during their time at BC. Visit Site Back To Top Back To Top Division of Student Affairs Maloney Hall, 4th Floor 617-552-8600 About Departments & Programs How can we help you? Events Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College