Skip to main content Student Financial Services Columbia University in the City of New York Search Submit SFSCU Undergraduates Graduate Students Veterans & Service Members Parents & Families Work-Study Financial Wellness Menu > Undergraduates Financial Aid Work-Study Bills & Payments Financial Wellness Graduate Students Financial Aid Work-Study Bills & Payments Financial Wellness Veterans & Service Members Getting Started General Information Fed Loan Benefits Financial Wellness Parents & Families Financial Aid Bills & Payments Work-Study Work-Study Financial Wellness Financial Wellness You are here Home Veterans & Service Members Fed Loan Benefits Federal Loan Repayment Benefits Loan Repayment Benefits Interest Rate Programs Military Service Deferment Deferments After Active Duty Repayment Based on Income Federal Loan Forgiveness or Cancellation DOD Repayments HEROES Act Waiver Disability Discharge Program Federal Loan Repayment Benefits In acknowledgement of your service to our country, there are special benefits and repayment options for your student loans available from the U.S. Department of Education and the U.S. Department of Defense. Contact your student loan servicer for more details. Click on links below (or tabs at left) for more information: BENEFIT DESCRIPTION Servicemembers Civil Relief Act (SCRA) Interest Rate Cap Interest on federal student loans obtained prior to your military service is limited to 6% during periods of active duty. The interest rate limitation also applies to any private education loans you may have. Military Service Deferment You can postpone federal student loan repayment during certain periods of active duty, such as during war, other military operation, or national emergency, and immediately following active duty. Public Service Loan Forgiveness You may qualify for forgiveness of the remaining balance of your Direct Loans when you’ve made 120 qualifying payments after October 1, 2007, while employed in public service, including military service. Deferments After Active Duty You can postpone repayment while you prepare to return to school following your active duty. 0% Interest While you are serving in a hostile area that qualifies you for special pay, you do not have to pay interest on Direct Loans made on or after October 1, 2008, for up to 60 months. Repayment Based on Income Repayment plans that base your monthly payment on your income are available. Under these plans, you may qualify for a low or zero payment amount with the possibility of forgiveness of the remaining balance in the future. HEROES Act Waiver While you are on active duty, the Department of Education waives many of the documentation requirements attached to program benefi For example, if you are on a payment plan based on your income and military service prevents you from providing updated information on your family size and income, you can request to have your monthly payment amount maintained. Department of Defense (DOD) Repayment of Your Loans In certain circumstances, as determined by the DOD, all or a portion of your loans may be repaid by the DOD. Veterans Total and Permanent Disability Discharge If you have a service-connected disability, you may qualify for discharge of your federal student loans. Announcements 16 Feb Inquiries on Student Payroll and Stipend Payments Click the title to read the announcement. 14 Feb Sign Up for User Interview with SFS Web Team Do you receive veteran or service member education benefits to pay for school? If so, we want to speak to you! 13 Apr Response to COVID-19 Learn about the measures SFS is taking to address student and family needs in response to COVID-19. 14 Mar Need Help with Your W-2? Click the title to visit our W-2 Information page. 08 Sep SFS Orientation Video View a short instructional video about Student Financial Services, Registrar's information and ID services. Quick Links SSOL Forms & Docs Administrator Portal Alumni Information About Us Contact Our Service Centers Departments Registrar ID Center E-Billing Housing Dining Health Forms SFS Forms Veterans Forms HR Forms Finance Forms CUMC IT Service Forms IT Systems Email Services SIS SSOL Software Downloads myColumbia ARC Portal Training Courseworks Lynda.com Getting Help Service Center Ask Us IT Help Office Locations © 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York