Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University Robert J. & Nancy D.Carney Institute for Brain Science Search Brown University Home Research Research Projects Where Brain Science Happens BRAINSTORM Program Centers & Core Facilities Center for Alzheimer's Disease Research Center for Computational Brain Science COBRE Center for Neuromodulation Center for the Neurobiology of Cells and Circuits Center for Translational Neuroscience Center for Vision Research COBRE Center for Central Nervous System Function Research Projects Research Cores Behavior and Neuroimaging Core Design and Analysis Core MRI Research Facility Carney Human Testing Space The Bioluminescence Hub COVID-19 Resuming Research Plan Training Undergraduate Students Concentrations Graduate Study Postdocs Executive Committee Carney Summer Scholars Training Programs ICoN - Interdisciplinary Training Interdisciplinary Vision Training Program TPCP - Training Program People Institute Team Executive Committee Affiliated Faculty Community Spotlights Center Directors Scientific Advisory Board News & Events News Upcoming Events Past Events BrainExPo Seminar Series Carney Conversations Methods Meetups Resources Funding Opportunities Research Toolbox Brain Facts Education & Outreach Research & Educational Resources About Our Impact Affiliated Units Where Brain Science Happens FAQ Partner With Us Give To Carney Give To Carney Home Research Training People Institute Team Executive Committee Affiliated Faculty Community Spotlights Center Directors Scientific Advisory Board News & Events Resources About Partner With Us Search Carney Institute for Brain Science Executive Committee The Carney Institute Executive Committee meets monthly to review Carney research priorities and programs, discuss funding opportunities, and provide input to the institute director and leadership team. The committee includes representatives of 11 departments and academic units, as well as Carney Institute initiatives and centers. Wael Asaad Sidney A. Fox and Dorothea Doctors Fox Associate Professor of Ophthalmology and Visual Science, Associate Professor of Neurosurgery, Associate Professor of Neuroscience Research Profile Gilad Barnea Director of the Center for the Neurobiology of Cells and Circuits, Sidney A. Fox and Dorothea Doctors Fox Professor of Ophthalmology, Visual Science, and Neuroscience, NIH Graduate Partnership Program (NIH GPP) Director Research Profile David Borton Associate Professor of Engineering Research Profile Wayne Bowen Upjohn Professor of Pharmacology Research Profile Linda Carpenter Deputy Director of the COBRE Center for Neuromodulation, Professor of Psychiatry and Human Behavior Research Profile Ugur Cetintemel Professor of Computer Science Research Profile R. John Davenport Managing Director of the Robert J. and Nancy D. Carney Institute for Brain Science Research Profile Oriel FeldmanHall Manning Assistant Professor of Cognitive, Linguistic, and Psychological Sciences Research Profile Michael Frank Director of the Center for Computational Brain Science, Edgar L. Marston Professor of Psychology, Co-Director, BRAINSTORM Program Research Profile Matthew Harrison Associate Professor of Applied Mathematics Research Profile Anne Hart Professor of Neuroscience, Graduate Program Director for the Neuroscience Graduate Program, Vice Chair of Neuroscience Research Profile Leigh Hochberg Professor of Engineering Research Profile Diane Lipscombe Reliance Dhirubhai Ambani Director of the Robert J. and Nancy D. Carney Institute for Brain Science, Director of the Center for Alzheimer's Disease Research, Thomas J. Watson, Sr. Professor of Science, Professor of Neuroscience Research Profile Judy Liu Associate Director of the Center for Translational Neuroscience, Sidney A. Fox and Dorothea Doctors Fox Associate Professor of Ophthalmology and Visual Science, Associate Professor of Neurology, Associate Professor of Molecular Biology, Cell Biology and Biochemistry Research Profile Christopher Moore Associate Director of the Robert J. and Nancy D. Carney Institute for Brain Science, Professor of Neuroscience Research Profile Eric M. Morrow Director of the Center for Translational Neuroscience, Mencoff Family University Professor, Professor of Neuroscience, Professor of Psychiatry and Human Behavior Research Profile Sharon Rounds Associate Dean for Clinical Affairs, Professor of Medicine, Professor of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Research Profile Stephen Salloway Associate Director of Clinical Research for the Center for Alzheimer's Disease Research, Martin M. Zucker Professor of Psychiatry and Human Behavior, Professor of Neurology Research Profile Jerome Sanes Director of the COBRE Center for Central Nervous System Function, Director of the MRI Research Facility, Professor of Neuroscience Research Profile David Sheinberg Professor of Neuroscience; Carney Director of Graduate Training Research Profile Derek Stein Associate Professor of Physics and Associate Professor of Engineering Research Profile Ashley Webb Richard and Edna Salomon Assistant Professor of Molecular Biology, Cell Biology and Biochemistry Research Profile People Institute Team Executive Committee Affiliated Faculty Community Spotlights Center Directors Scientific Advisory Board Robert J. & Nancy D. Carney Institute for Brain Science Robert J. & Nancy D. Carney Institute for Brain Science Brown University Box 1901 164 Angell St., 4th Floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-7421 Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top