Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Financial Aid Home Getting started Eligibility How need is determined Expected family contribution Net price calculator Student budgets Husky Promise Applying for aid Key dates and deadlines Application process Award process Maintain eligibility Summer quarter Types of aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Childcare Assistance Program Veterans Benefits Emergency aid Emergency Food Assistance Other assistance Receiving aid Disbursement Appeals and special circumstances Request changes to your award Satisfactory academic progress Forms & resources Forms Consumer Information Glossary of Terms for Award Notifications Loan repayment Tax benefits Withdrawal and refund Financial aid code of conduct Money management Emergency Relief Fund Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund III Washington Emergency Relief Grant Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund II CARES Act FAQs Processing and Response Timelines Contact us My Financial Aid Financial Aid for WASFA Applicants Menu Financial Aid Home Getting started Eligibility How need is determined Expected family contribution Net price calculator Student budgets Husky Promise Applying for aid Key dates and deadlines Application process Award process Maintain eligibility Summer quarter Types of aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Childcare Assistance Program Veterans Benefits Emergency aid Emergency Food Assistance Other assistance Receiving aid Disbursement Appeals and special circumstances Request changes to your award Satisfactory academic progress Forms & resources Forms Consumer Information Glossary of Terms for Award Notifications Loan repayment Tax benefits Withdrawal and refund Financial aid code of conduct Money management Emergency Relief Fund Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund III Washington Emergency Relief Grant Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund II CARES Act FAQs Processing and Response Timelines Contact us My Financial Aid Home Student Financial Aid Financial Aid for WASFA Applicants File your Washington Application for State Financial Aid (WASFA) yearly – Financial aid, through state and institutional funds, may be available to students who are not eligible for federal aid because of immigration status. If your status is undocumented, DACA recipient, or other select non-citizen, complete a WASFA between October 1 and by the UW’s priority filing date of January 15 to be considered for financial aid for the next school year. This is a yearly application process that must be completed each year you are attending the UW. If you have already filed a FAFSA for the same academic year, it is not necessary to also file a WASFA. However, you must contact the financial aid office to ensure your Free Aid Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) is reviewed. If you file your financial aid application after the UW’s priority filing date, you are a late applicant and can only be considered for limited types of aid. If there were special circumstances that prevented you from filing your financial aid application on-time, or if you have any questions regarding the financial aid application process, please contact the Office of Student Financial Aid to speak with a counselor. We will do our best to provide assistance. Once we receive your aid application, we may request other information/documentation for verification purposes. Respond to all requests promptly. NOTE: Graduate Students who apply late are not eligible for financial aid. Graduate students in fee-based programs of study are not eligible for financial aid. Undergraduate students in eligible fee-based programs of study are limited to the WCG (Washington College Grant). Verify your Washington State residency status – IF YOU ARE APPLYING TO RECEIVE UW FINANCIAL AID FOR THE FIRST TIME, verification of your Washington State residency is required prior to disbursement of financial aid. This verification process requires a residency application. There are two types of residency applications. Submit the one that applies to you: Affidavit of Residency – If you meet the following conditions below, be sure to indicate that on your WASFA. By doing so, you will have submitted your Affidavit and no additional residency application is required. We will share your WASFA Affidavit with the Residence Classification Office when the quarter’s application date opens. Complete the Affidavit on the WASFA if you meet the following conditions: Received a high school diploma (or equivalent). Maintained a primary residence in Washington for at least one year (12 months) immediately prior to starting your first admitted quarter at the University of Washington Seattle. Affirm that you are a U.S. citizen, permanent resident, or that you will file an application to become a permanent resident of the United States as soon as you are eligible to apply. Residency Questionnaire (RQ) – If you do not meet the conditions for the Affidavit of Residency, complete and submit the RQ, along with the required documentation, directly to the UW’s Residence Classification Office via their submission portal. Please note that you are not able to submit your RQ until the application period begins for the quarter that you file for residency. For information regarding the quarterly application start dates and deadlines, visit the residency office submission portal page. Each campus processes their own residency applications. Should additional information be required from you, your campus residency office will contact you. Once you submit your residency application and have questions, please contact your campus residency office. NOTE: If your residency application is denied, any financial aid awarded to you is subject to cancellation. Helpful Links How to Apply for Financial Aid UW Dream Project Office of Minority Affairs & Diversity DACA FAQ Office of Merit Scholarships, Fellowships & Awards The Dream.US SEED Scholarship Contact us Send us a message Visit Contact us for office location, directions and mailing address. Federal School Code Our Title IV federal school code is 003798. This code is used for Seattle, Bothell and Tacoma campuses. About us Our mission is to provide educational access and opportunity for all students. We promote participation in higher education by providing programs of assistance to help bridge the gap between the cost of attending the University and the family’s own resources. We believe students from all economic backgrounds should have the opportunity to attend the University of Washington. Finances should not be a barrier to getting a world-class education. University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA