By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Stories Growing Food and a Future Growing Food and a Future A dual major and Lender Center fellow infuses her academic journey with a passion for community farming and food security. Phoebe Ambrose ’22 found the right academic path for her through a dual major in food studies and citizenship and civic engagement. On an overcast day in early fall, the bright colors in Pete’s Giving Garden on Syracuse University’s South Campus draw the eye. Late summer flowers bloom along the fence and orange gourds dot the ground where squash vines spread. Phoebe Ambrose ’22 surveys the raised beds where peppers and hardy greens still thrive. There’s much to be done in a garden at the end of the growing season. Today she plans to weed, but she’s thinking ahead to winterizing chores and the fall planting that still needs to be done. Ambrose—who majors in food studies in the David B. Falk College of Sport and Human Dynamics and citizenship and civic engagement in the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs and the College of Arts and Sciences—has shaped her academic journey around her interest in community agriculture and food security. One of Ambrose’s goals this year is to develop strategies for increased and sustained student engagement with Pete’s Giving Garden, which supplies fresh produce to campus food pantries. “If we can get more people working regularly in the garden, we’d increase its output potential a great deal, which could have a big impact addressing food insecurity in our campus community,” she says My dual major allows me to put the conceptual knowledge I learn in food studies to practical use. Through the citizenship and civic engagement program I engage in the community by working on a problem that I’m passionate about. —Phoebe Ambrose ’22 Ambrose grew up on a working farm in nearby Jamesville, New York, where her family raised goats, alpaca and horses. Ambrose’s mother, Janet Ambrose ’82, G’91, taught textile design at the University and used cashmere and wool from their animals in her work. But when Ambrose first joined the food studies program, she envisioned studying the culinary field with an eye toward opening a restaurant. It was a class she took in her first semester, taught by the late Evan Weissman G’12, an associate professor in food studies and nutrition, that changed her focus. “We studied how food insecurity is related to distribution and access and how, although we produce enough food to feed everyone in the world, many communities lack infrastructure like grocery stores and viable transportation to make that food accessible,” she says. “The introduction to food studies really got me thinking about how community-based farming can address both hunger and social justice in our communities.” Getting Involved Ambrose was inspired by Weissman’s community work to advance food justice in Syracuse. She started volunteering at Brady Farm, a 6-acre produce farm on a lot in downtown Syracuse, where she learned how to grow vegetables and experienced first-hand the important role the farm plays in the community. “The farm provides so much more than food,” she says. “It’s a place to exchange recipes, heartache and ideas for grassroots change. It creates an environment of powerful growth and resilience and working there confirmed for me that I want to be part of creating spaces like that.” The introduction to food studies really got me thinking about how community-based farming can address both hunger and social justice in our communities. —Phoebe Ambrose ’22 Ambrose engaged in other initiatives at the intersection of food and community building as well. She started a gardening program for kids at a local summer camp, served meals to seniors at a community center, prepared pre-packaged lunches for a soup kitchen, and gave tours of local farms during the Onondaga On-Farm Fest. Ambrose volunteers in Pete’s Giving Garden, the University’s community garden, which supplies the campus food banks with fresh produce. Through her service with a range of nonprofits, Ambrose came to appreciate the importance of collaboration between organizations that share similar goals. As one of six students selected for a Lender Center for Social Justice fellowship this academic year, she has an opportunity to help make such collaborations easier. Ambrose is working on a project that was designed by Weissman and is carried on in his honor by Jonnell Robinson, a Lender faculty fellow and associate professor of geography and the environment in the Maxwell School. The project seeks to understand the dynamics of local food systems and initiate programs to address the areas where community needs are not being met. As a Lender fellow, Ambrose engages in active research, interviewing many players in local food-centered programs to gain deeper insight into community-driven food policies and practices as well as the strengths, weaknesses and structural inequalities of the local food system. “The research we are doing through the Lender Center fellowship helps organizations collaborate on new food security solutions,” she says. “I get to see all these different connections fit together to make solutions that are well-rounded and answer what the community is asking for.” Through her fellowship with the Lender Center for Social Justice, Ambrose hopes to help organizations focused on food security coordinate their efforts for greater efficiency and impact. Nurturing Growth “If I had to choose my favorite aspect about working in a garden, it would be observing a single seed transform into a powerful plant that produces food,” Ambrose says. This is an apt metaphor for the growth she’s experienced while at Syracuse. Ambrose credits faculty mentorship and support for helping her find opportunities to challenge herself—such as the distinctive Mount Vernon Fellowship she earned through the Center for Fellowship and Scholarship Advising—and discovering an academic approach that allows her to marry passion with purpose. “My dual major allows me to put the conceptual knowledge I learn in food studies to practical use,” she says. “Through the citizenship and civic engagement program I engage in the community by working on a problem that I’m passionate about.” The research we are doing through the Lender Center fellowship helps organizations collaborate on new food security solutions. —Phoebe Ambrose ’22 And while Ambrose’s focus so far has been on the Syracuse community, she plans to expand her studies in a master’s program in the United Kingdom, focusing on how to address issues of food scarcity and justice at a more global scale. This aspiration is tied to her family history. Both Phoebe and her sister, Ruth Ambrose ’22, who majors in French and francophone studies in the College of Arts and Sciences, were adopted from Vietnam when they were infants. Although Ambrose has no memories of Vietnam, her knowledge of her biological family is a deeply important part of her identity. “My experiences have prepared me to help bring the comfort of food security to children facing the sort of hunger my family in Vietnam did,” she says. “This is a driving force behind my passion and fight to one day live in a food-secure world.” Sarah H. Griffin This story was published on November 30, 2021. Also of Interest Link Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs Link The Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs is Syracuse University’s home for innovative, interdisciplinary teaching and research in the social sciences, public policy, public administration and international relations. It includes America’s #1 ranked graduate program in public affairs, offering highly regarded professional degrees alongside advanced scholarly degrees in the social sciences, and it is home to undergraduate programs across the full spectrum of social sciences. David B. Falk College of Sport and Human Dynamics Link Social justice principles are at the foundation of programs in exercise science, food studies, human development and family science, marriage and family therapy, public health, nutrition, social work, sport analytics and sport management. Academics, service learning projects, internships, research opportunities, immersion travel and clubs connected to our majors prepare students for careers to make a difference in the communities where they will live and work. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy