Skip to main content UCF Online Menu Online Programs Online BachelorsOnline Graduate DegreesOnline MastersOnline Graduate CertificatesOnline DoctoratesOnline Minors Areas of Interest Criminal JusticeEducationEngineeringHealthcareHospitalityLeadership and ManagementNursingPublic Service and Community Support Admissions Transfer AdmissionsGraduate AdmissionsInternational AdmissionsMilitary Admissions Tuition Tuition and CostsFinancial AidScholarshipsFee Waiver Student Support Online Student ResourcesTuition Support ScholarshipsUCF Online Connect CenterLearning OnlineDownloads Transfer to UCF and Earn Your Accredited Bachelor’s Degree Online Request Information Name* First Last Phone* Email* Degree* Anthropology, BACareer and Technical Education, BSCommunication and Conflict, BACriminal Justice, BA/BSEnglish - Creative Writing, BAEnglish - Literature, BAEnglish - Technical Communication, BAExceptional Student Education – Learning & Language, BSHealth Informatics and Information Management, BSHealth Services Administration, BSHistory, BAHospitality Management, BSIntegrative General Studies, BGSInterdisciplinary Studies, BA (Diversity Studies Leadership)Interdisciplinary Studies, BA/BSInternational and Global Studies, BALatin American Studies, BALegal Studies, BA/BSLodging and Restaurant Management, BSNursing, BSPolitical Science, BAPsychology, BSReligion and Cultural Studies, BASenior Living Management, BSSocial Sciences, BSSociology, BA/BS Email This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. Request Info Privacy Notice Search for a Degree Popular Online Bachelor's Programs Nursing, BS Psychology, BS Anthropology, BA Transfer to UCF and Earn Your Bachelor’s Degree Online Transfer to UCF Online from an accredited institution to get the support and tools you need to complete your bachelor’s degree. UCF Online sets you up to succeed with access to more than 20 online bachelor’s degree programs. Pursue the next steps in accomplishing your dreams with UCF Online, ranked by U.S. News & World Report as one of the top online undergraduate programs in the nation. Learn from 200 experienced, tenure-track faculty who are experts in their fields. Online bachelor’s programs are flexible and affordable, giving you access to innovative courses to advance your career. Over 20 bachelor’s programs and 35 minor options offered fully online. UCF Online Bachelor's Degrees Anthropology, BA Career and Technical Education, BS Communication and Conflict, BA Criminal Justice, BA/BS English - Creative Writing, BA English - Literature, BA English - Technical Communication, BA Exceptional Student Education – Learning & Language, BS Health Informatics and Information Management, BS Health Services Administration, BS History, BA Hospitality Management, BS Integrative General Studies, BGS Interdisciplinary Studies, BA (Diversity Studies Leadership) Interdisciplinary Studies, BA/BS International and Global Studies, BA Latin American Studies, BA Legal Studies, BA/BS Lodging and Restaurant Management, BS Nursing, BS Political Science, BA Psychology, BS Religion and Cultural Studies, BA Senior Living Management, BS Social Sciences, BS Sociology, BA/BS The UCF Online Experience It’s time to seize your opportunity with UCF and earn your bachelor’s degree online. You’ve started your bachelor’s degree, and UCF Online is where you can turn your hard work into an accredited degree that is nationally recognized. Our award-winning faculty designed every degree program — online and traditional — to meet the same high standards We created our programs to be accessible, innovative and impactful for every kind of student. It’s time to take action. Let UCF give you the tools to make your dreams have an immediate impact in the world after graduation. UCF Online is making it easier to balance earning my BS with other commitments. I’m getting a great degree from a top university on my time.” Leonardo SandovalLegal Studies BS Frequently Asked Questions Online Bachelor Degrees What is an undergraduate degree? An undergraduate degree is a two- or four-year degree earned by a student. They come in two levels – associate and bachelor’s. These degrees are typically obtained after an individual has graduated from high school or completed a general education exam. There are some exceptions. Some states and school districts allow students to simultaneously take courses in high school and at a community or state college. Through this dual enrollment, a student may graduate from high school with both a high school diploma and an associate degree. An associate degree is typically earned through a two-year institution such as a state or community college. Many students earn 60 credits during this period. A bachelor’s degree is, at minimum, an additional 60 credit hours beyond an associate degree. While 22 states now allow for state or community colleges to confer bachelor’s degrees, most bachelor’s degrees are typically obtained through a university or private college. With the advent of the internet, a student can now complete an undergraduate degree fully online. What is a bachelor’s degree? A bachelor’s degree is a four-year degree that can be obtained after completing high school. Typically, a bachelor’s degree consists of 120 credit hours of study. However, some degrees and circumstances require more. A fully online bachelor’s degree is a distance-education program that results in a four-year degree. At UCF, a fully online bachelor’s degree can be obtained by completing coursework strictly via the internet. Besides the method in which you receive instruction, there is no difference between a face-to-face bachelor’s degree and a fully online bachelor’s degree. Is an online bachelor’s degree recognized, real, and accredited? Yes. UCF’s online bachelor’s degrees are valued the same as the face-to-face alternative. The University of Central Florida is a Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC) accredited institution and is a leader in education, research and partnership. The online degree is simply an alternative mode to receiving instruction that allows for additional flexibility in scheduling. The online courses are taught by the same instructors as the face-to-face/in-person degree pathway. In fact, many online courses are mixed with online-only and in-person students. Are online bachelor’s degrees different than face to face? In terms of instruction and rigor, there is no difference between an online bachelor’s degree and a face-to-face degree. At UCF, online students are taught by the same instructors who teach in-person students. In fact, many online courses are mixed with online-only students and in-person students. This ensures that all students, regardless of how they experience their bachelor’s degree program, receive the same, quality education. There are a few differences between an online bachelor’s degree program and a face-to-face/in-person degree program. The first difference is flexibility. Being an online-only student means that you do not have to be on campus at a certain day and time. You are able to fit your study schedule around your life needs. The second difference is cost. An online bachelor’s degree program at UCF costs $33.09 less per credit hour than an on-campus bachelor’s degree. This is because UCF Online students are provided a fee waiver, which removes some fees that come with attending in-person. However, this also means that a few on-campus services and activities are not available to UCF Online students. See a full list of service restrictions on our Online Student Guideline page. The third difference is the application. To be a UCF online student, you must transfer from an accredited institution. Contact one of our dedicated enrollment coaches today to discuss your specific transfer needs and requirements. UCF Online has partnerships across the state to help you transfer from a Florida State College. These partner institutions have dedicated resources to help you understand the requirements of transferring into one of our online bachelor degree programs. Our partners include: Hillsborough Community College Florida Gateway College Florida Keys Community College Indian River State College North Florida College Northwest Florida State College Miami Dade College Pasco-Hernando State College Polk State College St. Petersburg College Transferring from a college not listed above? If so, contact one of our enrollment coach specialists today on 855-903-8576 to discuss your options. Will my diploma say "online"? No! When you receive your diploma, it will not make a distinction between online or face-to-face. Your bachelor’s degree will be that – a bachelor’s degree. A bachelor’s degree from the University of Central Florida carries weight. With graduates spanning the hospitality, engineering, and healthcare industries, UCF is fulfilling the demand for critical, high-value jobs across the state. How long does it take to complete a UCF online bachelor’s degree? The time it takes for you to complete an accredited online bachelors degree from UCF depends on several factors. These factors include the number of credit hours already obtained and the number of credit hours you choose to take per semester. To become a UCF Online bachelor’s student, you must transfer in from an accredited institution. This means that you will already have some credit towards a bachelor’s degree. The number of credits you transfer will impact how quickly you can finish a fully online degree. Even then, there are several scenarios that could impact that speed. It is recommended that, if possible, full-time students aim to take 30 credit hours a year to graduate on time. A student is considered full-time if they take 12 or more credit hours a semester. According to the Think30 website, there are cost savings benefits and additional earning potentials to graduating on-time. If you’re transferring with an associate’s degree completed and able to commit to 30 credits a year, you can complete any of our online bachelor degrees in as little as two years. Not everyone is able or willing to commit to 30 credit hours a year and that’s ok! In fact, the majority of UCF Online students are considered half-time or less (8 or fewer credit hours per semester). A full list of enrollment statuses can be found on the registrar’s enrollment verification page. At exactly half time (15-credit hours per year), transfers with an associate’s degree can complete an online degree in as little as four years. How much will an online bachelor’s degree cost? Getting your online degree through UCF Online costs less than UCF’s in-person degrees. In fact, UCF Online students save $33.09 per credit hour. View a full breakdown of tuition costs. Florida Residents pay $179.19 per credit hour for a UCF Online bachelor degree. The estimated tuition for Florida residents pursuing an online degree full-time is $5375.70 per year (30 total credit hours taken). Compared to a full-time in-person student, an online bachelor’s degree will save you $992.70 a year. Out-of-State residents pay $715.80 per credit hour for a UCF Online bachelor degree. The estimated tuition for out-of-state residents pursuing an online degree full-time is $21,474 per year (30 total credit hours taken). Compared to a full-time in-person student, an online bachelor’s degree will save you $992.70 a year. In addition to tuition costs, you should also consider the cost of class materials (e.g. books), lodging, and other living expenses. These costs are not included in tuition. Please see Financial Aid’s Cost of Attendance page for a breakdown of estimated living expenses. Can I get a bachelor’s degree online? Yes! UCF offers over 20 bachelor’s degrees fully online. To apply for a fully online bachelor’s program through UCF, you must transfer from an accredited institution. See our Online Student Guidelines for a full list of eligibility requirements. Can I transfer into a UCF online bachelor’s degree? Yes! Only transfer students are eligible for UCF’s fully online bachelor’s degree programs. See our Online Student Guidelines for a full list of eligibility requirements. UCF Online has partnerships with select state and community colleges around Florida to support you in your quest to become a knight. While working with our partner institutions will not guarantee you admissions to UCF Online, our success coaches will help you to navigate the admissions process and answer all questions along the way. Our partner institutions: Hillsborough Community College Florida Gateway College College of the Florida Keys Indian River State College North Florida College Northwest Florida State College Miami Dade College Pasco-Hernando State College Polk State College St. Petersburg College View All FAQs Augment an ONLINE BACHELOR’S DEGREE PROGRAM with a minor or certificate UCF Online students that are seeking a minor or certificate may only enroll in programs that are available fully online. Students must be admitted to a degree-seeking program to be eligible to receive a minor or undergraduate certificate. A minor or certificate will only be granted with completion of a UCF bachelor’s degree. Online Minors Arts and Humanities Cognitive Sciences English – Technical Communication English – Creative Writing English – Literature Florida Studies History Judaic Studies Latin American Studies Middle Eastern Studies Pre-law in the Humanities Religion and Cultural Studies Women’s and Gender Studies Community Innovation and Education Career and Technical Education Criminal Justice Health Informatics and Information Management Health Services Administration Human Services Legal Studies Public Administration Health Professions and Sciences Aging Studies Minor Health Sciences Healthcare Quality and Revenue Management Hospitality Management Hospitality Management Sciences American Indian Studies Anthropology Anthropology in Multicultural Studies Crime, Law, and Deviance Cultural Anthropology Diversity and Social Inequality International and Global Studies Journalism Studies Mass Media Mass Culture and Collective Behavior Medical Sociology Political Science Psychology Sociology Undergraduate Studies Diversity Studies Leadership Online Undergraduate Certificates Arts and Humanities Gender Studies Interfaith Dialogue Community Innovation and Education Substitute Teaching Crime Analysis and Crime Mapping Criminal Profiling Individual Liberties Litigation and Advocacy Security Management Victim Advocacy Health Professions and Sciences Aging Studies Certificate Hospitality Beverage Management Sciences Native American Undergraduate Studies Diversity Leadership TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THE BENEFITS OF UCF’S ONLINE BACHELOR’S DEGREES UCF Online makes reaching your goals a reality. We have created academic, social, and cultural partnerships to bring you an innovative and diverse education experience that will help you grow and embrace the entrepreneurial spirit. Transferring to UCF Online to earn an online bachelor’s degree gives you access to our award-winning faculty and carefully crafted online bachelor’s programs. Continue your educational journey with UCF Online. HOW UCF HELPS STUDENTS GET JOBS POST-GRADUATION Earning an online bachelor’s degree from UCF is your first step to success. The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics projects that occupations requiring a bachelor’s-level education will experience a 10 percent growth in employment from 2016 to 2026. Choosing from over 20 unique online bachelor’s programs and a variety of online minors or undergraduate certificates can empower you with a solid foundation to excel in your dream career. Back to Top Get Connected. Contact the UCF Online Connect Center to learn more about the available online programs or for help finding an online degree that works for you. Hours of Operation: Mon – Fri: 8 a.m. – 7 p.m. (ET) Sat: 10 a.m. – 2 p.m. (ET) Closed Sundays & Holidays Call Now Why earn a degree from UCF Online? Access. Innovation. Impact. UCF Online is a community of thinkers, helpers and makers who use bold ideas to challenge the ordinary and devise solutions to solve the world’s most pressing problems. A great university can unleash the potential to change the world. Listed as one of the most innovative universities in the nation by the U.S. News & World Report’s Best Colleges 2021 Guide, UCF specializes in providing high-quality online degree programs for those talented students and working professionals who are unable to physically attend our Orlando main campus or one of our 14 Central Florida locations. Online Degree Programs Online Bachelor’s Online Master’s Online Graduate Certificates Online Doctorates Online Minors Top Online Healthcare Programs Top Online Engineering Programs Top Online Hospitality Programs Top Online Public Service Degrees Top Online Leadership & Management Degrees Top Online Education Degrees Admissions Info Transfer Admissions Graduate Admissions International Admissions Military Admissions Tuition Tuition and Costs Financial Aid Fee Waiver Student Support Online Student Resources UCF Online Connect Center All Student Resources Learning Online Downloads Complaint Submission About UCF Videos Accreditation About UCF News Top Online Degree Rankings Privacy Notice Contact Us Faculty Support 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 Call today • 855-903-8576 Hours of Operation: Mon - Fri: 8 a.m. - 7 p.m. (ET) Sat: 10 a.m. - 2 p.m. (ET) Closed Sundays & Holidays Like us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Find us on Instagram Follow us on YouTube State Restrictions Complaint Resolution © 2022 University of Central Florida