Skip to Main Content MyCharleston Library Directory A-Z Index Emergency Info Explore Apply Give Search COFC website Admission and Financial Aid Admission Freshmen Admitted Students Transfer Students Readmitted Students International Students Honors College Veteran and Military Students Graduate School Non-degree Programs Costs & Aid Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Scholarships Net Price Calculator Additional Resources Campus Visits Course Catalog Virtual Tour Majors & Minors Housing & Dining Open Houses Treasurer's Office Explore the College Schedule a visit. You'll get why this is a hot school. About College Information College at a Glance Campus Tours Campus Maps Visit the Campus Guides and Rankings Publications History and Traditions Employment Opportunities Administration Board of Trustees Office of the President Academic Affairs Business Affairs Institutional Advancement Student Affairs University Marketing University Communications News & Information Newsroom Campus Calendar Academic Calendar Media Relations Additional Resources Libraries Human Resources Institutional Diversity Institutional Research Policies and Procedures Career Development Welcome to the "New" Charleston A top 10 fastest-growing city for software and Internet technology, an emerging hub for aerospace, and a hotbed for healthcare and biosciences. Academics › Majors and Minors › Colleges & Schools › Graduate School › Honors College › Centers & Institutes Academic Resources Course Catalogs/Classes First-Year Experience Maymester/Summer Sessions Study Abroad Internships Undergraduate Research Libraries SC Space Grant Consortium SC-GIS Lab Support Services Academic Advising College Bookstore Career Center Center for Student Learning Disability Services Registrar's Office International Education Make Your Mark Be curious. Explore. Question. Challenge the status quo. Try the unfamiliar as well as the tried and true – and your academic experience will pay big dividends. Campus Life Extracurricular Clubs and Organizations Sports Clubs Recreational Sports Arts and Culture Center for Civic Engagement Higdon Student Leadership Center Around Charleston Greek Life Campus Housing Stern Student Center Fitness Programs Outdoor Adventure CisternYard Media Residence Life Support Services Academic Advising Career Center Center for Cultural Diversity Center for Disability Services Office of Equal Opportunity Programs Center for Student Learning Counseling Center Multicultural Student Programs Public Safety Student Health Services Victim Services The Good Life Take advantage of everything the College has to offer. Use your imagination. Move outside your comfort zone. Look at every new experience as an opportunity. And have fun! Athletics › Cougars Athletics Website › Ticket Sales › Cougar Club › Colonial Athletic Association Men's Teams Baseball Basketball Cross Country Golf Soccer Tennis Women's Teams Basketball Cross Country Equestrian Golf Sailing Sand Volleyball Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Co-ed Teams Cheerleading Dance Team Sailing Fan Favorites Our 19 varsity sports teams continue to pursue greatness. Be a part of the excitement and power that is CofC athletics. Alumni › Alumni Home › Alumni Career Center › College of Charleston Magazine › Career Development Giving to the College Give Now! Ways to Give Corporations and Foundations The Foundation Cougar Club Alumni Engagement Calendar of Events Alumni Chapters Alumni Directory Spring Alumni Weekend Fall Alumni Weekend Alumni Services Alumni Benefits Alumni Career Services MyCofC Online Community Once a Cougar, always a Cougar. Be an active part of the Cougar network. Lifelong connections start with the Alumni Association. ⚠ COFC COVID-19 Updates and FAQs View the latest updates and resources at go.cofc.edu/bricks/ ‹ › Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Evening & Online Programs The College Today Top Stories Acclaimed Author, English Professor Donates Manuscripts to Special Collections 31 May 2022 - 8:08am Ciao, Bella! Study Abroad Returns to Florence, Italy 26 May 2022 - 8:27am International Studies Major Prepares to Make a Global Impact 24 May 2022 - 8:38am See more news » Featured Events May 31 Piccolo Spoleto Concert: "What's Opera, Doc?" May 31st from 12:00 pm The Marion and Wayland H. Cato Jr. Center for the Arts Jun 3 Piccolo Spoleto Concert: "All that Jazz" June 3rd from 12:00 pm The Marion and Wayland H. Cato Jr. Center for the Arts Jun 6 Piccolo Spoleto Concert: "To Infinity and Beyond" June 6th from 12:00 pm The Marion and Wayland H. Cato Jr. Center for the Arts See more events » See Academic Calendar » YouTube Tech MVP at Netflix National Security Internship Surfing for Credit Eye on Academics See all majors and minors » Astrophysics For her degree, Thea Kozakis explores solar systems far beyond our own. Chemistry Goal: Lead a research team in chemical engineering or quantum chemistry. Biochemistry Ventilated hoods in year two; National Renewable Energy Lab after graduation. Biology Studying large carnivores includes research on wild African elephants Business Administration Using the power of entrepreneurial action to shape a more sustainable world. Psychology Using the psychology major to prepare for a career in occupational therapy. Music Combining music performance and composition can be very demanding. Political Science Build a résumé for a distinguished career in politics, nonprofits, investments, research analysis. Mathematics Using mathematical research to predict the outcomes of March Madness. English Imagine studying Hemingway in Trujillo, Spain, and learning Spanish also. Computer Science Taking a database course can lead to an internship with a local software giant. Communication Learning to become an essential piece that connects different industries. Exercise Science Helping people through nursing or physical therapy instead of medicine. Data Science Thomas Nash has beaucoup options with Data Science. Elementary Education Adapt your teaching style to the ways your students learn. Arts Management This multifaceted discipline offers a broad scope of courses and that really appeals to Maria Carrillo-Marquina. Accounting Professors are well connected in the business. Internships can lead to jobs. Women’s and Gender Studies Explore the intersections of gender, class, race, ethnicity, ae, religion, ability and sexuality. Anthropology From anthropology to medical school–fitting the trend in medicine today. Urban Studies Good urban planning impacts housing, economic development and education. Archaeology Olivia Adams’ fieldwork led from southern slave cabins to southern France. Astronomy Presenting black holes research at an international conference as an undergrad. Early Childhood Education Become a superb teacher for young children. International Business Interning with a wealth-management team managing a $240-million portfolio. Marine Biology Using a SURF grant to conduct research and present at a national conference. Special Education After visiting campus, Leander Hamrick knew it was ideal for her studies. Marketing Before attending college, Brandon Olesh created a landscaping business. African American Studies Transfer student Siera Barksdale spans disciplines and cultures. Theatre From acting to designing and directing to playwriting, experience theatre in a different way. Astrophysics Studying NASA Space Mission Design is a definite highlight. Dance Research funding led to a study of the creative expression of mental illness. Economics A study of college football merchandise sales turned into a senior thesis. Art History Art history teaches you about cultures and how to analyze what you’re seeing. Jewish Studies Discover a rich history of Jewish culture in the Holy City. Sociology A broad exposure to the scientific study of social life, social change, and the social causes and consequences of human behavior. Philosophy A solid preparation for careers in law, public administration and education. Physical Education Courses in physiology, anatomy and kinesiology–not your average PE teacher. Spanish The largest and most comprehensive undergraduate Spanish program in the Southeast includes a wide range of study abroad programs. Middle Grades Education Projects such as “creating a new school” and working as a substitute teacher, help future teachers make a difference. German Double major in German and history, and study abroad for a semester. Finance Palak Thakore is fascinated by the field’s research component. History It’s amazing to have your name on a published piece as an undergraduate. International Studies On track for a career in public policy and the advocacy of local interests. Latin American and Caribbean Studies Taking the classroom experience to Buenos Aires, Honduras and points south. French From a French marketing course to all things French, and an abundance of career choices. Secondary Education Juggling classes and a job, Hunter Werts finds the inspiration to teach. Hospitality and Tourism Management Learn all about the hospitality industry in the world’s No. 1 tourist destination. Classics End of year one, a research assistant at the National Museum in Athens, Greece. Geology Studying marine geology helps focus attention on environmental awareness. Public Health B.A. Take a holistic approach to health issues, doublemajor in public health and psychology, and prepare to be a health psychologist. Foreign Language Education Erin Galloway’s confidence and charisma translate into a French teacher. Historic Preservation and Community Planning Dig into specific interests such as preservation law to sustainability. Studio Art It’s amazing that professors with years of experience view you as an equal. Religious Studies Joining the debate around climate change by studying the ways that religions are mediators of environmental impact. Physics Physics research means being in the field often and doing a lot of computing. Computer Information Systems A curriculum that’s as much about business as computer science. Computing in the Arts Love of music + computer science = an attempt to experience music in 3-D. ‹ › Colleges and Schools Arts Business Education, Health and Human Performance Humanities and Social Sciences Languages, Cultures and World Affairs Sciences and Mathematics Graduate School Honors College Information For Current Students Faculty and Staff Alumni Families/Parents International Students Job Applicants Quick Links Bookstore Contact Us Campus Maps IT Help Public Safety Transparency Spending College of Charleston 66 George Street Charleston, SC 29424 USA 843.805.5507 Facebook Page Instagram Social Media Account LinkedIn Social Media Account Twitter Social Media Account YouTube Channel Copyright © 2019 College of Charleston. All Right Reserved. | Privacy Policy The College of Charleston prohibits any form of discrimination against its students, faculty, staff and applicants in its programs or for admission to or employment with the university. For more information, visit Office of Equal Opportunity Programs (Title IX).