Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Fraternity and Sorority Life Interfraternity Council Interfraternity Council IFC Recruitment Multicultural Greek Council Multicultural Greek Council MGC Intake National Pan-Hellenic Council National Pan-Hellenic Council NPHC Intake Panhellenic Council Panhellenic Council Panhellenic Recruitment Parent and Families ☰ Fraternity and Sorority Life National Pan-Hellenic Council NPHC Intake NPHC Intake National Pan-Hellenic Council Intake The National Pan-Hellenic Council does not hold a structured/formal recruitment period collectively. Instead, each organization conducts a process called membership intake. The Council hosts a NPHC Forum in the fall semester to help interested students learn more about the community and the organizations. Individual organizations will choose when and if they will conduct intake each semester after approval is received from the regional/national level. Interested in Joining? Here are your next steps: Attend the NPHC Forum: A council event that will help you learn more about our organizations and the intake process: September 6th from 6-8pm in HTSC Chamber Review Your Eligibility Have a focus on community service and campus involvement Attend Individual Organization Events: Each organization will host interest meetings and informationals through the year. Attending these, as well as other organization events, are a great way to meet members and show interest in the organization. Prepare for lifelong membership: As with all four councils, NPHC membership is a lifelong commitment. For NPHC particularly, membership continues after college and into the alumnae chapters. Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share