Skip to main content Search About Advisory Board Faculty Staff & Fellows Contact Information News & Events Coronavirus (COVID-19) Resources and Insights The Wiener Lectures Economics and Social Policy Seminar Series Inequality Seminar Series Stone Lecture in Economic Inequality Programs & Initiatives The Achievement Gap Initiative Health Inequality Lab The Program in Criminal Justice Policy and Management The Project on Workforce The Shift Project Stone Program in Wealth Distribution, Inequality, and Social Policy Research & Publications HKS Home Search About Advisory Board Faculty Staff & Fellows Contact Information News & Events Coronavirus (COVID-19) Resources and Insights The Wiener Lectures Economics and Social Policy Seminar Series Inequality Seminar Series Stone Lecture in Economic Inequality Programs & Initiatives The Achievement Gap Initiative Health Inequality Lab The Program in Criminal Justice Policy and Management The Project on Workforce The Shift Project Stone Program in Wealth Distribution, Inequality, and Social Policy Research & Publications HKS Home Search Search Malcolm Wiener Center for Social Policy You are here Home Centers & Initiatives Malcolm Wiener Center for Social Policy Opposing Racism and Discrimination How can we build more just societies through public policy and leadership? Research and Insights Coronavirus (COVID-19) Resources and Insights News, insights, and other resources from Wiener Center faculty and researchers. COVID-19 Resource Page Research & Publications New books, articles, case studies, reports, and working papers are frequently added. Read more about the Center's working papers and faculty publications. Latest Research Programs The Center's programs focus on PhD education, inequality, criminal justice policy, and the achievement gap in public schools. All Programs The Social Costs of Pretrial Detention Professor Sandra Susan Smith talked about the consequences of pretrial detention and diversion during a Harvard Radcliffe Fellows' presentation. Watch the Harvard Radcliffe Institute Video Student Stories: Damarcus Bell An educator, emerging policymaker, and managing editor of the Wiener Center's Data Visualization Lab, Damarcus Bell MPP 2022 strives to empower communities of color. Read the HKS Profile David Deming Awarded Sherwin Rosen Prize Professor David Deming has been awarded the Sherwin Rosen Prize for Outstanding Contributions in the Field of Labor Economics by the Society of Labor Economists. Read the Announcement Analyzing the New Balance of Power on the Supreme Court HKS asks Professor Maya Sen, director of the Stone Program, if an emboldened conservative majority is taking the Supreme Court in an unpopular new direction. Read the Q&A Student Stories: Felix Owusu Felix Owusu PhD 2022 is a Program in Criminal Justice Post-Doctoral Research Fellow who hopes his research can help eliminate disparities in the criminal legal system. Read the HKS Feature Supporting a Post-Pandemic Labor Force Project on Workforce Summer Fellowships give Harvard students and graduates experience with practice and research on the future of work. Read the HKS article The Company Wage Tracker Using Shift Project data, the EPI Company Wage Tracker breaks down and compares what workers earn per hour at the largest firms in the service sector. Explore the tracker Sandra Susan Smith Named Malcolm Wiener Center Director Professor Sandra Susan Smith has been appointed faculty director of Harvard Kennedy School's Malcolm Wiener Center for Social Policy. Read the HKS Announcement The Upward Mobility Problem A Harvard Magazine article on the Project on Workforce speaks to the need for better pathways into good jobs in the U.S. and the important role of community colleges in fostering upward mobility. Read the article Daniel Schneider Recipient of PAA Award Professor of Public Policy Daniel Schneider has received the Early Achievement Award from the Population Association of America. Read the Announcement Inequalities Regarding Paid Sick Leave During COVID According to a Boston Fed report using Shift Project data, many service workers at large companies didn’t get expanded paid sick leave benefits during COVID-19. Read the brief The Limits of Ban-the-Box Legislation New research by Sandra Susan Smith and Christopher Herring explores the impacts of "Ban-the-Box" legislation on employment for justice-involved individuals. Read the IRLE policy brief New Stone Program at Malcolm Wiener Center A $5 million gift from the Stone Foundation will establish the Stone Program in Wealth Distribution, Inequality, and Social Policy, and address the causes and consequences of income inequality globally. Read the HKS Announcement 2022 Stone Lecture in Economic Inequality The 2022 Stone Lecture in Economic Inequality featured Joseph Stiglitz in conversation with David Autor on March 28th in the JFK Jr. Forum. Read the Gazette Article Reimagining the Economy Project Center faculty Gordon Hanson and Dani Rodrik receive $7.5 million Hewlett Foundation grant to explore alternative economic policies that generate equitable growth in a post-globalization world. Read the HKS Article Rebalancing: Children first Co-authored by David Deming, this AEI-Brookings report lays out actionable policies across a range of policy areas to improve the life of every child in the US. Read the Report The Current State of Bail Reform in the US A new report by Isabella Jorgensen(R) and Sandra Susan Smith(L) provides key considerations for people interested in implementing bail reforms in their jurisdiction. Read the Report HKS's Most Read Articles of 2021 Revisit 2021’s 10 most viewed stories chronicling HKS research, insights, and achievements featuring the work of some of our own Wiener Center faculty. Read the top 10 articles New Study on Seattle “fair workweek” Ordinance New research by Daniel Schneider finds that more predictable worker scheduling improves health and well-being. Read the Article Marcella Alsan Wins MacArthur Fellowship Alsan was awarded this fellowship in recognition of her work examining the legacies of discrimination and mistrust in perpetuating racial disparities in health. Read the HKS Press Release New Podcast: "Some of My Best Friends Are..." Khalil Gibran Muhammad and Ben Austen discuss their experiences with the absurdities and intricacies of race in America. Listen to the Podcast CID/Malcolm Wiener Center Joint Awards The award recipients for the 2021 CID/Malcolm Wiener Joint Awards on Inequality Research have been announced. Read the Announcement & View the Winners' Videos David Deming Named HKS Academic Dean Dean Douglas Elmendorf announced Deming’s Academic Dean appointment and other HKS faculty leadership transitions. Read the Announcement Jobs, Jail, and Inequality Harvard Magazine features Sandra Susan Smith and her research on work and incarceration in an unequal, atomized America. Read the Article Data Visualization Lab Launched Faculty members and student editors develop new data visualization tools for translating research. Read Q&A with Gordon Hanson How can we restore civil dialogue in the nation? Jane Mansbridge talks about the importance of citizens’ assemblies in getting polarized groups to listen to each other. Read Q&A with Jane Mansbridge Report: Working to Learn Project on Workforce's report highlights stark challenges and transformative opportunities for the growing field of organizations seeking to connect postsecondary education with employment. Read the Report New Book: The Judicial Tug of War Maya Sen and Stanford’s Adam Bonica present a compelling argument about how the nation's courts have become political tools used by the two political parties to further their interests. Read Q&A with Maya Sen 2022 HKS Class Day Awards Each year, the Malcolm Wiener Center awards prizes for excellence in student research work through the selection of the Policy Analysis Exercise (PAE), Second Year Policy Analysis (SYPA), essay, paper, or case study that best exemplifies the work of four remarkable individuals: Manuel C. Carballo, Susan C. Eaton, Frederick Fischer, and William Julius Wilson. Manuel C. Carballo Memorial Prize Juliahna Green (MPP 2022) for the Policy Analysis Exercise: One Call to Fix it All: Strategies for improving 311 awareness and utilization in the city of South Bend This award honors the memory of Manuel C. Carballo, a faculty member at Harvard Kennedy School from 1978 to 1982 who served in numerous public service positions and was the Massachusetts Secretary of Human Services. This prize is awarded for exemplary articulation of ideas related to the implementation, management, and evaluation of programs to serve disadvantaged populations in the U.S. Susan C. Eaton Memorial Prize Ayotomiwa Ojo (MPP 2022 & Candidate for Doctor of Medicine 2022), Raquel Sofia Sandoval (MPP 2022 & Candidate for Doctor of Medicine 2022), and Adarsh Shah (MPP 2022) for the Policy Analysis Exercise: Addressing Payer Segregation in NYC Hospitals: To Tackle De Facto Racial Segregation This prize, named in honor of Susan C. Eaton, a student, alumna, and faculty member at Harvard Kennedy School from 1993-2003, recognizes excellence in research on a topic related to Eaton's academic work, including human resources management, health care management, health care quality, union leadership, fair wage policy, health care disparities, work/family policy, gender equity, and topics related to aging. Frederick Fischer Memorial Prize Michael Zanger-Tishler (PhD candidate in Sociology & Social Policy) for the paper: Seeing Like a Police Agency: How the 21st Century Proliferation of Police Administrative Microdata Has Shaped our Understanding of Community Safety, Crime, and Policing This prize, honoring the memory of Frederick Fischer, an alumnus of the MPP program and a committed public servant, recognizes excellence in research on a social policy topic related to criminal justice, inequality, economic and social mobility, workforce development, labor, poverty, education, immigration, social services, and other social policy issues. William Julius Wilson Research Award James Reisinger (PhD candidate in Public Policy) for the paper: Southernization: The Long-Term Eﬀect of Migration on Racial Prejudice and Political Preferences This new award honors the scholarship and research of William Julius Wilson, Lewis P. and Linda L. Geyser University Professor, Emeritus at Harvard University who was the founder and director of the Malcolm Wiener Center’s Joblessness and Urban Poverty Research Program. This prize is awarded for an outstanding paper written on a topic that Wilson’s academic research addressed, including race relations, urban poverty and joblessness, and segregation, with particular attention to macro-level factors driving social phenomena. News One Doctor’s Quest to Demolish Health Care’s Racist Barriers The Daily Beast, May 30, 2022 Featured: Marcella Alsan 5 ways Gen Z is insisting on changes to the workplace Boston Globe, May 18, 2022 Featured: Rachel Lipson A Better Globalization Might Rise from Hyper-Globalization’s Ashes Project Syndicate, May 9, 2022 Featured: Dani Rodrik It’s time for Mass. to eliminate cash bail Commonwealth Magazine, April 30, 2022 Featured: Sandra Susan Smith Why Economic Justice Begins In The Food Industry Forbes, April 20, 2022 Featured: Shift Project Most workers at large retail and food firms get less than $15 an hour—study The Guardian, April 19, 2022 Featured: Daniel Schneider, Shift Project Retail is plagued with workers making less than $15 an hour, despite employers' rising profits CBS News, April 19, 2022 Featured: Daniel Schneider, Shift Project America’s Biggest Companies Are Systematically Short-Changing Workers Rolling Stone, April 19, 2022 Featured: Shift Project It’s almost impossible to get fired from some jobs these days Boston Globe, April 19, 2022 Featured: Rachel Lipson The upward mobility problem Harvard Magazine, April 15, 2022 Featured: David Deming, Rachel Lipson What happens when jurors are disproportionately white? Not justice. Boston Globe, April 12, 2022 Op-Ed: Sandra Susan Smith Development economics goes north Project Syndicate, April 11, 2022 Featured: Dani Rodrik NAACP defense fund president discusses voting rights at IOP Forum The Harvard Crimson, April 7, 2022 Featured: Khalil Gibran Muhammad Who benefited from expanded paid sick leave policies for service workers? And who didn’t? Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, April 5, 2022 Featured: Daniel Schneider, Shift Project Racism undermines the health of Black Americans. This physician-economist is looking for solutions PBS NewsHour, March 24, 2022 Featured: Marcella Alsan Ukraine war and pandemic force nations to retreat from globalization New York Times, March 22, 2022 Featured: Dani Rodrik 50 years ago sex equality seemed destined for the Constitution. What happened? NPR, March 22, 2022 Featured: Jane Mansbridge What Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson's history as a public defender means for the Supreme Court WBUR, March 21, 2022 Featured: Maya Sen What happened to Starbuck’s? How a progressive company lost its way Fast Company, March 17, 2022 Featured: Daniel Schneider Back to Work and Job Training Bloomberg Markets, March 11, 2022 Featured: Rachel Lipson Many Mass. hospitals are short-staffed. The culprit may not be a shortage of nurses WBUR, February 28, 2022 Featured: Rachel Lipson As politics infects public health, private companies profit Salon, February 26, 2022 Featured: Amitabh Chandra A key to returning to normal is paid sick leave, Democrats say New York Times, February 21, 2022 Featured: Daniel Schneider 5 steps new presidents should take Inside Higher Ed, February 22, 2022 Featured: David Ellwood A key to returning to normal is paid sick leave, Democrats say New York Times, February 21, 2022 Featured: Daniel Schneider Being the 1st: What it’s like to make Supreme Court history Featured: Maya Sen Associated Press, February 20, 2022 Examining Brian Flores’ suit against NFL Harvard Gazette, February 17, 2022 Featured: Khalil Gibran Muhammad One white, one Black, they grew up in Hyde Park as best friends and didn’t realize how rare that was. ‘Some of My Best Friends Are ...’ is their popular podcast about race. Chicago Tribune, February 10, 2022 Featured: Khalil Gibran Muhammad Adams wants tougher bail laws. Can he get other Democrats to agree? New York Times, February 8, 2022 Featured: Sandra Susan Smith The GOP’s January 6 lies have reached a fever pitch Vox, February 6, 2022 Featured: Alex Keyssar Report shows that for shift workers, schedule uncertainty destroys peace of mind Marketplace, February 3, 2022 Featured: Daniel Schneider Despite labor shortages, workers see few gains in economic security New York Times, February 1, 2022 Featured: Daniel Schneider Minority shift workers more likely to face unstable schedules Bloomberg, January 31, 2022 Featured: Shift Project Boston’s gang database should be dismantled Boston Globe, January 31, 2022 Featured: Sandra Susan Smith Workers don't know their schedules until the last minute. That's a big problem CNN, January 30, 2022 Featured: Daniel Schneider Does the EBRD still finance freedom? Financial Times, January 30, 2022 Featured: Dani Rodrik In stores and restaurants, the staff serving the public may be ill with COVID-19 because their bosses want them to keep working, say employees Business Insider, January 30, 2022 Featured: Shift Project Supreme Court joins other institutions facing dwindling public confidence Newsweek, January 27, 2022 Featured: Maya Sen Low public confidence in Supreme Court as Breyer retires Washington Post, January 27, 2022 Featured: Maya Sen Mitch McConnell's verbal separation of African Americans and Americans sparks outrage WNYC, January 24, 2022 Featured: Khalil Gibran Muhammad Omicron wave drives surge of workers calling in sick, working through illness Wall Street Journal, January 23, 2022 Featured: Daniel Schneider Americans are showing up sick to work even as Omicron spreads CNN, January 21, 2022 Featured: Daniel Schneider Family of Emmett Till and more reflect on his funeral, killers’ trial ABC News, January 13, 2022 Featured: Khalil Gibran Muhammad America’ biggest Coronavirus weakness Featured: Daniel Schneider The Atlantic, January 13, 2022 The big lie’s long shadow FiveThirtyEight, January 12, 2022 Featured: Alex Keyssar You will probably get Omicron. It’s time to adjust expectations about what beating COVID means Fortune, January 12, 2022 Featured: Amitabh Chandra Inflation heresies Project Syndicate, January 11, 2022 Featured: Dani Rodrik Omicron testing shortages and delays are making results useless – and deepening COVID inequality Fortune, January 10, 2022 Featured: Amitabh Chandra Stay home or work sick? Omicron poses a conundrum Associated Press, January 9, 2022 Featured: Daniel Schneider Omicron is surging – and Democrats aren’t shutting things down this time Politico, January 9, 2022 Featured: Robert Blendon How to boost voter turnout to nearly 100 percent The Boston Globe, January 8, 2022 Featured: Alex Keyssar Recalling Jan. 6: A national day of infamy, half remembered Associated Press, January 5, 2022 Featured: Alex Keyssar How will future historians judge Jan. 6? Los Angeles Times, January 2, 2022 Op-Ed: Alexander Keyssar Dark lessons of Jan. 6 Capitol assault Harvard Gazette, January 1, 2022 Featured: Alexander Keyssar Become a Malcolm Wiener Center Insider Subscribe for updates on upcoming events, news, and more. Email Address 79 John F. Kennedy Street Cambridge, MA 02138 617-495-1100 Ask What You Can Do Master’s Programs Executive Education Doctoral Programs Public Leadership Credential Admissions Events Give Now Alumni Jobs Contact Us Privacy Web Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. https://www.facebook.com/harvardkennedyschool/ https://twitter.com/kennedy_school https://www.linkedin.com/school/harvard-kennedy-school-of-government/ https://www.youtube.com/user/HarvardKennedySchool http://instagram.com/harvardkennedyschool/