Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Menu Brenton Center Open Search Bar Search Submit search Main navigation Home About Us Our Services News People AgOnline Courses Home Visit AgOnline The Brenton Center for Agricultural Instruction and Technology Transfer (BCAIT) is committed to serving the needs of the faculty and staff in the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences (CALS). This commitment includes providing the best technology and staff to assist the online teaching faculty with providing quality instruction and course content to students regardless of geographical location by combining the best methods with the latest teaching and technological innovations. High quality online education programs fit the real-time needs of geographically isolated and non-traditional students. Online learning is currently helping individuals meet their educational and occupational goals. Online learning puts the student in the center of the learning experience and gives students greater control over the rate of learning, the time of learning, and access to supplemental materials. Online learning does not happen spontaneously; it evolves through hard work and dedicated efforts of many individuals. What We Do The Brenton Center for Agricultural Instruction and Technology Transfer has a focus on service to and support of educators in helping our online students succeed. Our professional staff ensure that our online students will be successful as our Vision is: “Best Experience Every Time.” How We Help The Brenton Center for Agricultural Instruction and Technology Transfer helps in a variety of ways. Whether it is curriculum and accessibility support, lecture capture and delivery, communication and marketing, or recruitment and retention; we are there to serve students and faculty. Mission Statement The mission of the Brenton Center for Agricultural Instruction and Technology Transfer is to be a dynamic center of excellence that contributes to enhancing teaching and learning that enables the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences to be a premier provider of online education in Agriculture. Recent News 2021 AgOnline Teacher of the Year Nov 8, 2021 Now accepting Spring 2022 classroom reservations Oct 12, 2021 Fal 2021 classroom reservations Jun 23, 2021 All news Brenton Center 513 Farm House Lane Room 0004 Curtiss Hall Ames, Iowa 50011 brentoncontact@iastate.edu Phone: 515-294-1862 Social media Follow on Facebook Copyright Information Copyright © Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Legal and Privacy Links Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer Information