Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts Featured News Law Assistant Dean leads community conversation on educational... March 29, 2022 Assistant Dean Na'Tasha Webb-Prather discusses educational equity and its impact. Kristen Tomlan uses DAAP skills to launch world’s first edible... March 22, 2022 As the 2022 DAAP Distinguished Alum of the Year, Kristen has embraced the spirit of the program’s curriculum and her co-ops to boldly found DŌ, Cookie Dough Confections, the world’s first edible cookie dough confectionery. Along with some other entrepreneurial alumni, she is also the impetus for DAAP’s new Creative Entrepreneurship Initiative. CCM's Music Theory and Musicology Society hosts student... February 21, 2022 CCM’s Music Theory and Musicology Society hosts its ninth biennial student conference designed to engage both UC students and students from other institutions in the broad field of music scholarship. The hybrid-format conference features keynote speakers Julianne Grasso (University of Texas at Austin) and Imani Mosley (University of Florida) and student paper presentations. This year’s conference also includes two workshops led by CCM ethnomusicologists Stefan Fiol and Scott Linford. Debug Query for this Latest News Keyword topics Select topics Answers Arts & Culture Athletics Bicentennial College bound COVID-19 Diversity Entrepreneurship Experience-based Learning Faculty Staff Health Impact In The News Insights International Must Read Next Lives Here Science & Tech Student Experience Thought Leadership colleges Select colleges College of Arts and Sciences Blue Ash College College of Allied Health Sciences College-Conservatory of Music College of Engineering and Applied Science College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services Clermont College Lindner College of Business College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing Online College of Pharmacy Clear All Filters {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove Law Assistant Dean leads community conversation on educational... March 29, 2022 Assistant Dean Na'Tasha Webb-Prather discusses educational equity and its impact. Kristen Tomlan uses DAAP skills to launch world’s first edible... March 22, 2022 As the 2022 DAAP Distinguished Alum of the Year, Kristen has embraced the spirit of the program’s curriculum and her co-ops to boldly found DŌ, Cookie Dough Confections, the world’s first edible cookie dough confectionery. Along with some other entrepreneurial alumni, she is also the impetus for DAAP’s new Creative Entrepreneurship Initiative. CCM's Music Theory and Musicology Society hosts student... February 21, 2022 CCM’s Music Theory and Musicology Society hosts its ninth biennial student conference designed to engage both UC students and students from other institutions in the broad field of music scholarship. The hybrid-format conference features keynote speakers Julianne Grasso (University of Texas at Austin) and Imani Mosley (University of Florida) and student paper presentations. This year’s conference also includes two workshops led by CCM ethnomusicologists Stefan Fiol and Scott Linford. Managing mask-related anxiety, aggression September 29, 2021 UC experts explain how public health guidelines like mask requirements affects anxiety levels among groups of people, including children, first responders and other front line workers. MSN: Signs you should turn down a job offer September 22, 2021 Maria Espinola, PsyD, assistant professor in the Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Neuroscience at the University of Cincinnati College of Medicine, spoke with MSN about the importance of work-life balance when considering a job offer. Yahoo News: State House, Senate map proposal praised, critiqued September 15, 2021 David Niven comments to Yahoo News on redistricting of Ohio maps Futuristic cars may soon take flight April 28, 2021 The Cincinnati Innovation District and University of Cincinnati team up with partners in 1819 Innovation Hub DriveOhio, Cincinnati Bell and Microsoft to innovate with UC talent and help bring future innovation within reach in FlyOhio student challenge. Co-op 2.0 embedded into TAP at UC October 26, 2020 The University of Cincinnati's (UC's) Transition and Access program creates innovative employment experiences for students with intellectual and developmental disabilities. Greater Good: UC criminologists’ research aids in police funding... July 16, 2020 Greater Good Magazine examines the issue of police funding in a recent story, which includes research conducted by University of Cincinnati criminologists Travis Pratt and Francis Cullen. UC Answers: Why should I get involved on campus? June 27, 2020 Sid Thatham jumped into many UC groups on campus and built a network that led to his success today. Learn why this was so important. Washington Post: UC, Burnet Woods mentioned in top cities for... June 26, 2020 UC, Cincinnati's Burnet Woods mentioned among top 10 U.S. cities for parks by Washington Post. UC Answers: How do I get the most out of online classes? June 24, 2020 Halimat Olaniyan found UC's online learning to be supportive and rewarding. She offers simple tips for making the most of online classes. UC Answers: What can I expect from UC online classes this fall? June 23, 2020 UC has two decades of experiencing developing engaging and innovative online courses. Learn more about the advantages of virtual learning. Bloomberg Law: Landmark LGBT decision clarifies legal test for... June 16, 2020 Law professor weighs in on landmark LGBT decision. UC online program offers early childhood development credit May 15, 2020 University of Cincinnati College of Education Arlitt Center offers continuing education credits for Early Childhood Development courses for professional educators Load More Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top