Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Warren Alpert Medical School Breadcrumb Home News from Brown News Search Subscribe to our weekly newsletter 83 Results based on your selections. News and Events In three ceremonies, medical, doctoral and master’s graduates celebrate hard-earned degrees May 29, 2022 In addresses at Brown’s Commencement ceremonies on Sunday, May 29, student speakers entreated their peers to make a positive impact using lessons they had learned during the COVID-19 pandemic. Read Article Open details for In three ceremonies, medical, doctoral and master’s graduates celebrate hard-earned degrees Health and Medicine Brown physician, medical student urge stronger federal support for overdose prevention centers May 23, 2022 Elizabeth Samuels, an assistant professor at the Warren Alpert Medical School, and medical student Aneeqah Naeem argued for federal action supporting harm reduction centers such as those authorized in Rhode Island. Read Article Open details for Brown physician, medical student urge stronger federal support for overdose prevention centers Health and Medicine In student address, medical school graduate to reflect on finding strength in uncertainty May 16, 2022 Adriel Barrios-Anderson, who served as a student orator upon earning his bachelor’s degree from Brown in 2017, hopes to inspire newly minted M.D.s to feel confident about embracing the uncertainty of the future. Read Article Open details for In student address, medical school graduate to reflect on finding strength in uncertainty Health and Medicine ‘This was our moment’ — medical students embrace non-traditional timing for long-standing white coat tradition May 3, 2022 The Warren Alpert Medical School’s Class of 2024 celebrated together at an in-person white coat ceremony that was held two years later than usual, but still felt timely. Read Article Open details for ‘This was our moment’ — medical students embrace non-traditional timing for long-standing white coat tradition Health and Medicine Celebrating 50 years of medicine at Brown, by honoring the past and embracing the future April 29, 2022 Members of the Warren Alpert Medical School community, including graduates from classes ranging from 1972 to 2022, gathered to commemorate the history and look to the future of Rhode Island’s first and only medical school. Read Article Open details for Celebrating 50 years of medicine at Brown, by honoring the past and embracing the future Health and Medicine Brown med school students elevate health care for Rhode Island’s underserved and underinsured March 30, 2022 At Providence’s Clínica Esperanza and the Rhode Island Free Clinic, student volunteers from the Warren Alpert Medical School work tirelessly to improve not only health care but the health care system. Read Article Open details for Brown med school students elevate health care for Rhode Island’s underserved and underinsured Health and Medicine Celebrating in-person with family and friends, 144 physicians-to-be match to medical residencies March 18, 2022 At Match Day, members of the Warren Alpert Medical School’s Class of 2022 were placed in medical residency programs across the country and right in Providence. Read Article Open details for Celebrating in-person with family and friends, 144 physicians-to-be match to medical residencies Health and Medicine University to celebrate impact, history of ‘50 Years of Medicine at Brown’ March 15, 2022 A kickoff event on Friday, April 29, will begin a 15-month celebration of the Warren Alpert Medical School’s evolution and its plans for the future. Read Article Open details for University to celebrate impact, history of ‘50 Years of Medicine at Brown’ Health and Medicine COVID-19 has taken heavy toll on health workers and systems, Brown physician-scientist tells Congress March 2, 2022 Dr. Megan Ranney, a practicing emergency physician and academic dean of Brown’s School of Public Health, told a U.S. House committee that the nation can learn from the past to build stronger, more viable health care systems. Read Article Open details for COVID-19 has taken heavy toll on health workers and systems, Brown physician-scientist tells Congress Science and Technology Brown convenes scholars to envision the future of home-based health tech February 22, 2022 With a massive shift under way toward more home-based health care delivery, more than 90 medical professionals and technologists gathered virtually to explore the challenges and opportunities that change presents. Read Article Open details for Brown convenes scholars to envision the future of home-based health tech Health and Medicine At community health clinic in Providence, improving access and care for LGBTQ+ patients February 11, 2022 Founded by Brown faculty members Dr. Amy Nunn and Dr. Philip Chan, Open Door Health is lowering barriers to health care by providing culturally congruent LGBTQ+-focused care. Read Article Open details for At community health clinic in Providence, improving access and care for LGBTQ+ patients Health and Medicine A faith-based approach to ensuring Alzheimer’s research applies to all Rhode Islanders January 20, 2022 Brown University researchers are partnering with faith-based leaders in Providence to increase participation of Black community members in Alzheimer’s prevention studies. Read Article Open details for A faith-based approach to ensuring Alzheimer’s research applies to all Rhode Islanders Health and Medicine Integrated health system will increase economic impact of R.I.’s academic medicine sector, analysis finds January 11, 2022 An independent report from Tripp Umbach commissioned by Brown University concludes that closer integration of health systems, physician practices and research can create significant economic and societal gains. Read Article Open details for Integrated health system will increase economic impact of R.I.’s academic medicine sector, analysis finds Health and Medicine Study of vaccinated cancer patients with breakthrough COVID-19 shows 13% mortality rate January 7, 2022 Brown University researchers are part of a consortium tracking the impact of COVID-19 on patients with cancer. Read Article Open details for Study of vaccinated cancer patients with breakthrough COVID-19 shows 13% mortality rate Health and Medicine Grants totaling $4.6 million support the use of machine learning to improve outcomes of people with HIV December 20, 2021 In partnership with Moi University in Kenya, Brown University will develop, test and launch data-driven tools to maximize the effectiveness of HIV care programs. Read Article Open details for Grants totaling $4.6 million support the use of machine learning to improve outcomes of people with HIV Health and Medicine Advancing health care and the R.I. economy — leaders, experts discuss proposed academic health system December 15, 2021 Brown, Lifespan and Care New England leaders joined U.S. Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse and other experts in a virtual discussion on the potential for an integrated system to provide world-class care for the people of Rhode Island. Read Article Open details for Advancing health care and the R.I. economy — leaders, experts discuss proposed academic health system Health and Medicine Researchers develop an RNA-based breath test to detect COVID-19 December 14, 2021 The Bubbler, a breathalyzer device that reverse-transcribes RNA from airborne SARS-CoV-2 in breath, predicts lower respiratory tract involvement and is less invasive than alternative testing approaches, researchers say. Read Article Open details for Researchers develop an RNA-based breath test to detect COVID-19 Health and Medicine $25 million gift to Brown to accelerate discovery at renamed Legorreta Cancer Center December 9, 2021 Generous support from the Legorreta family will propel plans for a world-class, nationally designated cancer center at Brown that will turn basic science into treatments for patients in Rhode Island and beyond. Read Article Open details for $25 million gift to Brown to accelerate discovery at renamed Legorreta Cancer Center Health and Medicine People of color, women and those with health conditions among veterans at high risk of food insecurity November 11, 2021 New findings about military veterans at the highest risk for food insecurity can help connect them to food they need for good health and inform interventions to address the larger, long-term issue. Read Article Open details for People of color, women and those with health conditions among veterans at high risk of food insecurity Health and Medicine Study offers insights on why the elderly are more susceptible to COVID-19 November 8, 2021 New research reveals the cellular mechanism behind why the elderly, as well as those with certain overlapping diseases, are at risk of infection and death from the virus — and how this mechanism can potentially be used to protect them. Read Article Open details for Study offers insights on why the elderly are more susceptible to COVID-19 Health and Medicine Brown researchers, local partners aim to reduce disparities in COVID-19 vaccination, testing October 22, 2021 New federal grants totaling $1.4 million are supporting a partnership between Brown, Progreso Latino, the Rhode Island Quality Institute and others to address barriers to testing and vaccination among high-risk populations. Read Article Open details for Brown researchers, local partners aim to reduce disparities in COVID-19 vaccination, testing Health and Medicine Physician-scientist Dr. Mukesh K. Jain appointed dean of medicine and biological sciences at Brown October 20, 2021 A cardiovascular specialist and health care leader at University Hospitals and Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland, Dr. Jain will lead biomedical research and education, and serve as Warren Alpert Medical School dean. Read Article Open details for Physician-scientist Dr. Mukesh K. Jain appointed dean of medicine and biological sciences at Brown Science and Technology NIH awards Brown $10.8M to expand data-informed research to fight human disease September 29, 2021 The COBRE Center for Computational Biology of Human Disease is advancing the use of computational tools among biomedical scientists at Brown, helping them unlock new insights that could ultimately benefit patients. Read Article Open details for NIH awards Brown $10.8M to expand data-informed research to fight human disease Health and Medicine 9/11 at 20: Ground zero doctor from Brown recalls ‘a singular event in history that brought us together’ September 9, 2021 Dr. Selim Suner led the Rhode Island Disaster Medical Assistance Team deployed to ground zero on Sept. 11, 2001, a group that included 14 volunteers from Brown’s medical school community. Read Article Open details for 9/11 at 20: Ground zero doctor from Brown recalls ‘a singular event in history that brought us together’ Health and Medicine With $4.9M from the CDC, Brown researchers to study COVID vaccine effectiveness in seniors September 8, 2021 The urgently needed research will be used to inform recommendations about vaccine booster shots for nursing home residents. Read Article Open details for With $4.9M from the CDC, Brown researchers to study COVID vaccine effectiveness in seniors Student Life Alejandro Jackson: A compassionate approach to science and biotechnology September 7, 2021 A first-year student beginning Brown’s distinctive eight-year Program in Liberal Medical Education, Alejandro Jackson aspires to become an M.D./Ph.D. who develops new technologies for amputees to improve quality of life. Read Article Open details for Alejandro Jackson: A compassionate approach to science and biotechnology News and Events Brown’s newest students, by the numbers September 2, 2021 A total of 3,038 new undergraduate, graduate and medical students will begin studies at Brown University next week — here’s a look at who is arriving on College Hill. Read Article Open details for Brown’s newest students, by the numbers Health and Medicine With first chief wellness officer, Brown’s medical school emphasizes well-being for future physicians August 26, 2021 As the inaugural chief wellness officer for the Warren Alpert Medical School, Kelly Holder is advising aspiring doctors to heal thyselves, and working to build programs and infrastructure to support that goal. Read Article Open details for With first chief wellness officer, Brown’s medical school emphasizes well-being for future physicians Science and Technology New $19.9M grant will expand hub for translational science, biomedical research in Rhode Island August 19, 2021 With five years of renewed federal funding, Advance-CTR will support researchers in taking their work from bench to bedside to the broader community, ultimately making a direct and positive impact on the people of Rhode Island. Read Article Open details for New $19.9M grant will expand hub for translational science, biomedical research in Rhode Island Health and Medicine Study shows how U.S. immigration policy can have domestic health effects July 30, 2021 Researchers designed an innovative way to measure the impact of the 2017 executive order suspending travel from seven Muslim-majority countries on the health of U.S. residents from those nations. Read Article Open details for Study shows how U.S. immigration policy can have domestic health effects Health and Medicine New guidelines intended to help health providers prevent gun injuries and deaths July 26, 2021 A team of clinicians, researchers and educators, including Brown physician-scientist Dr. Megan Ranney, established new guidelines on educating health care professionals about how to help prevent firearm injuries. Read Article Open details for New guidelines intended to help health providers prevent gun injuries and deaths News and Events Brown acquires residential building to offer affordable, high-quality housing for 270 graduate students July 22, 2021 The University will transition River House, home to a mix of studio, one-bedroom and two-bedroom apartments in the Jewelry District, to affordable, safe, campus-accessible housing for graduate students. Read Article Open details for Brown acquires residential building to offer affordable, high-quality housing for 270 graduate students Science and Technology Initiative to expand Ph.D. student diversity in STEM graduate programs has lasting positive effects July 8, 2021 A study that looked at 10-year outcomes of the Initiative to Maximize Student Development showed that it increased diversity within academic programs and prepared underrepresented students for successful careers in STEM. Read Article Open details for Initiative to expand Ph.D. student diversity in STEM graduate programs has lasting positive effects Health and Medicine Brown to fund four biomedical technologies with potential for patient benefit, commercial viability July 6, 2021 Now in its third funding cycle, Brown Biomedical Innovations to Impact will award four faculty projects to accelerate promising medical solutions into commercial technologies. Read Article Open details for Brown to fund four biomedical technologies with potential for patient benefit, commercial viability Health and Medicine Conversations on COVID: Brown emergency medicine fellow in Nepal is fighting COVID-19 on multiple fronts June 17, 2021 Dr. Ramu Kharel, a global emergency medicine fellow affiliated with Brown’s Center for Human Rights and Humanitarian Studies, went to Nepal to research emergency medicine and immediately immersed himself in the practice of it. Read Article Open details for Conversations on COVID: Brown emergency medicine fellow in Nepal is fighting COVID-19 on multiple fronts Health and Medicine After the FDA’s approval, what to know about the new Alzheimer’s drug June 11, 2021 Dr. Stephen Salloway, associate director of Brown’s new Center for Alzheimer’s Research who led clinical trials for the recently approved aducanumab, explained the key takeaways from the FDA’s headline-making decision. Read Article Open details for After the FDA’s approval, what to know about the new Alzheimer’s drug Health and Medicine A half-decade of progress at the Hassenfeld Institute is a high five for children’s health June 10, 2021 Launched five years ago with an ambitious vision, the Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute is bringing together researchers, physicians, students and community partners to transform children’s health in Rhode Island and beyond. Read Article Open details for A half-decade of progress at the Hassenfeld Institute is a high five for children’s health Health and Medicine The Hassenfeld Study shows how a mother’s data can help countless children June 10, 2021 A long-term study of mothers and babies, run by the Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute, engages Rhode Island families in research that has the ability to make an outsize impact on children’s health. Read Article Open details for The Hassenfeld Study shows how a mother’s data can help countless children News and Events Brown students, recent graduates earn 27 Fulbright scholarships June 7, 2021 This year’s student Fulbright winners will begin teaching and research assignments in 17 countries around the world in fall of 2021. Read Article Open details for Brown students, recent graduates earn 27 Fulbright scholarships News and Events Joint $500,000 gift from Brown, R.I. Foundation, Partnership for R.I. to support Nonviolence Institute May 27, 2021 For two decades, the Nonviolence Institute has been an instrumental force in preventing violence and providing support to victims in Rhode Island; the joint contribution will support its work amid a surge in gun violence. Read Article Open details for Joint $500,000 gift from Brown, R.I. Foundation, Partnership for R.I. to support Nonviolence Institute Health and Medicine Making mindfulness meditation more helpful starts with understanding how it can be harmful May 18, 2021 A study led by Willoughby Britton, an associate professor of psychiatry and human behavior at Brown, shows the importance of defining and measuring the adverse effects of mindfulness. Read Article Open details for Making mindfulness meditation more helpful starts with understanding how it can be harmful Health and Medicine Rare blood clots more likely after COVID-19 infection than from vaccine, report finds May 14, 2021 An analysis led by Brown University neurologist Dr. Karen L. Furie in partnership with the American Heart Association/American Stroke Association, put the post-vaccine risk of CVST in perspective. Read Article Open details for Rare blood clots more likely after COVID-19 infection than from vaccine, report finds News and Events Reunion events, Commencement forums capture, virtually, the spirit of community celebration, intellectual discovery May 2, 2021 A fully virtual Reunion Weekend, featuring longstanding traditions and unexpected twists, and a series of remote Commencement forums complemented in-person events taking place on College Hill from April 30 to May 2. Read Article Open details for Reunion events, Commencement forums capture, virtually, the spirit of community celebration, intellectual discovery News and Events New Brown M.D.s convene to honor achievements, celebrate and reflect after exceptionally intense year May 1, 2021 At Brown’s medical school Commencement ceremony, the 119 graduates in the Warren Alpert Medical School’s Class of 2021 marked four years of intense academic and clinical training in joyous, jubilant solidarity. Read Article Open details for New Brown M.D.s convene to honor achievements, celebrate and reflect after exceptionally intense year Health and Medicine With $30 million in support, Brown launches Center for Alzheimer’s Disease Research April 28, 2021 By bringing together biomedical research and discovery with world-class physician-scientists advancing care for patients with Alzheimer’s, the center aims to accelerate the pace of development for novel treatments and cures. Read Article Open details for With $30 million in support, Brown launches Center for Alzheimer’s Disease Research Health and Medicine Jack Elias to transition to senior health advisor at Brown, will leave role as medical school dean April 8, 2021 After eight years leading biology and medicine at Brown, Elias will become the University’s senior health advisor, working to realize the vision of an integrated academic health system with Lifespan and Care New England. Read Article Open details for Jack Elias to transition to senior health advisor at Brown, will leave role as medical school dean Health and Medicine Brown’s medical students find the silver lining in another virtual Match Day March 19, 2021 Soon-to-graduate students from the Warren Alpert Medical School, about to be placed in medical residency programs across the country, celebrated in person with small groups of friends and family — and with many more loved ones online. Read Article Open details for Brown’s medical students find the silver lining in another virtual Match Day Health and Medicine Brown physician-scholar continues to play key role in the most significant Alzheimer’s research March 19, 2021 Clinical trials show encouraging results for a second investigational Alzheimer’s drug — and Brown University, Butler Hospital and Rhode Island Hospital were again deeply involved. Read Article Open details for Brown physician-scholar continues to play key role in the most significant Alzheimer’s research Health and Medicine Study asks: Why isn’t anyone talking about medical students with children? March 8, 2021 A new paper by Brown University researchers is one of the first to call attention to the need for more support for medical students who are pregnant or parenting. Read Article Open details for Study asks: Why isn’t anyone talking about medical students with children? Health and Medicine Quick pivots: For four researchers, COVID-19 provided immediate new possibilities March 1, 2021 When the pandemic paused some lab-based work, Brown scholars quickly pivoted to COVID-19 research, generating new studies in respected journals, funding for new pursuits, and new collaborations with a wide range of partners. Read Article Open details for Quick pivots: For four researchers, COVID-19 provided immediate new possibilities Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Warren Alpert Medical School Open details for Warren Alpert Medical School Bookmark this Page