Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Student Conduct Show/Hide Home About COVID-19 Code of Student Conduct FAQs Filing a Complaint Emergency Protocols Contact Us Yolanda Castillo-Appollonio (she/her/hers) Senior Associate Dean and Director of Student Conduct & Community Standards [email protected] (401) 863-2653 Graduate Center E, Fourth Floor 42 Charlesfield Street Yolanda supervises and manages the Office of Student Conduct & Community Standards. She is a Brown alumna with an AB in Sociology and a law degree from Northeastern University School of Law. Prior to joining Brown professionally in 2004, Yolanda practiced law for six years, concentrating in domestic violence and family law in addition to housing, disability, and immigration issues. As part of her director duties, Yolanda chairs upper level hearings, facilitates the Monday Morning Meeting with campus stakeholders to review weekend incidents, and represents the office in campus meetings to promote our work and educate the campus community. She lives with her husband, daughter, and two dog sons and loves to do crossword puzzles and take Disney cruises with her family. Click here to schedule a meeting with Dean Castillo. Kirsten Wolfe (she/her/hers) Associate Dean and Associate Director of Student Conduct & Community Standards [email protected] (401) 863-2653 Graduate Center E, Fourth Floor 42 Charlesfield Street Kirsten joined the office in November 2013 as an Assistant Dean after six and a half years in residence life and student conduct at other institutions. She holds a BA in Psychology and an MA in Cultural Studies of Sport and Athletic Administration from the University of Iowa. Currently, Kirsten focuses on conducting and overseeing investigations, facilitates Administrative Review Meetings, and works with the restorative justice program. Outside of these duties, she is also interested in Title IX and gender equity issues and social justice issues more broadly. In her spare time, she likes to comb the beaches of Rhode Island for interesting shells and sea glass, take deep dives into random subjects for hours, and make artsy things of questionable quality. Love Wallace (she/her/hers) Assistant Dean of Student Conduct & Community Standards [email protected] 401-863-2653 Graduate Center E, Fourth Floor 42 Charlesfield Street Love joined the office in Fall 2020 after seven years in residence life at Ursinus College, Creighton University, University of Connecticut, and College of the Holy Cross. She holds a BA and an MA in Political Science from Villanova University. Love will be the primary data manager for the office and will oversee most of the case management in addition to conducting investigations and hearings and participating in restorative processes. She is an avid reader, usually averaging over 100 books per year, and was a casino table games dealer in a previous life. Jessica Kilgore (she/her/hers) Assistant Dean of Student Conduct [email protected] (401) 863-2653 Graduate Center E, Fourth Floor 42 Charlesfield Street Jessica came to Brown in December 2020 after working in residence life & housing at College of the Holy Cross, Miami University (of Ohio), and Walla Walla University. She holds a BA in History and an MA in Counseling Psychology from Walla Walla University. Jessica will conduct Administrative and Dean's Review Meetings, complete investigations, and work on special projects. Jessica enjoys spending time at home with her husband and cat. She also loves to travel and explore local restaurants, bakeries, and coffee shops. Greg Caso (he/him/his) Assistant Dean of Student Conduct [email protected] (401) 863-2653 Graduate Center E, Fourth Floor 42 Charlesfield Street Greg Caso joined the office in February 2022 after spending a semester working for a study abroad company in Costa Rica. Prior to Costa Rica, Greg practiced law in New York City as a litigator representing tenants and assisted immigration attorneys, pro bono. Greg holds a BA in Greek and Roman Civilization from the University of Notre Dame, an MA in Communication from Fairfield University and a JD from the University of San Francisco. Greg is very passionate about his open-door policy, sports (especially soccer, boxing and football), baking, intercultural communication, traveling and reading folktales. Alexis Clasca she/her/hers Student Conduct Coordinator and Case Manager [email protected] 401-863-2653 Graduate Center E, Fourth Floor 42 Charlesfield Street Alexis joined the office in Fall 2021 after working in research-ethics compliance at the University of California at Berkeley and the University of Miami. She holds a BA in Liberal Studies from Florida International University, and a Master’s in Social Work from Rhode Island College. Alexis will focus on hearing cases, student communication, and case follow-up. As a Miami native she misses sunshine and Cuban cafecitos, but has adapted well to curling up indoors in the winter with a cozy mystery and her Manx cat, Moxie. Contact Us OSCCS Staff Request Student Conduct Record Provide Feedback Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Student Conduct & Community Standards Student Conduct & Community Standards Brown University Box 2014 Graduate Center E 42 Charlesfield St., 4th Floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2653 Fax: 401-863-1999 Email [email protected] Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat