Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Museum Studies Menu Welcome About Contact Us Visit Us News Calvin Smith Award Winners Announced Outstanding Undergraduate Students Named New Degree Options in Museum Studies Events Faculty & Staff Dr. Kenneth Hafertepe Dr. Julie Holcomb Dr. Kimberly McCray Mr. Eric Ames Ms. Lesa Bush Mr. Chris Dyer Mr. Coleman Hampton Ms. Rachael Nadeau Johnson Ms. Joy Summar-Smith Mr. Charlie Walter Ms. Lisa Rieger Students Graduate Program Admissions Degree Requirements Graduate Course Descriptions Graduate Assistantships Resources for Current Students Calvin Smith Award Undergraduate Program Bachelor of Arts in Museum Studies Minor in Museum Studies Minor in Informal Education Undergraduate Course Descriptions Resources for Undergraduate Students Academic Honors Convocation Joint BA/MA Program Admissions for Joint BA/MA Program Degree Plan for Joint BA/MA Financial Information Living in Waco Request Program Information Experience Campus Partners Armstrong Browning Library Central Libraries Institute for Oral History Keston Center for Religion, Politics, and Society Martin Museum of Art Mayborn Museum Complex W.R. Poage Legislative Library Ray Riley Digitization Center The Texas Collection Community Partners The Art Center of Waco Bell County Museum Cameron Park Zoo Creative Waco Dr Pepper Museum and Free Enterprise Institute Historic Waco Foundation Lee Lockwood Library and Museum Masonic Grand Lodge of Texas The Pearce Museum at Navarro College Red Men Museum and Library The Scriptorium Biblical Heritage Museum Texas Heritage Museum at Hill College Texas Ranger Hall of Fame and Museum Texas Sports Hall of Fame Salado Museum and College Park Waco Mammoth National Monument Largent Lecture in Museum Studies Professional Associations Field Trips Internships Alumni Rachael Nadeau Johnson Rebekah Childers Emily Clark Coleman Hampton Valencia Johnson Sarah Beth Wilson Job Placement Apply Now Make a Gift DEPARTMENT OF Museum Studies Learn about the history and philosophy of different types of museums, about the different skills that are needed in museum administration, museum education, collections management and care, archival management, and exhibit design, as well as courses on material culture, decorative arts, historic preservation, and museum ethics. Request Program Information Explore Programs The Department of Museum Studies prepares Baylor students for careers in museums, cultural organizations, and related non-profit institutions. The program provides students with a solid understanding of museum education, collections management, curation, and administration. The department offers a BA and a MA in Museum Studies as well as undergraduate and graduate Minors in the field. The department also offers two unique courses of study. The Joint BA/MA degree in Museum Studies is the first in the nation. It offers undergraduate students in Museum Studies and other selected majors the opportunity to complete both degrees in five years instead of the usual six. The Minor in Informal Education, offered in partnership with the School of Education’s Department of Curriculum and Instruction, prepares bachelor’s level students for careers in museums, zoos, galleries, historical sites, parks, and other cultural sites that offer educational experiences for visitors. About Our Programs Experiential Learning Located within the Mayborn Museum Complex which surrounds students with many academic and career opportunities. This multidisciplinary museum serves as a living laboratory where students apply their classroom learning by participating in all aspects of the museum's daily operations. Internships Undergraduate and graduate Museum Studies students are encouraged to complete a summer internship. We have had placements at institutions across the United States. Field Trips Because our program is a unique blending of the academic and the professional, many classes go on the road, visiting museums large and small in Waco and beyond. More About Experiential Learning Financial Information The Department of Museum Studies and Baylor University offer a variety of funding options for graduate students. Scholarships The department offers two types of scholarships on a competitive basis. Tuition scholarships provide tuition remission for up to 9 hours per semester. Endowed scholarships are credited to the student’s Baylor account and may be used to pay for tuition, fees, books, and other expenses. Assistantships The department and its partner institutions offer several graduate assistantships in campus museums, libraries, and archives, and at the Waco Mammoth National Monument. Students work up to 20 hours per week. Stipends are set by the host institution and range from $12 to $22 per hour. Other Resources Other forms of financial aid, including loans and federal work study, are available through Student Financial Services. Financial Resources Upcoming Events May 16 2022 Minimester session May 31 2022 Tinker Tuesday 10:00am Mayborn Museum Complex Jun 6 2022 Super Hero Storytime | John Morris 10:30am Mayborn Museum Complex Jun 7 2022 Tinker Tuesday 10:00am Mayborn Museum Complex More Events PROFILES Emily Clark is the Design Den Coordinator at the Mayborn Museum. Emily Clark M.A. in Museum Studies, 2016 Coleman Hampton is the Executive Director of the Bell County Museum in Belton, Texas. Coleman Hampton M.A. in Museum Studies, 2016 Sarah Beth Wilson is the Director and Curator of Exhibitions at the Art League of Houston. Sarah Beth Wilson B.A. in Museum Studies, 2006 (Baylor University) and M.A. in Art History, 2009 (Texas Christian University) Valencia Johnson is the Project Archivist for Student Life at Princeton University. Valencia Johnson M.A. in Museum Studies, 2017 Rachael Nadeau Johnson is the Collections Manager for the Dr Pepper Museum & Free Enterprise Institute. Rachael Nadeau Johnson M.A. in Museum Studies, 2014 Rebekah Childers is the Assistant Registrar at the Buffalo Bill Center of the West in Cody, Wyoming. Rebekah Childers M.A. in Museum Studies, 2014 Alumni Profiles Department of Museum Studies 1300 S. University Parks Drive Waco, TX 76706 (254) 710-1233 FacebookLinkedinFacultyApplyVisitStudents Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Contact Us Visit Us News Calvin Smith Award Winners Announced Outstanding Undergraduate Students Named New Degree Options in Museum Studies Events Faculty & Staff Dr. Kenneth Hafertepe Dr. Julie Holcomb Dr. Kimberly McCray Mr. Eric Ames Ms. Lesa Bush Mr. Chris Dyer Mr. Coleman Hampton Ms. Rachael Nadeau Johnson Ms. Joy Summar-Smith Mr. Charlie Walter Ms. Lisa Rieger Students Graduate Program Admissions Degree Requirements Graduate Course Descriptions Graduate Assistantships Resources for Current Students Calvin Smith Award Undergraduate Program Bachelor of Arts in Museum Studies Minor in Museum Studies Minor in Informal Education Undergraduate Course Descriptions Resources for Undergraduate Students Academic Honors Convocation Joint BA/MA Program Admissions for Joint BA/MA Program Degree Plan for Joint BA/MA Financial Information Living in Waco Request Program Information Experience Campus Partners Armstrong Browning Library Central Libraries Institute for Oral History Keston Center for Religion, Politics, and Society Martin Museum of Art Mayborn Museum Complex W.R. Poage Legislative Library Ray Riley Digitization Center The Texas Collection Community Partners The Art Center of Waco Bell County Museum Cameron Park Zoo Creative Waco Dr Pepper Museum and Free Enterprise Institute Historic Waco Foundation Lee Lockwood Library and Museum Masonic Grand Lodge of Texas The Pearce Museum at Navarro College Red Men Museum and Library The Scriptorium Biblical Heritage Museum Texas Heritage Museum at Hill College Texas Ranger Hall of Fame and Museum Texas Sports Hall of Fame Salado Museum and College Park Waco Mammoth National Monument Largent Lecture in Museum Studies Professional Associations Field Trips Internships Alumni Rachael Nadeau Johnson Rebekah Childers Emily Clark Coleman Hampton Valencia Johnson Sarah Beth Wilson Job Placement Apply Now Make a Gift