Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Emerging Media (BFA) – Experimental Animation Track Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Arts and Humanities Department(s) Visual Arts & Design, Schl of In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. The Emerging Media BFA allows students to integrate multiple domains of art, design, storytelling, and technology in one of the three portfolio required tracks, Character Animation, Experimental Animation or Graphic Design. The program is designed to provide: a solid foundation in techniques and theory in one of the listed tracks; a broad understanding of related disciplines including arts, humanities, and technology; and, an extended experience in working in multidisciplinary teams on realistic problems. The program is administered through the School of Visual Arts and Design. The Experimental Animation track encourages students to explore expression through innovative and often hybrid, analog and digital practice(s). The track approaches animation from an artistic, individualized point of view. In the track, students engage in classic, current, and widely varied techniques and mediums making moving images, which may be narrative or non-narrative creative works. By graduation, each student has developed a unique creative vision which culminates in the completion of a B.F.A. capstone. As part of the program, some courses study the form and proportion of the human figure. Nude models are used as reference. Admission Requirements Admission into the Experimental Animation track requires successful completion of the Experimental Animation Portfolio review. The Experimental Animation review process is held in the Spring semester. Portfolio information can be found at: https://svad.cah.ucf.edu/experimental-animation-portfolio/ Students who do not pass the Experimental Animation Portfolio review should contact SVAD Advising ([email protected]) to discuss options. Note: One-on-one portfolio reviews are not possible due to the large number of received portfolios. Degree Requirements Students who change degree programs and select this major must adopt the most current catalog by filing a catalog year change with their degree change form. Departmental Residency Requirement consists of at least 36 semester hours of regularly scheduled 3000-4000 level courses taken from the UCF School of Visual Arts and Design. Students must earn at least a "C" (2.0) in each required course except DIG 2000, which requires a "B" (3.0) or better. BFA students must achieve a 3.0 GPA in all major requirements. Co-op credit cannot be used in this major. Students should consult with their SVAD advisor each semester. Note: Emerging Media majors must have continual access to a computer. Contact the UCF Technology Product Center or see the website (http://tpc.ucf.edu) for the minimum hardware and software specifications. No more than 6 hours of overlap allowed between courses used in the Emerging Media BFA and any minor. Please see SVAD advising for permission to complete more than one major in SVAD. Certain restrictions apply and a plan of study must be approved. View Full Description Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Career Opportunities UCF prepares you for life beyond the classroom. Here, you’ll experience a wide range of opportunity, like learning diverse skills from world-renowned faculty to networking with top employers across Central Florida to gaining first-hand experience in internships nearby. Achieve your degree and more as a Knight. 3D Animator Advertising Photographer Animator Graphic Artist Graphic Design Professor Graphic Designer Industrial Photographer Magazine Designer Marine Photographer Medical Photographer News Photographer Newspaper Photojournalist Photojournalist Piano Performance and Pedagogy Professor Portrait Photographer School Photographer Tattoo Artist Theatre Professor Voice Professor Wedding Photographer Show More Career Opportunities Degree Search College of Arts and Humanities programs Bachelors Emerging Media (BFA) - Experimental Animation Track University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management × The Emerging Media BFA allows students to integrate multiple domains of art, design, storytelling, and technology in one of the three portfolio required tracks, Character Animation, Experimental Animation or Graphic Design. The program is designed to provide: a solid foundation in techniques and theory in one of the listed tracks; a broad understanding of related disciplines including arts, humanities, and technology; and, an extended experience in working in multidisciplinary teams on realistic problems. The program is administered through the School of Visual Arts and Design. The Experimental Animation track encourages students to explore expression through innovative and often hybrid, analog and digital practice(s). The track approaches animation from an artistic, individualized point of view. In the track, students engage in classic, current, and widely varied techniques and mediums making moving images, which may be narrative or non-narrative creative works. By graduation, each student has developed a unique creative vision which culminates in the completion of a B.F.A. capstone. As part of the program, some courses study the form and proportion of the human figure. Nude models are used as reference. Admission Requirements Admission into the Experimental Animation track requires successful completion of the Experimental Animation Portfolio review. The Experimental Animation review process is held in the Spring semester. Portfolio information can be found at: https://svad.cah.ucf.edu/experimental-animation-portfolio/ Students who do not pass the Experimental Animation Portfolio review should contact SVAD Advising ([email protected]) to discuss options. Note: One-on-one portfolio reviews are not possible due to the large number of received portfolios. Degree Requirements Students who change degree programs and select this major must adopt the most current catalog by filing a catalog year change with their degree change form. Departmental Residency Requirement consists of at least 36 semester hours of regularly scheduled 3000-4000 level courses taken from the UCF School of Visual Arts and Design. Students must earn at least a "C" (2.0) in each required course except DIG 2000, which requires a "B" (3.0) or better. BFA students must achieve a 3.0 GPA in all major requirements. Co-op credit cannot be used in this major. Students should consult with their SVAD advisor each semester. Note: Emerging Media majors must have continual access to a computer. Contact the UCF Technology Product Center or see the website (http://tpc.ucf.edu) for the minimum hardware and software specifications. No more than 6 hours of overlap allowed between courses used in the Emerging Media BFA and any minor. Please see SVAD advising for permission to complete more than one major in SVAD. Certain restrictions apply and a plan of study must be approved. Degree Requirements Core Requirements: Basic Level 15 Total Credits Complete all of the following Earn at least 15 credits from the following: ART2201C - Design Fundamentals-Two Dimensional (3) ART2203C - Design Fundamentals-Three Dimensional (3) ART2300C - Drawing Fundamentals I (3) ART2301C - Drawing Fundamentals II (3) GRA2101C - Introduction to Computer Art (3) ARH2051 - History of Western Art II (3) GEP Course: ARH 2051 Core Requirements: Advanced Level 33 Total Credits Complete the following: ART3026C - Procedural Animation (3) ART3628 - Experimental Animation Professional Practice (3) ART3643C - Digital Effects & Compositing (3) ART3737C - Narrative Sculpture (3) ART3952 - Experimental Animation Portfolio ART4027C - Stop Motion Animation (3) DIG4323C - Modeling for Visual Language (3) FIL3720C - Introduction to Animation (3) FIL3734C - Intermediate Animation (3) FIL4735C - Advanced Experimental Animation (3) FIL4750C - Experimental Animation Workshop (3) GRA4802C - Advanced Computer Graphic Design (3) Restricted Electives 12 Total Credits Complete all of the following Earn at least 12 credits from the following types of courses: upper level courses from the following areas and the associated prefixes: Art History (ARH), Studio Art (ART), Digital Media (DIG), Film (FIL), Illustration (GRA*), and/or Photography (PGY). *GRA courses does not include Graphic Design major restricted courses. Capstone Requirements 3 Total Credits Complete the following: ART4971 - Experimental Animation Thesis (3) Grand Total Credits: 63 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida