Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Student Affairs About News Events Calendar SMU Research Bush Center Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Undergraduate Admission Apply Visit Financial Aid Menu Search Apply Transfer Transfer Scholarships Transfer Scholarships Transfer Benefits of an SMU Education Transfer Scholarships Transfer Admission Application Process Transfer Dates and Deadlines Transfer Pathway Guides Transfer Equivalency Tool Meadows Auditions and Portfolios Transfer Forms and Applications International Transfer Students FAQs Congratulations on your admission to SMU! How Credits Transfer Partnership Programs We Invest in The Best and The Brightest Transfer Merit Scholarships are automatically awarded to students who have completed 50 transferable hours with a minimum 3.50 GPA. (24 of the 50 hours must be completed post-high school graduation.) Transfer Merit Scholarships are limited to students seeking their first undergraduate degree. Transfer scholarships are renewable for up to five terms as a full-time student with a 3.0 SMU cumulative GPA. Transfer students who have 30 or fewer hours may be considered for some first-year academic-based scholarships based on high school academic performance. North Texas Community College Scholarship This scholarship awards 10 full-tuition scholarships for up to five terms to students transferring from Collin, Dallas, Grayson, Trinity Valley, Navarro and Tarrant County community college districts and completing their admission application by April 1(extended to April 15) (fall-term entrants only). This scholarship is renewable if full-time enrollment and a 3.0 GPA are maintained. Requirements: Complete at least 50 transferable credit hours with a minimum 3.70 transferable GPA. Submit an essay. This is a personal statement. We want to get to know you and understand your goals and ambitions. Submit 2-3 letters of recommendation. Submit an extracurricular résumé. You can submit all of your materials within your personalized status page 24-48 hours after submitting your application. You will receive an email with the login instructions.All application materials, including transcripts, must be received by April 1 (extended to April 15). Selection is based on the student’s academic profile, demonstrated leadership, community involvement and unique life experiences. Candidates are selected and interviewed individually by the University Committee. Timeline for North Texas Community College Scholarship Selection April 1 (extended to April 15) Application Deadline, including essay, letters of recommendation, extra-curricular/personal resume May 22 Final Spring College Transcript Due Late-May/Early June Committee reads files and selects interviewees First or second week of June Interviewees notified by phone of interview date and time No later than mid-June Interviews held Within a few days of interviews Recipient selection by interview committee. Winners and non-winners notified by phone. Honor Transfer Scholarships Students with at least 50 transferable credit hours and a minimum 3.70 GPA who are transferring from two- or four-year institutions in the fall or spring term are eligible for half-tuition for up to five terms. The scholarship is renewable if full-time enrollment and 3.00 GPA are maintained. All students who meet the requirements and have been accepted to the University will automatically be considered for the scholarship. Requirements: Complete at least 50 transferable credit hours Minimum 3.70 transferable GPA Transfer Merit Scholarships Students with a 3.5 transferable GPA and at least 50 transferable credit hours transferring from a 2-or 4- year college are eligible for $1,500 per term for up to five terms. Fall- and spring-term entrants are eligible, and the scholarship is renewable if full-time enrollment and 3.0 GPA are maintained. All students who meet requirements and have been accepted to the University will automatically be considered for the scholarship. Requirements: Complete at least 50 transferable credit hours Minimum 3.50 transferable GPA Phi Theta Kappa (PTK) Supplemental Scholarship The PTK scholarship is the only scholarship that requires the submission of the PTK Honor Scholarship application form with an advisor's signature. The application for admission serves as the scholarship application for all other scholarships. The Phi Theta Kappa honor society awards $2,000 per year to its members transferring to SMU to be used as a supplemental scholarship to the Honor Transfer Scholarship (half-tuition) or the Transfer Merit Scholarship ($3,000). Twenty awards are granted in fall and ten awards are granted in spring. The PTK scholarship is renewable for up to five terms if full-time enrollment and a 3.00 GPA are maintained. Requirements: Must be active member of Phi Theta Kappa for at least one year at your current two-year college. Must have completed at least 50 transferable credit hours with a minimum 3.50 cumulative transferable GPA. Additionally students must be aU.S. citizen or permanent resident to be eligible for this scholarship. Two letters of academic recommendation, which can be emailed to ugadmission@smu.edu. Submit the PTK Honor Scholarship application form. (You will need to know the name and email address of your PTK advisor to complete the application form.) Candidates are selected based on PTK membership, demonstrated leadership, community service and submitted materials including essay, letters of recommendation and application information. Deadline is April 1 (extended to April 15) for fall entry or November 1 for spring entry. Erin Tierney Kramp (ETK) Scholarship Annually two recipients of the Dallas College Erin Tierney Kramp Encouragement Endowed Scholarship are chosen to continue their college education at SMU. This scholarship will cover the cost of tuition and fees for five semesters. Students must indicate that they are ETK recipients within their application. If more than two recipients apply, a faculty panel will interview the candidates. Requirements: Complete at least 50 transferable credit hours Minimum 3.50 transferable GPA Deadline is April 1 (extended to April 15) for fall entry. Apply NowVisit Us Back to top Academics Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Science Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education & Human Development SMU CAPE SMU Libraries The Guildhall Audience Links Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Media Parents Quick Links SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Bush Center SMU Store Academic Calendar Events Calendar Employment Giving to SMU Virtual Tour Get in Touch Contact Us Maps Directions Compliance Legal Disclosures Report Sexual Harassment Reporting a BIAS Incident HEERF Reporting Emergency Preparedness Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Apply First-Year Domestic Student* Application First-Year International Student* Application Transfer Forms and Applications Readmission to SMU Graduate Studies FAQs | Undergraduate Temporary Test-Optional Policy Visit Virtual Campus Experience In-Person Visit Virtual Tour Admission Events Maps and Directions Residential Commons Tour Where to Stay Academics Majors and Minors Schools Faculty Virtual Connections Support and Resources Honors and Scholars Tips SMU Abroad SMU-in-Taos FAQs | Academics Campus Life SMU and Dallas Residence Life Dining Health and Safety Spirit and Traditions Diversity At SMU Activities and Organizations Fitness and Recreation Sports Spiritual Life En Espanol FAQs | Living on Campus FAQs | Student Life Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Types of Aid Access SMU Financial Aid Process Payment Plan Options SMU Net Price Calculator Mustang Scholars Robert H. Dedman Scholarship for North Dallas High School En Español Contact Us Deadlines FAQs FAQs | Financial Aid FAQs | Tuition, Fees, and Deadlines Scholarships and Assistance Connect Meet Your Admission Counselor School Contacts Request Information High School Counselor Information Parent Information Social Media and Zoom Backgrounds Frequently Asked Questions Publications Student Ambassadors Coronavirus (COVID-19) Updates Incoming and Current Students Prospective Student Publications Wallpapers International How to Apply Visit SMU Life in Dallas Living at SMU International Student Events Intercultural Engagement Athletics at SMU Spirit and Traditions Immigration Information Obtaining an I-20 Transfer Benefits of an SMU Education Transfer Scholarships Transfer Admission Application Process Transfer Dates and Deadlines Transfer Pathway Guides Transfer Equivalency Tool Meadows Auditions and Portfolios Transfer Forms and Applications International Transfer Students FAQs Congratulations on your admission to SMU! How Credits Transfer Partnership Programs Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Apply Academics Campus Life Majors and Minors Visit Financial Aid Did you know? SMU's main campus is located in the nation's fourth largest metropolitan area, Dallas-Fort Worth, with 7.4 million people and more than 20 Fortune 500 headquarters.Learn More Menu Search