Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School Financing & Support Internal Funding & Appointments Conference Funding Graduate School Skip to Navigation Conference Funding Presenting papers in-person or virtually at professional conferences is important to graduate students' academic careers and growth as professionals, and is relevant experience for all career paths. Graduate students presenting at academic conferences, in person or virtually, can apply to the Graduate School for up to $650 to cover registration, travel, and other related expenses. Given funding limitations, an application does not guarantee support. Some programs have independent funds to support such travel; students should check with their Director of Graduate Studies (DGS) for more information. All applications and associated documentation must be submitted online through UFunds. Please email [email protected] with any questions. Award Eligibility: Doctoral students in years 1 - 6 or on a COVID Appointment Extension; Master's students Students are eligible to apply for conference travel funding if they are doctoral students in years 1-6, doctoral students on a COVID Appointment Extension, or Master’s students during the entire duration of the travel or virtual conference associated with the award. Students currently on leave are not eligible. Students enrolled in degree programs in the Division of Biology and Medicine are not eligible; please see the BioMed Travel Awards. Presenting, either in-person or virtually, at a conference Students must show proof that they have been invited to present at a conference. This can be an official email or letter of invitation to present at the conference or a program from the conference with the student’s name and presentation title listed. The Conference Travel Fund is available for both domestic and international conferences. Awards will not be granted for merely attending a conference. Receive up to $650 in Conference Travel Funds per academic year Students can receive up to $650 per academic year (June 1 through May 31) as determined by the end date of the travel or virtual conference. This can be used for one conference or split among more than one. There is no limit on the number of times a student can apply for conference funding. Apply at least 14 days before the start of your conference or travel Applications must be submitted through UFunds at least 14 days before the start of travel or the start of the conference. Students not able to make this deadline should email [email protected] to see if an exception can be made. This requirement allows the Graduate School time to process applications and notify students whether they will receive funding or not prior to the start of travel or the start of the conference. Provide an approved Safety Plan, if applicable All students are required to register their travel plans in TravelSafe (for both domestic and international travel). In addition, some international travel destinations require completion of a Safety Plan in TravelSafe and approval from the Global Travel Risk Assessment Committee (GTRAC). Check Brown’s current travel guidelines and requirements on the International Travel Risk Management webpage or the Travel Policies webpage to determine if GTRAC approval is required for travel to your intended destination. Using your Conference Travel Fund award The Conference Travel Fund award is processed as a reimbursement through a student’s home department. Prepaid expenses such as airfare, conference registration, and prepaid hotel rooms can be submitted for reimbursement prior to travel. Expenses that are not paid for in advance, as well as per diem meals, can be submitted once the student returns from travel or the conference concludes. All documentation should be submitted to a student’s home department within 30 days of the completion of travel. Please refer to the Graduate Travel Fund Reimbursement Guidelines for details about the reimbursement process and what documentation to submit. Other Funding Opportunities Graduate School Travel Funding Summary International Travel Fund Doctoral Research Travel Grant Joukowsky Summer Research Award Graduate Student Council Conference and External Travel Funding Global Mobility Research Fellowship Student Research Grants in Judaic Studies Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Financing & Support Tuition & Fees Health and Dental Insurance Financial Considerations Master's Funding Ph.D. Funding Internal Funding & Appointments Student Loans Student Employment Student Payroll Procedures Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Related Items UFUNDS Online Application Graduate Travel Fund Reimbursement Guidelines GSC Conference Funding International Travel Fund Doctoral Research Travel International Travel Information Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants