Skip to main content Close search Search for people, topics, events, etc. Search Go to homepage Toggle menu Toggle search Close menu Events & Exhibitions Visit Upcoming Events Past Events Fellowship Fellows Become a Fellow Schlesinger Library About the Library Research Services Collections Visit the Library News & Ideas Opportunities For Students For Researchers For Educators Toggle search About Give Media Harvard and Slavery Opportunities For Students For Researchers For Educators About Give Media Harvard and Slavery Opportunities for Educators Whether you are a K–12 teacher or a college professor, Harvard Radcliffe Institute programs can help bring your curriculum to life. In addition to grants and funding available to educators for research and curricular support, the Institute can host classes in various capacities. Teachers may partner with our Schlesinger Library to introduce students to archival research or to hold a research class in the Schlesinger's dedicated teaching space. Guided tours of our exhibitions are also available. Teaching with our collections is such an effective way of creating an appetite for original research among undergraduates who may never have used special collections. Having a dedicated teaching space with display screens, a document camera, and flexible furniture for small-group work really is transformative in allowing us to provide creative, experiential learning opportunities for students. Tamar Gonen Brown Research librarian, Schlesinger Library It’s my firm conviction as a teacher and as a scholar that the Schlesinger Library’s work with students is some of the most significant work historians do. The documentary record of ages past comes alive in the hands of young people. Jane Kamensky Carl and Lily Pforzheimer Foundation Director of the Schlesinger Library and Jonathan Trumbull Professor of American History in the Harvard Faculty of Arts and Sciences It’s exciting to just let students explore the archive—it doesn’t matter where they go with it, because it’s all real and relevant to what we’re talking about in class. Marlin Kann Teacher of United States history, Cambridge Rindge and Latin School 01 / 03 Slide left Slide right Grants for Educators Teacher Support Grants The Schlesinger Library invites school teachers in grades 6–12 to apply for support for research in our collections connected to work in their classroom. Grants of up to $3,000 will be given on a competitive basis. Priority will be given to those who have demonstrated innovative pedagogy in social studies and history, and whose proposals make a compelling case about the ways materials available only at the Schlesinger Library will be incorporated into the applicant’s curriculum plans. The awards may be used to cover travel and living expenses, photocopies or other reproductions, and other incidental research expenses, but not for the purchase of equipment or travel to other sites for research. Applications for this grant are currently being accepted. All applications must be received by 11:59 PM EST on Sunday, January 30, 2022. Apply for a Teacher Support Grant Harvard and the Legacy Of Slavery Grants For Course Support Harvard faculty members instructing undergraduate or graduate students in courses related to the topic of Harvard and the legacy of slavery, broadly defined, may also apply for funding to support research and creative work by students in their classes. Grants to faculty will be up to $5,000, and faculty will be responsible for allocating funds to support their students’ work. Larger grant amounts may be considered on a case-by-case basis. Applications for course projects will be accepted and reviewed on a rolling basis, beginning in fall 2020. Funding decisions will be communicated twice per year. Applications must include a course description, a description of the types of student projects envisioned, the number of students enrolled in the course, and a description of how grant funds would be allocated among them. If you are interested in pursuing this funding, please contact Harvard and the Legacy of Slavery. Interested in Funding? Contact the Initiative Teaching and Learning with Special Collections The Schlesinger collections can bring your curriculum to life. Learn more about group exploration of these riches. Teach from Our Archives Highlights: Suffrage School 01 / 08 Slide left Slide right Jessica Morandi on how anti-suffragists used statistics to support their position Durba Mitra looks at a 1975 poster from the United Nations’ International Women’s Year Tania Shew on “a feminist Go Fish!” developed in 1908 by Catharine Waugh McCulloch Robyn C. Spencer on Angela Davis’ 1989 speech, “Women, Race, and Class in the 1990s” Corinne T. Field on Susan B. Anthony’s 80th birthday celebration, in 1900 Katherine M. Marino on Doris Stevens’ collaboration and conflict with Cuban suffragists Elaine Weiss on how Alice Paul harnessed visual iconography for voting rights #SuffrageSyllabus, a collaborative teaching resource Explore Suffrage School Gallery and Exhibition Education Radcliffe Gallery Series Throughout the course of exhibitions, artists, students, and faculty and staff members, along with local community groups, respond to the show in a series of gallery events open to the public. The series may include live performances as well as meditations and discussions on exhibition themes. The gallery series may occur in person and online; registration is required. View Upcoming Gallery Events Radcliffe Exhibition Tours Artists, curators, students, and educators lead private and public tours for groups of all kinds. The tours engage in interdisciplinary themes present in the exhibition and can be tailored for a particular group. Gallery tours occur in person and online. Schedule a Tour #SuffrageSyllabus A collaborative teaching resource on the history of women and voting in America, #SuffrageSyllabus explores the tangled history of gender and United States citizenship. It was created by a group of scholars working together with Harvard College students and Schlesinger Library staff as part of the Library’s Long 19th Amendment Project. The semester-long course of readings and assignments—organized around turning points in the history of American voting rights and female citizenship, from 1776 to the present day—is adaptable to a wide variety of classrooms. Explore #SuffrageSyllabus News & Ideas History Comes Alive through the Archives Everyday History The Site of My Favorite Classes Back to top B a c k t o t o p Get the latest Radcliffe news delivered to your inbox Enter your e-mail address Continue Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study Harvard University 10 Garden Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Directions Give Now Contact Visit Careers Housing Meeting Spaces Site Map Digital Accessibility Accessibility Harvard University Policies Follow us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Follow us onInstagram Subscribe to our RSS feed Visit our LinkedIn page Visit our YouTube channel © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College