Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open the search panel Open the main menu Search Go Close the search panel Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers News Events Alumni Giving About Library Login Open the Search panel Admissions Admissions Why Columbia J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics Academics J.D. Program and Curriculum LL.M. Program and Curriculum Executive LL.M. Program and Curriculum J.S.D. Program and Curriculum Dual and Joint Degrees International Programs Public Interest and Public Service Experiential Learning Courses Registration Services Academic Calendar Executive Education Areas of Study Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Criminal Justice Data Analytics Environment and Energy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Intellectual Property and Technology International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace Leadership Legal History Litigation and Dispute Resolution National Security and Privacy Social Justice and Human Rights Faculty & Scholarship Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Directory Research Centers and Programs Scholarship Archive Workshops, Lectures, and Colloquia Careers Careers Private Sector Careers Public Interest and Public Service Careers Academic Careers Judicial Clerkships Employment Statistics Employment Policies Community Life Community Life Visit Campus Dean’s Welcome Your Campus, Your City Student Life Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Strategic Initiatives Merritt B. Fox Arthur Levitt Professor of Law Full-time Faculty Education J.D., Yale Law School, 1971 Ph.D., Yale University, 1980 B.A., Yale University, 1968 Areas of Study Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Areas of Specialty Corporate and Securities Law Law and Economics International Finance Capital Markets Regulation Corporate Finance Merritt Fox is an economist and legal scholar whose work in corporate and securities law is influential in setting the agenda for capital markets regulation. He also is co-director of the Center for Law and Economic Studies and co-director of the Program in the Law and Economics of Capital Markets. His research interests include law and economics, securities disclosure regulation, international securities regulation, and comparative corporate law. Fox’s books include The New Stock Market: Law, Economics, and Policy (Columbia, 2019), Corporate Governance Lessons From Transition Economy Reforms (Princeton, 2006), and Finance and Industrial Performance in a Dynamic Economy (Columbia, 1987). Fox’s articles have appeared in numerous publications, including the Columbia Law Review, Duke Law Journal, Stanford Law Review, NYU Law Review, Michigan Law Review, and Business Lawyer. As one of the directors of the Program in Law and Economics of Capital Markets, Fox leads the New Special Study designed to guide policymaking for capital markets. He brings a law and economics perspective to his courses on Corporate Finance and Securities Regulation. He also has a course on Capital Markets Regulation, which is offered jointly with Columbia Business School. Fox chairs Columbia’s university-wide Advisory Committee on Socially Responsible Investing. He is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations and past chair of the business association’s section of the Association of American Law Schools. Before joining Columbia Law School, in 2003, Fox taught at the University of Michigan Law School, where he also served as director of the Center for International and Comparative Law and the co-director for Corporate Governance Studies for the William Davidson Institute at the University of Michigan Business School. He has also taught at Indiana University Law School, Tilburg University, Fordham University Law School, and Yale College. Before entering academia, Fox practiced corporate and securities law with Cleary, Gottlieb, Steen & Hamilton, focusing on international and domestic public offerings and international lending to Latin America. Publications January 2019 Columbia University Press The New Stock Market: Law, Economics, and Policy The U.S. stock market has been transformed over the past 25 years. Once a market in which human beings traded at human speeds, it is now an electronic market pervaded by algorithmic trading, conducted at speeds nearing that of light. High-frequency traders participate in a large portion of all transactions, and a significant minority of all trade occurs on alternative trading systems known as “dark pools.” These developments have been widely criticized, but there is no consensus on the best regulatory response to these dramatic changes. The New Stock Market offers a comprehensive new look at how these markets work, how they fail, and how they should be regulated. Fox and co-authors Lawrence R. Glosten and Gabriel V. Rauterberg describe stock markets’ institutions and regulatory architecture. They draw on the informational paradigm of microstructure economics to highlight the crucial role of information asymmetries and adverse selection in explaining market behavior while examining a wide variety of developments in market practices and participants. The result is a compelling account of the stock market’s regulatory framework, fundamental institutions, and economic dynamics, combined with an assessment of its various controversies. “The Core Corporate Governance Puzzle: Contextualizing the Link to Performance,” (with Ronald Gilson and Darius Palia), 99 Boston University Law Review 1995, 2019 The New Stock Market: Law, Economics, and Policy, (with Lawrence R. Glosten and Gabriel Rauterberg), Columbia University Press, 2019 Naked Open Market Manipulation and Its Effects, in Global Algorithmic Capital Markets, Walter Mattli, editor (with Lawrence R. Glosten and Gabriel Rauterberg), Oxford University Press, 2019. “Informed Trading and Its Regulation,” (with Lawrence R. Glosten and Gabriel Rauterberg), 43 Journal of Corporate Law 817, 2018 “Personal Benefit Has No Place in Misappropriating Tipping Cases,” (with George Tepe), 71 Southern Methodist University Law Review 767, 2018 “Stock Market Manipulation and Its Regulation,” (with Lawrence R. Glosten and Gabriel Rauterberg), 35 Yale Journal on Regulation 67, 2018 “Stock Market Futurism,” (with Gabriel Rauterberg), 42 Journal of Corporate Law 793, 2017 “Evaluating Trading Practices and Their Regulation,” (with Kevin Haeberle), 42 Journal of Corporate Law 887, 2017 “Economic Crises and the Integration of Law and Finance: The Impact of Volatility Spikes,” (with Edward G. Fox and Ronald J. Gilson), 116 Columbia Law Review 325, 2016 “Regulating the Offering of Truly New Securities: First Principles,” 66 Duke Law Journal, 2016 “MiFID II and Equity Trading Regulation: A U.S. View,” (Danny Busch and Guido Ferrarini, eds.), Regulation of EU Financial Markets: MiFID II, Oxford University Press, forthcoming, 2016 “The Rise of Foreign Ownership and Corporate Governance,” (Jeffrey Gordon and Wolf-Georg Ringe, eds.), Oxford Handbook of Corporate Law and Governance, Oxford University Press, forthcoming, 2016 “The New Stock Market: Sense and Nonsense,” (with Lawrence R. Glosten and Gabriel Rauterberg), 65 Duke Law Journal 191, 2015 “Halliburton II: It All Depends on What Defendants Need to Show to Establish No Impact on Price,” 70 The Business Lawyer 437, 2015 “Halliburton II: What It’s All About,” 1 Journal of Financial Regulation 135, 2015 “Ongoing Issues in Russian Corporate Governance,” 52 Columbia Journal of Transnational Law 435, 2014 “Securities Class Actions Against Foreign Issuers,” 64 Stanford Law Review 1173, 2012 “Promoting Innovation: The Law of Publicly Traded Corporations,” 5 Capitalism and Society 1, 2010, Issue 3 “Short Selling and the News: A Preliminary Report on an Empirical Study,” (with Lawrence Glosten and Paul Tetlock), 54 N.Y.L.S. Rev. 645, 2010 “Civil Liability and Mandatory Disclosure,” 109 Columbia Law Review 237, 2009 “Why Civil Liability for Disclosure Violations When Issuers Do Not Trade,” 2009 Wisconsin Law Review 299, 2009 “Regulation and the Competitiveness of U.S. Securities Markets,” Sesquicentennial Essays of the Faculty of Columbia Law School, 2008 “Gatekeeper Failures: Why Important, What to Do,” 106 Michigan Law Review 1089, 2008 Honors and Awards Doctorate of Laws, University of Buenos Aires December 2019 Activities and Affiliations Chair, Business Associations Section, American Association of Law Schools, 1997 to 1998 Research Associate, European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) Member, American Economics Association Member, American Society of International Law Council on Foreign Relations (Term Member, 1975–1980, Regular Member, 2004–present) Member, American Law and Economics Association Member, The American Law Institute Member, New York City Bar Association, Securities Litigation Committee Member, Center on Capitalism and Society, Columbia University Download Full CV Related News and Stories Read All Stories More in The Press Research and Scholarship News Developing a New Vision for Capital Market Regulation A conference on technology and the markets looks at the balance between innovation and regulation. In The Press Market Manipulation Is Like Pornography: You Know It When You See It Joshua Mitts Merritt B. Fox | Bloomberg In The Press New York Loses Climate Change Fraud Case Against Exxon Mobil Merritt B. Fox | The New York Times Faculty News Our Year in Books Admissions Why Columbia Visit 435 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 212-854-2640 Contact Us Social Media (Administrative Title) Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Instagram Admissions Academics Areas of Study Faculty & Scholarship Careers Community Life Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers Login News Events Alumni Giving About Library Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Donate © Copyright 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York.