Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of the Arts Main Navigation About Us Show Extended Contact Dean's Message Facilities Visitor Information Students Show Extended Advising (Current Students) Advising and Registration (New Students) Assistant Dean for Student Affairs First Generation College Students Get Involved! Scholarships Student Success Center University Catalogue (2022-2023) Events & Visitor Information Show Extended PERFORMANCES & EXHIBITIONS College of the Arts Events & Activities Calendar Grand Central Art Center Exhibitions Digital Program Booklets BOX OFFICE & VISITOR INFORMATION Clayes Performing Arts Center Box Office Visitor Information Alumni Spotlights & Arts Titans in the News Show Extended Alumni: Share Your Story! Featured Alumni Titan of Tassel Titan of Winds Arts Titans in the News Art Dance Music Theatre Nicholas & Lee Begovich Gallery Grand Central Art Center Support Groups Show Extended Art Alliance Alliance for the Performing Arts/MAMM Music Associates Donate Now Purchase Tickets Get Connected Clayes Performing Arts Center Box Office Box Office location, services, hours and important links & information The Dwight Richard Odle Box Office is located at the south-west corner of the Joseph A. W. Clayes III Performing Arts Center (CPAC) adjacent to the Nutwood Parking Structure and across from the Visual Arts Complex. For your convenience, a limited number of free, 15-minute parking spaces are available near the Box Office at the end of Arts Dr. The Box Office provides tickets for: Meng Concert Hall, Young Theatre, Hallberg Theatre, Little Theatre, Recital Hall and Grand Central Theatre. Please note: All sales are final. No refunds (exchanges may be made; please call the Box Office for further information.) All ticket orders are subject to a $3.00 processing fee Theatre & Dance productions Music performances Purchase tickets Parking and directions Venue seating charts Box Office Hours and Methods of Payment Beginning 9/14/2021 Tuesday–Friday: 12 pm to 4 pm Closed on major holidays, Winter, Spring and Summer Breaks The Box Office is also open one hour prior to scheduled ticketed performances (sale is limited exclusively to that day's performance's only). Cash, check or credit card accepted Box Office Contact Information Phone: (657) 278-3371 Fax: (657) 278-1335 Email Mailing Address : Cal State Fullerton CPAC 101, Box Office PO Box 6850 Fullerton CA 92834-6850 Accessibility Information Cal State Fullerton is committed to providing equal access to all patrons. If you require special accommodations, please contact us two weeks in advance of your visit to ensure your full enjoyment of our performances. Assistive Listening Devices: Infared assistive listening devices are available for Meng Concert Hall, and Young and Hallberg Theatres. Headsets may be used with or without a hearing aid and are distributed free of charge on a first-come, first-served basis. Discounts for Music Performances All Student Discount : All high school, college and university students may attend any* music performance for $5 or $8. Tickets must be purchased at the Box Office with valid student I.D. Titan Discount : is available for students, seniors age 62 and older, and Cal State Fullerton staff, faculty, Alumni Association, Osher Lifelong Learning Institute (OLLI) active military and veterans and support group members. Discount not available for fundraising events. *Special events are excluded All ticket orders are subject to a $3 processing fee Discounted tickets are available until 30 minutes prior to the performance Discounts for Theatre and Dance Performances All Student Discount: All high school, college and university students may attend any non-musical CSUF theatre/dance performance for $12. Tickets for musicals and opera performances are $22. Tickets must be purchased at the Box Office with valid student I.D. Titan Discount: is available for CSUF students, seniors age 62 and older, and Cal State Fullerton staff, faculty, Alumni Association, Osher Lifelong Learning Institute (OLLI) active military and veterans and support group members. Discount not available for fundraising events. Group Tickets: Groups of 10 or more can receive special discounts for most events. Call the Box Office for price quotes and availability. FlexTix Subscriptions: Information on subscriber benefits and subscription purchases. All ticket orders are subject to a $3 processing fee Discounted tickets are available until 5 p.m. the day of performance (weekend performance tickets must be purchased by 5 p.m. Friday). Discounts for Grand Central Theatre and Dance Performances All Student Discount: All high school, college and university students may attend any non-musical performance for $5. Musicals are $10. Tickets must be purchased at the Box Office with valid student I.D. All sales for Grand Central Theatre performances will be available at the CPAC Box Office until 5pm the day of the show or 5pm on Friday for weekend performances. All sales thereafter must be purchased online . All ticket orders are subject to a $3 processing fee Rules when attending music performances or theatrical productions: Purchase of a ticket constitutes your opt-in for our performance information eBlasts. You may opt-out at any time. Ticket valid only for date and time issued.  Regardless of age, everyone entering must have a ticket.  Please ensure all electronic devices are turned OFF before entering the venue.  Reserved seating is not guaranteed unless you are in your seat by the printed start time.  Use the Nutwood Parking Structure at the Arts Dr. entrance from State College Blvd.  Latecomers and anyone exiting during performances are (re)seated at House Manager’s discretion.  Absolutely no refunds on ticket purchases. Lost/destroyed tickets may be replaced for a nominal fee.  A ticket is a revocable license and admission may be refused upon refunding the purchase price.  No cameras, recorders, laser devices or food/drink of any kind allowed in theaters or concert halls.  Minimum age to attend performances or productions is 4 years of age. This site is maintained by College of the Arts. Last Published 4/14/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact jbussell@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.