Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Human Resources Human Resources Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links New Employee Welcome Menu Main Nav New Employee Welcome How can we help you? Back Back Close Key Contacts Benefits Your First Year Boston Learn About BC How can we help you? Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Human Resources Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Welcome and congratulations on joining the BC community! Here you will find information on benefits, policies, life on campus, and beyond. We hope you find this information helpful as you begin your career at Boston College. Employee Policies University Policies HR Policies COVID-19 Testing and Policies All new hires should report to the Margot Connell Recreation Center located on Main Campus for COVID-19 testing. You should get tested prior to or during your first week of work. You can park in front of the Recreation Center and enter through the main entrance door on the left, following signs for COVID-19 Testing/Mac Court. It is helpful to have your Eagle ID number and BC email on hand when you arrive for testing. Please remember to complete your daily symptom check before arriving on campus. Coronavirus Policies BC Daily Symptom Check Welcome Letters William P. Leahy, S.J., President David Trainor, Vice President for Human Resources Welcome Letter from William P. Leahy, S.J., President Dear Fellow Employee: The strength and vitality that Boston College today enjoys is due in no small part to the many important contributions made by each of its members. The University benefits greatly from the dedication and professionalism that each of you brings to your work. As a Jesuit institution, Boston College takes special interest in the well-being of everyone in its community. I encourage you to take advantage of the many opportunities and resources available to you for your personal growth and professional development. I hope you will derive much satisfaction and personal fulfillment in knowing the vital contribution that you make to the success of our University. Sincerely, William P. Leahy, S.J. President Welcome Letter from David Trainor, Vice President for Human Resources Dear Colleague: It is with great pleasure that I welcome you to Boston College! As a member of our staff, you are a part of an institution that is proud of its Jesuit heritage and the accomplishments that have made it an outstanding national university. Boston College, as an employer, is committed to providing an environment that is conducive to carrying out the University’s mission. For our valued employees, we strive to administer our policies, as well as our benefit and compensation programs, in a manner that is competitive, fair, and understandable. The Human Resources Department is structured to provide a full range of services, including benefits administration, recruiting and placement, classification and compensation, and employee relations. We also focus great attention on institutional diversity, employee development, faculty/staff assistance, and child care. On behalf of the entire Human Resources staff, I give you our very best wishes for fulfillment and success at Boston College. Go Eagles!!!! Best regards, David P. Trainor Vice President for Human Resources FAQ Open All Close All How do I get my BC ID? All University students, staff, and faculty (and their spouses, if desired) are issued Eagle One Cards through the Office of Student Services. Proof of identification such as a driver's license or passport must be presented in order to be issued an Eagle One Card. A New employee may obtain their Eagle ID in Lyons Hall one to two days after they have completed their new hire paperwork with HR Service Center. Eagle One Card info How do I get my security credentials? New faculty and staff will receive their usernames during the hiring process. If you don't know your username, contact the Help Center at 617-552-HELP (4357) or your Technology Consultant. technology consultant list How do I get my campus parking permit? A temporary pass (valid for one week, to allow you to obtain your regular permit) is available from the Employment Office for newly hired faculty and staff to park for free in specific “G” and "B" permit areas (excluding garages). To purchase a permit, use your Agora account and click on parking permits and citations. This will allow you to register for a permit. After registering, pick up your permit at Student Services, located in Lyons Hall. faculty & staff parking info How do I find my way around campus? Boston College My Services, formally the Agora portal (http://portal.bc.edu) is the University’s Intranet (Internal Website). It is used by employees and students to access a variety of systems, services and information. campus maps & directions How do I access the Agora Portal? agora portal How do I make changes to my information in the BC directory? update your info (agora portal) How do I set up my direct deposit? direct deposit instructions When do I get paid? Members of the professional/administrative staff are paid in the middle of the month (usually the 16th) for that calendar month. New employees who begin working in the middle of a month and who miss that month's pay cycle will be paid in full on the next monthly pay cycle. All other employees are paid on the last working day of each week for work performed the previous week. How do I enter time in Kronos? Kronos timekeeping instructions As a manager, how do I approve time and requested time off in Kronos? Kronos manager instructions Back To Top Back To Top Human Resources 129 Lake Street Brighton Campus 617-552-3330 Key Contacts Benefits Your First Year Boston Learn About BC Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College