Skip to main content Information For: Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Apply Give to HGSE Search Apply for Degree Programs Apply for Professional Education Donate Give back to HGSE and support the next generation of passionate educators and innovative leaders. Keywords Close Menu Degree Programs Professional Education Faculty & Research Usable Knowledge Keywords About HGSE About the Dean Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Commentary and Media Dean's Office History of HGSE Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Impact Campus and Facilities Office Directory Virtual Tour Gutman Conference Center Reservation Request Form Capacities and Cost Floor Plan Catering Policies Audio Visual Directions, Parking, and Hotels Map of HGSE Directions to HGSE History of HGSE Buildings Faculty & Staff Directory Work at HGSE Title IX Information Doctoral Degree Programs Doctor of Education Leadership Doctor of Philosophy in Education Brochures Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Doctoral Viewbook Master's Degree Program Master's in Education Programs Education Leadership, Organizations, and Entrepreneurship Education Policy and Analysis Human Development and Education Learning Design, Innovation, and Technology Teaching and Teacher Leadership Concentrations Arts and Learning Early Childhood Global, International, and Comparative Education Higher Education Identity, Power, and Justice in Education Literacy and Languages A Personalized Approach Online Master's in Education Leadership Foundations Brochures Academic Catalog Academic Calendar Academic Year 2020-22 Programs Professional Education About Us Programs Early Childhood K-12 Higher Education Online Programs For Organizations Group and Team Enrollment Custom Programs Admissions Payment & Tuition Assistance Refunds & Withdrawals Policies and Accessibility Campus Experience On-Campus Program Health and Safety Policies FAQs Events Contact Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Centers, Projects and Initiatives Faculty Recruitment Faculty Experts Admissions Introduce Yourself Explore Find the Right Program Brochures Life at HGSE Connect Apply Refer a Candidate Frequently Asked Questions Financial Aid HGSE & Harvard University Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Incoming Students Incoming International Students Continuing Students Scholarships, Fellowships & Grants Need-Based Grant Awards HGSE Fellowships Additional Fellowships External Fellowships Student Loans Student Work International Students International Applicant FAQ Funding Sources Students with Families Financial Aid Appeals Presentations & Publications Budgeting & Financial Literacy Budget Calculator Registrar News & Events Harvard Edcast Education Now Askwith Education Forum Upcoming Events Submit an Event Usable Knowledge Ed. Magazine Harvard Education Publishing Group Information for Media Education Now Usable Knowledge Usable Knowledge Harvard EdCast Ed. Magazine HGSE Centennial Community Learning Beyond the Classroom Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Organizations and Initiatives Community Events and Action Resources Teaching and Learning Gutman Library Services Alumni Services Collections Special Collections Request for Library Purchase Library Hours Websites for Educators About the Library Facilities & Equipment Contact Information Coronavirus Response Information Directory Calendar Alumni Network & Connect Get Involved Learn & Grow Benefits & Services my.harvard Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Information For Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Connect with HGSE Facebook Twitter Linked In LinkedIn Symbols Created with Sketch. Instagram Financial Aid External Fellowships First, be sure that you thoroughly review the information on the HGSE Financial Aid website, including need-based grant and scholarship awards, fellowships requiring application through the HGSE Financial Aid Office, and funds available through the Harvard Committee on General Scholarships. Most successful external scholarship searches focus on areas of personal or professional interest or connection. We recommend searching for opportunities through your social or professional networks rather than general open-ended searches. External scholarships often have varying application procedures and deadlines, so the earlier you begin identifying potential sources the better your chances at success. HGSE External Scholarship Guide The HGSE External Scholarship Guide lists several external scholarship providers, and is mainly geared toward U.S. citizens and permanent residents. External Funding Sources for International Students International students should review the International student section of this website, particularly the section on Outside Funding Sources for International Students. The International Scholarships site may also be a helpful resource. Harvard's Subscriber Database Access Harvard subscribes to the Sponsored Programs Information Network (SPIN) and Community of Science (COS) network databases for its students. The lists provide thousands of funding possibilities. (Harvard students must use Harvard computers. Out-of-town alumni and prospective applicants may be able to obtain permission for use of these and similar databases, e.g., IRIS, through nearby colleges, universities, or public libraries.) One of the most accessible databases is the UCLA Fellowship Database. This large, well-organized list is easy to search and available to everyone. Online Search Engines and Websites Among the many online options, some students find it helpful to utilize search engines such as FastWeb. FinAid.org also contains a good amount of useful information and is a useful departure point. There are many reputable and valuable online resources. Unfortunately, scams exist for fellowships and scholarships just as they do in other areas of the online world. You should never pay a fee in order to compete for a scholarship. Any group that asks for even a small payment is suspect. Creative keyword searches online can be used in the same way the subscribed databases use them, and may provide listings of smaller or more specialized awards. To tailor a search to your academic or personal profile, use words that describe your research and writing interests and professional goals and skills, and, in a personal search, affiliations with organizations which may have funds to support students who share your interests and background. Consider who may benefit by the study or work you hope to do. Try combinations of keywords (pre-dissertation, graduate fellowships, pre-doctoral grants and scholarships); use advanced search options to refine your ideas. Look up relevant professional societies; see if your undergraduate institution offers help. Consider and search your affinity groups (religious, ethnic, gender, racial) for opportunities as well. In this section Financial Aid HGSE & Harvard University Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Incoming Students Incoming International Students Continuing Students Scholarships, Fellowships & Grants Need-Based Grant Awards HGSE Fellowships Additional Fellowships External Fellowships Student Loans Student Work International Students International Applicant FAQ Funding Sources Students with Families Financial Aid Appeals Presentations & Publications Budgeting & Financial Literacy Budget Calculator Financial Aid Financial Aid HGSE & Harvard University Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Incoming Students Incoming International Students Continuing Students Scholarships, Fellowships & Grants Need-Based Grant Awards HGSE Fellowships Additional Fellowships External Fellowships Student Loans Student Work International Students International Applicant FAQ Funding Sources Students with Families Financial Aid Appeals Presentations & Publications Budgeting & Financial Literacy Budget Calculator Sign up for our newsletters to get the latest from the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Sign Up Now Artboard 1 13 Appian Way | Cambridge, MA 02138 Centennial Contact Us Directory Directions Harvard University ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Linked In Symbols Created with Sketch. Youtube RSS Podcast HGSE Publishing Policies & Disclaimers Digital Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy Trademark Notice