Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator Research Lifecycle 1. Get Started 2. Identify Funding Opportunities 3. Write Proposal 4. Submit Proposal 5. Conduct Research 6. Commercialize Work Learners Key Partners About Vice Provost for Research and Scholarship Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Events Calendar Contact Us Research Lifecycle Learners Key Partners About Site Feedback Search Research Integrity Conflicts of Interest Complion Data Broker Services Embryonic Stem Cell Research Oversight Committee (ESCRO) eProst (IRB System) Export Control Compliance Foreign Influence & Engagement The Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC) Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) Biological Registration Guide Research Misconduct Research Compliance and Quality Assurance (RCQA) UDisclose Research Lifecycle 1. Get Started 2. Identify Funding Opportunities 3. Write Proposal 4. Submit Proposal 5. Conduct Research 6. Commercialize Work Learners Key Partners About Vice Provost for Research and Scholarship Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Events Calendar Contact Us Site Feedback OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator Research Integrity Conflicts of Interest Complion Data Broker Services Embryonic Stem Cell Research Oversight Committee (ESCRO) eProst (IRB System) Export Control Compliance Foreign Influence & Engagement The Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC) Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) Biological Registration Guide Research Misconduct Research Compliance and Quality Assurance (RCQA) UDisclose $sLabel Home About Research and Scholarship Administrative Areas RAA IBC AAA Research Integrity Conflicts of Interest Complion Data Broker Services Embryonic Stem Cell Research Oversight Committee (ESCRO) eProst (IRB System) Export Control Compliance Foreign Influence & Engagement The Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC) Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) Biological Registration Guide Research Misconduct Research Compliance and Quality Assurance (RCQA) UDisclose Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) Safety in Science: Biological Registration BioRAFT Biological Registration Module Starting September 1 The Biosafety Office and Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) are committed to keeping safety an essential element in your laboratory research. To this end, we are jointly rolling out the new Biological Registration module within the BioRAFT online platform. This system comprehensively tracks all biological research at the University and registers protocols for review by the IBC committee in one location. As of September 1, 2021, the IBC will require that all non-clinical researchers register their IBC-related work in Bioraft. The Biosafety office will require all labs conducting biological research to submit a registration summarizing the nature of their work by October 1, 2021. Please contact ibcsupport@miami.edu or biosafety@miami.edu for system access issues and support. Visit the Biological Registration Guide IBC and BioRAFT Training Opportunities IBC Office Hours Tuesdays and Fridays, 2pm The Institutional Biosafety Committee will provide hands-on guidance on the submission and biological registration process at twice-weekly office hours starting August 2021. For anyone needing more specific office hours, please feel free to reach out to ibcsupport@miami.edu to schedule a 1:1 appointment. Biosafety Office Hours 1st Wednesdays @ 1pm, 3rd Tuesdays @ 9am Question and answer sessions on BioRAFT coinciding with regularly scheduled General Biosafety webinar sessions. The question, answer, and guidance will follow the trainings, starting roughly one hour after the meeting times noted, for those who are not in need of refreshing their biosafety training. Biosafety Resources Open All Tabs Guidance Documents University of Miami IBC Guidelines for Investigators Guidelines for Research Involving Viral Vectors National Institutes of Health (NIH) Office of Science Policy: Summary of NIH Approval Categories (Section III) Biosafety Considerations for Research with Lentiviral Vectors Forms Each time you fill out a new form, please download it from this website. The forms will be updated periodically. If you experience difficulty opening a document, please download directly to your computer. Recombinant DNA Exemption Request Form (For III-F Studies) Recombinant DNA Exemption Request Supplementary Page Human Gene Transfer Research Human Gene Transfer Submission Checklist Biosafety SOP Human Gene transfer studies template Human Gene Transfer Form (For III-C Studies) Annual Report/Closure Form Educational Materials and Resources University of Miami Office of Environmental Health & Safety Overview of the NIH Guidelines PI Responsibilities Requirements for IBCs 2014 IBC Self Assessment UC Irvine Research Tutorials University of Miami SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) Research Laboratory Biosafety Guidelines In keeping with NIH and CDC guidance, the Institutional Biosafety Committee and Environmental, Health and Safety are requiring that all research with live (isolated) SARS-CoV-2 virus be performed at BL3. There are currently no BL3 facilities at the University of Miami; therefore, this research is not authorized at the University. All other work involving SARS-CoV-2, including clinical specimens and use of recombinant/synthetic nucleic acids, must be registered as per the attached table, Research Laboratory Biosafety Guidelines. Projects involving the use of recombinant/synthetic nucleic acids from SARS-CoV-2 will also require IBC approval. Project approvals will detail the required containment practices for the proposed work. 2021 IBC Meeting Dates and Submission Deadlines Submission Deadlines Meeting Dates Thursday, January 13, 2022 Thursday, January 27, 2022 Thursday, February 10, 2022 Thursday, February 24, 2022 Thursday, March 10, 2022 Thursday, March 24, 2022 Thursday, April 14, 2022 Thursday, April 28, 2022 Thursday, May 12, 2022 Thursday, May 26, 2022 Thursday, June 9, 2022 Thursday, June 23, 2022 Thursday, July 14, 2022 Thursday, July 28, 2022 Thursday, August 11, 2022 Thursday, August 25, 2022 Thursday, September 8, 2022 Thursday, September 25, 2022 Thursday, October 13, 2022 Thursday, October 27, 2022 Thursday, November 3, 2022 Thursday, November 17, 2022 Monday, December 5, 2022 Thursday, December 15, 2022 Thursday, January 12, 2023 Thursday, January 26, 2023 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 305-284-2211 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices