Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu University & Student Business Services Staff Directory Fees Calendars Students Parents Campus Card USBS Info/Policies Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Fees Credit/Debit Card Usage Fees Deadlines & Dates Explanation of Fees Fee Adjustment (Refund) Policy Military Tuition Assistance (TA) Refund Policy and Schedule Fee Charts Fee Discounts, Waivers & Tuition Assistance Fee Payment Policies Financial Assistance Guaranteed Tuition Installment Payment Plan Payment Options Third Party/Direct Billing Take Action TigerXpress Cost of Tuition Estimator Forms Contact Us Follow Us Online twitter Home University & Student Business Services Fees Credit/Debit Card Usage Fee Credit/Debit Card Usage for Payments Communication letter to University Students, Families, and University Communities [PDF] The University is committed to keeping tuition and mandatory fees low and in order to continue this strategy, we need to reduce the cost of doing business wherever possible. In our efforts to provide our students with a cadre of payment options while maintaining and reducing the cost of doing business, the University has contracted with TouchNet, a third-party company, to provide credit/debit card processing services for student accounts via their PayPath system. Through this service, those who wish to remit their payment via a credit/debit card are afforded additional levels of security and confidentiality. For this service, TouchNet will be assessing a 2.85 percent nonrefundable processing fee (minimum $3.00 charge) to cover the credit/debit card transaction costs assessed on all credit/debit card student account transactions. This change is effective January 2, 2019. This change will include the following: A 2.85% ($3 minimum) nonrefundable processing fee will be added by TouchNet to all credit and debit card payments for student accounts. Two separate transactions will appear on your credit/debit card statement. One transaction for the student account payment and one transaction for TouchNet’s processing fee. For example, if a payment was for $1,000.00, the credit/debit card transaction would be $1,000 payment to the university and a second transaction for $28.50 for the processing fee and be reflected on your credit/debit card statement. Credit and debit card payments will no longer be accepted over the phone, by mail, fax or in person. Students must log into their TigerXpress account to submit credit card/debit card payments. There will be no processing fee for eCheck (ACH) transactions. Paper checks may be mailed to the University of Memphis, P.O. Box 1000, Dept. 313, Memphis, TN 38148-0313. Cash, checks, money orders and cashier checks will continue to be accepted in person at the USBS Office. If you have questions about this change or any of the payment options available, please visit Credit/Debit Card Processing Fee FAQs. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 1/28/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.