Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Rawls College of Business Menu Search TTU Rawls College Home About Career Management Center Career Management Center The Rawls Career Management Center has returned to normal operations, and will continue to offer in-person and virtual opportunities to recruit our students. Employers: Visit our Employer Resources section to learn more about upcoming in-person and virtual career fair events. We're happy to assist with scheduling your in-person on-campus interviews, or virtual interviews. If your company would like to post your available positions, we're ready to assist you in adding them to Handshake. Please feel free to reach out to us by email, phone, or through your Handshake account. We will do everything we can to assist you in your recruiting process! <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> Placement Student Resources Employer Resources Our Mission Cultivating student success since 2003, the Rawls Career Management Center empowers students by helping them Prep, Connect, Get Hired, and Succeed. Prep: Provide professional knowledge and tools through coaching, workshops, and events to equip students for career success. Connect: Collaborate with employer partners to create networking and career opportunities. Get Hired: Assist students in the recruiting process with resources such as Handshake, on-campus interviews, and career fairs. Succeed: Encourage confidence through established professional skills allowing students to thrive in the workplace. Our Vision To be a trusted and reliable resource for Rawls College of Business students and employer partners. Upcoming Events Jun3 Rawls PMBA Lunch and Learn 11:30 AM - 1:00 PM Where: Alvarez & Marsal 2100 Ross Ave Mezzanine Level Dallas, TX 75201 Join us for lunch and learn how our Professional MBA program helps advance your career. Our hybrid structure lets you have the best of both worlds - the depth of learning gained from on-campus instruction (9 weekends per year) and the convenience of online learning. Jul17 Rawls PMBA Lunch and Learn 11:30 AM - 1:00 PM Where: BVWD 8117 Preston Road 1st Floor Training Room Dallas, Texas 75225 Join us for lunch and learn how our Professional MBA program can help advance your career. Our hybrid structure lets you have the best of both worlds - the depth of learning from on-campus instruction (9 weekends per year) and the convenience of online learning. Jul29 Rawls PMBA Lunch and Learn 11:30 AM - 1:00 PM Where: Ryan 112 East Pecan Street Suite 2315 San Antonio, Texas 78205 Join us for lunch and learn how our Professional MBA program helps advance your career. Our hybrid structure lets you have the best of both worlds - the depth of learning gained from on-campus instruction (9 weekends per year) and the convenience of online learning. Aug7 48th Annual Texas Tech School of Banking Sunday, August 7, 2022 - Fri , August 12, 2022 (all day) Where: Rawls College of Business Since 1973, the Texas Tech School of Banking has successfully partnered with hundreds of community banks to bring together bankers seeking to advance their careers as current or future members of their management and leadership teams. The concentrated week-long programs are delivered by seasoned experts in their fields, and specifically designed to provide a greater understanding of all aspects of community bank management today and in the future. Our goal is to help participants grow profession More Events News Rawls College Holds Seventh Annual Rawls Diversity Symposium Rawls College Virtual Career Fair Sees Increased Student Participation Despite Severe Winter Weather The Rawls Career Fair Goes All-Virtual for Fall 2020 More News Contact 806.742.4530 rawlscmc@ttu.edu Directory Corporate SponsorsMeet our sponsors Contact DirectoryContact Directory Directory News for NewsNews for News News EventsEvents Events HeartHeart Give Guns Up!Guns Up! Merchandise Rawls College of Business Like Rawls College of Business on FacebookLike Rawls College of Business on Facebook Follow Rawls College of Business on twitterFollow Rawls College of Business on twitter Subscribe to Rawls College of Business on YouTubeSubscribe to Rawls College of Business on YouTube Follow Rawls College of Business on FlickrFollow Rawls College of Business on Flickr Follow Rawls College of Business on InstagramFollow Rawls College of Business on Instagram Connect with Rawls College of Business on LinkedInConnect with Rawls College of Business on LinkedIn Address Rawls College of Business, Box 42101, 703 Flint Avenue, Lubbock, TX 79409 Phone 806.742.3188 Email ba_webmaster@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityNov 17, 2021 2:19 PM Rawls College of Business About Rawls College of Business Back Welcome Rawls College of Business Back Accreditation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Jerry S. Rawls Mission & Vision Strategic Plan Leadership Rawls College of Business Back Dean Margaret L. Williams Associate Deans Deans Gallery Resources Rawls College of Business Back Building Information Directory Rawls College of Business Directory Back Faculty Directory Staff Directory Ph.D. Student Directory Marketing & Communications Office of Engagement Rawls Technology Services Staff & Faculty Intranet Wall Street Journal Academics Rawls College of Business Back Areas Rawls College of Business Back Accounting Energy Commerce & Business Economics Finance Information Systems & Quantitative Sciences Management Marketing & Supply Chain Management Undergraduate Programs Rawls College of Business Back Majors Certificates Excellence in Banking Rawls Summer Business Institute Scovell Business Leadership Program Graduate Programs Rawls College of Business Back Explore Programs MBA Programs M.S. Programs Doctoral Programs Dual Degree Programs Graduate Certificates Professional Programs Rawls College of Business Back School of Banking Consortium for the Advancement of Research Methods and Analysis (CARMA) Students Rawls College of Business Back Prospective Undergraduate Rawls College of Business Back Explore Majors Why Rawls College? Scholarships Request Information Visit Campus Become a Rawls Student Apply Now Prospective Graduate Rawls College of Business Back Explore Programs Request Information Apply Now Current Students Rawls College of Business Back Undergraduate Advising Careers & Internships Study Abroad Student Organizations Share Feedback with Rawls College Scholarships Testing Center Wall Street Journal Mediasite Recordings Student Centers Rawls College of Business Back Undergraduate Services Center Career Management Center Center for Global Engagement Center for Sales & Customer Relationship Excellence Georgie G. Snyder Center for Business Communication Rawls Technology Services Recruiters & Companies Rawls College of Business Back Recruit at Rawls College Rawls College of Business Back Career Management Center Placement Statistics Corporate Sponsors Employer Resources Handshake Faculty & Research Rawls College of Business Back Faculty Rawls College of Business Back Faculty Directory Chairs & Professorships Jerry S. Rawls Excellence in Undergraduate Teaching Awards Research Rawls College of Business Back Research News Events Faculty Publications Research Lab Shannon Rinaldo Student Research Pool Rawls Undergraduate Research Program Centers & Institutes Rawls College of Business Back Center for Entrepreneurship & Family Business Center for Real Estate Center for Sales & Customer Relationship Excellence eLearning Center Free Market Institute Institute for Leadership Research E.W. and J. David Williams Institute for Community Banking and Finance CARMA Rawls College of Business Back About Join CARMA Event Schedule Short Courses Contact Alumni & Friends Rawls College of Business Back Engagement & External Relations Rawls College of Business Back Get Involved Stay Informed Awards Techsan Connection Advisory Council Rawls Outfitters Giving Rawls College of Business Back Why Give? Giving Opportunities Smart Giving Give Now Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index