Skip to main content Skip to main content Follow Us Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Twitter Skip to main content Log In Log In Student Login Log In Instructor Login Log In Canvas Login Canvas Login My Profile My Applications My Enrollment History My Certificate Plan My Account My Saved Items Log Off Contact Us Contact Us Help Help <span class="sr-only">Number of items in the shopping cart: </span><span id="cartCount"></span> Number of items in the shopping cart: Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Program Search Programs and Courses Areas of Study Career Building College Prep Communications & Marketing Creative Development Design & UX Engineering & Technology Humanities & Fine Arts Languages Legal & Finance Management & Leadership Program Types Certificate Programs Short Courses Corporate Programs & Customized Learning Instructors Resources for Current Instructors Instructor Portal Canvas for CAPE Instructors Become a CAPE Instructor Propose a Course Help Center New Students Payment Options & Financing Veterans Benefits FAQ Current Students Student Portal Canvas Zoom Instructors Instructor Portal Canvas for Instructors Policies & Procedures Parking & Maps About About Us Contact Us Blog Navigate Search Skip to main content CAPE Program Search All Programs & Courses All Programs & Courses Areas of Study Certificate Programs SMU College Prep Customized Learning Short Courses Areas of Study Areas of Study Career Building Communications and Marketing Creative Development Design and UX Engineering and Technology Humanities and Fine Arts Languages Legal and Finance Management and Leadership Courses Instructors Instructors Propose a Course Help Center Help Center Canvas for CAPE Courses Information about SMU NetIDs Frequently Asked Questions Instructor Portal Parking & Maps Payment Options and Financing Policies and Procedures Student Portal Digital Badges Adding Your SMU Certificate Credential to LinkedIn Veterans Zoom About SMU CAPE About SMU CAPE Contact Us ☰ CAPE Program Types Short Courses Short Courses Explore exciting topics with dynamic instructors as your guides. SMU’s continuing education courses have been part of Dallas’ intellectual fabric since 1953. Designed for lifelong learners, short classes are developed and facilitated by thought leaders and experienced educators who are committed to student success. New classes start throughout the year. Registration is open to adults 18 and older regardless of educational background. Learn something new to: Advance Your Career Boost Your Knowledge Enhance Your Life Expand Your Network Help You Succeed In Person Courses Live Online Courses Self-Paced Online Courses Search All Courses "The entire process from signing up for the class to the out of class room communication, study materials and on-line live lessons from the teacher where all first class. The amount of learning that I accomplished in 4 weeks is amazing. I went from not sure I could write a book to I know I can write a book. And publish it! I would recommend it to anyone who might have had the thought...I would like to write a book someday." – Student in How to Write & Self-Publish Your First Book "Suzanne Clark was effective in teaching a medium virtually and extremely generous with her time. She conducted a well-balanced workshop to incorporate useful art references and techniques while allowing for hands on practice so we could benefit from the time allotted. Wonderful class!" – Student in Exploring Media: Watercolor Workshop "I'm planning my trip to the Loire Valley found Dr. Seitz’s insider, exclusive information most helpful for trip planning. I also enjoyed learning the historical aspects of the chateaux. We received book recommendations for further study, and I was so pleased to have these additional resources provided." – Student in French Chateaux of the Loire Valley: Discovering France's Best Castles "Dr. Jann is one of the best you’ve got, and she’s always extremely knowledgeable on her subject matter. I enjoy her walking tours as well." – Student in Beyond Downton Abbey: Inside Britain's Greatest Country Houses Previous Next pause play hide show Areas of Study Career Building Communications and Marketing Creative Development Design and UX Engineering and Technology Humanities and Fine Arts Languages Legal and Finance Management and Leadership Self-Paced Online Courses SMU CAPE offers a comprehensive catalog of self-paced online professional development courses for busy professionals. Courses are affordable, engaging and offer the skills you need to succeed in the competitive job market. Learn More Cybersecurity for Business Courses Self-paced online courses taught by leading cybersecurity practitioners. Learn More Let's Get Started Complete the form below to receive updates about new course offerings. Questions? Contact us at smuthink@smu.edu or 214-768-2273. Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University 5539 SMU Blvd, Dallas, TX 75206 instagram twitter linkedin facebook