Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Mission & Ministry Mission & Ministry Information For: Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Campus Ministry Menu Main Nav Campus Ministry Racial Justice Back Back Close About Overview Meet the Staff Racial Justice Pastoral Counseling Axios Center Pregnancy Resources Together Graduate Programming Connections Religious Vocations Becoming a Jesuit Support Campus Ministry Alumni Resources Liturgy & Sacraments Overview Mass Schedule Liturgical and Music Ministries Sacraments University Chapels Rise and Reflect Related Links BC Jesuit, Catholic Maps Retreats Service Immersion Overview 4Boston 4Boston Community Partners Appa Arrupe International Immersion Global Public Health–Honduras Habitat for Humanity Ignatian Family Teach-In Faith Communities Overview Catholic Christian Life Community Gratia Plena Ignatian Society Knights of Columbus St. Thomas More Society Sons of St. Patrick Una Voce Multi-Faith Student Faith Groups Off-Campus Worship Multi-Faith Chapel Racial Justice Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Mission & Ministry Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Graduate Programming Home About Graduate Programming Campus Ministry offers a variety of programs for Boston College graduate students, including worship, retreats, prayer and reflection opportunities, and spiritual direction. Highlighted Programs Connections Exploring the intersection of work and faith, professors and staff members from the various graduate schools will discuss how this intersection plays out in their own work life, and will serve as conversation partners for students who want to learn more about how people integrate their faith and the Learn More Multifaith Programs Students of all backgrounds and beliefs are welcome at Boston College. Learn about faith groups, off-campus worship opportunities, and meet our campus minister for multi-faith programs. Learn More Pastoral Care Pastoral Counseling embraces the Jesuit principle of cura personalis – care for the whole person – by integrating mental health counseling with one's spirituality or faith tradition. Offerings include counseling, pregnancy resources, grief support, and more. Learn More Rise & Reflect Rise and Reflect is a weekly opportunity offering students a chance to start the day with 10-15 minutes of prayer and reflection. A joint venture between Campus Ministry and Residential Life, it will be hosted on Zoom every Thursday at 10 am. Learn More Sacraments We welcome students interested in exploring Catholicism, or those looking to continue their faith journey by making the sacraments – including confirmation, marriage preparation, and vocations to the church. Learn More Spiritual Direction Spiritual direction is an on-going relationship between a “directee” (person seeking direction) and a “director” (qualified person giving guidance) to discuss the directee’s spiritual life. Through conversation and reflection, the directee becomes more attuned, and can respond more fully, to God in all areas of their life. Learn More Print Open All Close All Interested in being part of an on-going conversation group to discuss faith and spirituality? Rooted in Ignatian spirituality and scripture, CLC’s mission is to enable students to walk together on their personal and communal faith journeys. CLC groups seek to create a space for being attentive to the Spirit in their lives and world around them and to respond out of love. Groups meet once a week for an hour, and members have the opportunity to attend retreats and activities throughout the year. What retreats are available for graduate students? Several of Campus Ministry’s retreats, including the Art and Soul Retreat, the Lenten Mini Retreat, the Manresa Silent Retreat, and the Monastic Retreat are open for graduate students. Additionally, the Office of Graduate Student Life sponsors retreats for students. What service-immersion opportunities are available for graduate students? The Arrupe International Immersion program accepts graduate students for the Adult Mentor role. Mentors accompany our groups throughout the yearlong program experience, including international travel. Additionally, a number of graduate schools sponsor their own service-immersion trips for students. Who do I contact to learn more about graduate student opportunities? To learn more about campus ministry opportunities, contact Ellen Modica (ellen.modica@bc.edu). Back To Top Back To Top Campus Ministry Boston College McElroy 233 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About Racial Justice Liturgy & Sacraments Service Immersion Retreats Faith Communities Support Campus Ministry Division of Mission & Ministry Mission and Ministry Campus Ministry Center for Ignatian Spirituality Center for Student Formation First Year Experience Intersections Montserrat Pastoral Support The Volunteer and Service Learning Center University of Mission and Ministry Service Center Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College