Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu FedEx Institute of Technology About Research Innovation Engagement Emerging Tech Training Tech Transfer Impact Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Research Research Clusters BiologisticsCASTData ScienceDRONESSMARTCitiesAdditive ManufacturingAgr. & Food TechElectric VehiclesEndeavor Innovation Partners IIS MD2K Federal Defense Collaborations Adv Dist Learning InitiativeSTEP Take Action Emerging Tech Training Research Collaborations News & Impact Distinguished Guests Follow Us FacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedIn Home FedEx Institute of Technology Research RESEARCH FROM THE MOLECULAR TO THE GLOBAL, WE WORK TO SOLVE PROBLEMS, RESOLVE DIFFERENCES AND DISSOLVE DOUBT. From 2-D materials to 3-D printing, nano particles to big data, social media to social change, artificial intelligence to real time information, the FedEx Institute of Technology is an engine for exploring the frontiers of human endeavor, discovering new pathways and transforming how we live, work and communicate. The research we support spans the entire spectrum of science and is lead by faculty at the forefront of their fields who pursue next-level understanding of emerging technologies, including: Intelligent systems & artificial intelligence Unmanned & autonomous systems Cybersecurity testing Biologistics & smart biomaterials Robotics and machine learning Virtual reality and immersive environments Blockchain technologies and cryptocurrency Additive manufacturing Mobile health and precision medicine Big data analytics & design thinking Smart cities &spaces Quantum computing Augmented analytics AI-driven development Digital twins Empowered edge Immersive technologies Digital ethics and privacy OUR FORMULA FOR SUCCESS The FedEx Institute of Technology creates and supports groundbreaking interdisciplinary Research & Innovation Clusters at the University of Memphis. Made up of leading researchers across the campus, these clusters are committed to addressing a wide range of technical issues that are critical to the success of our communities, our governments, our national security and our corporate partners. Cluster members work together to apply for research funding, seek external research partners and create training and certification programs for the community. All the while, our clusters find ways to encourage junior and senior faculty, students and community organizations to contribute their ideas and to be a vital part of our efforts. To learn more about a Research Cluster, click on a subject below. Electric Vehicles Electric vehicles will define the roadways of the United States in the coming decades. Researchers from across the UofM are addressing the myriad infrastructure and adoption challenges that this exciting transportation transformation presents. Biologistics The faculty from Engineering, Marketing & Supply Chain, Biomedical Sciences and the Intermodal Freight Transportation Institute (IFTI) collaborates to develop joint research projects to deliver novel solutions. Cyber Security & Testing (CAST) Innovative partners and collaborators from a wide range of backgrounds and disciplines provide proactive leadership of the region's response to constantly shifting cyber security challenges. Data Science Data Science Research Initiative at the University of Memphis and the local community provides a vibrant research environment and training future to build a Data Science community of practice that includes academia, government and industry in West Tennessee, the Mid-South and beyond. Drones, RObotics, and Navigation Enabled Systems (DRONES) The FedEx Institute is committed to the development of innovative research, corporate partnership, an community engagement in all aspects related to Drones, Robotics, and Navigation Enabled Systems (including autonomous vehicles). SMARTCities The University of Memphis and the City of Memphis are partnering on a SMART City Initiative (as part of a larger national-level MetroLab Network program) to address the needs of Memphis citizens utilizing emerging technologies and arising innovations. Additive Manufacturing This cluster focuses from advanced 3D printing technology to modern manufacturing and is among a new generation of advanced technologies enabling degrees of manufacturing precision, efficiency and flexibility never before possible. Agriculture and Food Technologies The world population is estimated to reach 9.7 billion by 2050. This raises critical supply issues, along with environmental concerns, and points to the need to engage in fundamental and applied research that will improve innovation and efficiency in food production while protecting our environment. Endeavor Energy, Defense, AgriTech innovation research, sustainable modernization, tech, and evolving. Human endeavors are always connected. Institute of Intelligent Systems (IIS) The Institute for Intelligent Systems is dedicated to advancing the state of knowledge and capabilities of intelligent systems, including psychological, biological, and artificial systems. Mobile Data 2 Knowledge (MD2K) The MD2K Center brings together the top brains in Computer Science, Engineering, Medicine, Behavioral Science, and Statistics to help develop innovative tools to make it easier to gather, analyze and interpret health data generated by mobile and wearable sensors. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/29/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.