Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School Financing & Support Graduate School Skip to Navigation Financing & Support Investing in Graduate Education The decision to pursue graduate study represents a significant commitment of time, energy, and resources — yours and ours. Students who are admitted to any of Brown's doctoral programs are guaranteed five years of support, including a stipend, tuition remission, health-services fee, and health-insurance subsidy (funding for transfer students may vary). Doctoral students in the Humanities and Social Sciences are guaranteed six years of support. This support can come from a variety of Brown University resources--including Graduate School funds, departmental funds, and faculty research funds--and/or external funds, as applicable. Financial aid for master’s students is not centrally managed and varies among programs; the majority of students enrolled in master’s programs and engaged in non-degree study are self-supported. If you are interested in a master’s program and have questions about financial aid, please contact the program’s director of graduate study. Students’ official letters of admission provide details of their funding packages. All subsequent funding decisions are made at the program level and depend on students' academic progress. Students with funding questions or concerns should contact the program's director of graduate study. Financing & Support Links Tuition & Fees The Brown University tuition will vary by degree program, discipline, and courses required for full-time status. Tuition and fees for all students can be found on the bursar’s website. Insurance All registered students are automatically enrolled in the University's Student Health Insurance Plan (SHIP); students' dependents may be enrolled in SHIP at an additional cost. Financial Considerations Providence is surprisingly affordable. Learn more about realistic costs and considerations. Ph.D. Funding The Graduate School offers incoming doctoral students five years of guaranteed financial support. Master’s Funding The majority of students enrolled in master’s programs and engaged in non-degree study are self-supported. Student Employment Graduate students who are not supported on full-time, tuition-based appointments may choose to find hourly employment during their time at Brown. Student Payroll Procedures All students entering the Graduate School with any form of financial support are required to complete an I-9 form. Financial Aid: Facts, Tips and Tools Information on financial aid resources for graduate students from the Office of Financial Aid. Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Financing & Support Tuition & Fees Health and Dental Insurance Financial Considerations Master's Funding Ph.D. Funding Internal Funding & Appointments Student Loans Student Employment Student Payroll Procedures Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Related Items Office of the Controller Payroll Office Registrar Professional Development Housing Office of Financial Aid Five-Year Guarantee External Funding Internal Funding & Appointments Dissertation Completion Proposal Conference Travel Research Travel Emergency Loan Programs Child Care Subsidy Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants