Skip to main content Toggle Tools navigation Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Search University of Cincinnati UC Home Visit UC Support UC Directories UC Tools Canopy & Blackboard Catalyst OneStop Student Email Faculty / Staff Email Shuttle Tracker UCFileSpace UC Flex/ESS IT Help UC VPN Concur Success Factors Enter a search term to search UC pages or the directory. Search String University of Cincinnati Trustees Kim Heiman Phil D. Collins J. Phillip Holloman Michelle "Shelly" A. Gillis Monica Turner Ronald D. Brown Gregory Hartmann Jill T. McGruder Jack Cohen Andrew Wessel Committees Academic and Student Affairs Health Affairs Finance and Administration Master Planning and Facilities Subcommittee Compensation Subcommittee Audit & Risk Management Governance & Internal Affairs Government Relations Investment Meeting Dates University Rules Administration Business & Finance Personnel Students Academic Property Auxiliary Board Minutes Honorary Degrees Honorary Degrees - Criteria & Process Committee on University Honors Who We Are Under Ohio Revised Code 3361.01, the University of Cincinnati’s Board of Trustees is the governing body of the University of Cincinnati. The board is composed of 11 members, 9 voting members and two nonvoting student members, who are appointed by the Governor of Ohio with the advice and consent of the State Senate. Trustees are appointed to a nine-year term of office, with the exception of student trustees who are appointed to a two-year term. What We Do The board is responsible for selecting and appointing the president; setting the operating budget; approving personnel appointments; granting all degrees awarded by the university, including honorary degrees; establishing tuition and fee rates; approving contracts; and approving all rules, regulations, curriculum changes, new programs and degrees of the university. Mission Statement The University of Cincinnati serves the people of Ohio, the nation, and the world as a premier, public, urban research university dedicated to undergraduate, graduate, and professional education, experience-based learning, and research. We are committed to excellence and diversity in our students, faculty, staff, and all of our activities. We provide an inclusive environment where innovation and freedom of intellectual inquiry flourish. Through scholarship, service, partnerships, and leadership, we create opportunity, develop educated and engaged citizens, enhance the economy and enrich our University, city, state and global community. Now Accepting Applications - Graduate Student Trustee We are pleased to announce an upcoming opening on the Board. Jack Cohen's two-year term on the Board as the Graduate Student Trustee is coming to an end in Spring 2022, and we are looking to find a replacement. Application Information Board of Trustees University Pavilion, Room 614 - 2618 McMicken Circle PO Box 210062 Cincinnati OH 45221-0062 Phone: 513-556-3233 | Fax: 513-556-5269 Alerts Clery and HEOA Notice Notice of Non-Discrimination eAccessibility Concern Privacy Statement Copyright Information © 2018 University of Cincinnati This website offers many PDF files for download, which require Adobe Reader to view.