Skip to content Enter search text All the UW Current site Search scope All the UW Current site MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Menu Home My Husky is a . . . Transfer student International student Out-of-state student First-generation student First-year student Sophomore/Junior Graduating student Resources Parent & Family Guide Student Life Academics Health & Safety Living & Dining Finances Transportation Move In Resources Talk with your Husky Husky Huddle-up podcast Forms, releases, and accounts Common Questions Events All events UW Family Weekend Connect Support Parents & Families Graduating students Congratulations! Your student’s achievement is a celebration for the whole family. We’re excited to welcome you back to campus for all the festivities and help you prepare for what’s next. Campus contacts Alumni Association Career & Internship Center Visitor Center See you on the quad Get ready for commencement 2022. After two years of virtual festivities, we can’t wait to celebrate in person with our Husky graduates and families. More information about this year’s commencement will become available in the coming months. Learn more From student to alum Even though your student will soon leave campus, they’ll remain a Husky for life. That means they’ll soon join a community of 600,000 UW alumni with countless opportunities for connection, learning and networking.Visit the Future Alumni page for an introduction to the UW Alumni Association (UWAA), and don’t miss all the resources available to graduating seniors and new alumni through the UW Career & Internship Center. Learn more Common graduating student questions Common graduating student questions When is commencement? Check back at the graduation page for this year’s commencement date. What’s the best way for new graduates to stay connected to the UW community? UW Husky Landing is a networking platform where students and alumni can swap stories, get advice and find mentors. The UW Alumni Association also has location-specific communities and events. Huskies@Work matches up alumni and students for one-time, low-commitment online talks about careers. It’s an easy and rewarding way for Huskies to connect and explore career paths. What housing options are available to my student at this stage? UW students have the choice to live either on campus in university-owned residence halls, apartments or family housing, or off campus in a property not owned by the university. (Fraternity and sorority houses are considered off-campus housing.) Seniors, have you created or checked off your Husky Bucket List? Senior year is often a time when students are trying to connect all of their experiences while beginning to think about careers, interviews, and other post-graduation preparation. As they enter their remaining years at the UW, remind students to take advantage of all the things that make the UW meaningful to them and to create their own fourth-year must-do list. Did you know? UW Alumni Association memberships make great graduation gifts. Members get discounts on a variety of goods and services and also enjoy all the perks that come with tapping into a network of 600,000 alumni all across the globe. Special rates are available for new graduates. University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA