Main navigation Search Breadcrumb Content Footer menu Basic info & contact footer Top navigation: Contact, Library account Login Current faculty, student, staff login Subscribed alumni and courtesy user login Library Home Libraries & hours Make an appointment Main Nav 2 Home Help with... helpwith-col-one Access My account Borrowing BorrowDirect+ Alumni access Off-campus access helpwith-col-two Research Guides by topic Services for authors Research data & digital scholarship Tutorials helpwith-col-three Questions & appointments Quick start guide Make an appointment Technology & methods consultants Canvas support Ask a question helpwith-col-four Spaces & tools Find a library space Reserve a space Virtual computer lab Software finder Borrow equipment Libraries libraries-col-one Heading Albrecht Music Library Annenberg Library Biddle Law Library Biotech Commons Chemistry Library Education Commons libraries-col-two Heading Fisher Fine Arts Library Kislak Center for Special Collections, Rare Books and Manuscripts Levy Dental Medicine Library LIBRA Library at the Katz CAJS Lippincott Library of the Wharton School libraries-col-three Heading Math/Physics/Astronomy Library Penn Museum Library University Archives Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center Veterinary Medicine Libraries Weigle Information Commons Collections collection-col-one Heading Franklin (search & browse our catalog) Databases & article Indexes BorrowDirect+ (search & browse partner libraries) Research guides collection-col-two Heading Collections by subject Subject specialists Collections development policies Suggest a purchase collection-col-three Heading Special collections University Archives Digital projects Online exhibits News & events news-col-one Heading Penn Libraries News Subscribe to our newsletter news-col-two Heading Exhibits & events Lectures & conferences 30 days of events news-col-three Heading Workshops About about-col-one Heading Strategic Plan 2020-25 Strategic Plan Implementation Locations & hours Social media about-col-two Heading Staff directory Committees Human resources Resources for Libraries staff about-col-three Heading Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Accessibility Policies & guidelines for users Contact us Giving giving-col-one Our approach Our team FAQ Gifts of materials giving-col-two Our priorities Advance Engage Preserve Enrich giving-col-three Your impact Top talent Learning spaces Information resources Programs & outreach Innovations & partnerships giving-col-four Latest news Stories Press releases Penn Libraries in the News Give now Search the Library website ToggleSearch Breadcrumb Penn Libraries Giving Your Impact Innovations and partnerships Innovations and partnerships Main content The Penn Libraries has built on a rich history of leading the way in innovations that benefit our constituents. Penn’s contributions to massive open online courses have thrust new approaches to teaching and learning into the spotlight. Across campus, our learning communities are experimenting with new pedagogical methods, technologies, teaching programs and classroom design. Special recognition is given here to the individuals and families who spark innovation in teaching, research and learning at the Penn Libraries through their leadership support of our mission. Hoesley Digital Literacy Program Application Deadline: July 19, 2021 The Penn Libraries welcomes rising juniors and seniors to apply for the Hoesley Digital Literacy Fellows Program. Partially funded by a generous gift from Board Member Jim Hoesley and his wife Sandee Hoesley, and conducted in collaboration with Career Services, the School of Arts and Sciences, and the Center for Undergraduate Research and Fellowships (CURF), this program encourages creative exploration of technologies commonly used in our rapidly evolving 21st century workplace and beyond. Throughout the experience, Fellows will receive hands-on training and support as they develop a professional website and career-related digital project of their choice. SCETI: Schoenberg Center for Electronic Text and Image In 1996, the Penn Libraries launched SCETI with financial support from Larry Schoenberg (C'53, WG'56) and his wife Barbara Brizdle, both members of the Libraries' Board of Overseers. There are 13th-century Arabic manuscripts on anatomy, historical papers from the Civil War, sound clips of Marian Anderson, recordings of Yiddish folk singers, online tutorials, multimedia exhibits - some 79,000 graphical and sound files in all that document 1,500 years of human culture. Visit the SCETI homepage. Seltzer Family Digital Media Awards The Seltzer Family Digital Media Awards program is open to applications from all Penn undergraduate students with special consideration for students enrolled in the Huntsman Program. Thanks to the generosity of Jeff Seltzer W'78 and his wife Annie, the award provides up to $1,000 for the purchase of equipment (both hardware and software) and supplies to support a new media project for up to one year. (After one year, equipment purchased through the award will return to the Weigle Information Commons for general use.) Examples of items that could support new media projects include: digital videocameras, audio recorders, virtual reality camera peripherals, microphones, scanners, mobile devices, and Geographic Information Systems (GIS) devices. Alberto & Gioietta Vitale Media Lab The Lab offers training and equipment for groups working together with digital media - including video, audio, imaging, and web publishing. The Lab is attended by staff who know the equipment and the craft. Visit the blog of the Alberto & Gioietta Vitale Media Lab David B. Weigle Information Commons September, 2005: The University of Pennsylvania has announced the creation of a new and innovative resource that will enhance the learning experience of students across several dimensions. The David B. Weigle Information Commons is a joint undertaking by the School of Arts and Sciences and the University Library that will support undergraduates as they conduct research and experiment with technology and collaborative learning. The Commons was made possible by a $1 million gift from Penn alumnus David B. Weigle, Wharton 1969. "David's vision splendidly supports our efforts to foster collaborative educational enterprises across the University," Penn President Amy Gutmann said. "We are grateful for his support and leadership on this cutting-edge and multi-faceted project." Your Impact Top Talent Learning Spaces Information Resources Programs & Outreach Innovations and Partnerships For more information about the Libraries and how you can support Library resources and programs, please contact our office at friends@pobox.upenn.edu (800) 390-1829 Give Now Support the Libraries. Your Impact: Top Talent >> Footer: Sitemap for navigation Giving site footer Contact us friends@pobox.upenn.edu (215) 898-8033 Giving Our approach Our priorities Your impact Latest news Make a Gift Give online FAQ Gifts of Materials Get involved Social media Brief footer Penn Libraries Hours Library locations Spaces Workshops Give Footer: Penn Libraries contact info Questions or comments Report accessibility issues and get help 3420 Walnut St., Philadelphia, PA 19104-6206 215-898-7555 Campus Libraries Map University of Pennsylvania ©University of Pennsylvania Admin