Skip to main content Clemson University Degrees Home Degree Programs MENU Financial Management (B.S.) LEARN MORE ABOUT Develop your understanding of financial markets in the contemporary economy, the operation of financial institutions and the financial management of business operations. A major in financial management will prepare you for a career in banking, corporate financial management, financial planning and services, insurance and real estate. Our students learn the financial language of business and how to assess, measure and report on the profitability and financial health of an organization. Governments of all levels also employ finance graduates in many of their divisions and many of our students continue their studies in graduate or law school. A Bachelor of Science in financial management from Clemson will give you the necessary skills to gather, analyze and communicate financial data as required for a successful career within the discipline. FAST FACTS On the Clemson admissions application, you'll apply as a pre-business major. Our graduates are highly recruited within the Southeast. Our national reputation allows us to assist students who wish to obtain positions outside of the region. Our faculty are active in helping students find internships and permanent placement. You'll have the chance to interact with finance professionals through active student organizations, internships, seminars and events that bring financial leaders to campus. WHAT YOU'LL STUDY All students interested in Clemson's financial management degree must first complete a pre-business core curriculum with a 2.0 GPR in order to move into the upper-level degree classes. On the Clemson admissions application, you'll apply as a pre-business major. Once that pre-business curriculum is completed, your classes will cover a broad range of subjects, but will emphasize technical and communication skills. You'll have the flexibility to tailor courses to your needs by choosing emphasis areas that will enhance career preparation in specific areas of finance. We offer four emphasis areas, so you'll be able to focus your studies on a financial topic that interests you the most. Financial Planning Emphasis: Learn how to determine whether and how an individual can meet their goals through the use and management of financial resources. Once you complete a specific set of courses, you'll be eligible to sit for the certified financial planner (CFP) examination. Real Estate Emphasis: Discover how to provide analysis and advice on the acquisition, sale, or management of both commercial and residential real estate. Corporate Finance Emphasis: Learn how to be an analyst responsible for capital investment valuation, financing analyses, financial forecasting, business performance and assessment or reporting. Banking and Investments Emphasis: To prepare you for your career, you'll be armed with the analysis and sales skills needed for involvement in analysis, management or sales within a bank or investment company. Curriculum Financial Management, B.S. Popular Minors Accounting Legal Studies Management Information Systems Similar Majors Accounting (B.S.) Economics (B.S./B.A.) Management (B.S.) EXPERIENCES BEYOND THE CLASSROOM As a financial management student, you'll graduate with a strong professional focus, and you'll have numerous opportunities to engage with finance professionals, peers with similar interests and faculty who can help guide you toward the best career path for your interests and talents. Trading Room It's like Wall Street without leaving campus! The Clemson Trading Room offers students an opportunity to gain real-time trading experience using sophisticated technology. Community Participate in a living-learning experience where you get to live and learn with peer business majors in a dedicated residence hall. Take part in educational and extracurricular activities while forming life-long friendships.Learn More » Internships Students are encouraged to complete an internship during the summer between their junior and senior years. This experience will help you learn to apply classroom concepts to actual business problems.Learn More » Join in The Financial and Accounting Professionals (FAP) of Clemson is a student organization dedicated to exploring the world of accountancy and financial services. Study Abroad During the summer, students have the opportunity to take one or two classes at Magdalen College at Oxford University in London. Long weekends enable optional side trips to cities such as Paris, Dublin and Brussels.Learn More » CONNECT WITH OTHER STUDENTS Student Organizations AFTER GRADUATION Your college decision isn't really about the next four years. We get it. It's about what doors are opened by your degree and whether those opportunities are what you had envisioned for yourself. Here's a snapshot of what life after graduation looks like for some of our most recent students. WHERE OUR RECENT GRADUATES HAVE GONE KEY 41-100% 21-40% 11-20% 0-10% RECENT EMPLOYERS Financial Analyst Risk Management Delta Air Lines Portfolio Management Analyst Truist Financial Corporation Wealth Management Adviser Merrill Lynch Broker-in-Charge SVNBlackstream Financial Management Analyst Bank of America RECENT POSTGRADUATE STUDIES MAcc Clemson University MBA Coastal Carolina University J.D. Washington and Lee University COMMON CAREER AREAS Corporate and Investment Banking Financial Analysis Investment and Portfolio Management Credit Scoring and Risk Management Insurance and Claims Underwriting Services Financial Planning Advisory Services Customer Service Operations Mergers and Acquisitions Trading Real Estate Commercial Lending Appraisals Property Management Sales Used with permission from the University of Tennessee. FIND OUT MORE Have more questions or want more information? Fill out the form below, which goes directly to the following department contact. If you’d also like to receive general University information from Clemson’s admissions office, please follow the link to the right and sign up to join our mailing list. Jake Anderson Recruiter manders@clemson.edu Department Website College Website Loading... Department Website College Website Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2015 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on Google+ Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on YouTube Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram Search Clemson University degrees Clemson Degree Programs Search Alphabetical List Schedule a Visit Campus Life Admissions Costs & Financial Aid Similar Majors To Financial Management (B.S.) Accounting (B.S.) Economics (B.S./B.A.) Management (B.S.)