Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Bioinformatics PSM You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Bioinformatics PSM Apply Request More Info Bioinformatics PSM Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Professional Science Master's in Bioinformatics Develop expertise in the various software tools that help you identify, interpret and analyze biological data with the Professional Science Master's in Bioinformatics in Temple’s College of Science and Technology. This 30-credit-hour graduate degree is ideal for those who are currently working or seeking positions in the biotechnology, healthcare or pharmaceutical industries. Since classes are offered at night, it is flexible enough to fit your busy schedule while providing an advanced, professional development-focused graduate curriculum. Through the program, you’ll develop a deep understanding of computer programming, genomics and structural biology. The Bioinformatics PSM program integrates biology, chemistry, computer science, physics and statistics to investigate solutions to biological problems. Not only will you understand the computational and statistical methods used to analyze or discover data involving biochemistry, biophysics and genomics, you’ll be able to communicate them succinctly and effectively. Coursework includes ethics in bioinformatics, which examines the legal, privacy and social issues of using computational approaches to large data sets; scripting languages, which focus on the scripting languages and operating environments used in scientific computing; and structural bioinformatics, which studies protein structure analysis and methods building probabilistic models of sequence ensembles. With opportunities for research in one of Temple’s many state-of-the-art facilities or an internship at a local biotechnology company, the Bioinformatics PSM helps position you for career advancement with real-world experience in this rapidly growing field. Program Requirements To earn the Bioinformatics PSM, students must successfully complete a final capstone project, which involves either an internship with a local biotechnology, healthcare or pharmaceutical company or research in the College of Science and Technology labs, under the guidance of a student’s program principal investigator. Internships focus on one of three specializations, including computational bioinformatics, genomes/genomics or structural bioinformatics. Coursework for the Bioinformatics PSM must be completed within two years, on either a part-time or full-time basis. Learn more about the program requirements for the Bioinformatics PSM. Classes & Curriculum Bioinformatics PSM students are required to complete 30 credit hours of coursework, including classes in other College of Science and Technology Departments, to earn the degree within two years. Classes take place on Temple’s Main Campus, where the biology labs and research facilities are located. Classes are a blend of research and seminar courses, some of which include Biostatistics, Ethics in Bioinformatics, Genomics, and Scripting for Sciences and Business. Learn more about required courses for the Bioinformatics PSM. Related Graduate Degrees Bioinformatics PhD Bioinformatics PSM Bioinnovation PSM Biology MA Biology MS Biology PhD Biotechnology PSM Scientific Writing PSM Related Graduate Certificates Bioinformatics Scientific Writing Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Professional Science Masters offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,205.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,567.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors Faculty advisors will help you to shape your coursework and research activities to align with your goals and academic interests. Seema Freer is an associate professor in the Biology Department and the managing director of PSM programs. Phone: 215-204-8842 Email: sfreer@temple.edu Jody Hey is a professor in the Biology Department and director of the Bioinformatics PSM. Phone: 215-204-8569 Email: hey@temple.edu Ronald Levy is a professor in the Chemistry Department and director of the Bioinformatics PSM. Phone: 215-204-0607 Email: ronlevy@temple.edu Program Contact For general questions regarding the Bioinformatics PSM, contact cst.psm@temple.edu. Seema Freer is an associate professor in the Biology Department and the managing director of PSM programs. Phone: 215-204-8842 Email: sfreer@temple.edu Jody Hey is a professor in the Biology Department and a program contact for the Bioinformatics PSM. Phone: 215-204-8569 Email: hey@temple.edu Ronald Levy is a professor in the Chemistry Department and a program contact for the Bioinformatics PSM. Phone: 215-204-0607 Email: ronlevy@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations If you can find the time to participate while meeting the demands of your degree program, student clubs offer valuable opportunities to meet fellow graduate students, researchers and professionals from science- and technology-related industries. Clubs and organizations for students pursuing a Biology degree include the Alliance for Minority Participation in STEM, which works to increase opportunities for students and help them complete their undergraduate and graduate degrees in STEM. the Biology Graduate Student Society, an organization that develops professional and leadership skills in doctoral students as well as encourages them to participate in public outreach. Leadership, Education and Development in Science, an organization that empowers Philadelphia middle school students to form an interest in STEM through science experiments and mentors. the Temple University Forensics Association, which helps students form an interest in forensic science through field trips and professional networking opportunities. Explore the full list of College of Science and Technology student clubs and organizations. Study Away If the demands of your degree program allow it, consider spending a summer or semester overseas building international connections with researchers from other countries. Temple’s study abroad program offers College of Science and Technology students opportunities to spend a summer or semester studying in China, Germany, Italy, South Korea or Taiwan. Learn more about your study abroad options. Accreditation As a division within Temple University, the College of Science and Technology is accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. ST-BINF-PSM Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Bioinformatics PSM Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info