Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Information For Search BC.edu Links Theatre Department Menu Main Nav Theatre Department Theatre Department Current Season & Events Back Back Close About Overview Contact Learning Outcomes Giving to Theatre Performance Spaces The Performance and Production Program Current Season & Events Production History Gallery News & Notes Open Positions People Undergraduate Overview Major & Minors Curriculum Council of Majors & Minors Prospective Students Incoming Freshmen FAQs Related Links First Year Student Welcome Guide BC Campus Life Lynch School Educational Theatre Minor Special Programs Overview The Monan Professorship in Theatre Arts Melinda Lopez Maurice Emmanuel Parent Nick Scandalios & Scott Clyve Sheri Wilner Michelle Miller '98 Tina Packer David R. Gammons Robbie McCauley Dr. John Bell Paul Daigneault '87 Karen MacDonald Carmel O'Reilly Remo Airaldi Mary-Mitchell Campbell DeVoy Perspectives on Theatre Series Marcus Gardley Wayne Wilderson & Maile Flanagan Julie Burros Bryce Pinkham Anne Bogart DeVoy Springboard Grant Get Involved Overview Dance Design and Technical Production Production Lab Registration Stage Management Auditions and Casting Rehearsal Guidelines Close Current Season & Events Directory A to Z Listing Search Classics Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Theatre Home Undergraduate Major & Minors Undergraduate Major & Minors Curriculum Council of Majors & Minors Prospective Students Incoming Freshmen FAQs Major & Minors Major Minor Educational Theatre Minor Dance Minor Theatre Major To receive a Bachelor of Arts in Theater from Boston College a student must complete a minimum of 11 courses and production labs in the following way: Four required foundation courses: THTR 1172: Dramatic Structure and Theatrical Process THTR 1103: Acting I: Fundamentals of Performance THTR 1130: Elements of Stagecraft THTR 1140: Elements of Theatrical Design Four classes (12 credits) from the following: THTR 2275: History of Theater I AND/OR THTR 2285 History of Theater II The remaining two or three classes from upper level Dramatic Literature, Criticism and Theater History (3000-level or above) (For example, if you take two History of Theater courses you need two upper level courses. If you only take one of the History of Theater course, you need three upper level courses.) Two (6 credits) upper level Performance and Production (3000-level or above). Any one (3 credits) additional theater course 2000 level or above. Six credits in production labs. Production Labs involve direct work on Theatre Department productions as a member of a preparation crew or backstage on a run crew. THTR1130 and THTR1140 already have a lab attached that count toward these six. Theatre Minor The Theatre Minor is intended for students with a serious interest in theatre who for one reason or another are not able to commit to fulfilling the requirements for the Theatre Major. Based on the same principles and structure as the Theatre Major, it aims to provide students with a broad-based theatre education that balances courses in theatre studies and theatre practice. A Theatre Minor will complete the following courses and requirements: THTR 1172: Dramatic Structure and Theatrical Process (or Introduction to Theatre, in special cases) THTR 1101: Acting 1: Fundamentals of Performance THTR 1130: Elements of Stagecraft OR THTR 1140: Elements of Theatrical Design THTR 2275: History of Theatre I & OR THTR 2285: History of Theatre II One upper-level Literature, Criticism, History course (3000 or higher) One upper-level Production/Performance course (3000 or higher) Three one-credit Production Labs (including at least one Prep Lab) All courses for a Theatre Minor need to be chosen from the Theatre Department curriculum. Courses taken abroad, courses taken at other institutions, and Readings and Research/independent study courses will only count towards a Theatre Minor in rare and exceptional circumstances. For Theatre department courses with limited enrollments, Theatre Minors will be given access to a course AFTER Theatre Majors but BEFORE non-majors/minors. Status as a Theatre minor may also be a factor in determining actors, designers, and stage managers for Theatre department productions. Students who wish to declare a Theatre Minor should contact Luke Jorgensen, Acting Theatre Department Chair, indicating their interest and providing their Eagle ID number. Questions about the Theatre Minor can be directed to Luke Jorgensen. Educational Theatre Minor In conjunction with the Lynch School of Education, the Theatre Department offers an Educational Theatre Minor designed for LSOE students in Teacher Education and Applied Psychology and Human Development. This minor provides drama education and theatre training to students who hope to include theatre as a subject they teach and practice in school settings and/or who want to use creative dramatics and applied theatre techniques as teaching tools in other institutional settings. Research consistently affirms the impact of creative dramatics on students’ self-esteem, literacy achievement, overall stamina, and psychological health. Theatre techniques have also emerged as a successful intervention for students with moderate and severe special needs, thus complementing a special needs concentration. This minor is comprised of 6 courses and 2 labs for a total of 20 credits. To declare an Educational Theatre minor, an LSOE student should contact their academic advisor. For questions about the minor, contact Luke Jorgensen in the Theatre Department. Requirements Creative Dramatics Dramatic Structure and Theatrical Processes (fulfills CORE Requirement) Choose 1 of the following: Theatre for Youth Directing I Composition and Performance Workshop Choose 1 of the following: Acting I Elements of Theatre Production I Choose 1 one of the following: One Upper-Level (3300-level or above) course in Performance or Production Elements of Theatre Production II (if you have taken Elements I) Choose 1 of the following:< One Upper-Level (3300-level or above) in Literature/Criticism/History History of Theatre I History of Theatre II Choose 2, 1-credit labs. One must be a Preparation Lab. One must be a Run Crew Lab Laboratories Assistant Stage Manager Run Crew Prep Crew Advanced Production Positions Stage Manager Costume, Lighting, Sound, and Set Designers Dance Minor The Dance Minor is beginning it's 2-year pilot phase in the Fall 2021. The minor is only open to 15 students per graduating class during the pilot phase. Only Dance Minors will be eligible for credits as a Department choreographer, performer, or dance captain. Required courses 2 Core Technique courses THTR 1125: Beginning Ballet I THTR 1126: Beginning Ballet II THTR 2221: Contemporary Dance I THTR 3321: Contemporary Dance II THTR 2223: Dance for Musicals I THTR 3323: Dance for Musicals II THTR 2222: Jazz Dance I THTR 3322: Jazz Dance II 1 History or Theory Class THTR 1120: Elements of Dance (also fulfills University Arts Core) History of Dance An additional 3 courses from the following Any Intermediate or Advanced level technique course 1, 2 or 3 credits as either a department choreographer, dance captain or performer Email luke.jorgensen@bc.edu for more information and to register for the Dance minor. Back To Top Back To Top Theatre Department Robsham Theater 617-552-4012 theatre@bc.edu Facebook Instagram Youtube Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Gasson Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Contact Departments Art, Art History, and Film Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics Engineering English German Studies History Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Romance Languages and Literatures Slavic & Eastern Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology Give to Theatre Apply Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College