Skip to main content Google Tag Manager The University of Virginia SIS Collab Email Jobs Info For Alumni & Friends Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Search form Search Close Main Menu Main menu About Us Go to About Us Charlottesville & Beyond Facts & Figures Visit Academics Go to Academics Schools Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies International Studies Continuing & Executive Education Academic Calendar J-Term & Summer Session Undergraduate Majors Online Learning Admission Undergraduate Admission Apply Tuition & Affordability Undergraduate Majors & Programs Clubs & Activities Sports & Recreation Student-Self Governance Housing & Residence Life What’s Next for UVA’s Class of 2022? Arts Athletics Health System Libraries Research You are here Home Academics J-Term & Summer Session X J-Term & Summer Session Outside the Classroom Unusual course offerings. Close interaction. Field experiences. These are just some of the things students experience as part of Summer Session and January Term (J-Term) at UVA. While our fall and spring semesters form the core of the academic year at the University, our summer and January offerings allow students to experience the institution from another perspective—one in which classes are smaller, the focus is streamlined and access to faculty is even greater. They’re an excellent way for students to not only advance against their degree requirements but to get a concentrated dose of “experiential learning”—from living on Grounds, to participating in strong residential communities, to learning outside the classroom, to collaborating with peers on exciting projects designed to advance knowledge in society. By the Numbers 1+k Summer Session Classes 120+ January Term Classes 36% Of UVA Students Take a Summer Session Class Summer Session Morven Kitchen Garden Each summer the University of Virginia offers a rich selection of courses to over four thousand students through its Summer Session. Many of these courses are not available during the academic year. Summer Session's purpose is to supplement academic year course offerings, to facilitate fulfillment of undergraduate and graduate degree requirements, and to extend access to the resources of the University of Virginia to students enrolled at other colleges or universities, rising high school juniors and seniors and lifelong learners. At UVA, our Summer Session is designed to offer all of these things and more. With top faculty, rich coursework and a host of exciting extracurricular activities, Summer Session offers an environment of non-stop learning. Each year, more than 4,000 students take part—from current ‘Hoos to scholars from other Universities to rising high school junior and seniors. January Term Thinking with Their Hands A unique and highly impactful learning experience, the University of Virginia's January Term (J-Term) is a university-wide initiative sponsored by the Office of the Vice President and Provost. J-Term provides students with unique opportunities: new courses that address topics of current interest, study abroad programs, undergraduate research seminars and interdisciplinary courses. The intensive format of January Term classes encourages extensive student-faculty interaction and allows students to immerse themselves in a subject. University of Virginia Instagram Twitter Facebook YouTube Footer Utilities Non-Discrimination Notice UVA Tuition Notice Wise Tuition Notice Consumer Information Accessibility Emergency SIS FOIA Privacy © 2022 By The Rector And Visitors Of The University Of Virginia