Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Office of Student Services Menu Main Nav Office of Student Services Office of Student Services Academic Calendar Back Back Close About Overview Contact Hours Student Checklists Notices & Disclosures June Checklist Registrar Overview Academic Calendar 2022–2023 Academic Calendar 2023–2024 Academic Calendar Registration Calendar Summer 2022 Registration Spring 2023 Registration Summer 2023 Registration Fall 2023 Registration Course Information & Schedule Course Registration Undergraduate Registration Graduate Registration Summer Registration Cross Registration Final Exam Schedule Course Evaluations Enrollment Certification Transcript Requests Name Change Academic Forms & Diploma Information Financial Aid Overview Undergraduate Financial Aid How Aid Works Applying for Aid Types of Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Policies & Eligibility Graduate & Law Financial Aid Applying for Aid Types of Financial Aid After Receiving Your Award Cost of Attendance International Students Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Wellness Financial Aid Forms Contact Related Links Undergraduate Cost of Attendance Graduate & Law Cost of Attendance Billing & Student Accounts Overview Billing Tuition & Fees Loan Repayment Medical Insurance Eagle One Card MBTA Passes & Parking Permits Student Employment Overview Job Listings 21–22 Academic Year On-Campus 21–22 Academic Year Off-Campus FWS 2022 Summer On-Campus 2022 Summer Off-Campus FWS Finding a Job On Campus Finding a Job Off Campus Earned Sick Time New Hires Frequently Asked Questions Information for Employers Warning: Job Scams & Fraud Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund (HEERF) Close Academic Calendar Directory A to Z Listing Search Student Services Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home About June Checklist About Contact Hours Student Checklists Notices & Disclosures June Checklist June Checklist Welcome to the Student Services Monthly Checklist! June Highlights: the start of fall billing and special reminders for incoming freshmen. Calendars At a Glance Academic Calendar Registration Calendar Action Items Mark the fall bill due date on your calendars. Students will receive an e-mail from Student Services to their BC e-mail address with their tuition and fees bill in mid-to-late June. Fall semester bills for undergraduate and law students are due on August 10. Fall semester bills for graduate and Woods College students are due on September 9. For more information, visit the Billing page. Complete the steps outlined in the First-Year Undergraduate Student Checklist by August 1 (incoming freshmen). View the First-Year Undergraduate Student Checklist. Also, be sure to access the links to the Academic Planning Workbook and University Catalog in early June, as these will help with course registration. Complete the Incoming Student Federal Verification Form (incoming freshmen). The 2022–2023 Incoming Student Federal Verification Form is available on the Financial Aid Forms page. All freshmen are required to complete this form as it is used to verify your financial aid award. An e-mail was sent to all incoming students with instructions pertaining to the submission of this form. Sign up for an Orientation session (incoming freshmen). All incoming deposited freshmen must sign up for an Orientation session. If you have not already signed up for your session, we encourage you to do so quickly. Sessions are filling up and are available on a first come first served basis, so sign up today. For more information, visit the First Year Experience website. Incoming graduate or law student? Welcome to Boston College! There are a number of things you need to do now that you have matriculated. Visit the Incoming Graduate Student Checklist and Incoming Law Student Checklist for more information. Not heard back about your financial aid application yet? To check on the status of your application, visit www.bc.edu/finaidapp. All undergraduate financial aid award notifications for completed applications will be e-mailed to students' BC e-mail addresses. If students did not receive an award notification, they should make sure that all required information for 2022–2023 has been received. Enroll in QuikPAY Payment Plan (undergraduate and Law students). Enrollment for the QuikPAY Payment Plan (available to undergraduate and Law students only) began on May 10 for the 2022–2023 academic year. For more information, visit www.bc.edu/qppp. Looking for a summer job? Summer job opportunities are now available on the Job Listings page. For students who have secured an on-campus job for the first time, please be sure to bring forms of identification (such as but not limited to, a valid/unexpired U.S. Passport, or a combination of a valid driver’s license or Eagle ID card and Social Security card or birth certificate) in original formats. No pictures or photocopies will be accepted. A full list of acceptable documents for Form I-9 completion can be found on the USCIS website. International F-1 students will need to bring in their valid Foreign Passport along with their Forms I-94 and I-20 and Employment Authorization Letter from the Office of International Students and Scholars (OISS). New students who will be working on campus at any time during the summer should upload their COVID-19 vaccination and booster cards onto their student health portal with University Health Services (UHS) via Agora Portal >> Other Services >> Health Services before they begin to work. Instructions on how students can upload their COVID-19 vaccination and booster cards can be found in this May 10 announcement. New students seeking to request an exemption must fill out the COVID-19 Vaccination Exemption Request Form. Purchase a MBTA pass for the fall semester. Students may begin purchasing MBTA passes at a discount on June 13. The deadline to purchase fall semester MBTA passes at a discount is August 10. Visit the MBTA Passes and Parking Permits page for more information. Ongoing Reminders Sign a Direct Loan Master Promissory Note (if applicable). Visit the Federal Student Aid website for more information. Complete Title IV Authorization (if applicable). Federal regulations require that Title IV funds credited to your student account be applied only to cover allowable charges, unless Boston College obtains authorization to apply these funds to all other charges on your student account. You may submit your authorization electronically at www.bc.edu/myservices. For more information, visit the Billing page. Complete Direct Loan Entrance Counseling (if applicable). Visit the Federal Student Aid website for more information. Enroll in direct deposit for student account refunds (if applicable). We recommend that all students use direct deposit when requesting refunds. Refunds processed via direct deposit are faster and do not require pickup. Visit the Billing page for instructions and more information. News and Notes Back To Top Back To Top Office of Student Services Lyons Hall 103 Phone: 617-552-3300 or 800-294-0294 studentservices@bc.edu Facebook Twitter Instagram 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College