Skip to main content Florida State University Search FSU Select Search Type FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Close Search Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Get to Know FSU About Florida State Administration Athletics FSU Facts FSU's Economic Impact Global FSU Land Acknowledgement Map of Campus Visitor Services News & Events Calendar of Events FSU Highlights & Rankings Press Research Initiatives Critical Thinking kNOw MORE FSU Tools & Resources Canvas Distance Learning Information Technology Services Libraries myFSU Service Centers and Help Desks Tutoring Policy & Safety Diversity & Inclusion Emergency Info FSU Regulations Police and Safety Policies Public Records Requests Strategic Plan Title IX Business & Employment Departments Directory Doing Business with Florida State Employment FSU Bookstore Human Resources Join Our Seminole Family Admissions Advocate for Florida State Alumni Association Giving to FSU Registrar Seminole Boosters Veterans Initiatives Close Menu Florida State University Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Menu Introduction Strong Students and Outcomes FSU College Highlights and Selected National Rankings Faculty Honors and Awards FSU College Highlights and Selected National Rankings (As of March 2022) Undergraduate Research FSU is leading a growing movement to involve undergraduate students in the highest levels of academic engagement, helping students take advantage of the very best a preeminent research university has to offer. Through their participation in research, innovation and creative endeavors, undergraduate students become better thinkers, innovators and problem solvers, cultivating a depth of understanding needed to make a positive difference in the world. About 25 percent of FSU undergraduate students currently conduct out-of-class research with research mentors, with hundreds of FSU undergraduates co-authoring research publications and presentations with faculty members and graduate students every year. The university's signature undergraduate research program, the Undergraduate Research Opportunity Program, helps students from any major participate in undergraduate research by serving as research assistants to faculty members and others across campus. "Best Value" Public University Florida State consistently delivers an affordable, high-quality education and offers distinctive opportunities to engage its students. FSU has been named the No. 5 Best Value College in the nation among public colleges and universities according to U.S. News & World Report's "Best Colleges 2022" guidebook. Florida State continues to be a strong investment with the highest-rated credit of any public university in the state of Florida. FSU is one of only eight public universities in the United States with an AA+ rating or better from both S&P Global and Fitch, 2021. Top Ranked Programs Florida State University reaffirmed its place in the Top 20 among national public universities in the latest U.S. News & World Report rankings. FSU is number 19 on the list, marking the third consecutive year that the university placed in the Top 20. FSU also climbed three spots to No. 55 among all national universities, both public and private. The rankings appear in U.S. News & World Report's "Best Colleges 2022" guidebook. The Journal of Criminal Justice Education ranked Florida State's College of Criminology and Criminal Justice No. 1 in the nation for faculty research. U.S. News & World Report's, "Best Graduate Schools," 2021 edition, ranks the School of Information's school library media program No. 1. College Choice, a leading online authority on college rankings and resources ranks FSU's doctoral degree program in Sport Management the top program in the nation, 2020. FSU's College of Motion Picture Arts is No. 13 among the nation's Top 50 Film Schools, The Wrap News, 2020. The College is ranked No. 15 in the nation by The Hollywood Reporter, 2021. Numerous other programs at Florida State rank in the Top 5. Prestigious Awards Florida State is one of the nation's top research institutions for producing Fulbright U.S. Scholars and students. A school-record nine FSU faculty scholars earned Fulbright grants for 2020-2021. FSU is also a top research institution for producing student Fulbright Scholars with nine students receiving awards in 2020-2021. Florida State was selected for the top award in international education and study abroad programming by the Association for Public and Land Grant Universities (APLU). FSU also won the 2021 Degree Completion Award from the APLU, recognized as the most prominent award in the country for student success. "Moonlight", written and directed by Florida State University alumnus Barry Jenkins, and produced by FSU alumna Adele Romanski, won the 2017 Oscar for Best Picture at the 89th annual Academy Awards. A total of seven Florida State graduates worked together on the project which also won Oscars for Best Adapted Screenplay and Best Supporting Actor. “Moonlight” has also been named the best movie of the decade by IndieWire, 2019. Best for Vets U.S. News & World Report currently ranks Florida State No. 30 overall and No. 18 among public universities in its "Best National Universities for Veterans" rankings, which are published annually. In addition, U.S. News & World Report's "Best Online Programs for Veterans" has the College of Education at No. 7 nationally for its online graduate Education program for veterans; the College of Criminology and Criminal Justice at No. 6 nationally and No. 5 among public universities and No. 4 for educating veterans in its online Criminal Justice graduate program; the College of Communication and Information at No. 4 nationally in the “Online Graduate Program for Veterans in Information Technology” rankings; and the College of Business at No. 26 overall in the "Best Online MBA Programs for Veterans". Diversity For a sixth consecutive year, Florida State University has been recognized by INSIGHT Into Diversity magazine as a Diversity Champion in higher education. FSU is one of only 15 colleges and universities nationwide to receive the award by the magazine, which is the nation’s largest and oldest diversity and inclusion publication in higher education. Florida State's continuing efforts to move diversity and inclusion to the forefront of the university mission have also received national recognition as the institution earned INSIGHT Into Diversity's "Higher Education Excellence in Diversity" (HEED) Award in 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020 and 2021, which annually recognizes colleges and universities that demonstrate an outstanding commitment to diversity and inclusion. In 2021, for the fifth year in a row, Florida State's College of Medicine has earned the Health Professions HEED Award. The Institute for Higher Education Policy (IHEP), named FSU as one of the top 10 "Access Improver" institutions in the nation for its outstanding efforts in supporting and educating traditionally underrepresented students. Of more than 140 U.S. medical schools, the FSU College of Medicine is one of three to be among the top 20 in enrollment of both Black and Hispanic students. Its enrollment of Hispanic students is more than double the national average, according to Association of American Medical Colleges data, 2020. Outstanding Athletics Florida State's intercollegiate athletics history spans only half the time of most of its national competitors. Despite its relative youth, the University has a well-earned distinction as having one of the country's top programs. FSU is one of just four schools whose athletic programs have finished in the Top 12 of the Directors' Cup over each of the last six years, and the Seminoles have ranked among the ten best overall programs in five of the last ten years. Florida State competes in 20 sports (9 men's, 11 women's) and the program has won 17 National Championships in nine sports. Three Seminoles have won the Heisman Trophy, and 11 others have won the equivalent for their respective sports. FSU's three Rhodes Scholars are the most for any school in Florida and headline a long list of Seminole student-athletes' academic recognitions. Florida State currently has 306 student-athletes on scholarship (163 in-state, 201 out-of-state) and a total of 537 participants. Five current head coaches have won National Coach of the Year. Leading the State of Florida FSU's four-year graduation rate is among the highest in the country at 74%. FSU's six-year graduation rate rose to a record 84 percent, also among the highest in the nation. All three Rhodes Scholars from public universities in Florida since 2006 were FSU students. Highest percentage of alumni giving back than any university in Florida. Highest amount of National Science Foundation research and development expenditures in the state. College of Law is the No. 1 law school in Florida in job placement and maintains one of the highest passing rates on the Florida Bar Exam. Rankings U.S. 1 College of Business, Dr. William T. Hold/The National Alliance Program in Risk Management and Insurance: No. 1 among all specialty programs nationwide, according to U.S. News & World Report's, "Best Colleges 2022" Guidebook. 1 College of Criminology and Criminal Justice, Graduate Program: No. 1 ranked master's program in the country, based upon a comparative assessment of criminology and criminal justice programs in 1604 accredited colleges and universities, Intelligent.com, 2020. 1 College of Education, Sport Management Program: No. 1 ranked doctoral degree program in Sport Management in the nation, College Choice, 2020. 1 School of Information, School Library Media Program: No. 1, U.S. News & World Report's "Best Graduate Schools," 2022, and its Services for Children and Youth program is ranked No. 3 among public universities and No. 3 overall. 1 College of Law: The Florida State University College of Law is the No. 1 law school in the nation for government careers, preLaw Magazine, 2020. The magazine cited nearly 30 percent of graduates obtain jobs in government. 1 College of Law, Black Law Students Association (BLSA): For the third year in a row, FSU's Black Law Students Association placed first in the Constance Baker Motley Mock Trial Competition at the Southern Region of the BLSA's 2022 convention. 1 College of Law, Moot Court Team: The FSU College of Law Moot Court Team took first place in a national moot court competition four weeks in a row! The team won the 2021 Seigenthaler-Sutherland Cup National First Amendment Moot Court Competition; The 2021 UCLA School of Law Cybersecurity Moot Court Competition; The 2021 Charleston School of Law National Moot Court Competition; and the 2021 National Moot Court Competition in Child Welfare & Adoption Law. 1 College of Law, Moot Court Team: For a second year in a row, the FSU College of Law Moot Court Team took first place at the UCLA School of Law Cybersecurity Moot Court Competition. In addition to winning the national competition, the team won the Best Brief Award, March 2022. 1 College of Law, Trial Team: The FSU College of Law Trial Team won first place in the Fourth Annual Martin Luther King, Jr. National Civil Rights Competition. Twenty-two law school teams participated in the competition, including Harvard University, which FSU Law defeated in the final round of competition. 1 National High Magnetic Field Laboratory: The only national lab in Florida. Holds the most world records for the most powerful magnets on Earth. 1 Most Competitive Medical School: Florida State University's College of Medicine is the nation's most selective medical school for admissions (2019 and 2020), U.S. News & World Report, 2020. 1 APLU Degree Completion Award: Florida State University won the 2021 Degree Completion Award from The Association of Public and Land-grant Universities (APLU). The national award acknowledges FSU's comprehensive efforts to support all students in earning their degrees and is recognized as the most prominent in the country for student success. 2 College of Education, Online Graduate Specialty Program: No. 2 overall and No. 2 among public institutions: Online Graduate Specialty Program in Educational/Instructional Media Design, U.S. News & World Report, 2022 Best Online Programs. 3 Askew School of Public Administration and Policy Faculty Research Productivity: A study published in the International Public Management Journal ranked the Askew School of Public Administration and Policy third in faculty research productivity in the U.S. 3 College of Education, Online Graduate Specialty Program: No. 3 overall and No. 3 among public institutions: Online Graduate Specialty Program in Educational Administration and Supervision, U.S. News & World Report, 2022 Best Online Programs. 3 College of Education, Online Graduate Specialty Program: No. 3 overall and No. 3 among public institutions Online Graduate Specialty Program in Special Education, U.S. News & World Report, 2022 Best Online Programs. 3 College of Law, Student Quality of Life: The FSU College of Law is the third best law school in the nation for Student Quality of Life according to Princeton Review's 2022 law school rankings. 3 College of Medicine: The Florida State University College of Medicine is among the top three medical schools in the nation for instruction in community health, Association of American Medical Colleges, 2020. 4 College of Education, Online Graduate Specialty Program: No. 4 overall and No. 4 among public institutions: Online Graduate Specialty Program in Curriculum & Instruction, U.S. News & World Report, 2022 Best Online Programs. 4 World Affairs Program: The Florida State University World Affairs Program capped a successful year of Model United Nations competitions by earning the No. 4 spot in the world rankings, Best Delegate, 2020-2021. 5 Best Value Public University: No. 5, Best Value College in the nation among public colleges and universities, according to U.S. News & World Report's "Best Colleges 2022" guidebook. 5 Top College for Free Expression: Florida State University is the No. 5 College for Free Expression in the nation, according to the 2021 College Free Speech Rankings published by the Foundation for Individual Rights in Education, (FIRE). 5 College of Business, Real Estate Program: No. 5 among public schools and No. 8 among all universities nationwide, according to U.S. News & World Report's, "Best Colleges 2022" Guidebook. 6 College of Communication and Information, School of Information's Online Graduate Program: No. 6 among the nation's best online graduate programs in information technology and No. 3 among public universities, U.S. News & World Report, 2022, Best Online Programs. The Master of Science in Information Technology degree offered by the college's School of Information is also ranked No. 4 for veterans. 6 College of Criminology & Criminal Justice, Online Graduate Program: No. 6 master's degree program in criminal justice studies nationally and No. 5 among public universities. For veterans, the online program ranked No. 4, U.S. News & World Report, 2022 Best Online Programs. 6 College of Medicine: The Florida State University College of Medicine is among the top six medical schools in the country for percentage of graduates practicing in medically underserved areas, Association of American Medical Colleges, 2020. 7 College of Criminology & Criminal Justice, Graduate Program: No. 7 in the nation and No. 7 among public universities, U.S. News & World Report, "Best Graduate Schools," 2022. 7 College of Education, Online Graduate Programs for Veterans: No. 7 Best Online Master's Education Programs for Veterans, U.S. News & World Report, 2021 Best Online Programs. 7 College of Law: The Florida State University College of Law is ranked No. 7 in the nation for public defender/prosecutor jobs and among the nation's top seven law schools for public policy, preLaw Magazine, 2020. 7 Dedman College of Hospitality: No. 7 Hospitality Program in the country, and No. 15 in the world, Academic Rankings of World Universities, 2020. 7 Online Certificate in Financial Planning: Florida State University’s Instructor-Led Online Certificate in Financial Planning is the No. 7 ranked CFP Certificate Program in the nation, WealthManagement.com, 2021. 7 College of Medicine, Direct Patient Care in Professional Shortage Areas: No. 7 in the nation among public universities and No. 11 overall, U.S. News & World Report's "Best Graduate Schools," 2023. 10 College of Law, Best Professors: The FSU College of Law is the No. 10 law school in the nation for Best Professors according to Princeton Review's 2022 law school rankings. 11 Best School for Making an Impact: FSU is ranked No. 11 among public colleges and universities, "Best Schools for Making an Impact," 2021, The Princeton Review. 11 School of Information: No. 11 among the nation's top schools for a master's degree in library and information studies and No. 10 among public universities, U.S. News & World Report's "Best Graduate Schools," 2022. 11 Department of Mathematics: No. 11 among the nation's top schools for the number of doctorates awarded, with a total of 342 doctoral degrees conferred from 2000 to 2019, Survey of Earned Doctorates (SED), 2022. 12 College of Medicine, Medical School Diversity: No. 12 in the nation among public universities and No. 16 overall, U.S. News & World Report's "Best Graduate Schools," 2023. 13 College of Education, Higher Education: No. 13 in the nation among public universities and No. 21 overall, U.S. News & World Report's "Best Graduate Schools," 2023. 13 College of Motion Picture Arts: The FSU Film School is ranked No. 13 among the nation's Top 50 Film Schools, according to The Wrap News, 2020. The Film School is ranked No. 15 in the nation among all colleges and universities, The Hollywood Reporter, "Top 25 Film Schools," 2021. 13 School of Public Affairs, Local Government Management Program: No. 13 in the nation and No. 12 among public universities, U.S. News & World Report's "Best Graduate Schools," 2023. 14 College of Business, Online MBA Specialty in Marketing: No. 14 overall and No. 8 among public institutions, U.S. News & World Report, 2021 Best Online Programs. 14 Best Schools for Internships: FSU is ranked No. 14 among public colleges and universities, "Best Schools for Internships," 2021, The Princeton Review. 15 College of Business, Online MBA Specialty in Business Analytics: No. 15 overall and No. 9 among public institutions, U.S. News & World Report, 2022 Best Online Programs. 15 Freshman Retention Rate: Ninety-five percent of FSU's first-time-in-college students who enrolled in Summer/Fall 2019 stayed for their sophomore year - a record for the university. The 95 percent mark ranks in the Top 15 among national public universities and is well above the most recent national average retention rate of 81 percent for 4-year public institutions, U.S. Department of Education's National Center for Education Statistics. 16 America's Best Large Employers: No. 16 on the list of "America's Best Large Employers within the education sector, Forbes.com, 2021. 16 College of Business, Management Information Systems Undergraduate Program: No. 16 Management Information Systems Program among public schools according to U.S. News & World Report's, "Best Colleges 2022" Guidebook. 16 College of Business, non-MBA Graduate Online Program: No. 16 best online graduate programs overall in management information systems and risk management and insurance and No. 11 among public institutions, U.S. News & World Report, 2022 Best Online Programs. 16 College of Business, MBA Specialty in Real Estate: No. 16 overall and No. 9 among public universities, U.S. News & World Report, "Best Graduate Schools," 2023. 17 College of Business, Undergraduate Marketing Program No. 17 Marketing Program among public schools according to U.S. News & World Report's, "Best Colleges 2022" Guidebook. 17 College of Education, Graduate Program: No. 17 in the nation among public universities and No. 26 overall, U.S. News & World Report's "Best Graduate Schools," 2023. 17 College of Education, Special Education Program: No. 17 in the nation, and No. 16 among public universities, U.S. News & World Report's "Best Graduate Schools," 2023. 17 School of Public Affairs, Public Management Administration Program: No. 17 in the nation and No. 10 among public universities, U.S. News & World Report's "Best Graduate Schools," 2023. 18 College of Education, Educational Administration: No. 18 in the nation among public universities and No. 26 overall, U.S. News & World Report's "Best Graduate Schools," 2023. 19 Top Public Universities: No. 19, U.S. News & World Report's "Best Colleges," 2021. 19 Jim Moran College of Entrepreneurship: No. 19 Undergraduate School for Entrepreneurship Program in the nation, and No. 11 among public universities, according to The Princeton Review and Entrepreneur magazine, 2022. 20 College of Business, Accounting Department: FSU's accounting faculty placed in the Top 20 globally in five research areas, while seven of its faculty members placed in the global Top 100 in their respective research areas, according to the latest Brigham Young University Accounting Research Rankings, 2022. 20 College of Education, Elementary Teacher Education Program: No. 20 in the nation, and No. 16 among public universities, U.S. News & World Report's "Best Graduate Schools," 2022. 20 College of Law, Tax Law Program: No. 20 in the nation among public universities and No. 45 overall, "Best Graduate Schools," U.S. News & World Report, 2023. 20 School of Communication Science & Disorders, Speech Language Pathology Program: No. 20 among the nation's top speech-language pathology programs and No. 15 among public universities, U.S. News & World Report's "Best Graduate Schools," 2021. 20 School of Public Affairs, Public Finance and Budgeting: No. 20 in the nation and No. 15 among public universities, U.S. News & World Report's "Best Graduate Schools," 2022. 20 School of Theatre: The FSU School of Theatre is ranked among the nation's Top 20 Best Colleges for Theatre, according to the Princeton Review, 2021. The School of Theatre Graduate Acting Program has also been recognized as one of the Top 25 Best College Drama Programs around the world according to The Hollywood Reporter, 2021. 21 College of Fine Arts Department of Art: No. 21 among national public universities in the Best Graduate Fine Arts Programs category, and No. 42 overall, U.S. News & World Report, "Best Graduate Schools," 2021. 21 College of Law, Environmental Law Program: No. 21 in the nation and No. 9 among public universities, "Best Graduate Schools," U.S. News & World Report, 2023. 21 College of Medicine, Primary Care Specialties: No. 21 in the nation among public universities and No. 45 overall, U.S. News & World Report's "Best Graduate Schools," 2023. 21 Department of Political Science, Graduate Program: No. 21 among public universities and No. 41 overall, U.S. News & World Report's "Best Graduate Schools," 2022. 22 College of Business, Undergraduate Management Program: No. 22 Management Program among public schools according to U.S. News & World Report's, "Best Colleges 2022" Guidebook. 22 College of Education, Online Graduate Program: No. 22 nationally – No. 21 among public universities, U.S. News & World Report, 2022 Best Online Programs. 23 College of Education, Curriculum & Instruction Program: No. 23 in the nation among public universities and No. 30 overall, U.S. News & World Report's "Best Graduate Schools," 2023. 23 College of Education, Educational Psychology Program: No. 23 in the nation, and No. 17 among public universities, U.S. News & World Report's "Best Graduate Schools," 2022. 24 College of Business, Undergraduate Accounting Program: No. 24 Accounting Program among public schools according to U.S. News & World Report's, "Best Colleges 2022" Guidebook. 24 College of Law: No. 24 in the nation among public universities and No. 47 overall, U.S. News & World Report's "Best Graduate Schools," 2023. 27 Department of Chemistry & Biochemistry, Graduate Program: No. 27 in the nation among public universities and No. 49 overall, U.S. News & World Report's "Best Graduate Schools," 2023. 27 Department of Psychology, Clinical Psychology Graduate Program: No. 27 in the nation and No. 18 among public universities, U.S. News & World Report's "Best Graduate Schools," 2021. 27 College of Social Work, Graduate Program: No. 27 in the nation among public universities and No. 42 overall, U.S. News & World Report's "Best Graduate Schools," 2023. 28 College of Business: No. 28 undergraduate program among public universities, and No. 44 among all national universities, U.S. News & World Report's "Best Colleges," 2021. 28 College of Business, Online MBA Program: No. 28 best online MBA program among public universities and No. 37 overall, U.S. News & World Report, 2022 Best Online Programs. 28 College of Business, Part-Time MBA Program: No. 28 among public part-time, campus-based MBA programs, and No. 40 overall, U.S. News & World Report, "Best Graduate Schools," 2023. 30 Department of Statistics, Graduate Program: No. 30 in the nation and No. 21 among public universities, U.S. News & World Report's "Best Graduate Schools," 2023. 32 Public Affairs, Graduate Program: No. 32 best public affairs school in the nation among public universities, and No. 46 overall, U.S. News & World Report's "Best Graduate Schools," 2023. 40 FAMU-FSU College of Engineering: No. 40 among public universities, U.S. News & World Report's "Best Colleges," 2021. Florida 1 Best Four-Year Graduation Rate: FSU has the best four-year graduation rate of any public university in Florida. At 74 percent, it's also the highest four-year graduation rate in the State University System's history. 1 Best Value College: Florida State consistently delivers an affordable, high-quality education and offers distinctive opportunities to engage its students. FSU is ranked the highest Best Value College among the state universities in Florida, according to U.S. News & World Report's "Best Colleges 2022" guidebook. 1 College of Business, Accounting Department: FSU's accounting faculty placed No. 1 in Florida and in the top 20 globally in five research areas, according to the latest Brigham Young University Accounting Research Rankings, 2022. 1 Jim Moran College of Entrepreneurship: No. 1 Undergraduate School for Entrepreneurship Programs, according to The Princeton Review and Entrepreneur magazine, 2022. 1 College of Medicine: Florida State's College of Medicine received the Health Professions Higher Education Excellence in Diversity (HEED) Award in 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020 and 2021. 1 National Science Foundation Funding: Receives more in National Science Foundation funding than any other university in the state. 1 Age-Friendly University: Florida State is the first university in Florida and the first in the South to be named a member of the Age-Friendly University Initiative, an international effort to highlight the role higher education plays in meeting the challenges and opportunities of an aging population. 1 Rhodes Scholars: All three Rhodes Scholars from public universities in Florida since 2006 have been from FSU. 2 Student Fulbright Scholars: FSU is a top research institution for producing student Fulbright scholars with nine students receiving awards in 2020-2021. 5 Top College for Free Expression: Florida State University is the No. 5 College for Free Expression in the nation in the 2021 College Free Speech Rankings published by the Foundation for Individual Rights in Education, (FIRE). FSU is the highest-rated university from the state of Florida on the list. Introduction Strong Students and Outcomes FSU College Highlights and Selected National Rankings Faculty Honors and Awards © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Like Florida State on Facebook Follow Florida State on Instagram Follow Florida State on Twitter" Follow Florida State on Youtube Connect with Florida State on LinkedIn More FSU Social Media