COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Accessibility at Wichita State University Section Menu Accessibility at Wichita State University The Accessibility Committee Accessibility Report 2020 Accessibility For Face To Face Instruction Accessibility for Online Instruction Accessibility Training WSU Technology Audit Request Form EIT Corrective Action Strategy WSU Technology Corrective Action Strategy PDFs At WSU Looking Ahead Report an Accessibility Problem Resources and Links Faculty Senate Statement on Accessibility Accessibility Exceptions Is this Accessible? Accessibility FAQ Aira Access Accessible Publisher Software Accessibility Review Requests Aira Access at Wichita State Accessibility and Covid-19 Accessibility Report 2020 Instructor Accessibility Checklist WSU Accessibility Policies The WSU policy handbook has been updated to include policies that address accessibility. You can find those policies here (live links will be included when the policy changes are live): 8.10 Students with Disabilities 8.11 Accessible Content Accessibility vs. Accomodation We need to make a clear distinction between accessibility and accommodation. Accessibility is Proactive. It is how we respond to the needs of populations, not individuals. It is rooted in our efforts to comply with Section 508 of the Federal Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and its later amendments. Accommodation is Reactive. It is how we respond to the needs of individuals, not populations. It is rooted in our efforts to comply with Section 504 of the Federal Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and its later amendments. Accessibility Team Accessibility is everyone's responsibility -- all university faculty and staff are responsible for ensuring the accessibility of the services and resources they provide. The following people have important roles or can provide support for accessibility concerns. John Jones, Director of the Media Resources Center is serving as Interim Accessibiltiy Coordinator, and is charged with coordinating the unviersity's response to the accessibility challenge. He also provides guidance for a wide variety of media-related issues Isabel Medina-Keiser is Director of Disability Services. Grady serves as WSU's ADA and Section 504 coordinator. Stacia Boden, University General Counsel, provides legal guidance to the work of the committee. Carolyn Speer, Manager of the Office of Instructional Resources, provides guidance and training for instructional staff and for other issues, as do many members of her team. Heather Merchant, Educational Accessibility Technolgist and part of the OIR team, provides course, software, and tool accessibility reviews and audits. Ali Levine, ITS Applications Training lead, provides software training the includes accessibility Caleb Wilson, Digital Content Marketing Manager in MRC-Web Services, provides training on the university's content management system, which includes accessibility. Jeremy Webster, Website Manager for MRC-Web Sevices, provides PDF remediation and accessible PDF training Training is also provided by Human Resources and The Office of Diversity and Inclusion through MyTraining. The Faculty Senate is establishing a permanent Accessibility Committee. An Ad Hoc committee has been meeting, and is the source of the Faculty Senate Statement on Accessibility. Report an Accessibility Problem Have you discovered a problem with accessibility on campus? Use this form to report the issue and we will make sure the information is passed on to the team that needs to address it. If you see this don't fill out this input box. Issue Name* Description*Please describe the issue. Email*Form UUID Site Name Submit WSU Accessibility Policies The WSU policy handbook has been updated to include policies that address accessibility. You can find those policies here (live links will be included when the policy changes are live): 8.10 Students with Disabilities 8.11 Accessible Content 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©