By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Academics Syracuse Abroad First-Semester Programs More from this Section Semester Programs Why Syracuse Abroad? Contact Us or Request More Information Program Selector Tool FAQs Affording Study Abroad Information for Accepted Students Requirements and Deadlines Short-Term Programs: Summer and Academic Breaks First-Semester Study Abroad Set the tone for your college career with an inaugural semester in Florence, Italy; Madrid, Spain; or Strasbourg, France. Designed for select first-semester students with an interest in the liberal arts, engineering, computer science, natural sciences, or a pre-med track, Syracuse University's Discovery Programs provide an international foundation that expands your academic and professional options, foreign language proficiency, and comprehension of global politics and issues. Ready to Apply? Program Features As a Discovery student, you’ll spend your first semester in Florence, Italy ; Madrid, Spain ; or Strasbourg, France before enrolling in classes on Syracuse University’s home campus the following January. You’ll enjoy small class sizes and specialized curriculum as you form strong bonds with fellow students. Your intellectual development and personal well-being will be nurtured by experienced faculty and international staff. Carefully-chosen home-stay living arrangements mean you’ll enjoy home-cooked meals and a deeper cultural immersion experience. You’ll have the opportunity to travel, volunteer, and participate in extra-curricular activities. Full-time staff members will assist with your transition to college life abroad. The Discovery Program covers all first-year requirements needed by students on Syracuse University’s home campus.* This means that when you transition to Syracuse in the spring semester, you will be on equal academic footing with your main campus peers. *Note: If you are interested in a natural science, mathematics, pre-med track, engineering, or computer science, you should apply to Discovery Madrid as this is the only center that offers the required first-semester courses in these programs. Is Discovery Right for You? You may be a good candidate for the Discovery Program if you… Wish to study abroad immediately, rather than waiting Are interested in the liberal arts, engineering or computer science Are a leader in your school and community Possess intellectual curiosity and are ready for a transformative experience Love to learn through doing and seeing Have international travel experience or a keen interest in it Will feel comfortable immersing yourself in a different culture Have the maturity to balance academics, travel, and living abroad What to Expect Experienced staff members are available on-campus and at Syracuse centers to assist with your transition to life abroad and later to the campus in Syracuse. Upon arrival to your program, you’ll take part in a Full Immersion Weekend, which allows you to spend time with your host family and to become familiar with Syracuse facilities and the surrounding city. Most other weekends are open for field study or independent travel. All Discovery students participate in the abroad equivalent of the First Year Forum offered by the College of Arts and Sciences on Syracuse’s main campus. The goal is to orient you to college life, Syracuse University, and studying abroad. You’ll discuss host families, cultural adjustment, time management, study habits, expectations of college-level courses, choosing a major, and more. After the Discovery semester, students are guaranteed on-campus housing in Syracuse and are assigned to a room either with, or near, fellow Discovery students. This facilitates an easier transition to residence hall living. Already Living in Europe? Discovery Programs enable international students to transition into an American-style university experience while remaining closer to home for the first semester. Contact Lisa Raney Associate Director of Undergraduate Admissions lmraney@syr.edu Mary Fedorko Study Abroad Discovery Programs Recruiter mmfedork@syr.edu Connect with Syracuse Abroad through general advising sessions or program appointments. Drop-in or schedule a virtual or in-person advising session at SyracuseAbroad@Bird Monday-Friday from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Or, schedule an appointment to meet with a Syracuse Abroad program advisor. View all advising options View all advising options. Featured Stories Student’s Study Abroad Leads to Publication in Academic Journal Student's Discovery Madrid experience leads to Publication in Academic Journal. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy