Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Open Mobile Navigation Statistical Science About Events News Visit Information Graduate Program Information Newsletters Testimonials Sarah Stanley Chris Casement Monica Bennett Faculty Directory Adjunct Faculty Directory Graduate Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) Biostatistics Concentration Data Science Concentration Master of Science (M.S.) Admission prior to Summer 2019 Admission Summer 2019 or after Professional Master of Science (M.S.) Minor in Statistics Graduate Student Handbook 2021-2022 M.S./Ph.D. Statistics Courses Prof. M.S. and Elective Courses How to Apply FAQ Undergraduate Minor in Statistics Bachelor of Science (B.S.) Actuarial Science Concentration Sports Analytics Departmental Policy for Course Replacement, Waivers, and Permits Undergraduate Course Descriptions Research Dissertations Publications Consulting Services Statistical Consulting Request Form Tutoring Lab Giving Statistical Science Developing well-rounded statisticians through meaningful mentorships, diversified educational experiences, and scholarly research methods and opportunities. Schedule a Visit Explore Graduate Programs Learn More Ph.D. Doctor of Philosophy M.S. Master of Science M.S. Professional Master of Science Minor in Statistics Biostatistics Concentration Data Science Concentration Undergraduate Programs Learn More B.S. Bachelor of Science Minor in Statistics Course Descriptions Actuarial Science Concentration Sports Analytics Concentration Research We develop statistical theory and methods in high-demand research areas, such as biomedical research, environmental science, and drug development. Learn More News Read More May 12, 2022 Statistical Science Alumnae elected to ASA Board Read More Mar. 28, 2022 Congratulations to David Manner Congratulations to David Manner, Statistics Alum, on his promotion to Associate Vice President (Statistics) at Eli Lilly and Company. Read More Mar. 23, 2022 Congratulations to Dr. Xing Meng “Congratulations to Dr. Xing Meng who has successfully defended her dissertation ‘Covariate-Adjusted ROC Regressions and the Extensions in Trend Tests’ under the direction of Dr. Jack Tubbs.” Dr. Meng is currently a Data Scientist & Consultant with Credera in Dallas, TX. Read More Mar. 22, 2022 Congratulations to Dr. Roberto Sergio Hernández "Congratulations to Dr. Roberto Sergio Hernández who has successfully defended his dissertation 'A Beta Regression Approach to Nonparametric Longitudinal Data Classification in Clinical Trials' under the direction of Dr. Jack Tubbs." Read More Events More Events May 16 2022 Minimester session (ends Jun 2, 2022) Jun 20 2022 Juneteenth - University Holiday Jul 4 2022 Independence Day - University Holiday Jun 3 2022 Summer Session I (ends Jul 8, 2022) Consulting Tutoring Faculty Give Testimonials Read More “The size of Baylor's stats department and the genuine interest that the faculty take in the success of their students were the two main aspects that led me to this program.” Sarah Stanley Read More “My favorite classes were computational statistics and the two in the Bayes sequence. The professors I took those with, Dr. Kahle and Dr. Stamey, are two of the best I've had at any level.” Chris Casement Read More “Everyone made me feel like I could achieve the goal of getting a PhD and that I would have an amazing support system while doing it!” Monica Bennett Read More Department of Statistical Science Department of Statistical Science One Bear Place #97140 Waco, TX 76798 (254)-710-1699 Graduate Programs Undergraduate Programs Consulting Tutoring Give Research About Back Events News Visit Information Graduate Program Information Newsletters Testimonials Back Sarah Stanley Chris Casement Monica Bennett Faculty Directory Back Adjunct Faculty Directory Graduate Back Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) Back Biostatistics Concentration Data Science Concentration Master of Science (M.S.) Back Admission prior to Summer 2019 Admission Summer 2019 or after Professional Master of Science (M.S.) Minor in Statistics Graduate Student Handbook 2021-2022 M.S./Ph.D. Statistics Courses Prof. M.S. and Elective Courses How to Apply FAQ Undergraduate Back Minor in Statistics Bachelor of Science (B.S.) Back Actuarial Science Concentration Sports Analytics Departmental Policy for Course Replacement, Waivers, and Permits Undergraduate Course Descriptions Research Back Dissertations Publications Consulting Services Back Statistical Consulting Request Form Tutoring Lab Giving General Information Academics & Research Administration Admissions Gateways for ... About Baylor Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate News Pro Futuris Search Social Media Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Alumni & Friends Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Accessibility Anonymous Reporting Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Digital Privacy Legal Disclosures Mental Health Resources Report It Title IX Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678