By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Admissions Cost & Aid Types of Aid Summer Aid More from this Section Special Programs Graduate Student Aid Student Employment Loans Grants Scholarships Summer Aid Students may be eligible to receive financial aid while they take summer classes at Syracuse University. Limited summer financial aid is available in the form of: Federal Direct Student Loan Federal Direct Parent PLUS Loan Federal Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Alternative (private) loans Undergraduates may also be eligible for: Syracuse University need-based grants: limited funding is available. NYS TAP (for New York residents): Consult your financial aid counselor to discuss your summer TAP eligibility, as this may affect your eligibility for future TAP payments. Summer Scholar Incentive Program (SSIP) : Contact the College of Professional Studies for more information. Apply for financial aid Eligibility Criteria Loans To be considered for summer loans, you must: File a 2021-2022 Free Application for Federal Student Aid before the June 17, 2022 deadline. Be matriculated in a program leading to a degree, certificate or diploma at Syracuse University. Be a U.S. citizen or eligible non-citizen. Enroll in Syracuse University summer classes for six or more credit hours. (Graduate students must be certified as full time status with the Registrar.) Be enrolled in coursework that will count toward your degree requirement. Have not completed degree requirements before the end of the summer term. Complete a Syracuse University Summer Loan application on your MySlice To Do List available after April 1. Not be in default on any previous federal student loan or grant program. Syracuse University Grants To be considered for Syracuse University need-based grants undergraduates must: Have filed a 2021-2022 Free Application for Federal Student Aid. Register for one or more of the summer sessions on campus or online. Borrow your full federal student loan eligibility by completing a Syracuse University Summer Loan application on your My Slice Financial Aid to Do List. Types of Summer Aid Federal Direct Subsidized and Unsubsidized Loans The maximum amount that may be borrowed through the Federal Direct Loan program for the summer term is based on a student’s academic level. Note: Loans for students graduating in August are subject to federal loan proration limitations and remaining academic year loan eligibility. Undergraduate Students Credits completed prior to summer Maximum summer loan amount (subsidized and unsubsidized) Credits completed prior to summer Less than 30 credits Maximum summer loan amount (subsidized and unsubsidized) $2,750 Credits completed prior to summer 30-59 credits Maximum summer loan amount (subsidized and unsubsidized) $3,250 Credits completed prior to summer More than 59 Credits Maximum summer loan amount (subsidized and unsubsidized) $3,750 Graduate Students Graduate Federal Direct Loan Graduate Federal Direct Loan Graduate Students Up to $10,250 unsubsidized; Up to $6,833 per term for some online programs Please note that interest is charged from the time the funds are disbursed for the Unsubsidized Federal Direct Loan. A student’s loan eligibility is determined by the number of credits for which the student is enrolled and the number of weeks that the student will be attending summer sessions. Students may borrow up to the cost of tuition plus an estimate for weekly living expenses ($420/week undergraduates, $446/week for graduate students) during summer enrollment. Learn more about summer tuition rates . Federal Direct Parent Loan for Undergraduate Students Parents of dependent undergraduate students may be eligible to borrow a Federal Direct PLUS Loan (FPLUS) . If the parent is denied the FPLUS, students may be eligible for additional unsubsidized Federal Direct Loan funds. Eligibility is calculated by deducting the total financial aid from the Cost of Attendance. Federal Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Graduate students may be eligible to borrow a Federal Graduate PLUS Loan . Students should borrow their maximum eligibility in Federal Direct Loans before they apply for this loan, which requires a basic credit check. This is a long-term, fixed-rate loan to help bridge the financial gap. Eligibility is calculated by deducting the total financial aid from the Cost of Attendance. Alternative Loans Students who are certified for the maximum Federal Direct Loan and have additional eligibility for financial aid assistance may apply for an alternative loan . To apply for a summer alternative loan, students must complete the Syracuse University Summer Financial Aid Application on your MySlice Financial Aid To Do List and the alternative loan application provided by your lender. Summer Scholar Incentive Program The Summer Scholar Incentive Program (SSIP) is a money-saving opportunity for main campus matriculated full-time undergraduates. When eligible students successfully complete 12 credits during the summer, they receive a tuition grant that can amount to as much as 3 undergraduate credit hours. To be eligible, students must have a cumulative GPA of 2.0 or better and register by the SSIP deadline for at least 12 credits that begin and end during the University’s official summer term. Students must pass all summer term classes with a 2.0 or better, and grades must be submitted by the SSIP grade deadline. Financial aid recipients must exhibit “unmet need” in, at minimum, the amount of the incentive. Note: Students who register for more than 7 credits during a combination of MAYmester and Summer Session I, or during Summer Session II, must petition their home college for approval to do so. To qualify for an SSIP grant, the following conditions apply: The student must have a cumulative GPA of at least 2.0 to apply. The student must be registered for 12 credits and complete an application with the College of Professional Studies Student Administrative Services office at 700 University Ave. by the application deadline date. The registration must be for 12 credits in classes that begin and end during the University’s official published term. Students registered for classes that meet outside those dates are not eligible to participate. All classes must be completed during the University’s official summer term and grades submitted by the grade deadline published in the SSIP application. Students must pass all classes enrolled for during the summer term and must earn a term and overall GPA of 2.0. In addition, the financial aid status of financial aid recipients must exhibit ‘unmet need’ in, at minimum, the amount of the incentive. Students who become registered for 12 credits after the SSIP deadline are ineligible to apply. Students who drop a course, and thus fall below the required 12 credits, will no longer be considered eligible. All applications for Summer 2022 are due by July 22, 2022. To inquire, email College of Professional Studies Student Administrative Services at ucinfo@syr.edu . Summer Aid Policies Undergraduate students attending Syracuse Abroad will be considered for Study Abroad need-based grants after admission to their Summer Study Abroad program. Students may receive Federal Direct Subsidized/Unsubsidized Loans up to the maximum loan amount, listed in the charts above. Students may receive up to the Cost of Attendance in all forms of financial aid (including loans). Any and all forms of financial assistance or resources will be taken into consideration when determining financial aid eligibility for the summer term. Students must meet Satisfactory Academic Progress at the end of the spring semester (if enrolled) to be eligible for summer aid. Summer aid is disbursed at the beginning of the student’s summer enrollment period. Aid for flexible class students will disburse in the session in which they attain at least half-time enrollment. Students due a refund from summer financial aid must request a refund from the Bursar’s Office on MySlice after classes begin. Federal Direct Student Loans for the summer will not affect academic year eligibility, unless the student is near the total aggregate loan limits, or in the final semester of the academic program. Federal Direct Subsidized, Unsubsidized Student Loans, and Federal Pell Grants will be included in a student’s aggregate limit. Applications will be accepted until the last week of the summer session attended, which includes a completed: Federal Direct Loan Master Promissory Note entrance counseling session FAFSA Summer Academic Plan form (may be required) Fall/spring academic year financial aid cannot be used to pay summer charges. Students must file for financial aid at least five business days before the end of the summer session in which they are enrolled, to allow sufficient processing time. Federal regulations prevent federal financial aid awards after your enrollment period ends. Related Pages Summer at Syracuse Summer @ Syracuse isn’t just about traditional classes. There are also programs, institutes, and workshops for a wide range of students with varied interests. Student Success Initiative The Student SUccess Initiative (SSUI) is a summer residential program committed to the retention of students. Academic Calendar Stay updated on key Syracuse calendar items. Here you'll find all registration dates, course schedules, financial deadlines, and degree award dates to keep you on time and on point. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy