Skip to main content my.Clemson Home Setup Device Apps News Features Careers Feedback my.Clemson Everything Clemson. Everywhere. my.Clemson makes connecting with Clemson a cinch. From a smart phone, tablet, or computer, it's easy to get information and get things done. Visit my.clemson.edu or download the app below. Get it done with my.Clemson Just a few tools built in to my.Clemson Student life has never been so mobile. Interact with Canvas courses, track CATBus locations and capacity, find open parking, search the phonebook, check Fike availability, and lots more. Never miss a Clemson event. Never miss another Clemson event. The entire Clemson Master Calendar is searchable and you can add any event on the Master Calendar to your device's calendar from my.Clemson. Clemson Athletics, just a few taps away. View News, Schedules, and Results for all of Clemson Athletics. A sample of features you'll find in my.Clemson: CATBus GPS Tracking/ Capacity Parking Availability Fike Availability Canvas Integration Directory/Phonebook Academic Calendar Lab Finder Athletics Dining Hall Menus Safety and Tiger Transit Employee Resources Profile New features coming soon! UI Redesign Global Search Athletics Realtime News Native iOS Map Responsive Design my.Clemson is built to run seamlessly and make the best utilization of screen size regardless of your choice of device. Always Evolving The developers of my.Clemson are constantly working to improve and add features to the app. Got an idea? Please send feedback. Using Your Device Your smart phone and tablet are capable of getting a lot of things done at Clemson. However, you'll need to get these services properly setup. Select your mobile platform operating system information to connect to the wireless network (Eduroam), set up Gmail (Email, Calendar, Contacts), connect to VPN, and sign up for emergency text alerts. Device not listed? View generic setup instructions: Eduroam Gmail VPN Text Alerts Android Eduroam Gmail iOS Eduroam Gmail Device not listed? View generic setup instructions: Eduroam Gmail VPN Text Alerts Our Apps App development at Clemson is not exclusive to the Mobile Innovation Team. Instead, staff and students all across campus work hard to create apps that reflect the high standards of Clemson University, and we're proud to showcase their efforts. The products of their innovation and creativity can be found on the App Store and Play Store. Videos my.Clemson NewsView all stories my.Clemson v1.58.0 released! Fri May 29 2020 New COVID-19 modules with links to important COVID-19 related information and resources. New COVID-19 self-assessment tool. Supporting my.Clemson and all other official Clemson Mobile Apps.