Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Faculty Senate Faculty Senate right arrow down arrow About Us right arrow down arrow Chair & Cabinet Senators Committees right arrow down arrow Academic Affairs Budget & Priorities Committee on Committees Governance Human Relations Information Technology Nominating Planning Research & Scholarship All-University Governance Committees Get Involved right arrow down arrow Meeting Calendar Contact Home » Employees » Faculty Senate » Committees » Planning Set Navigation title in component Academic Affairs Budget & Priorities Committee on Committees Governance Human Relations Information Technology Nominating Planning Research & Scholarship All-University Governance Committees Planning Chair Alison A. Weiss Professor, COM Mol Gen Weiss Lab 2254 Medical Sciences Building 513-558-2820 weissaa@ucmail.uc.edu The Weiss lab focuses on host-pathogen interactions with regard to infectious diarrhea. We have employed a new experimental model to study enteric pathogens, pluripotent stem cell “induced human intestinal organoids” (iHIOs). These “mini-guts” faithfully represent differentiated human intestinal tissue. We have successfully used iHIOs to model human intestinal responses to bacterial infection and toxins, including E. coli O157:H7, Shiga toxin, C. difficile toxins, and microcystin (blue-green algae toxin). Recently we have extended these studies to examine intestinal toxicity due to cytotoxic chemotherapy. An estimated 16% of cancer and transplant patients receiving chemotherapy develop bloodstream infections due to mucosal barrier injury, despite almost universal use of antibiotic prophylaxis. Toxigenic C. difficile infection is also common. We are using human intestinal organoids to examine the interplay between the host intestinal tract and the human microbiome following cytotoxic chemotherapy treatment. View Full Profile Description of Committee The charge of the Planning Committee is to consider all aspects of planning, both curricular and physical, and make recommendations concerning the development of short-range, intermediate-range, and long-range plans. In addition, the committee shall examine, review and make recommendations about proposals initiated by the University administration or other parties. Committee Members Name Term Email Adrienne Davis-Zapfe (CAHS) 2020-22 davia8@ucmail.uc.edu Sharon Purtee (Libraries) 2020-22 sharon.purtee@uc.edu Matt Huml (CECH) 2020-22 humlmt@ucmail.uc.edu Rebecka Lindau (Libraries) 2021-23 lindaura@ucmail.uc.edu Christine Tonnis (ELCE) 2021-23 tonniscm@ucmail.uc.edu Tasha Turner-Bicknell (CoN) 2021-23 turnerta@ucmail.uc.edu Responsibilities Review and make recommendations on all manner of development, curricular and physical Examine and make recommendations about such proposals initiated by University administration Membership 6 total elected members Members elected to serve two year term Terms will be staggered, 3 elected in odd years; 3 elected in even years 300 USQUARE 225 Calhoun St. Cincinnati, OH 45219 (513) 556-3445 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati 300 USQUARE 225 Calhoun St. Cincinnati, OH 45219 (513) 556-3445 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top