Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu About UofM Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact About UofM General Information Accreditation InformationFacts at a GlanceHistoryKey AdministratorsMission, Vision and Strategic PlanOffice of the PresidentTraditionsVideo: History of the UofM Campus & Visitor Information Holiday Inn at the University of Memphis Event Calendar University of Memphis Bookstore University of Memphis Campus Map Campus Safety Report (PDF) Career Services: on- and off-campus jobs and internships Directions to Campus Memphis Attractions Parking Services Police Services Recreation Center Testing Center Transcripts Visit Campus Helpful Information TOPdesk Service DeskCareer OpportunitiesMajors, Minors, Concentrations Virtual Tour Memphis Take a look inside some of our academic programs in our virtual tour of the campus. Home About UofM Directions to Campus Directions to Campus From the East on I-40 Follow the Sam Cooper Blvd. signs (it will split off of I-40 to the left) Take the Highland St. exit and go left/south onto Highland After four lights, turn left/east on Central Turn right/south on Patterson From the West on I-40 Take the Riverside Dr. exit and go right/south onto Riverside Dr. Turn left/east on Union Ave. (Union will change names to Walnut Grove) Turn right/south on Highland Turn left/east on Central Turn right/south on Patterson From the North on I-55 Follow I-40 signs Go east on I-40 Take the Riverside Dr. exit and go right/south onto Riverside Dr. Turn left/east on Union Ave. (Union will change names to Walnut Grove) Turn right/south on Highland Turn left/east on Central Turn right/south on Patterson From the South on I-55 Take the I-240 exit to Nashville (keep right) Take the Getwell North exit (exit 20B) Follow Getwell north until it ends at Park Ave. Turn right/east onto Park Ave. Drive one block and turn left/north onto Goodlett St. Cross the railroad tracks to Central Ave. Turn left/west on Central Turn left/south on Patterson From the airport (rental car dealerships) Turn right onto Democrat Rd. Take the Plough Blvd./Airways North exit Take the I-240 exit to Nashville (keep right) Take the Getwell North exit (exit 20B) Follow Getwell north until it ends at Park Ave. Turn right/east onto Park Ave. Drive one block and turn left/north onto Goodlett St. Cross the railroad tracks to Central Ave. Turn left/west on Central Turn left/south on Patterson From the North on Hwy. 51 Just south of Millington, turn left/east onto Paul Barret Pkwy. (also TN 385) Turn right/west onto I-40 Follow the Sam Cooper Blvd. signs (it will split off of I-40 to the left) Take the Highland St. exit and go left/south onto Highland After four lights, turn left/east on Central Turn right/south on Patterson From the South on Hwy. 78 Take the Perkins St. exit and go right/north onto Perkins Turn left/west on Park Ave. Turn right/north on Goodlett Turn left/west on Central Turn left/south on Patterson Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 9/27/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.