Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Jun 16 Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share via email Print this page Drawing from the Collections | Colored Pencils: Color Harmony Visual Arts The Museum is partnering with the Arts Council of Princeton to provide free online drawing classes. Weekly classes are taught by artist-instructor Barbara DiLorenzo over Zoom. Each week’s lesson is inspired by a work in the Museum’s collections. This live art-making class is inspired by Alexander Calder’s The Two Arrows. One of the foremost sculptors of the twentieth century and an important pioneer of kinetic art, Calder is celebrated for his innovative use of formal elements more traditionally associated with drawing or painting—line, color, and flat, geometric shapes—as the building blocks of his sculptures. In this session we will explore color theory, investigating primary colors, color wheels, and color schemes. Event Details Date June 16, 2022 Time 8:00 p.m. Related Events Amor Mundi: Paintings by Cathy Nan Quinlan,  Cecilia Whittaker-Doe and Rachel Youens Wallace Dance & Theater 12:00 p.m. Jun 9 Three New York-based painters present recent landscape and still life paintings in an exhibition curated by visual arts professor Su Friedrich. Princeton… Drawing from the Collections | Colored Pencils: Mark Making 8:00 p.m. Jun 23 The Museum is partnering with the Arts Council of Princeton to provide free online drawing classes. Weekly classes are taught by artist-instructor Barbara… Video Portrait Workshop Art on Hulfish 5:30 p.m. Jun 30 Join instructor Christopher Lopez to learn how to create your own video portrait using your smartphone. Participants will discuss and analyze the significance… Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice