Skip to main content Google Tag Manager The Office of the Provost Show/Hide About People Communications Committees & Reports Academic Priorities Committee (APC) Capital Planning Committee Space Committee University Resources Committee Policies & Procedures Initiatives & Resources Related Areas Committees & Reports Standing Committees Academic Priorities Committee The Academic Priorities Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the president concerning the general direction of academic programs. MORE Capital Planning Committee The Capital Planning Committee is responsible for evaluating projects in the context of the university's strategic plan, evaluating programmatic needs, business plans, pro-forma, and operating assumptions, initiating capital projects and capital planning studies, and overseeing financial and programmatic changes in capital projects. MORE University Resources Committee The University Resources Committee (URC) is responsible for recommending the annual operating and capital budget to the president. MORE Space Committee The Space Committee is responsible for making allocation and renovation recommendations in support of the University's institutional priorities. MORE Ad Hoc Committees Task Force on Doctoral Education Convened in September 2021, the Task Force on Doctoral Education is charged with developing recommendations for promoting outstanding, innovative graduate education that supports the University’s excellence in research and teaching while also preparing graduates for desired career outcomes. MORE Task Force on the Status of Women Faculty Convened in September 2021, the Task Force on the Status of Women Faculty is charged with assessing any disparities in opportunities and outcomes between similarly situated women and men on the Brown faculty and subsequently making recommendations to the President and Provost for changes that advance the University’s mission of education and research. MORE Deficit Reduction Group The Deficit Reduction Group was charged with examining various academic and administrative processes and units and generating proposals aimed at reducing Brown's operating budget deficit. MORE Winter Term Working Group The Winter Term Working Group, comprised of faculty, students and staff, is charged with undertaking a review of the academic calendar with a particular focus on the winter recess. MORE Task Force on Diversity in the Curriculum The Task Force on Diversity in the Curriculum will meet over the course of the spring 2016 semester to develop a set of recommendations for advancing specific goals in the arena of undergraduate education as outlined in the Pathways to Diversity and Inclusion Plan. The charge and membership of the Task Force can be found here. MORE Reports Final Report of the ad hoc Committee on Promoting Financial Health and Sustainability In Fall 2020, President Christina H. Paxson convened the ad hoc Committee on Promoting Financial Health and Sustainability, appointing Provost Richard M. Locke as chair and membership that included staff, faculty and students. President Paxson charged the committee with developing recommendations to promote the long-term financial health and sustainability of the University. MORE Revised Operational Plan for Building Brown's Excellence Revised operational plan, developed over the summer of 2018, reflects progress made since the adoption of Building on Distinction, the University's strategic plan, and the BrownTogether campaign. The updated version outlines the strategic investments needed to continue the momentum that Brown has enjoyed over the last several years. Read MORE Pathways to Diversity and Inclusion: An Action Plan for Brown Brown’s commitment to diversity is highlighted in Brown’s strategic plan, Building on Distinction. The detailed vision for realizing this commitment is articulated in Pathways to Diversity and Inclusion: An Action Plan for Brown University, which outlines a set of concrete, achievable actions to make Brown a more fully diverse and inclusive community. MORE Annenberg Institute Review A summary of recommendations made by a committee of faculty, senior University administrators and Annenberg Institute staff convened by Provost Locke to review the institute's mission, strengths and future opportunities. MORE Infrastructure Study A university-wide core infrastructure study was done in 2016 to consider how to support research cores and invest scarce University resources most effectively. A Research Core Advisory Committee, to be chaired by the Vice President for Research, will be established in spring 2017. MORE Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Office of the Provost Office of the Provost Brown University Box 1862 Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2706 Email [email protected] Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat