Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia University Information Technology Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Resources For I Want To Services Security and Privacy About Students Alumni Faculty Retirees Researchers Visitors Staff Access My Email Log in to LionMail Log in to ADCU Outlook Web App Log in to CUIMC Email Check CUIT Service Alerts Connect to Columbia WiFi Contact the CUIT Service Desk Download Software Log in to CourseWorks Manage My University ID (UNI) Activate My UNI or Email Change My Password Manage My Duo MFA Account Print on Campus Use Zoom View Computer and System Recommendations Visit the ServiceNow Customer Portal Academic Systems Accounts and Access Administrative Systems Cloud Services Computer Lab and Classroom Technologies Email and Calendar Endpoint Device Technologies IT Professional Services Network and Wireless Research Services Security and Risk Management Servers, Backup and Storage Service Desk Software and Apps Telephony and Communications Services Web Services Anti-malware CUIT Security Downloads Data Security Guidelines for International Travel Get Started with Computer Security at Columbia General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) Handling Personally Identifying Information Keep Your Operating System Up To Date Phishing: Recognize and Report Secure Resources for Systems Administrators Using Strong Passwords Staff Directory and Org. Chart Senior Leadership Departments Locations IT Policies and Strategies IT Partners at the University Careers Columbia University Information Technology You are here: Home Security and Privacy Handling Personally Identifying Information — PII Handling Personally Identifying Information — PII Personally Identifiable Information (or PII) is information, such as Social Security Numbers (SSNs), that can be used to uniquely identify a person. Stolen PII is frequently used to commit identity theft and fraud, and should be guarded carefully. Hackers and malware will search a compromised computer for SSN's they can find. As a matter of good practice, you should never keep any unprotected PII on your workstation. For Columbia employees and equipment, any PII should be protected with strong encryption or removed. The capture, storage and retention of confidential and sensitive information by CUIT employees is permissible only if it is a University business requirement and complies with Columbia University's Social Security Number Usage Policy, Data Classification Policy and University Requirements for Endpoints Containing Sensitive Data Policy. Even if you a private or student user, it is still highly advised to identify and secure your data with comprehensive tools and encryption. Our IT security requirements guide for workstations/mobile devices with access to PII provides technical and procedural steps for securing your computer and work environment. Please read the document and adhere to these best practices. This page provides information and software tools to identify, remediate, and secure sensitive personally identifiable information (PII) that may reside on your computer. Expand all Collapse all PII/SSN Scanning Software The first step to securing your computer against PII theft is finding and identifying any instances of PII on your workstation. The following tools can help you scan your PC, and some even help you perform remediation (delete or encrypt) the data so it's no longer sitting out in the open. CUSpider (required for SSN identification and remediation) CUSpider Website Use: Identifies files that contain SSN Cost: Free/Open Source Included on certain staff PCs as part of the CUIT standard image Supported by CUIT CUSpider scans a computer for Social Security Numbers, produces a list of files, and provides options for you to take immediate actions for remediation. CUSpider is a modification and repackaging of Spider2008 version 4.0.2 (Latrodectus), an open-source program PII-scanning program developed by Cornell University and Wyman Miles (that is also listed below). CUSpider has been customized for Columbia University usage. Verify each file that CUSpider finds. Due to the method CUSpider uses to discover potentially sensitive files, CUSpider may produce false alarms. Each file must be opened and examined before decisions can be made concerning what actions must be taken. CUSpider is only available for PC 's running Windows XP Service Pack 2, and requires .NET 2.0 or higher installed. For Columbia University Central Administration areas there is a separate version of the Spider software for centralized SSN scanning. For more information on the centralized Spider scanning software, please contact the CUIT Security Office (CISO) at [email protected] OpenDLP OpenDLP Website Use: Identifies files that contain SSN via centrally-managed deployment Current Version: 0.4.4 Cost: Free/Open Source Not supported by CUIT OpenDLP is another open-source alternative, though more strongly geared towards a centrally managed, server-client environment. It can push out scans over network shares and to any Windows Domain connected computer, even without a pre-installed client agent. It has a much lighter memory footprint than Spider or CUSpider, though it does not posses the ability to scan as many specific types of files as either. This program is NOT supported by CUIT. Spirion Spirion Website Use: Enterprise-level PII scanning program, with centrally-managed server software and proprietary algorithms to reduce false positives Current Version: 5.7 Cost: Enterprise costs contingent on size of deployment. Home version for $40. Free Personal Version is Free Not supported by CUIT Spirion is an enterprise level PII scanning application and DLP manager. It uses proprietary algorithms to dramatically lower the false positive rate, and includes a centrally-managed command and control server. This program is NOT supported by CUIT. Tips for Remediation The purpose of remediation is to rid your computer of any exposed Personally Identifiable Information (PII) by either redaction or secure deletion. The settings included in this distribution of Spider specifically search for only one type of PII, Social Security Numbers. As you go over each of the search results, ask yourself two key questions: Do I need to keep this file for my job? (refer to the Columbia University Social Security Number Usage Policy and Data Classification Policy on appropriate and justified storage of PII/SSN for approved business purposes) Do I need the actual PII kept in the file for my job? The ideal method for eliminating the risk posed by PII/SSNs is to securely delete the files containing them. Securely deleting a file differs from "regular" deletion in that it overwrites the physical area of the disc where the bytes comprising the file were stored. Overwriting those specific bytes ensures that the file cannot be retrieved or recompiled after deletion by most forensic or retrieval programs. CUSpider offers a powerful Secure Erase option (accessible from within the search results) that is recommended by the CUIT Infosec team as the primary means of securing exposed data. If you find that you do require the file for your duties, consider redaction, or removal of just the PII/SSN, as an option. Removing the PII/SSN from the file provides an acceptable measure of security while also letting you keep the rest of the file. CUSpider provides a redaction option for a number of file types from within the application. If you find you do need the PII/SSN itself for your work, you must encrypt the file. You can also contact us at [email protected] for consultations on how best to mitigate the risk. Encryption Tools According to Columbia University policy, any sensitive data, such as PII, that must remain on University workstations should be encrypted with 256-bit encryption (at minimum). Policy also requires that any files containing sensitive or confidential information must be encrypted and password protected before being transferred to another party via email or any file transfer method. The following tools can help you secure your data and meet University standards. Contents File Encryption Microsoft Office WinZip Disk Encryption Microsoft Encrypting File System FileVault VeraCrypt Symantec Endpoint Protection Columbia University Information Technology (CUIT) Administrative OfficesStudebaker Building, 5th & 6th Floors, 615 West 131st Street · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University Information Technology (CUIT) Walk-in Center202 Philosophy Hall, 1150 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-1919 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close