Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information You are here Home > About Us > Events Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events CUIMC Grand Rounds Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Events Search by keyword Categories - Any -AdmissionsAdvisingArchitectureArtsAthleticsAwardsBasic Health SciencesBusinessCareersClinical Health SciencesCollege of Dental MedicineCollege of Physicians and SurgeonsColumbia NursingCommencementCommunications and MediaComputer ScienceCore CurriculumCOVID-19DeadlineEarth InstituteEconomicsEducationEngineeringFinanceGlobal ProgramsGovernment and Public PolicyGraduate School of Arts and SciencesHealthcareHuman ResourcesHumanitiesInternational and Public AffairsJournalismLawLibrariesMailman School of Public HealthMusicNatural SciencesOrientationOtherPolitical ScienceReligionResearchReunionSchool of Social WorkSocial JusticeSocial SciencesSportsTeaching and LearningWorld Leaders Forum Date E.g., 06/01/2022 2022 TRIAL INNOVATION NETWORK LECTURE: Dr. Jason Adelman Tuesday, June 7, 2022 12:00 PM to 1:00 PM Venue Online Event Categories Clinical Health Sciences College of Physicians and Surgeons Columbia Nursing Healthcare Research 2022 TRIAL INNOVATION NETWORK (TIN) LECTURE SERIES “Methodological Innovations During the Catheter-Associated Urinary Tract Infections (CAUTI) Trial” Jason Adelman, MD, MS Chief Patient Safety Officer, Columbia University Irving Medical Center/NewYork-Presbyterian, Vice Chair for Quality & Patient Safety, Department of Medicine, Assistant Professor of Medicine, Assistant Professor of Biomedical Informatics Tuesday, June 7, 2022 - 12:00 to 1:00 PM Presented on behalf of the Irving Institute for Clinical and Translational Research Columbia Science and Health Equity Lecture Series Tuesday, June 7, 2022 4:00 PM to 5:15 PM Venue Online Categories College of Physicians and Surgeons “Maternal Mortality - New York” Register Here Speakers: Mary D’Alton, MD Willard C. Rappleye Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology Chair, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Dena Goffman, MD Ellen Jacobson Levine and Eugene Jacobson Professor of Women's Health (in Obstetrics and Gynecology) at the Columbia University Medical Center Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Lisa Nathan, MD Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology at the Columbia University Medical Center Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons CUIMC's LGBTQ+ ERG Presents The Trevor Project Wednesday, June 8, 2022 12:00 PM to 1:00 PM Venue Online Event Categories Healthcare Human Resources Other Teaching and Learning In honor of PRIDE 2022, Columbia University Irving Medical Center's LGBTQ+ Employee Resource Group will host a series of events in the month of June. We will kick off with a panel discussion delivered via webinar with The Trevor Project. The session will discuss relevant policies, access to care and mental health issues surrounding the young LGBTQ+ community. Wednesday, June 8, 2022 12:00pm - 1:00pm EST Advanced registration is required. All are welcome to attend. TISSUE TALKS: Jennifer Elisseeff, Johns Hopkins University Wednesday, June 8, 2022 3:00 PM to 4:00 PM Venue Online Event Categories Engineering Research We are excited to welcome Prof. Jennifer Elisseeff from Johns Hopkins University to Tissue Talks on Wednesday, June 8th at 3:00PM ET as she presents, "Regenerative medicine: from targeting the immune system to connecting with aging research." ABOUT TISSUE TALKS Join us every Wednesday at 3:00PM ET for the popular Tissue Talks, our weekly webinar series hosted by Dr. Gordana Vunjak-Novakovic and the Laboratory for Stem Cells and Tissue Engineering. Don’t miss the opportunity each week to hear from global leaders in Tissue Engineering! Research Resources Fair Wednesday, June 8, 2022 3:00 PM to 7:00 PM Venue Roy And Diana Vagelos Education Center, 104 Haven Ave., New York, NY 10032 4th Floor Categories Research Basic Health Sciences Clinical Health Sciences College of Dental Medicine College of Physicians and Surgeons Columbia Nursing Engineering Earth Institute Mailman School of Public Health Natural Sciences The 2022 Research Resources Fair will showcase many of the research cores and shared facilities across the CUIMC, Manhattanville, and Morningside campuses. Participating groups include research facilities from the Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center, Columbia Stem Cell Initiative, Irving Institute for Clinical and Translational Research, Columbia Nano Initiative, Zuckerman Mind Brain Behavior Institute, Institute for Genomic Medicine, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, Research Computing Services and the Departments of Medicine, Microbiology & Immunology, Systems Biology, Biological Sciences, Chemistry and others. The event will include: 3-4pm: Talks from invited speakers featuring new services in the VEC 3rd Floor Auditorium. 4-7pm: Poster session with over 40 shared resources presenting on the VEC 4th Floor. Light hors d’oeuvres and refreshments will be served. Please join us to learn more about shared resources and how their expertise may contribute to your research, find out about new shared resources, view the posters, and discuss your research with shared resource staff. Note: CUID and CU Green Pass required for entry. Bold Conversations for Healing & Reshaping Our Medical Center Wednesday, June 8, 2022 3:30 PM to 4:30 PM Venue Online Event Categories COVID-19 Healthcare Clinical Health Sciences Mailman School of Public Health College of Dental Medicine College of Physicians and Surgeons Columbia Nursing Other BOLD CONVERSATIONS FOR HEALING & RESHAPING OUR MEDICAL CENTER COMMUNITY SERIES Shifting Our Culture: Perspectives from the Deans On Wednesday, June 8, 3:30-4:30 p.m., CopeColumbia in collaboration with CUIMC Human Resources and the CUIMC Office of Faculty Professional Development, Diversity & Inclusion will hold an event titled “Shifting Our Culture: Perspectives from the Deans." This is part of the “Bold Conversations for Healing & Reshaping Our Medical Center Community” series and is open to everyone at CUIMC. PANELISTS: Katrina Armstrong, MD, Harold and Margaret Hatch Professor in the Faculty of Medicine; Executive Vice President for Health and Biomedical Sciences; Dean of the Faculties of Health Sciences and the Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons; Chief Executive Officer, Columbia University Iriving Medical Center Christian Stohler, DMD, DrMedDent, Professor of Dental Medicine; Dean of the College of Dental Medicine; Senior Vice President, Columbia University Irving Medical Center Linda Fried, MD, MPH, DeLamar Professor of Public Health Practice, and Professor of Epidemiology and Medicine; Dean of the Mailman School of Public Health; Senior Vice President, Columbia University Irving Medical Center Judy Honig EdD, DNP, Dorothy M. Rogers Professor of Nursing at the Columbia University Medical Center; Vice Dean of Academics and Dean of Students of the School of Nursing MODERATOR: Patrice Malone, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor of Psychiatry at Columbia University Medicial Center; CopeColumbia Faculty Member Register Here HICCC Distinguished Speaker Seminar Wednesday, June 8, 2022 4:00 PM to 5:00 PM Venue Online Event Categories Basic Health Sciences Clinical Health Sciences College of Physicians and Surgeons Research Michael F. Clarke, MD, Karel and Avice Beekhuis Professor of Cancer Biology, Stanford University School of Medicine, Associate Director of the Stanford Institute for Stem Cell Biology and Regenerative Medicine, Stanford, California The Role of Stem Cells in Cancer and Alzheimer’s Disease Dr. Clarke will be discussing the molecular regulation of adult stem cell self-renewal. He with then discuss how perturbations of these stem cell pathways contribute to cancer, as well as degenerative diseases such as Alzheimer’s disease. JOIN ZOOM MEETING Meeting ID: 958 6517 9328 Passcode: 383066 PI Crash Course: Skills for Future or New Lab Leaders Thursday, June 9, 2022 to Friday, June 10, 2022 All day Venue Online Online Categories Education Research Mailman School of Public Health PI Crash Course: Skills for Future or New Lab Leaders The Principal Investigator (PI) Crash Course is a two-day intensive boot camp of seminars, discussions, and hands-on activity sessions to provide exposure to fundamental leadership and management skills and tools needed for success in your lab. This two-day intensive crash course integrates the principle skills that future and new PIs did not develop during their post-doctoral training, but will be necessary to survive as a new Lab leader and manager. Whether you are a doctoral student, postdoc, new PI, or looking to start your own lab, as a lab leader you will immediately be confronted on daily basis by a variety of situations that you must be prepared to handle. This crash course will provide you the tools you need to start your lab on the right foot. Led by a team of experienced leaders and scientists in the field of environmental sciences, epigenetics, genomics, epidemiology, immunology, neuroscience and bioinformatics, this workshop will integrate lectures with hands-on sessions to put eight key “survival skills” into practice: Negotiating, Staffing, Leading, Mentoring, Managing People, Managing time, Managing projects, and Networking. Emphasis will be given to leadership styles, leadership vision, self-awareness, successful delegation, responsibility, problem solving, adaptability, communication techniques, goal setting, and strategizing. The Crash Course will conclude with a panel discussion with successful PIs at different stages of their careers, ranging from Assistant Professors to Department Chairs. By the end of the workshop, participants will be familiar with the following topics: Negotiation skills for a new position/promotion/collaboration/publication Staffing skills for job posts/candidate screening/interviews/hiring Leadership and mentoring skills in the Lab People management: day-to-day/conflict resolution/misconduct/promotions/layoffs Time management: balancing research, teaching, service/when & how to say No Project management: planning/tracking progress/meeting deadlines/introduction to management software Network creation and maintenance: mentors/collaborators/supporters Real-life lab leader success stories and best tips from early-stage and experienced investigators Senior post-doctoral students and associate research scientists about to start their independent position search are particularly welcome to attend, and we strongly encourage new and recent PIs to participate as it is never too late to get an overview of the survival skills that you will need throughout your career. PREREQUISITES There are no prerequisites to attend the PI Crash Course. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Register or view more information. Subscribe for updates. Email us at Columbia.SPH.PI@gmail.com. Capacity is limited. Paid registration is required to attend. CUIMC Women ERG Roundtable: Finding Your Authentic Voice Thursday, June 9, 2022 12:00 PM to 1:00 PM Venue Online Event Categories Careers Education Human Resources Other Teaching and Learning CUIMC's Women Employee Resource Group (ERG) will host their next quarterly roundtable discussion on Thursday, June 9, 2022 from 12:00pm - 1:00pm. Title: Finding Your Authentic Voice in a Male-dominated Workplace Learning Objectives: Learn how to ensure your voice is authentic and reflects your values Take ownership of your opinions and what they stand for Identify ways to respond to microaggressions Empower yourself to speak up! This discussion will be facilitated by Marisa Rivera an award-winning motivational speaker and CEO of Mpowerment Works. She has over 30 years of experience in leadership, staff development and women's empowerment. Marisa delivers dynamic keynote presentations and innovative programs designed to empower individuals and teams to impact global change. All CUIMC Faculty and Staff are welcome to attend. Situational Awareness Training: Faculty & Students Monday, June 13, 2022 4:00 PM to 5:00 PM Venue Online Event Categories Other Join Columbia's Department of Public Safety in a situational awareness training. What is Situational Awareness? Situational Awareness is a critical life skill, and entails being aware of where you are and to what is happening around you; being alert to potential threats to your health and safety and being cognizant of emergency exits and other paths to safety. What Will The Training Focus On? In this training, you will learn: How the Fight-or-Flight response affects your safety How situational awareness can keep you safe “What are the odds?”-being informed to make good decisions for your personal safety Techniques to develop awareness Personal safety resources Run. Hide. Fight. – a strategy for your personal safety in emergency situations RSVP is required. After you complete your registration, you'll receive a confirmation email containing the Zoom link for joining the event. Pages first previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 next last Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top