Skip to main content Clemson University Degrees Home Degree Programs MENU Construction Science and Management (B.S.) LEARN MORE ABOUT Do you consider yourself a leader of people and processes? Do you enjoy working both indoors and outdoors, with people of diverse backgrounds? Do you like to solve problems and see your solutions come to reality? If this describes you, and you love construction, then Clemson’s degree in construction science and management is custom built for you. In the classroom and laboratory, on job sites and in an 800-hour internship, you will acquire the skills and knowledge to succeed in the construction industry. As the largest single industry in the United States and one of the most important, construction offers unlimited opportunities to those who are well educated and highly motivated. FAST FACTS Faculty mentoring is key to the success of construction science and management students. The program has a 100 percent job placement rate. We stay ahead of the constantly evolving technology curve, offering instruction in the latest technological advances such as building information modeling (BIM). Students can earn certifications from organizations associated with the construction industry, such as the AIC Constructor Certification Commission. The program was established in 1962 and is accredited by the American Council for Construction Education. The average student-to-teacher ratio in Clemson's program is 25-to-1. WHAT YOU'LL STUDY In addition to the University’s general education requirements, you will take classes in calculus, physics, economics and business, and management. Your major classes will focus on the current processes and functions used by construction industry practitioners, including topics such as structures, materials and methods, contract documents, estimating, scheduling, safety and project management. Classwork directly related to your degree begins in the first semester of your freshman year. Theoretical concepts are reinforced and practiced in the laboratory, where you will have access to the latest industry-approved technology. In addition, you are required to complete 800 hours in an internship setting, which will give you invaluable on-the-job experience and an insider’s view of the industry. Our students often complete this during the summer months. In your final semester, you will participate in a capstone class that will help you process all you have learned and put it into meaningful use as you prepare for a career beyond Clemson’s campus. Your major classes will be held in Lee Hall, where you'll find the Gunnin Architecture Library, which houses more than 46,000 volumes of books and bound periodicals and 183 periodical subscriptions related to the fields of design, building and the visual arts. Curriculum Construction Science and Management, B.S. Popular Minors Business Administration Similar Majors Architecture (B.A.) Civil Engineering (B.S.) Management (B.S.) EXPERIENCES BEYOND THE CLASSROOM By participating in national competitions, studying abroad and through a variety of extra-curricular activities, you’ll quickly hone the critical-thinking and presentation skills you’ll need in your career. Compete Each year, student teams participate in regional and national competitions in categories such as commercial, heavy/civil and design-build. Field Trips We regularly take field trips to construction companies and project sites to reinforce the skills and knowledge learned in the classroom. Here, students visit the Boeing construction site in North Charleston, S.C. Study Abroad Take time to explore the world! We have exchange agreements with the University of South Australia in Adelaide and Leeds Beckett University in the United Kingdom. Habitat Each year, construction science and management students help construct a Habitat for Humanity house on Bowman Field during Homecoming week. Clemson's Habitat for Humanity was named Campus Chapter of the Year in 2008. Learn More » Join Get involved with the construction industry through our student organizations, including the Constructor's Guild, education honorary society Sigma Lambda Chi, and student chapters of several national organizations. CONNECT WITH OTHER STUDENTS Extracurricular Activities AFTER GRADUATION The majority of our construction science and management graduates leave Clemson with an industry job, and about 5 percent choose to head to graduate school. Here's a snapshot of what life after graduation looks like for some of our most recent students. WHERE OUR RECENT GRADUATES HAVE GONE KEY 41-100% 21-40% 11-20% 0-10% RECENT EMPLOYERS Project Engineer Harper Corporation Field Coordinator Holder Construction Office/Field Engineer Kiewit Project Engineer CF Evans Construction Assistant Preconstruction Manager Brasfield & Gorrie RECENT POSTGRADUATE STUDIES Master of Real Estate Development Clemson University MBA University of Glasgow (Scotland) COMMON CAREER AREAS Construction Industry Commercial Institutional Industrial Heavy-highway Residential Consulting Estimator Scheduler Program Manager Financial Institutions Banks Savings and Loan Government Agencies Building Officials Inspectors Consultants FIND OUT MORE Have more questions or want more information? Fill out the form below, which goes directly to the following department contact. If you’d also like to receive general University information from Clemson’s admissions office, please follow the link to the right and sign up to join our mailing list. Jessica Garcia Recruiter jgarci6@clemson.edu Department Website College Website Loading... Department Website College Website Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2015 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on Google+ Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on YouTube Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram Search Clemson University degrees Clemson Degree Programs Search Alphabetical List Schedule a Visit Campus Life Admissions Costs & Financial Aid Similar Majors To Construction Science and Management (B.S.) Architecture (B.A.) Civil Engineering (B.S.) Management (B.S.)