Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Bioengineering MS You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Bioengineering MS Apply Request More Info Bioengineering MS Admissions Information Careers & Opportunities Labs & Research Our Faculty Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Science in Bioengineering Earn a Master of Science in Bioengineering and pursue interdisciplinary research into specialized biomedical research areas. Develop the expertise that will advance your career, help you transition into the field or prepare you for doctoral study. Bioengineering focuses on the application of advanced technology to solve complex biologic problems. Through this master’s program, you’ll gain the credentials to claim expert status in areas ranging from tissue engineering to biomechanics and bioelectronics. The program can be pursued through a customized area of specialization. Interdisciplinary collaboration is encouraged with faculty in- and outside the College of Engineering. Students have worked with researchers in Temple’s Fox Chase Cancer Center, Katz School of Medicine, Kornberg School of Dentistry, and College of Science and Technology. This flexible master’s program can be completed full or part time, and evening classes are available. The departmental community is small, offering you an intimate learning experience with easy access to faculty. Also, because the program was established in 2012, all its lab facilities are state-of-the-art, providing additional return on your investment in this highly affordable degree program. Credit Requirements Temple’s Bioengineering MS requires a minimum of 30 credit hours. Classes & Curriculum You will work with a faculty advisor to pursue research areas in Bioengineering based on your ambitions and interests. You may choose from one of these following research areas or create a custom curriculum based on your area of interest. Biomechanics, neuromechanics and neuroengineering: Focus on understanding how neural and musculoskeletal systems underlie movement in health and disease, or on the applications of neural prostheses and viral gene therapeutic methods on the recovery of spinal and sensorimotor pathways after injury. Biomaterials, tissue and regenerative engineering: Design, invent and engineer new materials for research that involves tissue engineering and regenerative medicine discoveries or applications. Bioimaging and spectroscopy: Develop and apply imaging techniques and associated image analyses at the organismal, cellular and tissue scales. You’ll choose one of three tracks. Thesis 24 credits of course work six credits of thesis work Project 27 credits of didactic course work three credits of project work Course work 30 credits of didactic course work Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Science in Bioengineering offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,184.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,546.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Student Diversity The College of Engineering reflects the diversity that has always been a hallmark of life at Temple. With students from all 50 states, 129 countries and with cultural backgrounds of all kinds, Temple’s classrooms are enriched with countless perspectives, giving students a global point of view across disciplines and fields, and strengthening bonds that encourage success among students. As a community, Temple’s shared responsibility is to enhance the quality of life for all members of the Temple community, providing a safe, supportive and welcoming environment in which to learn, work and grow. Related Degrees Bioengineering PhD Biology PhD (College of Science and Technology) Doctor of Medicine (Lewis Katz School of Medicine) Student Clubs & Organizations Consider expanding your professional and social contacts by joining a student club or organization. Biomedical Engineering Society (BMES) provides bioengineering majors with opportunities to meet working engineers, learn more about the profession and build their professional networks. See the full list of Engineering clubs and organizations. Our Advisors You will be assigned a faculty advisor to guide you in navigating the curriculum and selecting the appropriate coursework to achieve your academic and professional goals. A graduate student advisor will also be available to help you with scheduling, policies and procedures to assure your smooth passage through the program. EN-BIOE-MSBE Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Bioengineering MS Admissions Information Careers & Opportunities Labs & Research Our Faculty Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info