Skip to main content Main navigation Academics Faculty & Research News & Events Offices & Services About Us Information For Alumni Industry Partners & Recruiters Prospective Students Shortcuts Employment & Jobs Visit Us Make a Gift Search Read the latest updates on coronavirus from Harvard University. For SEAS specific-updates, please visit SEAS & FAS Division of Science: Coronavirus FAQs SearchMenu Alumni Alumni of the Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences form a diverse community of more than 9,000 professionals who are crossing disciplines, pushing boundaries, making discoveries, and serving society. Get in Touch Have you started a company? Developed an innovative technology? Done something wild and unexpected? The Office of Communications is seeking great alumni stories to share. Contact us. Keep up with your Classmates Curious about what your fellow alumni are up to? Check out our Alumni News and Profiles to read about the accomplishments of your fellow engineering school graduates. Join the Alumni LinkedIn Group Engage with your fellow graduates, connect with current students, and stay up to date with the latest news from Harvard. Join the discussion! Share your Expertise We encourage alumni to visit campus and speak to students about their experiences. If you are interested, please contact us. Pay it Forward We collaborate with alumni to identify internship opportunities for current students. If your company is interested in offering a summer internship, please contact us. Main navigation Information For In Alumni Alumni News & Profiles Alumni Resources Expanded Campus in Allston Subscribe to Our Research Newsletter Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences 150 Western Ave, Allston, MA 02134 29 Oxford Street, Cambridge, MA 02138 Footer - Social Media Links Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Footer Diversity Mission Trademark Notice Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy