Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Vaccines You are here Home Life at Temple Health & Wellness COVID-19: Keeping Our Community Safe & Healthy Vaccines Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Preferred Name Use Pronoun Use and Gender Identity Temple Thought Leaders Housing & Dining Health & Wellness COVID-19: Keeping Our Community Safe & Healthy COVID-19 FAQ Testing & Tracing Vaccines Academics, Tuition & Aid Temple HEERF III Grant Student Housing & On-campus Life Work-life for Faculty & Staff Faculty Teaching Information Return Scenario Planning Temple Community Health Advisory Group University Communication Vaccination Rates and Active COVID-19 Cases at Temple University International Campuses and Programs City Life Philadelphia Visiting Temple Accommodations Dining Options Religious Services Information FAQs Safety Main Campus and Philadelphia Safety FAQ Contact Temple RAVE Temple Guardian App Community Programs and Research University News Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Campus Life Arts and Culture Clubs and Organizations Housing, Dining and OWLcards Parking and Transportation Safety Student Banking Student Centers Wireless, Computers and Phone Academics Advising and Academic Support Courses and Calendars International Students Libraries Registration, Grades and Books Schools and Colleges Health and Wellness Athletics and Fitness Health and Counseling Tuition and Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition and Billing Careers and Internships Career Center Internships Student Jobs Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees Presidential Search President University Leadership Board of Trustees Updates Past Presidents 2019 State of the University History & Traditions Russell Conwell Temple Traditions Acres of Diamonds Honorary Degrees Past Honorary Degree Recipients Temple Health News & Media Media Mentions Temple University Wallpapers Temple's Impact Career in Charitable Change Fueled by Temple Experiences Advancing Breast Cancer Research Leaders in HIV Research 21st-century Learning Temple Firsts Paving the Way Medical & Community Support Student Support Contact members of Strategic Marketing and Communications Offices Public Information Facts About Temple Faculty & Staff Resources Working at Temple Calendars and Time Off Holiday Schedule Careers at Temple Human Resources Performance and Training Business Services Catering Exception Policy Double Tree Catering/ Conferences Contact Frequently Asked Questions Trademark Licensing Policy Corporate Responsibility Logo and Graphics Guide Guidelines for Trademark Use The Student, Faculty and Staff Guide to Ordering Licensed Temple Products Becoming Licensed Trademark and Licensing FAQ Where to Buy Temple Gear University-approved Hotels Club Quarters DoubleTree Hotel Hilton Garden Inn Hilton Philadelphia at Penn's Landing Loews Hotel Sonesta Philadelphia The Conwell Inn Campus Services Computers, Email and Phones Conferences and Meetings Health Sciences Center Form Main Campus Meeting Space Howard Gittis Student Center Form Documents & Insurance Facilities and Space ID Cards Parking and Transportation Faculty Resources Calendars, Schedules and Grades Courses and Curricula Instructional Resources Faculty Senate and News Research and Grants Finance and Travel Accounting and Budget Employee Banking and Finance Tuition Remission Travel and Expenses Wellness and Safety Fitness and Health Safety and Alerts Campus Development Frequently Asked Questions Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Data Integrity and Data Verification Unit In-scope Materials Quick Reference Guide Rankings Data Overview and Updates Additional Resources Frequently Asked Questions FAQ: Fox School of Business MBA rankings Enterprise Risk Management Key Terms and Definitions Helpline Frequently Asked Questions Resources Compliance With the Four Pillars Who We Are Libraries Charles Library In accordance with the city of Philadelphia Board of Health’s vaccine requirements, Temple University requires all faculty, staff, students and contractors to receive the COVID-19 vaccine. This policy helps Temple more quickly return to the vibrant and dynamic campus we are. Incoming students should review important information about getting vaccinated before starting at Temple. Visit the Undergraduate Admissions Site See how many members of the campus community are currently vaccinated against COVID-19. Temple Vaccination Rates Read more details below, including when and how to get vaccinated and how to upload your vaccine information. Contents Vaccine BoosterGetting Your Vaccine at TempleGetting Vaccinated in PhiladelphiaUploading Your Vaccine InformationAbout the VaccinesCommon Myths About Vaccines Vaccine Booster Temple strongly recommends getting your booster as soon as possible. Boosters are the best way to prevent yourself from becoming infected or becoming seriously ill if you are infected. You are eligible for a booster shot if it has been five months or more since you received the second dose of a Pfizer or Moderna COVID-19 vaccine, or two months or more since the J&J vaccine. Upload your booster shot information at temple.edu/vaxupload and continue to stay informed and follow healthy behaviors. Any Philadelphia resident age 5 and older is now eligible to receive the COVID-19 vaccine. Why is the university mandating vaccines? As the COVID-19 pandemic continues to evolve, so too has the university’s response. With fluctuating positivity rates, the emergence of variants and the city of Philadelphia’s Aug. 13, 2021, mandate requiring full vaccination at higher education institutions, the university has implemented this update to its vaccination protocols. What should I do if I am not vaccinated? Any unvaccinated student, faculty, staff or contractor should take steps to receive the COVID-19 vaccine as soon as possible, as required by the university. Use the health portal to make an appointment for your COVID-19 vaccine with Temple’s Health Services. You must then submit your vaccine information to the health portal by Oct. 15 for your first shot and by Nov. 15 for your second shot in a two-dose series (Pfizer or Moderna). In order to comply with the new vaccination requirements, where can I get vaccinated on campus? Students, faculty and staff can schedule an appointment with Health Services to receive the COVID-19 vaccine. If I can’t get vaccinated, what do I do? While the university would like 100% participation, we recognize that exemptions may be warranted in some cases. Members of our community who cannot be vaccinated at this time due to medical or religious reasons must continue to practice physical distancing when among others and undergo regular COVID-19 testing. Learn more about Temple’s testing program. How will Temple accommodate the safety of community members who are exempt from the vaccine mandate? Anyone who is exempt from the vaccination mandate must wear a mask if attending an in-person class, maintain a safe distance from others and be tested twice a week (antigen test). Testing is available through the university. As of Monday, May 9, 2022, PCR tests will no longer be used as part of the university’s COVID-19 testing program. All tests administered to students, faculty and staff at Paley Hall and the Student Faculty Center will be done with rapid COVID-19 antigen tests. Virtual accommodation may also be available. Learn more about Temple’s flexible work arrangements. Does the vaccination mandate apply to contractors working at Temple University? Yes, all contract employees at Temple must be vaccinated against COVID-19. However, vaccination records will be maintained by their agencies. Please contact your agency if you have questions about vaccines and testing protocols. I’m vaccinated, but I’ve had a positive test result for COVID-19. What should I do? Even if you are fully vaccinated, if you have had any symptoms associated with COVID-19 and/or a positive test result for COVID-19, you must self-isolate immediately and wait at least 10 days from when symptoms first appeared. You must isolate until symptoms have improved, including 24 hours without a fever (without the aid of fever-reducing medication). I’m vaccinated, but I’ve been in close contact with someone who has tested positive for COVID-19. What should I do? If you have been in close contact (meaning closer than six feet for 15 minutes or more) to a person who has tested positive for or is presumed to have COVID-19, you do not need to quarantine. However, you must obtain a COVID-19 test two to five days following exposure. You must also wear a mask for 14 days and monitor for symptoms. Is the university mandating vaccines at basketball games? Temple no longer requires the use of masks in most indoor spaces. Mask usage is optional in the Liacouras Center. Getting Your Vaccine at Temple Students, faculty and staff can call 215-204-7500 to schedule an appointment to receive the vaccine at Student Health Services, 1700 N. Broad St., 4th floor. Appointments can also be made using the health portal. Read responses to questions about vaccine distribution at Temple below. Is the university requiring boosters for students, faculty and staff? Temple strongly recommends that all those that are eligible for it receive a booster shot. Boosters are the best way to prevent yourself from becoming infected or becoming seriously ill if you are infected. Can I receive a booster on campus? If it has been six months or more since your last dose of a COVID vaccine, you are eligible for a booster shot. Boosters will be made available to eligible students, faculty and staff based on eligibility and availability of the vaccine. Booster shots are readily available in pharmacies, doctors’ offices and through public health organizations. Health Services will resume offering vaccine and booster clinics beginning the week of Jan. 10. Schedule an appointment through Health Services. Temple Health System is also offering COVID boosters. What should I do if I've been vaccinated? Once you are vaccinated, please upload your vaccine information to Temple's health portal. Step-by-step instructions on how to upload your vaccination information can be found below. If you do not upload your vaccine information, you will be considered unvaccinated by the university. Please note: The health portal is separate from TUportal and cannot be accessed through that website. I received my first dose of the COVID-19 vaccine someplace outside of Temple, can I come to Temple to get my second dose? No, vaccine allocations are very specific. Our allocation is for first and second doses. The location where you received your first dose should be allocated a vaccine for your second dose. If we provided a second dose that would mean we would not have a second dose for someone for whom we provided a first dose. If I am fully vaccinated, do I still need to participate in Temple’s COVID-19 testing program? Vaccinated individuals are not required to participate in the university’s COVID-19 testing program. However, those who have not uploaded proof of vaccination are considered unvaccinated and will need to be regularly tested for COVID-19. If I am fully vaccinated, do I still need to wear a mask, practice physical distancing and avoid gatherings? Temple no longer requires the use of masks in most indoor spaces. Mask usage is optional in the dining halls, residence halls, common areas, nonclinical office spaces, meeting rooms and the Liacouras Center. Masking continues to be required in classrooms, labs, studios, healthcare facilities, shuttles or other locations where in-person classes (including examinations) are taking place. How do I notify the university that I’ve been vaccinated? Once you are vaccinated, please upload your vaccine information to Temple's health portal. Step-by-step instructions on how to upload your vaccination information can be found below. If you do not upload your vaccine information, you will be considered unvaccinated by the university. Please note: The health portal is separate from TUportal and cannot be accessed through that website. Return to Top Getting Vaccinated in Philadelphia Students, faculty and staff should not rely solely on Temple for a COVID-19 vaccination. We urge all members of the Temple community to also sign up with their local communities and health providers to obtain a vaccination. Those interested in receiving a vaccine should fill out the city’s COVID-19 vaccine interest form. You can also use Pennsylvania’s vaccine finder tool, VaccinatePA, to search for available appointments throughout the state. If you do not live in Pennsylvania, find vaccines in your area at vaccine.gov. Vaccine Interest Form VaccinatePA Search Tool Return to Top How to Upload Your Vaccination Information Once you are vaccinated, please upload your vaccine information to Temple’s health portal. By providing this information, you are helping us determine how close the Temple community is to reaching herd immunity. Please be aware that uploading your vaccine information is required in order to be considered fully vaccinated by the university. Follow these steps to upload your vaccination record. Go to the health portal. Log in using your Temple ID and password. Select the “Immunizations” tab. Then, select the blue “COVID-19” dropdown menu. Find the vaccine you received (Johnson & Johnson, Moderna or Pfizer) and fill in the dates for each dose. Those dates should be clearly labeled on your vaccination card. Once you have added the dates, select “Submit.” Go to the “Upload” tab. Upload an image of your vaccination record. (If you are using a cell phone, you will have the option to use your camera to take a photo of the document.) Once the file is attached, select “Upload.” If completed successfully, your file will be listed at the bottom of the page, under the header “Documents already on file.” Once your information has been reviewed, the dates you submitted to the “Immunizations” page will be marked “Verified.” Health Portal Return to Top About the Vaccines In an effort to address common questions, concerns and misinformation, we asked Temple health experts to respond to frequently asked questions regarding COVID-19 vaccines. How does the COVID-19 vaccine work? COVID-19 mRNA vaccines instruct our cells to make a harmless piece of what is called the “spike protein.” The spike protein is found on the surface of the virus that causes COVID-19. COVID-19 mRNA vaccines are given in the upper arm muscle. Once the instructions (mRNA) are inside the immune cells, the cells use them to make the protein piece. After the protein piece is made, the cell breaks down the instructions and gets rid of them. Next, the cell displays the protein piece on its surface. Our immune systems recognize that the protein doesn’t belong there and begin building an immune response and making antibodies, like what happens in natural infection against COVID-19. At the end of the process, our bodies have learned how to protect against future infection. The benefit of mRNA vaccines, like all vaccines, is that those vaccinated gain this protection without ever having to risk the serious consequences of getting sick with COVID-19. Is the COVID-19 vaccine effective? Is one vaccine better than the other? Vaccine effectiveness is determined by the proportion of infections in the vaccinated population in comparison to the unvaccinated population. The preliminary data released about the current vaccines indicates that they are both effective and safe. Currently, the Pfizer vaccine efficacy rate is reported as 95% and the Moderna vaccine efficacy rate is 94.1%. With a difference of 0.9%, the efficacy of both vaccines is comparable. What are the ingredients in the COVID-19 vaccines? Neither the Moderna vaccine nor the Pfizer vaccine contain eggs, latex or preservatives. See the full list of ingredients on the U.S. Food and Drug Administration’s website. Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine Moderna COVID-19 vaccine When am I considered fully vaccinated? According to CDC guidance, an individual is fully vaccinated if, in a two-dose vaccine, it has been two weeks since the receipt of the second dose in a two-dose series; they have remained asymptomatic since their vaccine and the current COVID-19 exposure; and they have received one booster shot. one-dose vaccine, it has been two weeks since the receipt of one dose of a single-dose vaccine; they have remained asymptomatic since their vaccine and the current COVID-19 exposure; and they have received one booster shot. Was the vaccine really created in six months? Messenger mRNA vaccines are new, but not unknown. Researchers have been studying and working with mRNA vaccines for decades. Interest has grown in these vaccines because they can be developed in a laboratory using readily available materials. This means the process can be standardized and scaled up, making vaccine development faster than traditional methods of vaccine production. mRNA vaccines have been studied before for flu, Zika, rabies and cytomegalovirus (CMV). As soon as the necessary information about the virus that causes COVID-19 became available, scientists began designing the mRNA instructions for cells to build the unique spike protein into an mRNA vaccine. Future mRNA vaccine technology may allow for one vaccine to provide protection for multiple diseases, thus decreasing the number of shots needed for protection against common vaccine-preventable diseases. Beyond vaccines, cancer research has used mRNA to trigger the immune system to target specific cancer cells. Will a COVID-19 vaccine alter my DNA? No. COVID-19 mRNA vaccines do not change or interact with your DNA in any way. Below, you can find general information about getting vaccinated. How will vaccination benefit me? Getting vaccinated will significantly decrease the chance that you will contract COVID-19, a serious and potentially fatal disease. You will also decrease the likelihood of spreading the coronavirus to those around you, ensuring that the Temple community is that much safer. Each student, faculty member and neighbor who gets vaccinated is helping our community return to normal life. Once enough people are vaccinated, we can begin interacting with each other in classrooms and other public spaces again. When you get vaccinated, you’re making a difference in your life and the lives of others. Will I have side effects? Some people may experience some flu-like side effects after vaccination. This is a normal sign that the body is building protection and that the immune system is responding to the vaccine. The side effects might even affect one’s ability to do daily activities, but they should go away in a few days. Learn more about what to expect and get helpful tips on how to reduce discomfort after your vaccination. How many doses of the COVID-19 vaccine do I need? Both the Moderna and Pfizer-BioNTech vaccines require two doses to be effective. The interval between doses is dependent on which vaccine you receive. Moderna: One month, or 28 days Pfizer-BioNtech: Three weeks, or 21 days If I already had COVID-19 and recovered, do I still need to get vaccinated? Yes. Due to the severe health risks associated with COVID-19 and the fact that reinfection with COVID-19 is possible, you should be vaccinated regardless of whether you already had COVID-19 infection. If you were treated for COVID-19 symptoms with monoclonal antibodies or convalescent plasma, you should wait 90 days before getting a COVID-19 vaccine. Talk to your doctor if you are unsure what treatments you received or if you have more questions about getting a COVID-19 vaccine. Experts do not yet know how long someone is protected from getting sick again after recovering from COVID-19. The immunity someone gains from having an infection, called “natural immunity,” varies from person to person. Furthermore, we won’t know how long immunity produced by vaccination lasts until more data becomes available. Both natural immunity and vaccine-induced immunity are important aspects of COVID-19 that experts are working to learn more about. The CDC will keep the public informed as new evidence becomes available. Can I still be infectious or symptomatic after I receive the vaccine? Yes. The vaccine does not kill COVID-19 virus that enters your system; it simply provides additional protection for fighting off future infections. Despite increased antibodies that help to protect against severe infection, it is still possible that one can host and transmit COVID-19 after receiving both doses of either vaccine. Return to Top Addressing Common Myths About Vaccines False claims continue to circulate online, causing many people to make incorrect assumptions about the COVID-19 vaccines. We've assembled the following list of facts to dispel rumors about the vaccine and help keep you and the entire Temple community safe and healthy. These facts are based on information published by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the American Academy of Family Physicians (AAFP), the Mayo Clinic, and the World Health Organization (WHO). FACT: Vaccines will NOT alter your DNA. Despite many baseless claims circulating online, vaccines will NOT interact with or change your DNA. The mRNA vaccines work by instructing cells to make a harmless “spike protein” that triggers an immune response in your body. mRNA never enters the nucleus of the cell, which is where our DNA (genetic material) is kept, the CDC says. FACT: You should get vaccinated EVEN IF you’ve had COVID-19 and recovered. Recovering from COVID-19 does NOT mean you won’t get it again. There is not enough information to know how long you are protected from getting sick again after you have recovered from the coronavirus. It is possible (though rare) that individuals can become reinfected. You should get the COVID-19 vaccine EVEN IF you’ve had the virus and recovered. That being said, the CDC recommends those who have recovered from COVID-19 should delay vaccination for about 90 days from diagnosis. FACT: The vaccines were NOT developed too quickly to be safe. The methods and technology used to develop mRNA COVID-19 vaccines have been used for cancer research for many years. The vaccines were NOT developed too quickly to be safe. Though the urgency of the COVID-19 pandemic spurred increased funding, collaboration and uses of new technology to develop vaccines on an accelerated timeline, clinical trials were conducted with the same rigor applied to all vaccine trials. Furthermore, the results of these trials were reviewed and approved by several advisory panels, including the FDA. FACT: The vaccine will NOT make you sick with COVID-19. NONE of the available vaccines contain the live virus that causes COVID-19. Vaccines teach your immune system how to recognize and fight the coronavirus, but they do NOT infect you with it. Whatever symptoms you may experience after vaccination are normal signs that your body is building protection against the virus. Go back to Life at TempleMore in COVID-19: Keeping Our Community Safe & Healthy COVID-19 FAQ Testing & Tracing Vaccines Academics, Tuition & Aid Student Housing & On-campus Life Work-life for Faculty & Staff Return Scenario Planning University Communication International Campuses and Programs Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community.