Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Registrar About Register Students Veterans Faculty & Staff Forms Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Register Quick Guide Errors/Problems Holds Permits Auditing Elite Student Audit Late Add/Late Registration Complete Self Service Guides Take Action View Calendars Order Transcripts View Notices Contact Us Home Registrar Register Register for Classes Registration is more than adding or dropping classes: it's a process that takes preparation as well as follow-through in order to make sure that you get best schedule possible with the least amount of trouble. With that in mind, review the process as outlined below. Before Registration Opens View Dates Check the appropriate semester Dates & Deadlines calendar to determine registration and term dates, and your first day to register. View Courses Class offerings are available online, usually one month before registration opens. UofM students should login to the myMemphis portal and search the semester's class offerings using Look Up Classes. If you are not an admitted student, use the Class Schedule Search (Dynamic Schedule). View Financial Aid Login to the portal. Click on the Student Pages tab and then click My Finances to review and accept your financial aid awards. View Registration Status Login to the portal and select the Register for Classes link (Student page under Online Registration). Choose Registration Status. Look in particular at: Holds - You cannot register if you have any Registration holds. Contact the office that placed the hold to determine how you can remove it. Read about Holds. Registration Notices - You must be a current student with an Active status for the term. If you see these messages—"you have no registration time ticket," "you require readmission," "your status prevents registration,"—you must apply for admission or readmission before registering. (Note: When you skip a Fall or Spring term, your status changes to "Inactive" and you must be readmitted.) Meet with Your Advisor If you are a degree-seeking student, you must be cleared to register by your advisor or advising unit. Otherwise, you will be blocked from registering by the "Alternate PIN" screen. Once your advisor clears you, you will not encounter this roadblock again. Visit Academic Advising for advising information. Once Registration Opens Login and Register Register online through the myMemphis portal as early as possible for the best course selection; once you are in the portal, look for the Register for Classes link on your Student page. Also: Refer to the Registration Quick Guide for an overview of online registration. If you encounter problems trying to register, refer to our Errors and Problems page. If you need a permit to register for a particular section, refer to our Permits page. If a course section is full, you can add yourself to a waitlist and be notified if a space opens up for you. Review your personal class schedule after you have registered for classes. Check it for accuracy. Look especially at time, days, room, and campus location. Pay Fees Pay your fees online (select your Student page in the portal), or pay in person at University & Student and Business Services (USBS), 115 Wilder Tower. Refer to the USBS website for fee payment deadlines and other fee-related information, including fee payment methods, and possible refunds. Before You Go To Class Review your schedule just prior to the first day of classes. Buildings and room numbers often need to be revised before classes start. After Classes Begin Review your schedule to be sure you are registered for all classes you are attending. If you do not register for a class you are attending, you will not receive credit. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/28/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.