Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Protect the Pack COVID-19 Readiness Personal Precautions Community Standards COVID-19 Health Services Updates COVID-19 Readiness Personal Precautions sub navigation menuPersonal Precautions COVID-19 Health Services Updates Full Site Navigation Personal Precautions Community Standards COVID-19 Health Services Find the latest information about our on-campus COVID-19 health services below. Student Health Services continues to serve our campus community by providing free testing and administering vaccinations and boosters. On-Campus Testing Any NC State student, faculty member or staff member with a valid NC State ID can get tested on campus for free, no appointment required. Locations and Hours NC State’s summer testing will operate on a rotating schedule, Monday-Thursday. Test results will come out in batches on Tuesdays and Thursdays. Monday: 111 Lampe Drive (room 204) 8 a.m.-12 p.m. and 12:30 p.m.-4 p.m. Tuesday: College of Veterinary Medicine (only CVM students and CVM employees) 8 a.m.-1 p.m. Wednesday: Centennial Campus (Research II, room 313) 8 a.m.-12 p.m. and 12:30 p.m.-4 p.m. Thursday: 111 Lampe Drive (room 204) 8 a.m.-12 p.m. and 12:30 p.m.-4 p.m. On-campus tests are self-administered. Staff is available to assist you. Your test results will be available on HealthyPack Portal, NC State’s online medical portal for campus students and employees. HealthyPack Portal complies with HIPAA and FERPA information privacy requirements. The system uses the latest industry-standard security protocol and protects patient data through ongoing security checks and audits of the system. Vaccinations and Boosters Vaccines remain the best defense against COVID-19 and have proven effective against the most severe symptoms. Please get vaccinated and, if you are eligible, get your booster shot. NC State Student Health Services is an approved provider of COVID-19 vaccinations for faculty, staff and students. If you would like to get your vaccination or booster on campus, please make an appointment using the link below. Schedule an appointment If you have questions about how to get a vaccine on campus or your eligibility as a member of the NC State community, please call 919-515-6850. Self-Reporting If you test positive for COVID-19, or if a health care provider tells you that you are presumed positive for the novel coronavirus, please notify the university by filling out the relevant form:For Students For Faculty and Staff This procedure is voluntary, and the information is confidential. The form helps university health care professionals provide support you might need. If you are faculty or a staff member, you should also contact your University Human Resources representative for additional information on leave options. If you do not have web access, please call Student Health Services at 919-513-0277 to self-report a positive diagnosis for COVID-19. Protect the Pack Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Academic Calendar Accessibility Apply Contact Copyright COVID-19 Updates Directory Emergency Information Free Speech Jobs Libraries MyPack Portal Policies Privacy Social Media Strategic Plan Campus Map facebook you tube twitter instagram linked in © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.