Home About CJEB Faculty & Staff Directors Faculty Leadership and Staff Visiting Scholars Application Information Apply Current Visiting Scholars Summer Academic Visiting Scholar Visiting Scholars Gallery Board & Committees Faculty Advisory Committee International Advisory Board Japan Experts and Specialists Research Associates Professional Fellows Sponsors Annual Reports Research & Publications Research Projects David E. Weinstein Hugh Patrick Takatoshi Ito Research Papers 2021 - 2022 Books and Publications Japanese Company Reports Programs & Resources Student Opportunities CJEB-Sponsored Fellowship & Scholarship Programs Doctoral Fellowship Graduate Student Research Grants and Summer Stipends Corporate-sponsored Fellowship & Scholarship Programs CJEB Graduate Student Writer Event Student Casual General Student Casual Summer Student Casual Library and Data Resources Programs Program on Public Pension and Sovereign Funds PPPSF Conference and Webinar Series Program on Public Pension Working Paper Series Project on Japanese Corporate Governance and Stewardship Corporate Governance & Stewardship Events Corporate Governance Publications Japanese Management Leadership Program Japanese Management Leadership Program Events Program on Japan’s Role in the Evolving Global Economic System Past Programs The New Global Financial Architecture Program Programs on Alternative Investments Event Reports Research News Events Upcoming Events 2021-22 Events Archive 日本語 CJEB年次東京カンファレンス 「コロナ時代の日本経済」ウェビナーシリーズ スポンサーシップ・プログラム お問い合わせ Contact Us Directory Center on Japanese Economy and Business Home About CJEB Faculty & Staff Directors Faculty Leadership and Staff Visiting Scholars Application Information Apply Current Visiting Scholars Summer Academic Visiting Scholar Visiting Scholars Gallery Board & Committees Faculty Advisory Committee International Advisory Board Japan Experts and Specialists Research Associates Professional Fellows Sponsors Annual Reports Research & Publications Research Projects David E. Weinstein Hugh Patrick Takatoshi Ito Research Papers 2021 - 2022 Books and Publications Japanese Company Reports Programs & Resources Student Opportunities CJEB-Sponsored Fellowship & Scholarship Programs Doctoral Fellowship Graduate Student Research Grants and Summer Stipends Corporate-sponsored Fellowship & Scholarship Programs CJEB Graduate Student Writer Event Student Casual General Student Casual Summer Student Casual Library and Data Resources Programs Program on Public Pension and Sovereign Funds PPPSF Conference and Webinar Series Program on Public Pension Working Paper Series Project on Japanese Corporate Governance and Stewardship Corporate Governance & Stewardship Events Corporate Governance Publications Japanese Management Leadership Program Japanese Management Leadership Program Events Program on Japan’s Role in the Evolving Global Economic System Past Programs The New Global Financial Architecture Program Programs on Alternative Investments Event Reports Research News Events Upcoming Events 2021-22 Events Archive 日本語 CJEB年次東京カンファレンス 「コロナ時代の日本経済」ウェビナーシリーズ スポンサーシップ・プログラム お問い合わせ Contact Us h-cjeb.jpg Understanding Japan's Role in the Global Economy The Center on Japanese Economy and Business (CJEB) is the preeminent US academic center focused on promoting knowledge of Japanese business systems in domestic, East Asia, and international contexts. Quick links: Research Papers Visiting Scholars Program Student Opportunities (NEW) 2020-2021 Annual Report CJEB Brochure Columbia Business School Highlights Videos Available Now Japan's Inflation Dynamics and the Role of Monetary Policy Diversity Driving Change: ﻿Aflac Japan’s Diversity Initiatives and Impacts ESG through the Looking Glass: U.S. and Japanese Investors’ Engagement Agendas Solving Social Issues through the Lens of Property & Casualty Insurance Japan's New Stock Market New Capitalism in Japan: Turning Left or Right? Workstyle Reform and Work-Life Balance for Women in Japan The Importance of Diversity: Recognizing the Hurdles to Achieving Change Rethinking Modern Portfolio Theory: Addressing Market Risk is Turning Investors into ESG Advocates Key Reforms Underway: Will Japan's Stock Market Remain Undervalued and Underappreciated? Using Capitalism to Make a Better World: Fund Managers' Strategies to Promote ESG and Sustainability Agendas Is Korea Following in Japan's Footsteps? Marking the 10th Anniversary of the 2011 Great East Japan Earthquake Hoshino Resorts: A Leader’s Vision to Transform Japanese Tourism The Father of Japan’s Modern Economy and Capitalism, Eiichi Shibusawa: His Timeless Vision, Philosophy, and Legacy Globalizing the Japanese Company: Stakeholder Capitalism Meets Shareholder Capitalism The Future of Finance and Empowering the Retail Investor TSE Introduces a Brand New Playing Field for Japanese Companies: Who Will Be the Winners? The Japanese Economy, Second Edition: Book Launch Political Change in the Post-Abe Era Are Japanese CEOs Paid Too Little & U.S. CEOs Paid Too Much, and Why Does it Matter? Global Investment in a Nationally-Regulated World: Should Money Stay at Home? The Transition from Abenomics to Suganomics: What Should We Expect? A Wave of Shareholder Activism Hits Japan's Shores Investing in Infrastructure in Developing Asia after COVID-19: Navigating Geopolitics to Generate Long-Term Value, Growth, and Returns Whither the Suga Administration— a Conversation with Gerald Curtis & Takenaka Heizo Recent Lessons for Financial Regulation and Macroprudential Policy Lessons from the Fight against COVID-19: Tokyo and New York Central Banking in the COVID-19 Era Strategies for Unlocking Value in Japan: Attack or Engage? Economic Recovery from the Pandemic and Transformation toward a Better New Normal in Japan and the United States ESG Investing in the COVID-19 Era International Financial Institutions in the COVID-19 Era What Japan Should Do Now in Preparation for Japan’s New Normal COVID-19: Economic Implications for Japan & the United States The Role of Central Banks in the COVID-19 Pandemic: The U.S., Japan, and Beyond Upcoming Events Upcoming Event(s) Webinar Series 2022 CJEB Annual Tokyo Conference Japan in the Uncertain World: Security, Economic Security, Diversity, and Governance Presented by the Center on Japanese Economy and Business, Columbia Business School (Simultaneous interpretation to be provided) 日本語のプログラムはこちらをクリック下さい。 Day 4 Thursday, June 9, 2022 | 8:00–9:20 AM (Japan Time) Wednesday, June 8, 2022 | 7:00–8:20 PM (EDT) (Simultaneous interpretation to be provided) Panel: Board 3.0: A Vision for a New Board of Directors in America and Japan Panelists: Christina Ahmadjian, Specially Appointed Professor, Rikkyo University; Outside Director, Asahi Group Holdings, Ltd.; Japan Exchange Group, Inc.; NEC Corporation; Sumitomo Electric Industries, Ltd. Jeffrey N. Gordon, Richard Paul Richman Professor of Law; Co-Director, Millstein Center for Global Markets and Corporate Ownership, Columbia Law School Daisuke Hamaguchi, Outside Director, Chairperson of Compensation Committee, Member of Nomination Committee, and Member of Governance Committee, LIXIL Corporation Sachiko Ichikawa, Partner, Tanabe & Partners; Statutory Auditor, The Board Director Training Institute of Japan Moderator: Alicia Ogawa, Project Director for Japanese Corporate Governance and Stewardship, Project on Japanese Corporate Governance and Stewardship, CJEB Closing Remarks: David E. Weinstein, Director, CJEB; Carl S. Shoup Professor of the Japanese Economy, Columbia University This conference is subject to change without notice. Follow us on our social media accounts for notifications about CJEB's upcoming events. Follow @ColumbiaCJEB on Twitter Follow CJEB on LinkedIn Announcements Read our 2020-2021 Annual Report Click here to read. About CJEB About CJEB CJEB News News May 24, 2022 Professor Takatoshi Ito, Director of CJEB's Program on Public Pension and Sovereign Funds, Wrote the Article "The Finlandization of Asia" for Project Syndicate Professor Takatoshi Ito, director of CJEB's Program on Public Pension and Sovereign Funds, professor at the School of International and Public Affairs at Columbia University, wrote the Project Syndicate article "The Finlandization of Asia." The article states that "Most Asian countries have refrained from vocal or vociferous condemnations of Russia's war on Ukraine. This makes a united front between the US, South Korea, and Japan all the more important to regional security." May 3, 2022 Professor Takatoshi Ito, Director of CJEB’s Program on Public Pension and Sovereign Funds, Was Interviewed on CNBC about the Bank of Japan’s Unlimited Bond Buying Decision Professor Takatoshi Ito, director of CJEB’s Program on Public Pension and Sovereign Funds, professor at the School of International and Public Affairs at Columbia University, was interviewed on CNBC. A video of the section featuring Professor Ito’s answers to questions about the Bank of Japan’s unlimited bond buying can be found at the link below. April 25, 2022 CJEB's event featuring Bank of Japan's Governor Haruhiko Kuroda was covered by Yahoo Finance in the article "UPDATE 2-BOJ's Kuroda vows to 'persistently' continue aggressive monetary easing" and in other media outlets. CJEB's event featuring Bank of Japan's Governor Haruhiko Kuroda was covered by Yahoo Finance in the article "UPDATE 2-BOJ's Kuroda vows to 'persistently' continue aggressive monetary easing" and in other media outlets listed below. UPDATE 2-BOJ's Kuroda vows to 'persistently' continue aggressive monetary easing (Yahoo Finance, 4/22/22) March 31, 2022 Jackson G. Lu PhD '18, a recipient of CJEB's Doctoral Fellowship, authored a paper published in the prestigious journal Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences Jackson G. Lu PhD '18, the Mitsui Career Development Professor and an Associate Professor of Work and Organization Studies at the MIT Sloan School of Management, and a recipient of CJEB's Doctoral Fellowship, authored the paper "The surprising underperformance of East Asians in US law and business schools" published in the prestigious journal Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. March 3, 2022 Professor Takatoshi Ito, Director of CJEB's Program on Public Pension and Sovereign Funds, Wrote the Article "Why Is Japan So Cheap?" for Project Syndicate Professor Takatoshi Ito, director of CJEB's Program on Public Pension and Sovereign Funds, professor at the School of International and Public Affairs at Columbia University, wrote the Project Syndicate article "Why Is Japan So Cheap?" Why Is Japan So Cheap? (Project Syndicate, 3/3/22) March 2, 2022 Jackson G. Lu PhD '18, a recipient of CJEB’s Doctoral Fellowship, authored a paper published in the prestigious Journal of Personality and Social Psychology. Jackson G. Lu PhD '18, the Mitsui Career Development Professor and an Associate Professor of Work and Organization Studies at the MIT Sloan School of Management, and a recipient of CJEB’s Doctoral Fellowship, authored the paper “A social network perspective on the Bamboo Ceiling: Ethnic homophily explains why East Asians but not South Asians are underrepresented in leadership in multiethnic environments” published in the prestigious Journal of Personality and Social Psychology. February 3, 2022 Professor Takatoshi Ito, Director of CJEB's Program on Public Pension and Sovereign Funds, Wrote an Article in Japanese on U.S. Inflation and Monetary Policy for Nikkei Professor Takatoshi Ito, Director of CJEB's Program on Public Pension and Sovereign Funds, Professor at the School of International and Public Affairs at Columbia University, Wrote an Article in Japanese on U.S. Inflation and Monetary Policy for Nikkei. 「引き締め遅れ」指摘当たらず　米インフレと金融政 (Nikkei Inc., 2/3/22) January 19, 2022 Research by CJEB's Director, Professor David Weinstein, was cited in, “PM Kishida: Be Skeptical of MOF On Fiscal Policy” a Toyo Keizai article by Richard Katz Research by CJEB's Director, Professor David Weinstein, was cited in an article titled, “PM Kishida: Be Skeptical of MOF On Fiscal Policy” by Richard Katz, Senior Fellow, Carnegie Council For Ethics in International Affairs. The article is available in English, hosted on the Oriental Economist’s website, and in Japanese, hosted on Toyo Keizai’s website. PM Kishida: Be Skeptical of MOF On Fiscal Policy (Oriental Economist, 1/12/22) January 13, 2022 Professor Takatoshi Ito, Director of CJEB's Program on Public Pension and Sovereign Funds, Wrote the Article "What Biden Should Do on Trade" for Project Syndicate Professor Takatoshi Ito, director of CJEB's Program on Public Pension and Sovereign Funds, professor at the School of International and Public Affairs at Columbia University, wrote the Project Syndicate article "What Biden Should Do on Trade." What Biden Should Do on Trade (Project Syndicate, 1/13/22) December 22, 2021 Professor Takatoshi Ito, Director of CJEB's Program on Public Pension and Sovereign Funds, Wrote the Article "Does Japan Vindicate Modern Monetary Theory?" for Project Syndicate Professor Takatoshi Ito, director of CJEB's Program on Public Pension and Sovereign Funds, professor at the School of International and Public Affairs at Columbia University, wrote the Project Syndicate article "Does Japan Vindicate Modern Monetary Theory?" The article discusses how the Japanese government has amassed more and more debt without triggering higher borrowing costs or inflation and how Japanese leaders should start thinking about the country's huge stock of debts. Contact Us Sign Up for Updates Learn more about CJEB by joining our mailing list. Sign Up Now Contact Us 645 West 130th Street Geffen Hall, Room 671 New York, NY 10027 (As of January 2022) P: 212-853-8590 [email protected] Donations and Media Contact - Ryoko Ogino [email protected] Twitter feed Powered by Curator.io Make a Gift About Us Directories RSS Feeds Hiring Media Inquiries Contact Us Directions Follow on Twitter instagram Like on Facebook Follow on YouTube Connect on LinkedIn © Columbia University Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 212-854-1100 Privacy and Policy Statements Return to Top