Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Academic Success Center Academic Success Center Awards 2022 ASC Award Nominations Nominations are being accepted for the 2022 Awards. Dr. Ted G. Westmoreland Award for Faculty Excellence This award is presented annually to honor a distinguished faculty member who has made exemplary contributions to undergraduate student success at Clemson University. The award recipient receives a monetary award and a plaque. Additionally, the faculty member’s name is added to the perpetual Dr. Ted G. Westmoreland Award for Faculty Excellence plaque on display in the Class of 1956 Academic Success Center Building. Click here for the nomination form for the Dr. Ted G. Westmoreland Award for Faculty Excellence. Class of 1956 Award for Staff Excellence This award is presented annually to honor a distinguished staff member who has made exemplary contributions to undergraduate student success at Clemson University. The award recipient receives a monetary award and a plaque. Additionally, the staff member’s name is added to the perpetual Class of 1956 Award for Staff Excellence plaque on display in the Class of 1956 Academic Success Center Building. Click here for the nomination form for the Class of 1956 Award for Staff Excellence. The deadline to submit a completed nomination form has been extended to 4:30pm on Friday, March 18, 2022. 2021 Award Recipients Dr. Ted G. Westmoreland Award for Faculty Excellence This award is presented annually to honor a distinguished faculty member who has made exemplary contributions to undergraduate student success at Clemson University. The award recipient receives a monetary award and a plaque. Additionally, the faculty member’s name is added to the perpetual Dr. Ted G. Westmoreland Award for Faculty Excellence plaque on display in the Class of 1956 Academic Success Center Building. Class of 1956 Award for Staff Excellence This award is presented annually to honor a distinguished staff member who has made exemplary contributions to undergraduate student success at Clemson University. The award recipient receives a monetary award and a plaque. Additionally, the staff member’s name is added to the perpetual Class of 1956 Award for Staff Excellence plaque on display in the Class of 1956 Academic Success Center Building. Dr. Ted G. Westmoreland Award for Faculty Excellence Dr. Walt Hunter Class of 1956 Award for Staff Excellence Dr. Maria Herbst Dr. M. Elaine Richardson Annual Student Award Anjel Iriaghomo 2020 Award Recipients Dr. Ted G. Westmoreland Award for Faculty Excellence Dr. Alison Starr-Moss Class of 1956 Award for Staff Excellence Jenai Brown Dr. M. Elaine Richardson Annual Student Award Co-Recipients Danielle “Dani” Petersen Eric Branan Home About the Center About the Class of 1956 ASC Awards Academic Advising Success Matters CU 1000 For New Students and Families For Faculty and Staff For Prospective Student Employees Contact Us Related Links Academic Advising Academic Eligibility Policy Academic Forgiveness Policy Center for Career and Professional Development Catalog, Undergraduate Courses Counseling and Psychological Services Libraries Majors Ombuds, Undergraduate Satisfactory Academic Progress Policy Student Accessibility Services Undergraduate Studies Writing Center Downloads ASC Annual Report Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram