By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Admissions Graduate Admitted Tuition Deposits More from this Section Checklist Transcripts Tuition Deposits for Admitted Graduate Students Each program of study has specific tuition deposit information. The list below outlines program requirements and deadlines. If you have additional questions, please contact us . The tuition deposit is not required for limited residency distance learning programs. Your offer of admission will become void if the tuition deposit has not been received by the deadlines indicated. If your program requires the advance tuition deposit, it can be made on MySlice under Applicant Services. Select Graduate Tuition Deposit to make your payment by credit card. We will also accept a check or money order made payable to Syracuse University. When you enroll for the semester for which you have been admitted, your deposit will be credited to your Bursar account as an advance tuition payment. The deposit is not refunded if you do not enroll. School of Architecture M.Arch and M.S. in Architecture Programs The School of Architecture determines when the tuition deposit is due for these programs. If after reviewing the information that you have received from the School you are unsure about the due date, contact the School of Architecture at 315.443.1041 or archgrad@syr.edu . Remember to include your Intent to Register Form to the Office of Enrollment Management with your tuition deposit. College of Arts and Sciences Only two graduate programs in the college of Arts and Sciences require a tuition deposit. Applicants admitted to any other graduate program in the College should return the Intent to Register form to the Office of Enrollment Management as soon as they have determined whether or not they will attend Syracuse University. Speech-Language Pathology, M.S. Program Doctor of Audiology, Au.D. Program The Department of Communication Sciences and Disorders determines when the tuition deposit is due for this program. If after reviewing the information that you have received from the department you are unsure about the due date, contact Jennifer Steigerwald ( jssteige@syr.edu or 315.443.9615). Remember to include your Intent to Register form to the Office of Enrollment Management with your tuition deposit. College of Engineering and Computer Science All master’s programs M.S. applicants admitted for the fall semester who wish to attend must submit the tuition deposit. Questions may be directed to the College of Engineering and Computer Science at 315.443.2219 or topgrads@syr.edu . Please remember to include your Intent to Register form to the Office of Enrollment Management with your tuition deposit. All doctoral programs Applicants admitted to doctoral programs in the College of Engineering and Computer Science need not submit a deposit. They should return the Intent to Register form to the Office of Enrollment Management as soon as they have determined whether or not they will attend Syracuse University. David B. Falk College of Sport and Human Dynamics Nutrition Science master’s Applicants admitted for any semester who wish to attend must submit the tuition deposit. Questions may be directed to the David B. Falk College of Sport and Human Dynamics at 315.443.5555 or falk@syr.edu . Remember to include your Intent to Register form to the Office of Enrollment Management with your tuition deposit. No other graduate program in the David B. Falk College of Sport and Human Dynamics requires a tuition deposit. Applicants admitted to any other graduate program in Falk should return the Intent to Register form to the Office of Enrollment Management as soon as they have determined whether or not they will attend Syracuse University. School of Information Studies All master’s programs Applicants admitted to any master’s program who wish to attend must submit their tuition deposits by May 1. Questions may be directed to Bridget Crary ( bmcrary@syr.edu , 315.443.2911). Master’s students must return the Intent to Register form to the Office of Enrollment Management with the deposit. All doctoral programs Applicants admitted to the doctoral program in the iSchool need not submit a deposit. They should return the Intent to Register form to the Office of Enrollment Management as soon as they have determined whether or not they will attend Syracuse University. Whitman School of Management All graduate programs Applicants admitted to a master’s program in the Whitman School should consult the admissions communications that they have received to determine whether they are expected to submit a deposit and, if so, when. Admitted applicants may direct questions in this regard to Shannon Hiemstra ( srhiemst@syr.edu or 315.443.9214). Applicants admitted to the doctoral program in the Whitman School need not submit a deposit. Admitted students in both the master’s and doctoral degree programs should return the Intent to Register form to Shannon Hiemstra as soon as they have determined whether or not they will attend Syracuse University. Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs Applicants admitted to the Master of Public Administration (MPA) and Master of Arts in International Relations (MAIR) programs must submit a non-refundable $500 advance tuition deposit along with the Intent to Register form (included with the official admission letter) to the Office of Enrollment Management by April 15 (note: students admitted to the dual MPA/MAIR only need to provide one deposit of $500). Students admitted to the Online Executive Master of Public Administration (EMPA Online) program must submit the non-refundable $500 deposit by the date listed in their offer of admission. Newhouse School of Public Communications All master’s programs (excluding Communications Management, M.S. Independent Study) Applicants admitted for summer or fall to any master’s program who wish to attend must submit the tuition deposit by April 15. Questions about this may be directed to the Graduate Records Office ( pcgrad@syr.edu or 315.443.4039). Applicants should return the Intent to Register form to Newhouse as soon as they have determined whether or not they will attend Syracuse University. Applicants admitted to the doctoral program need not submit a deposit. They should return the Intent to Register form to the Office of Enrollment Management as soon as they have determined whether or not they will attend Syracuse University. Related Pages Graduate School Policies Consult these sources for information on Syracuse’s formal policies and stated guidelines most directly relevant to graduate study at the university. Connect with Us Contact Graduate Admissions with your general questions or contact the specific school or college with questions regarding your program of interest. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy