Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Music Theory Jazz Certificate (Undergraduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Music Theory Jazz Certificate (Undergraduate) Apply Request More Info Music Theory Jazz Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Music Theory Jazz Undergraduate Certificate Learn the fundamental principles of music theory and sharpen your listening abilities, focusing on jazz music with the 14-credit Music Theory Jazz Undergraduate Certificate in Temple’s Boyer College of Music and Dance. Develop your ability to think critically about music through analysis, counterpoint, ear training, harmony and orchestration. Theory coursework covers topics including advanced chord progressions, advanced interval recognition, advanced sight singing, melody, modal applications, tonal harmony and transcription. You’ll apply your analytical skills to compositions ranging from short pieces to larger works. Learn to write original second parts to given melodies as well as complex harmonizations.The Department of Music Studies prepares students to be well-rounded musicians who can apply their skills and knowledge to performance, composition, teaching, or research. Classes & Curriculum Students pursuing the Music Theory Jazz Undergraduate Certificate can complete their program in four or six semesters. Courses will include Theory I (Jazz), Theory II (Jazz), Theory IV and Topics in Music Theory. Learn more about Music Theory Jazz Undergraduate Certificate coursework. Tuition & Fees The tuition for this Certificate Program is based on school or college of your major, program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Academic Advisors The Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts has a centralized advising office with five staff members. This advising team serves all undergraduate students in the Boyer School of Music and Dance and the School of Theater, Film and Media Arts. Advisors help students navigate the undergraduate curriculum for each degree program. The academic advising team for Music, Dance, Theater, and Film and Media Arts majors is located in Mitten Hall, Suite 200 West. To schedule an advising appointment based on your individual needs or for more help, contact the advising team. Phone: 215-204-8301 Schedule an advising appointment. Program Contact Contact the following faculty for more information about the Undergraduate Certificate in Music Theory Jazz. Terell Stafford is the director of Jazz Studies. Phone: 215-204-8036 Email: terell.stafford@temple.edu Accreditation The Boyer College of Music and Dance is accredited by the American Music Therapy Association, National Association of Schools of Music, National Association of Schools of Dance and Pennsylvania Department of Education. BC-MTJZ-CERT Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Music Theory Jazz Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info