Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory ADVANCE at Brown Visiting Scholars ADVANCE at Brown Visiting Scholars The Visiting Scholars Program sponsors public lectures, department chair workshops, and networking sessions for women faculty and graduate students in the sciences. The visitors address a variety of topics including recruiting and retaining women in the sciences, creating faculty mentoring programs, and conducting leadership development workshops for women science faculty. Visiting Scholars Program Visitng Scholar Event Date Event Description Scott E. Page April 2012 In April 2012, Professor Scott E. Page explores how successful crowds and groups leverage distinct categorizations, representations, and heuristics to find better solutions and to more accurately forecast in his presentation entitled, Collective Wisdom. Nancy Hopkins October 2009 In October 2009, Professor Nancy Hopkins looks back on what has been learned at MIT about invisible barriers that inhibit women's advancement in science and steps MIT took reduce such barriers. Virginia Valian, Oct 2008Virginia Valian, Oct 2008For department chairs, Dr. Hopkins presents a talk entitled, The Role of the Department Chair in Institutional Change: Lessons from MIT. Sue Rosser January 2009 In January 2009, Professor Sue Rosser outlines ways in which higher educational institutions’ engagement with the issues of women in the sciences can widen the path to success for all faculty. She identifies key barriers that must be addressed for universities to better retain women scientists and engineers, and the challenges and rewards of institutionalizing ADVANCE goals. Joan Williams October 2008 In October 2008, Professor Joan Williams discusses her solution for work/family conflicts: an inclusive, family-friendly feminism that supports both mothers and fathers as caregivers and as workers. For department chairs, Dr. Williams presents a talk entitled, Stealing the Best Talent in an Era of Tight Budgets. Virginia Valian October 2008 In October 2008, Professor Virginia Valian discusses her book, Why So Slow? The Advancement of Women. Her discussion of “gender schemas” makes visible factors that impede women's progress, and suggests ways to ensure fair treatment of women and men at the University. For department chairs, Dr. Valian presents a talk entitled, Recruitment and Retention Guidelines that Enhance Diversity in Faculty Searches. Lisa Frehill August 2007 Dr. Lisa Frehill is the Executive Director of the Commission on Professionals in Science and Technology (CPST). Dr. Frehill worked closely with ADVANCE Program working group members and institutional partners to help us design and implement our Faculty Mentoring Program and Department Chairs Workshops. She presents a talk entitled Effective Strategies for Diversifying STEM. About People Leadership Program Faculty Development Transforming Departments Visiting Scholars Resources News Print this Page Share this Page Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory