Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Neuroscience: Systems, Behavior and Plasticity MS You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Neuroscience: Systems, Behavior and Plasticity MS Apply Request More Info Neuroscience: Systems, Behavior and Plasticity MS Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Science in Neuroscience: Systems, Behavior and Plasticity Explore neural and brain function in a groundbreaking, rapidly growing field with the Master of Science in Neuroscience: Systems, Behavior and Plasticity in Temple’s College of Liberal Arts. This 30-credit graduate degree provides highly advanced training and faculty-mentored research with practical applications in careers ranging from economics to healthcare and public policy. The innovative master's program was developed by faculty in the Department of Psychology and Neuroscience in the College of Liberal Arts and the Physical Therapy and Kinesiology departments in the College of Public Health. The aim of the program is to help qualified students gain core expertise in specific areas of neuroscience—including behavioral, cellular, molecular and systems. As a Neuroscience: Systems, Behavior and Plasticity MS student, you can choose from one of the three following areas of study. Behavioral neuroscience Cognitive neuroscience Motor neuroscience and rehabilitation Graduates of the Neuroscience MS will have built core knowledge in specific areas of neuroscience; created and undertaken hypothesis-based research projects; developed a general professional competence in oral and written expression as well as in the critical analysis of research articles; gained independence in communicating, teaching and thinking; learned to effectively communicate and teach neuroscience; and trained in a variety of techniques and approaches to studying the nervous system. Master’s Project Students are required to work on a master’s project for both semesters in the second year of the Neuroscience: Systems, Behavior and Plasticity MS program. Depending on your career goals, students may opt to engage either in a laboratory-based research project or in a non-laboratory project. Students motivated to join doctoral programs or interested in research positions will likely gain the requisite experience by working independently on a neuroscientific investigation under the supervision of a faculty member who maintains an active neuroscience research program. The purpose of the project is to train students in specific neuroscientific techniques, and train them to develop scientific and analytical approaches to a problem, formulate clear research questions, conduct experiments, and analyze and interpret data. Students who do not pursue bench-level research after earning their degree, and who are interested in non-research careers such as counseling, public policy and/or research administration, may engage in a non-laboratory project of a similar scope. This may include conducting a literature review and presentation on a specific topic, drafting a scope of work for a grant funding agency, or preparing a consulting proposal for a prospective client. Program Format & Curriculum Classes for the Neuroscience: Systems, Behavior and Plasticity MS are offered in-person on Temple’s Main Campus. The degree program is expected to be completed on a full-time basis. Students may take up to two years to complete the Neuroscience: Systems, Behavior and Plasticity MS. Courses you are likely to take as part of the curriculum include Neurochemistry, Neuroendocrinology, Neuropsychopathology, and Systems and Behavioral Neuroscience. Learn more about Neuroscience: Systems, Behavior and Plasticity MS courses. Related Graduate Degrees Decision Neuroscience PhD Psychology PhD Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Science offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $966.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,329.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Program Contact For questions regarding the Neuroscience: Systems, Behavior and Plasticity MS, contact the following staff member. Rebecca Brotschul is the assistant director and program contact for the Neuroscience: Systems, Behavior and Plasticity MS program. Phone: 215-204-3441 Email: rebecca.brotschul@temple.edu For general questions about the program, contact the below staff members. Debra Bangasser is the director of the neuroscience program. Phone: 215-204-1015 Email: debra.bangasser@temple.edu Lisa Briand is the associate director of the Neuroscience: Systems, Behavior and Plasticity MS program. Phone: 215-204-7311 Email: lbriand@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Supplement your Neuroscience: Systems, Behavior and Plasticity MS coursework and enhance your graduate education experience through student clubs and organizations. You’ll meet and network with other students, become involved with the community, and build invaluable skills to help you realize your personal and professional goals. The following organization is available to Neuroscience: Systems, Behavior and Plasticity MS students. The Nu Rho Psi Honor Society aims to encourage professional interest and excellence in scholarship, and to advance the discipline of neuroscience, through encouraging intellectual and social interaction between students, faculty and professionals in neuroscience and related fields; increased public awareness of neuroscience and its benefits for the individual and society; promotion of career development in neuroscience and related fields; recognition of students who have achieved the aforementioned excellence in scholarship; and service to the community. Learn more about Temple’s student clubs and organizations. Study Away Temple’s study away programs offer you the opportunity to spend an academic year, semester or summer abroad. Complete coursework, participate in internships or collaborate in research while immersing yourself in the culture, history and people of your host city. Learn more about your options for studying away. Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-NSBP-MS Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Neuroscience: Systems, Behavior and Plasticity MS Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info