Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. University Honors Program UHP right arrow down arrow About UHP right arrow down arrow Inclusive Excellence Competencies right arrow down arrow Community Engagement Creativity Global Studies Leadership Research News Directions Contact Us right arrow down arrow Raj Mehta Debbie Brawn Marcell Crawford Bria Howard Bene Khoury Neil Choudhury Ashley Webber Kyle Key Jason Autry Tricia Yee Claire Minton Yale Miller Shawna Obregon Danny Hagedorn Vikki Kowalczyk Current UHP Students right arrow down arrow UHP Student Database UHP Framework & Benefits Requirements Honors Experiences right arrow down arrow Honors Seminars right arrow down arrow Fall 2022 Honors Seminars Spring 2023 Honors Seminars Summer 2022 Honors Seminars Pre-Approved Experiences Self-Designed Experiences Study Abroad and Study Tours International Travel Biomedical Research and Mentoring Program right arrow down arrow RaMP Publications RaMP Project Descriptions How to Apply Matching and Participation Frequently Asked Questions Tips and Testimonials UHP Discover right arrow down arrow Students: Learn More Faculty: Get Involved 2022 UHP Discover Projects Past Honors Seminars right arrow down arrow Summer 2021 Seminars Fall 2021 Honors Seminars Spring 2022 Honors Seminars Summer 2022 Honors Seminars Welcome Experience Leaders UHP Ambassador Leadership Team Grants for Honors Experiences Learning Portfolios right arrow down arrow Reflection Structure and Content Showcase Guide Protected Information Featured Portfolios Year-in-Review Get Involved right arrow down arrow UHP Ambassadors right arrow down arrow Meet the Team Ambassador Application Honor Societies First Year in UHP right arrow down arrow Welcome Experience right arrow down arrow Welcome Experience Registration HNRS 1010: Gateway to the UHP Advising right arrow down arrow Scheduling Advising Meetings via My Bearcat Network Presidential Leadership Medal of Excellence Prospective Students right arrow down arrow High School Students Current UC Students right arrow down arrow Join our Outreach List and Teams University Honors Application Transfer Students University Honors Housing Faculty and Campus Partners right arrow down arrow Honors Seminar Call for Proposals right arrow down arrow Guidelines, Pedagogy and Structure Study Tour Guidelines Submission Process Required Documents Proposal Form Review and Notification Funding Resources Seminar Development Workshops Creating and Ordering Honors Seminars Home » Campus Life » University Honors Program » Current UHP Students » Honors Experiences » Biomedical Research and Mentoring Program » RaMP Project Descriptions Set Navigation title in component UHP Student Database UHP Framework & Benefits Requirements Honors Experiences Honors Seminars Fall 2022 Honors Seminars Spring 2023 Honors Seminars Summer 2022 Honors Seminars Pre-Approved Experiences Self-Designed Experiences Study Abroad and Study Tours International Travel Biomedical Research and Mentoring Program RaMP Publications RaMP Project Descriptions How to Apply Matching and Participation Frequently Asked Questions Tips and Testimonials UHP Discover Students: Learn More Faculty: Get Involved 2022 UHP Discover Projects Past Honors Seminars Summer 2021 Seminars Fall 2021 Honors Seminars Spring 2022 Honors Seminars Summer 2022 Honors Seminars Welcome Experience Leaders UHP Ambassador Leadership Team Grants for Honors Experiences Learning Portfolios Reflection Structure and Content Showcase Guide Protected Information Featured Portfolios Year-in-Review Get Involved UHP Ambassadors Meet the Team Madalyn O'Dea Somya Sharma Zakaria Bodiford Ambassador Application Honor Societies First Year in UHP Welcome Experience Welcome Experience Registration HNRS 1010: Gateway to the UHP Advising Scheduling Advising Meetings via My Bearcat Network Presidential Leadership Medal of Excellence RaMP Project Descriptions Development of Clinical Metabolomics Tools for Translational Medicine Research right arrow down arrow Xueheng Zhao, PhD Pathology and Laboratory Medicine In-Person, CCHMC Metabolites play critical roles in disease development and prognosis. Monitoring their dysregulation can reveal novel insights into genetic and environmental influences. Mass spectrometry is the major analytical instrument for metabolite analysis and is able to analyze wide array of human and animal samples. This approach becomes indispensable in addressing complexity in disease and health. Metabolomics is a powerful platform to investigate patient response to certain interventions such as treatment, diet, to reveal changes in metabolites and to shed light on intervention mechanisms at a cellular level. The data generated from mass spectrometry based metabolomics are usually complex and require bioinformatics tools to deconvolute for statistical and pathway analysis. Our research investigates disease pathogenesis using untargeted and targeted metabolomics platforms. The honors student will be able to involve in different aspects of the metabolomics research in our lab depending on his/her research interests. Several metabolomics projects currently undergoing include diet intervention studies for various diseases, new method development for clinical application. During the project students will learn metabolomics sample preparation, instrumental analysis, and assist with bioinformatics data analysis. Students may also spend time learning chromatography and mass spectrometry techniques depending on time and interest. Cincinnati Children's will require you to provide your vaccination records and to be up to date with your immunizations. Understanding Molecular Mechanism Behind Human Preterm Birth right arrow down arrow Li Wang, Research Associate Human Genetics In-Person, CCHMC Preterm birth remains a significant healthcare burden on a global scale due to a lack of progress in mechanistic insights to develop preventative measure. Using bioinformatics and functional analysis, we identified a functional mechanism in which rs7889204 at the AGTR2 locus serves as part of an enhancer where the risk “C” allele shows decreased AGTR2 expression potentially via allelic dependent bindings to transcription factors CEBPB and HOXA10. We explored the possibility of prioritizing SNPs by interrogating available data at the genomic level. We carefully designed our prioritization procedure using existing genomic and epigenomic data sets, which successfully prioritized rs7889204 as the top causal genetic variant. We further demonstrated that rs7889204 is able to regulate AGTR2 expression via the function of an enhancer, through allelic differential bindings of relevant transcription factors, possibly CEBPB and HOXA10. Our study has demonstrated that the non-risk “C” allele of rs7889204 showed decreased enhancer activity in vitro. Now we understand AGTR2 is expressed only in a very small fraction of cells in the endometrium, experimental design to eliminate the heterogeneity issue will be essential. In humans, for ethical reasons, distinct stages of implantation and pregnancy are difficult to study due to the lack of available tissue. Therefore, we strongly believe that animal models will be needed to further elucidate the mechanism of AGTR2’s regulation of birth timing, including but not limited to the characterization of AGTR2 expression throughout gestation in nonhuman primates. Survival analysis for gestation with fetal sex specific stratification, allelic specific expression of AGTR2 in primary endometrial cell lines under different conditioning (basal, decidualized, and inflammation), and the development of AGTR2 BAC transgenic as well as gene-edited mice will also be essential in characterizing uterine AGTR2 expression patterns throughout implantation and gestation. AGTR2 has the potential to be a druggable target, where several agonists and antagonists have already been developed. Our research will greatly assist the utility of AGTR2 modulation and and/or its CEBPB and HOXA10 regulators for PTB prevention and therapy. The student researcher's role will be focused on experiments using the mouse model. Clinical and Health Informatics – Innovative Clinical Data Capture and Use (iCDCU) Lab right arrow down arrow Scott Vennemeyer, PhD Student Biomedical Informatics Online, UCCOM The Innovative Clinical Data Capture and Use (iCDCU) Lab was established in 2016 by Dr. Danny T.Y Wu. It is a community of people with passions – informaticians, designers, data analysts, software developers, trainees, and students – working together to maximize the value of clinical data to improve care delivery, support clinical research, and facilitate medical education. As a RaMP student in our lab, you will meet with our PI, Dr. Danny Wu, to be matched with projects that fit your personal goals and interests. Current and former RaMP students have been published and presented at domestic and international conferences working on projects related to real time locating systems in pediatric emergency rooms (link), pediatric weight entry error detection (link), COVID-19 literature search tools, physician burnout (link), technology linked to mental health and wellness (link), readability of clinical notes (in press, no link yet), and usability testing and redesign of a surgical outcomes dashboard at CCHMC (link). Check out our lab website for more information on research areas, projects, and current lab members (https://www.icdcu.org/research). Successful RaMP students in our lab are team-oriented problem solvers that are specifically interested in clinical informatics research and improving healthcare. Although useful, no prior technical (programming) skills are required to join this lab. As a member of our research team, you will begin to learn the programming language Python and receive “on-the-job” training and 1:1 mentoring required to be successful. The average time commitment is 12-15 hours per week and is flexible according to your schedule. Lab meetings and individual work are conducted online but working space is available in the Medical Sciences Building for those that prefer to attend or collaborate in person. Please do not hesitate to email Scott Vennemeyer (vennemsm@mail.uc.edu) with any questions. Ecological Momentary Assessment of the Association Between Anxiety and Ultrafine Particles in Adolescents right arrow down arrow Ashley Turner, PhD Biostatistics and Epidemiology In-Person, CCHMC This pilot project will begin this spring if funded through an internal grant. Air pollution exposure affects over 90% of children, who are more vulnerable to their health effects. However, the role of ultrafine particles on mental health in children is not known, therefore this project aims to examine this relationship. Adolescents recruited for the project will collect ultrafine particle concentration data using a personal sampling monitor for the duration of 1 week. During this time, participants will answer time-based questionnaires throughout the day regarding anxiety symptoms. Additionally, inflammatory markers will be measured in blood samples provided by participants at the conclusion of their sampling session. I anticipate the student researcher's role in this project would entail the following: learn the use of a personal sampling monitor including set up, downloading data, and trouble shooting, assist in the development of an ecological momentary assessment of anxiety symptoms to be used for questionnaire data, conduct study visits with participants involving obtaining consent, participant information, providing instructions to participant on study protocol, and administer study equipment to participants, and basic coordination of the study. I will also guide the student in learning data analysis following the conclusion of data collection if desired. Exploring the Role of Interneurons and Inhibition in Epilepsy right arrow down arrow Danielle Tapp, PhD, Postdoctoral Fellow Anesthesiology In-Person, CCHMC Epilepsy is a chronic and devastating neurological condition that effects over 65 million individuals worldwide. Most therapeutics for epilepsy focus on reducing excitatory activity in the brain, however, these treatments are not widely effective and cause side effects. This project will explore how increasing inhibitory signaling through interneurons protects against epileptogenisis in an animal model of epilepsy. The Danzer lab utilizes advanced research techniques including genetic models, viral strategies (optogenetics and DREADDs), electrophysiology, and immunohistochemistry. Students involved in this project would gain extensive experience in neuroanatomy, animal research techniques (surgical techniques, genotyping, etc.), tissue staining and confocal imaging. Additionally, students will have the opportunity to work on other projects in the lab and serve as co-authors on scientific publications and presentations. Due to the nature of this project, students should expect to make a ten hour commitment to lab work per week. Next-Generation Sequencing Analysis Pipelines Testing and Maintenance right arrow down arrow Sreeskandarajan Sutharzan, PHD, Postdoctoral Fellow Center for Autoimmune Genomics and Etiology Online, CCHMC Next-Generation Sequencing (NGS) technologies are key components of genomics and analysis of large NGS datasets is a major area of bioinformatics. We at the Weirauch Lab in Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center analyze data from NGS technologies such as ATAC-seq, ChIP-seq, RNA-seq, and CLIP-seq. Our analysis pipelines consist of publically available tools (e.g. FASTQC, RELI, and HOMER) and in-house written tools. We are currently in the process of automating our analysis pipelines using the popular pipeline development tool Nextflow. In this project, the student will assist the pipeline automation by testing various pipelines and fixing the issues. The students will also have some potential opportunities to get involved in the pipeline components development. This project will provide the opportunity for the student to learn about NGS data analysis and become familiar with various NGS analysis pipelines. This project will also provide exposure to pipeline development and automation processes, popular programming languages such as Java, Python, and R, and container technologies such as Docker and Singularity. Overall, this project will introduce the student to the state-of-the-art NGS analysis tools and aid in developing the student’s key bioinformatics skills. Early-Life Antibiotic Exposure on the Development of CD8+ Tissue-Resident Memory Cell Responses to Influenza A right arrow down arrow Jake Stevens, MD/PhD Student, PhD Candidate in Immunology Graduate Program Perinatal Institute, Pulmonary Biology, Immunology Online, CCHMC Based on previous work in our lab and published reports, I am investigating the novel role for early-life antibiotic exposure on the formation and function of CD8+ tissue-resident memory cells in the lungs in the context of Influenza A infection. Pneumonia kills around 1,000,000 newborns per year, and viruses are the main cause of this pneumonia across infancy and early childhood. CD8+ T cells, especially those that take up residence in the lung, are crucial protectors against this viral pneumonia. We know neonates are exposed to antibiotics early in life for many reasons, and we also know that these antibiotics cause issues with other aspects of immune system development, so I am trying to determine how exactly they affect these CD8+ T cells and potentially cause the issues seen with the newborn's response to viral pneumonia. I have a lot of potential areas that could use help, including measuring influenza-specific CD8+ T cell populations in the lungs using flow cytometry, viral burden assessment, T cell functional assays, and also bioinformatic analyses of these T cells, e.g. building gene regulatory networks. I'm excited to be able to mentor and teach a student about the cool stuff we're doing with this project and get their help with independent aspects of it! Based on the aspects I mentioned above, these potential projects for the student could be completed either online or in person. FLASH vs Conventional Proton Radiation in Treatment of Lung Cancer right arrow down arrow Samriddhi Shukla, Research Associate Neonate and Pulmonary Biology In-Person, CCHMC We are working on mouse models of proton radiation-induced lung fibrosis and orthotopic lung tumors. Our hypothesis is that ultra high dose rate FLASH is less toxic to lung tissue while being isoefficient to Conventional proton dose rates in tumor killing. We will test our hypothesis by measuring collagen content in the normal lung tissue and immune profiles of lung tumor after conventional and FLASH proton radiation. The student researcher will help us in performing experiments related to the project and in the process will learn a variety of techniques e.g. cell culture, animal handling, immunofluorescence imaging and image quantification. Role of Semaphorins in Venous Malformation right arrow down arrow Sandra Schrenk, PhD Experimental Hematology and Cancer Biology In-Person, CCHMC A vein is a type of blood vessel that carries blood from tissues and organs back to the heart. A venous malformation (VM) occurs when veins in a part of the body develop abnormally. The malformed veins are present at birth and gradually grow with the child. Such enlarged veins often form masses or areas of swelling and can be extremely painful and sensitive. When important veins are affected, they become dysfunctional due to slow blood flow and local blood clots. Treatment options are limited and mainly based on the injection of a chemical to shrink the vein (sclerotherapy) and/or surgical removal of the affected tissue. However, these treatments only offer temporary relief, as the malformed vessels usually regrow. For this reason, it is important to find drugs which are more effective and limit the need for invasive procedures. In order to find better treatments for VM, research is needed to understand its underlying cause. Scientists have identified the genetic mutations which are found in VM tissue, but we still don’t understand how these mutations result in malformed veins. In most patients, these mutations occur only in certain cells that form a vein (endothelial cells). We believe that that these mutated endothelial cells communicate incorrectly with the healthy endothelial cells. They exclude them to be part of the affected vein, however it is not understood how this communication occurs. Through this research, we want to understand if the mutated endothelial cells push the healthy cells out of the vessels, or if they send signals that cause the healthy cells to stop growing and/or die. We have evidence that the mutated endothelial cells in VM release increased levels of proteins called Semaphorin 3A and Semaphorin 3F. These proteins are known to prevent vascular growth. I am blocking the production of these molecules in mutant endothelial cells and study if this restores normal communication between healthy and mutated endothelial cells. The student researcher will learn and help with data analysis, cell cultures, histology and immunofluorescence stainings of tissue and cells. Moreover, basic laboratory techniques of molecular biology such as real-Time PCR and western blotting will be performed. Role of Mesenchymal FGFR2 Signaling During Late Lung Development right arrow down arrow Matt Ricetti, Doctoral Candidate Pulmonary Biology In-Person, CCHMC My project investigates the requirement of fibroblast FGFR2 signaling during late lung development. I utilize transgenic mice, cell culture, and organoid model systems to determine how FGFR2 signaling directs proper alveolarization. The student researcher would contribute to tissue processing, immunostaining, organoid growth, cell culture, and image analysis, generating valuable data for the project. Role of Glial Cells in Nociception due to Neurofibromatosis (NF1) right arrow down arrow Namrata Raut, Postdoctoral Fellow Anesthesia In-Person, CCHMC The role of glial cells is gaining its importance in nociception in different neurological disorders. With the emerging evidence of importance of glial cells in onset of pain in neurofibromatosis, the exact pathway involved in the onset of pain will provide us the better understanding of the role of glial cell in pain. Hence to check the role of effectors involved by different molecular/biochemical/electrophysiology assays will not only provide trainee to have better understanding of different lab techniques but also will provide with the information on the importance of glial cells in the onset of pain. Behavioral Effects of Antipsychotic Treatment in a Mouse Model of Hyperactivity right arrow down arrow Marla Perna, PhD Neurology In-Person, CCHMC We will be behaviorally testing mice lacking the PDE1b gene with various antipsychotics. Students will learn basic behavioral tasks that assess hyperactivity, impulsivity, learning, and memory. Students will also learn basic pcr methods, genotyping, and basic brain anatomy. 3D-Bioprinting of Bone right arrow down arrow Sumit Murab, PhD, Instructor Orthopaedic Surgery In-Person, CCHMC Injuries to bone in pediatric patients is very common, but sometimes these injuries can result into growth hindering conditions where the long bones either get deformed or result into bone collapse. While there are hardly any clinical interventions that can correct growth deformities, while collapsed bones are usually replaced by metallic implants which again needs to be replaced as the child grows. Our lab focuses on orthopaedic tissue engineering to regenerate diseased and damaged bone and cartilage. The project involves 3D-bioprinting of injured growth plate and necrotic bone in pediatric patients. The honors student will be involved in the development of 3D-bioink with decellularized tissue with suitable mechanical stability for orthopaedics applications. This will involve study of flow property of different bioink compositions with a rheometer. Subsequently the bioink will be characterized for its chemistry (FTIR, Raman, SEM, XRD) and mechanical properties (compressive strength using universal testing machine). Final step will be to print this bioink using a 3D-bioprinter with human-mesenchymal stem cells and assess the cellular viability and compatibility. The project will thus help the student to develop an interdisciplinary set of skills. The Immunobiology of Allergic Diseases right arrow down arrow Jaclyn McAlees, PhD, Research Associate Immunobiology In-Person, CCHMC The Lewkowich lab is researching the immunological mechanisms underlying the development and progression of allergic diseases, such as allergic asthma and atopic dermatitis (eczema). Mouse models are used to explore how allergic disease development is impacted by early life exposures to environmental allergens or microbiome dysbiosis as well as how allergic asthma and other inflammatory diseases, such as obesity and post-traumatic stress disorder, are associated to increase disease severity. Various tissue culture techniques are used to analyze changes in cell function while molecular techniques are used to analyze experimental tissues for protein- and gene-level changes. Students in the lab will have the opportunity to learn basic laboratory operational needs, techniques such as RNA analysis, protein analysis, tissue culture, as well as mouse handling and tissue harvesting per their comfort level. Students will also learn experimental design, data analysis, and have opportunities to present their work. The role of students in the laboratory is flexible and may cross multiple projects depending on their interests, skill level, goals, and time availability. Inflammatory Responses in Patient Derived Induced Pluripotent Stem Cells right arrow down arrow Astha Malik, PhD Gastroenterology In-Person, CCHMC iPSC technology, and the increasingly refined abilities to differentiate iPSCs into disease-relevant target cells, has far-reaching implications for understanding disease pathophysiology, identifying disease-causing genes, and developing more precise therapeutics, including advances in regenerative medicine. We aim to use patient derived iPSCs and model disease processes in fibrosing cholangiopathies. The student in this project will have the opportunity to learn how to culture iPSCs and work with me on downstream analysis using sophisticate molecular biology techniques to address disease specific biology. The Effect of Environmental Substances to Circadian Rhythms in Vitro right arrow down arrow Suengwon Lee, Postdoctoral Fellow Pharmacology and Systems Physiology In-Person, UCCOM Hong lab' research aims to understand the mechanism of a circadian rhythm with a focus on how the circadian clock affects the physiology of the gastrointestinal system including intestinal stem cell regeneration and differentiation. The core-clock transcription factor, CLOCK-BMAL1, is associated with regulation of numerous transcripts, which are defined as clock-controlled genes (CCGs). Furthermore, additional core clock components, PERIOD (PER) and CRYPTOCHROME (CRY), form a negative feedback loop with CLOCK-BMAL1, which leads to the autonomous circadian oscillation. Intriguingly, there is increasing evidence on the significant correlation between disruption of circadian rhythms and serious disease such as cancer. Yet, the effect of environmental substances, which are known as risk factors for various human diseases, to circadian rhythm is largely unknown. During this project, couple of candidates which is established as carcinogens (e.g. BPA) will be tested to determine their effects on circadian rhythm using various in vitro models. Modulation of Autonomic Nervous System Activity for Reduction of Sudden Cardiac Death right arrow down arrow Babunageswararao Kanuri, Postdoctoral Fellow Internal Medicine/Cardiovascular Health and Disease In-Person, UCCOM Sudden cardiac death (SCD) is a sudden, unexpected death caused by loss of heart function. It is the largest cause of natural death in the United States and is responsible for half of all heart disease deaths. Implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) is the only effective therapy for its treatment; however, they do not reverse or prevent the underlying disease. Therefore, the need for better therapies remains a clinical, research and public health priority. Optogenetics is a technique in neuroscience in which genes for light-sensitive proteins are introduced into specific types of neurons to precisely control neuronal activity using light signals. Previous publications from our lab have shown sudden death of guinea pig hearts in a surgical stress model. My project involves optogenetic modulation of the autonomic nervous system for reducing the risk of SCD using artificial intelligence (AI) tools in the guinea pig model. Participating students will have an opportunity to acquire skills in the areas of data analyses and/or experiments. Data analyses and data management will utilize MATLAB and/or STATA software's along with excel spreadsheets. While experimental participation may include experience in in vitro assays like immunofluorescence and/or in situ neurocardiac electrophysiology recordings. Allocation of the work is based on the amount of time the students will be able to spend in the lab and their dedication to learn and acquire new skills during training period. Automated Risk Assessment of School Violence right arrow down arrow Lara Kanbar, PhD, Research Fellow Pulmonology + Biomedical Informatics Online, CCHMC The long term goal of the research is to develop an Automated Risk Assessment (ARIA) system to analyze participant interviews, detect students with elevated risk for aggressive acts, and provide risk characteristics (e.g., impulsivity, negative thoughts) to assist with the preemptive prevention of these acts. Subjects are interviewed by Psychiatry using a specific risk assessment scale, after which the interview is transcribed. Automated natural language processing is then used to identify key risk factors in the subject's interview that could predict future aggression. We want to evaluate the predictive ability of automated machine learning methods to detect aggression risk. The student will learn about large scale subject recruitment, data management, data/signal processing, natural language processing, and machine learning depending on their interest. Other opportunities are also available in the fields of chronic ventilation weaning in pediatric patients, sleep studies, or emergency medicine. Utilizing Human Organoid Model to Discover Potential Therapies for Clostridium Difficile Infection right arrow down arrow Walaa Hussein, PhD Infectious Diseases In-Person, UCCOM We are studying host-microbe interactions during pharmacologically induced immunosuppressive events such as cancer chemotherapy and solid organ transplantation. I am studying C. difficile infection using the human intestinal organoid model to better understand the pathophysiology of C. difficile infection and aiming to develop effective prevention and treatment strategies. Considering that, the role of the student researcher is how to grow and maintain the newly emerging Human organoid model either 3D structure or monolayers in our cell culture lab. Additionally, the student will learn how to prepare C. difficile spores using an anaerobic chamber. This will introduce the student to advanced model and techniques. Clinical Outcomes after Heart Transplantation in Children with Heart Failure right arrow down arrow Jason Greenberg, MD; Clinical Research Fellow Congenital Cardiothoracic Surgery Online, CCHMC This series of projects focuses on retrospective demographic and clinical outcomes studies in children suffering from heart failure who receive cardiac transplantation, with a particular focus on gender and racial disparities. For these projects, we will use primarily large, national population-based databases. While a background and/or comfortability with statistics is preferred, it is certainly not required. The roles of the student researcher will include assisting in data collection and analysis, and learning how to write scientific abstracts and manuscripts for peer-review. The cumulative goals for the student researcher is to gain at least one "first-author" peer-reviewed publication and several other co-authorships. It is my hope that the student improves their scientific writing abilities and learns more about the clinical research process, including how to formulate research ideas, search the literature, and bring a project from inception to publication. Muscle Contractures: How They Develop & Strategies to Prevent Them right arrow down arrow Qingnian Goh, PhD, Instructor Orthopaedic Surgery In-Person, CCHMC Brachial plexus birth injury is a common pediatric neuromuscular disorder. It leads to the formation of disabling muscle contractures, or limb stiffness, which severely limit joint mobility and function. As these contractures are incurable, our lab seeks to understand how they develop, and design strategies to prevent them. Currently, we are exploring the role of proteostasis (protein homeostasis) in regulating muscle length, as well as investigating the efficacy of various drug therapies for preventing muscle contractures. As a student in our lab, you will enjoy a unique opportunity to participate in translational studies on a serious childhood disorder, and immerse yourself in the neuromuscular and musculoskeletal systems. To this end, you can expect a strong commitment from us in your development as a future professional in the biomedical sciences. For your part, you will be challenged to drive our research forward. Above all else, a strong desire to learn and willingness to be involved will greatly enhance your biomedical research experience! Using Caenorhabditis Elegans Animal Model to Characterize Cis-Regulatory Elements Mediated Gene Expression During Development right arrow down arrow Tushar Ganjawala, PhD Developmental Biology In-Person, CCHMC Development of an animal from a fertilized egg involves complex regulation of many genes to be express and get silent in precise manner. In developing embryo, such gene expression regulation is required to signal daughter cells to acquire particular cell fate which results in generation of different body organs and tissue types. Among several key signaling pathways, Wnt signaling is known to play critical role in development and diverse cellular functions. Dysregulated Wnt pathway has been linked with several developmental diseases as well as cancers. Within a developing embryo, Wnt signal is known to cause distinctive effect in different cell types simultaneously, called context dependency, through co-regulation by differentially targeting diverse transcription factors. Our lab studies such transcriptional regulators, cis-regulatory elements, associated with Wnt signaling pathways using a simple animal model system, the nematode worm C. elegans. We use computational methods to predict new target genes/gene sequences and then apply molecular biology techniques and confocal microscopy to test them in vivo in C. elegans embryo. We generate several transgenic worm lines that can be frozen for future experiments. The invariant lineage of C. elegans enables a time-lapse imaging approach to trace expression of a gene of interest in wildtype or mutant embryos. Mentor’s responsibility: As a mentor, I commit to explain basics of relevant research methods and goals and assist a student researcher performing them efficiently and confidently. I will help the student to achieve their goal on time. Student’s responsibility: Student will learn the concept of relevant research methods and expected to do following with some assistance as and when required: 1) Some literature review to get background knowledge of worm biology 2) Learn and execute C. elegans culture maintenance 3) Learn to set simple genetic crosses and screen the transgenic progenies 4) Use microscopy to screen fluorescent reporters in C. elegans At the end of the project, student will be able to perform small independent project in next semester (upon continuation) and have data to present his/her work in form of a poster or a short talk. Eosinophil and Epithelial Crosstalk during Allergic Inflammation right arrow down arrow Julia Dunn, PhD Allergy & Immunology In-Person, CCHMC Eosinophils are innate immune cells that are recruited to mucosal tissues during allergic inflammation, where they are found in close proximity to epithelial cells, yet crosstalk between these cell types is not well understood. We will use an in vitro model of epithelial cell and eosinophil coculture to examine changes to eosinophil gene expression that result from exposure to epithelial cells, and furthermore examine how inflammatory mediators change this interaction. The RaMP student will extract RNA from eosinophils after coculture, generate cDNA, and perform qPCR to quantify gene expression in eosinophils under clinically relevant coculture conditions. Role of Sex Differences and Mitochondrial Functions in Metabolic Diseases right arrow down arrow Karthickeyan Chella Krishnan, PhD Pharmacology and Systems Physiology In-Person, UCCOM One of the major complications of obesity affecting the liver, in the absence of alcohol, is non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). It is estimated that 20-30% of the population worldwide are affected by NAFLD and is more prevalent in men than women, with men exhibiting severe NAFLD symptoms. Work in the K Lab is focused on understanding how host genetic background and sex differences influence the mitochondrial (dys)function and increases the susceptibility to NAFLD, and other cardiometabolic diseases such as obesity and diabetes. The approaches we use include (1) a population-based ‘systems genetics’ approach to integrate information on natural genetic variations (host genetics) with molecular phenotypes (such as gene expression, proteomics, etc.) and clinical phenotypes to identify candidate mitochondrial genes; and (2) characterizing the candidate genes in genetically modified mouse models and/or eukaryotic cell lines. Visit https://med.uc.edu/klab to learn more about our research program. We are looking for undergraduate students who are interested in both wet lab expertise and computational, including but not limited to programming languages like R, Python, Perl, etc. Undergraduate students will have the opportunity to gain valuable experience in a ‘systems genetics’ research lab, and will learn how to analyze large datasets, maintain and update research databases, manipulating and analyzing data with R, and prepare reports. Students will also learn wet lab technique(s) to validate their data in a cell culture or animal models. Students making exceptional progress can expect to be included as a co-author on abstracts submitted to scientific meetings or a manuscript for publication, and to have the opportunity to present their work at regional and national scientific meetings. Vaccine Research's Rapid Deployment of Direct Data Entry During COVID-19 Clinical Trials right arrow down arrow Theresa Baker, MS Infectious Diseases In-Person, CCHMC The Gamble Vaccine Research Center is dedicated to finding vaccines and treatments for infectious diseases. As one of nine Vaccine and Treatment Evaluation Units (VTEUs), we are dedicated to finding improve vaccines and better treatments for infectious diseases. We do this through the development and evaluation of diagnostic assays, vaccines, and antiviral drugs; surveillance of viral and bacterial diseases; development of newer, improved vaccine delivery systems and adjuvants; and education about viral diseases, vaccine use, and treatment status to lay, paramedical and medical communities. Our current clinical trials include COVID-19 vaccine, Nipah vaccine, Shigella vaccine, RSV vaccine, and Chikungunya vaccine. We are regularly adding more studies to our list. During Mission Warpspeed, vaccine research has pivoted data collection techniques to accommodate the rapid speed required by the COVID-19 Pandemic. We are working now to evaluate our new process and assess best practices for future vaccine research. Students will be asked to work with Infectious Diseases Informatics Team to learn how clinical research is conducted; data is collected, stored, and analyzed; and identify how the process changed, what worked, and what did not work. Future publications will benefit research areas such as infectious diseases, biomedical informatics, biostatistics, data management, and regulatory management. Lipid Metabolism and Drug Resistance in Lung Cancer right arrow down arrow Cristina Andreani, Research Scientist Internal Medicine/Hematology&Oncology In-Person, UCCOM Our lab is focused on the study of mutant KRAS lung cancer, which represents about 30% of all lung cancers. We use human cell lines, mouse models and specimens from lung cancer patients to study mechanisms of tumorigenesis and resistance to therapies in order to develop novel and more effective anti-cancer treatments. In this context, we recently found that mutant KRAS lung cancer depends on the synthesis of lipids (fat) and that blocking this process causes the cancer cells to undergo a specific type of cell death, called ferroptosis. Ferroptosis is characterized by high oxidative stress and intracellular accumulation of toxic lipid products, which eventually kill the cancer cells. That is particularly relevant, because ferroptosis is emerging as the mechanism of action of many cancer therapies currently used in the clinic. However, like most of cancer therapies, if you prolong the treatment for couple months, lung cancer cells become resistant to the inhibition of lipid synthesis. Therefore, our aim is to understand how cancer cells can bypass the need of lipids and how they escape ferroptosis. To this end, we will establish in vitro models of acquired resistance to ferroptosis and study the mechanism(s) of it. This project involves molecular biology techniques (extraction of DNA, RNA, proteins and lipids; PCR; agarose-gel electrophoresis; Chromatin-immunoprecipitation; protein immunoprecipitation; western blot), cell culture and relative assays (maintenance of cells in culture; subculture; transfection; virus production for overexpression, knock-down and knock-out of genes; viability assays; lipid peroxidation assays; flow cytometry; immunofluorescence; immuno-histochemistry; confocal and live cell microscopy) and mouse work (mouse handling, pups weaning, genotyping). The student will also learn basic data and statistical analyses, and useful tips to communicate the data during lab meetings (virtual and in person). Developing Human Patients’ Brain Organoids for Understanding Neurodevelopmental Disabilities that Occur in Congenital Heart Disease Patients right arrow down arrow Zakia Abdelhamed, MBCHB & PhD Cardiothoracic Surgery In-Person, CCHMC Congenital heart disease (CHD) is the most common birth defect affecting around 1 in each 100 live born neonates worldwide, and it contribute to significant child morbidity and mortality. In addition, 13% of newborn with CHD develop extracrdiac anomalies (ECA) that can affect any other organ or system of the developing embryo including brain. Newborns with CHD are at risk for the emergence of neurodevelopmental disorders (NDDs), including cognitive, motor, social, and language impairments. NDDs develop in 10% of all children with CHD and in 50% with severe CHD. In this project we will reprogram patient’s blood cells into induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs). Patient’s iPSCs will be used in neural differentiation assay to produce neural stem cells (NSCs), neural rosettes, and cerebral cortical organoid models to study NSCs proliferation, polarization, and neurogenesis including development of various neuronal cell types. If patient cells were able to produce mature neurons we will assay neurons electrophysiological functions using micro-electrode technology. We also assay global gene expression changes in patients NSCs and mature neurons compared to normal control expression. The Effect of miR-324-5p on Epileptogenesis. right arrow down arrow Amanda McGann, BS, MSTP Student Neuroscience In-Person, CCHMC My project investigates the role of a specific microRNA, miR-324-5p, in the development of epilepsy. The process by which a healthy brain becomes prone to epileptic seizures (termed epileptogenesis) is largely unclear. Uncovering the mechanisms behind epileptogenesis may allow the identification of new treatment for epilepsy. In my project, I initiate epileptogenesis in a mouse model of mesial temporal lobe epilepsy. Following that brain insult, I inhibit miR-324-5p. In one prong of my project, I then implant EEG transmitters into mice and collect EEG data for 4 weeks. Following that time, I harvest the brain tissue to assess changes in cell morphology and cell death. In another prong of my study, I harvest brain tissue after 7 days and process that tissue for RNA Sequencing of polyribosomes. This allows me to see what messenger RNA miR-324-5p targets after brain insult. A student would help me in genotyping mice, as I work with a specific mouse line to isolate polyribosomes. Genotyping is done via PCR. They would also help me analyze EEG data, looking into different EEG waveforms, seizure power, and seizure duration. A student would also likely help with immunohistochemistry, doing stains that assess changes in neuron morphology and cell death. They would then image this tissue and analyze it using microscopy. We are also conducting experiments in the lab investigating the involvement of female hormones in epilepsy, so the student may help stain and stage vaginal swabs from female mice. University Honors Program 700 Swift Hall PO Box 210007 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0007 honors@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University Honors Program 700 Swift Hall PO Box 210007 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0007 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top