Skip Navigation Texas A&M University at Galveston Find info for: Future Students Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Former Students Visitors Veterans University Catalog Phonebook Calendar A-Z List Search MENU About TAMUG Academics Admissions Campus Life Giving Research Search Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Administration Directions A Wave of Change HOWDY Portal Select Web or People Web People Search COVID-19 Updates Overview Research Resources Research Faculty Research Facilities Research Development Outreach Toolbox Symposium Research Updates Contact Us Menu Home About Academics Administration Admissions Campus Life Giving Research Directions A Wave of Change Phonebook Calendar Info For: Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Former Students Visitors Veterans Research Research Texas A&M University at Galveston (TAMUG) is the ocean-oriented branch campus of Texas A&M University offering numerous opportunities in Research and Graduate Studies. Spotlight Link 1 COVID-19 Updates Spotlight Link 2 Overview Spotlight Link 3 Research Resources Spotlight Link 4 Research Faculty Spotlight Link 5 Research Facilities Spotlight Link 6 Research Development Spotlight Link 7 Outreach Toolbox Spotlight Link 8 Symposium Spotlight Link 9 Research Updates Spotlight Link 10 Contact Us Update on Outside Activity Reporting Requirements 11/12/2020 >> COVID-19 Updates COVID-19 Updates are available as follows. Research: https://vpr.tamu.edu/covid-19 TAMUG Campus: https://www.tamug.edu/COVID-19/ RGSO News RGSO Events Research Welcome With more than 100 active research projects encompassing the areas of marine sciences, marine/maritime engineering, maritime administration, law, policy and management, Texas A&M University at Galveston is the largest ocean-oriented campus in the United States. Located near the Gulf of Mexico, Texas A&M Galveston its surrounded by unique ecosystems, important industries and an active economic market in tourism, oil and gas and transportation, providing immense opportunities for interdisciplinary research. Our internationally known faculty also conduct research worldwide in areas such as the Artic, the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans and countries such as Russia, New Zealand, Brazil, the Netherlands, Israel, Sweden, Italy, Japan, South Korea and China. Research Resources Undergraduate Research Start your research career and learn about the possibilities of hands-on applications towards solving ocean-centered “real world” problems. Visit website of the Undergraduate Research Program Graduate Research The University offers a wide range of resources to help you succeed in your research endeavors and apply them to real world problems. Visit website of the Graduate Research Program Faculty Research The Research and Graduate Studies Office supports faculty in proposal creation and project management with diverse tools and resources. Visit website of the The Research and Graduate Studies Office Outreach Toolbox The Outreach Toolbox is an overview of some programs, campus organizations and affiliates, and community partners that could be used in grant writing to fulfill the outreach, broader impacts, and workforce development requirements. It is intended to be used to jumpstart thought processes not as the complete list. Research Operations will gladly set a meeting with researchers or partners to discuss all outreach opportunities. Email Dr. Diego Gil at diegogil@tamug.edu or Therese Skrzyniarz at skrzt@tamug.edu to set a time. Learn more about Outreach Toolbox Research Faculty With more than 140 faculty, Texas A&M University at Galveston has active research initiatives in areas of marine sciences, marine administration, marine/maritime engineering and marine transportation. Marine Biology Marine Sciences Maritime Administration Maritime Transportation Ocean Engineering Foundational Sciences Liberal Studies Marine Engineering Back to topBack to top Research Centers, Institutes & Labs Center for Texas Beaches & Shores Clean And Resilient Energy Systems (CARES) Research Lab Coastal Geoscience Group Coastal and Wetlands Ecology Laboratory Coastal Zone Laboratory Ecological Morphology & Comparative Physiology Lab Fisheries Ecology Laboratory Gulf Center for Sea Turtle Research Laboratory for Oceanographic & Environmental Research (LOER) Marine Biospeleology Laboratory Marine Invertebrate Laboratory Molecular Ecology & Fisheries Genetics Laboratory Phytoplankton Dynamics Laboratory Seafood Safety Laboratory Sea Life Facility Shark Biology & Fisheries Science Laboratory Texas Institute of Oceanography (TIO) Back to topBack to top Research Development Texas Institute of Oceanography TIO Provide the research and technology base for the development of marine-related businesses in the State of Texas and the Gulf of Mexico. Visit the TIO Website TAMUG Comprehensive Research Funds TCRF Funds provided by the Texas Legislature to TAMUG to increase research capacity and should be considered to be a departmental/campus resource. Visit the TCRF Website Research Advisory Council RAC Advises the Associate Vice President on the development of the TAMUG research program, allocation of resources and development of research plans. Visit the RAC Website Back to topBack to top Research Symposium Texas A&M University at Galveston (TAMUG) presents its 18th Annual Student Research Symposium on April 18-20, 2022. The Symposium is open to all TAMUG students. Participants are encouraged to present results from their current research projects, or preliminary findings. Presentations will provide students the opportunity to share their research with other participants, staff, and faculty. In addition, the Symposium provides a venue for the exposure of student research to the broader TAMUG community. Learn More about Research Symposium Back to topBack to top Contact Us Dr. Antonietta Quigg Senior Associate Vice-President for Research & Graduate Studies quigga@tamug.edu +1 (409) 740-4990 Main Building #3034, Suite 409 Diego L. Gil-Agudelo Director of Research Operations diegogil@tamug.edu +1 (409) 740-4941 Main Building #3034, Suite 409 Patty Gonzales Assistant Director of Research Operations gonzalepa@tamug.edu +1 (409) 740-4748 Main Building #3034, Suite 409 Back to topBack to top TAMUG Facebook TAMUG Twitter TAMUG Instagram TAMUG LinkedIn TAMUG Youtube © 2022 Texas A&M University at Galveston Mailing Address: P.O. Box 1675, Galveston, Texas 77553 Physical Address: 200 Seawolf Parkway, Galveston, TX 77554 Shipping Address: 1001 Texas Clipper Road, Galveston, TX 77554 Site Policies Back to top