Skip to main content Restrict my search to College of Pharmacy Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search College of Pharmacy Prospective Students Pharm.D. Professional Degree Program Graduate Programs Residency & Fellowship Dual Degree Programs Student Handbooks, Policies and Procedures About Us Mission, Vision and Values Vision 2020 Strategic Plan Accreditation PharmD Program Quality Indicators Administration About the Dean Academic Departments Faculty and Staff Resources Policies & Procedures Facilities Visitor Information Directory Academic Departments Pharmacy Practice and Translational Research Pharmacological and Pharmaceutical Sciences Pharmaceutical Health Outcomes and Policy People Current Students Pharm.D. Graduate Students Overview Dual Degree Programs Library and Learning Resources Commencement Student Services Directory Student Handbooks, Policies and Procedures Diversity UH Center for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Division of Student Affairs and Enrollment Services AACP Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Antiracism Research Research Centers & Institutes Core Laboratory Collaborations UHCOP-DLDCCC Alliance for Drug Discovery-Development and Education Research Education Opportunities Cancer Research Education Program Office of Research News & Events Events Publications Alumni & Friends Alumni & Friends Golden Cougars Alumni Reunions Volunteer Opportunities Pharmacy Alumni Association Giving Where to Give Types of Gifts Giving Societies Make A Gift HelpDesk Ticketing System UH Home College of Pharmacy Prospective Students PharmD Prospective Students PharmD Admissions Requirements Prerequisite Courses Course Equivalency Guides Admissions Counseling Upcoming Tours and Events Application Pharm.D. Curriculum Hispanic Healthcare Certificate Program FAQs Rio Grande Valley PharmD Satellite Program International Concerns & Coursework Financial Aid Cooperative Programs Undergraduate Transfer Student High School Students Student Services Contacts Get Connected ACPE Program Disclosure Graduate Programs Residency & Fellowship Dual Degree Programs Student Services Directory Student Handbooks, Polices and Procedures Pharm.D. Professional Degree Program Get Connected About the Program Today’s pharmacists don’t simply count pills – they’re actively involved in the creation, evaluation and delivery of complex pharmaceuticals and therapeutics that enhance patient health. UH College of Pharmacy's Doctorate of Pharmacy (Pharm.D.) program is a four-year professional program that prepares individuals for a variety of areas within the pharmacy profession. In collaboration with its fellow Texas Medical Center institutions and elsewhere, the college offers a range of clinical research opportunities and practice experiences (APPEs) in oncology, infectious disease, pediatrics, women’s health, critical care, neurology, compounding and veterinary pharmacy. UH Pharm.D. students also can pursue a variety of unique in-state and out-of-state experiential opportunities, including the Food and Drug Administration, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and the Indian Health Service in Alaska and New Mexico. Our alumni are successful business owners, executives in highly ranked health systems and corporate operations, and leaders in professional organizations at the national, state and local level. Our full-time and adjunct faculty include nationally recognized teachers and clinicians, published authors in high-impact journals, holders of U.S. and international patents, and basic and translational researchers supported by grants from such prestigious entities as the National Institutes of Health. Our student body includes several national and regional officers of professional organizations, as well as individual and chapter award winners in national organizations and pharmacy fraternities. The college also offers dual degree and post-graduate education opportunities for Pharm.D. students or graduates: A Pharm.D./MBA dual degree program in collaboration with UH's Bauer College of Business; A two-year M.S. in Pharmacy Leadership and Administration as part of The Houston Program, which includes PGY1 pharmacy practice residency and a PGY2 pharmacy residency in Health System-Pharmacy Administration in collaboration with seven fellow Texas Medical Center institutions; and Post-graduate fellowship and residency programs. To view detailed information about our admission requirements, go to our PharmCAS schoolpage. The University of Houston College of Pharmacy’s Doctor of Pharmacy program is accredited by the Accreditation Council for Pharmacy Education, 20 North Clark Street, Suite 2500, Chicago, IL 60602-5109, 312/664-3575; FAX 312/664-4652. What Type of Student Are You? High School Student Undergraduate Transfer Student University of Houston College of Pharmacy 4349 Martin Luther King Boulevard Houston, Texas 77204-5000 713-743-1239 Prospective Students Research News & Events Pharm.D. Performance Indicators Handbooks, Policies and Procedures Update Alumni Information About Us About the Dean Academic Departments Facilities Directory ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies