Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Home Ways to give Get involved Alumni and friends Students Parents Faculty and staff Corporations and foundations Recognition Be Boundless Campaign The President’s Circle Cumulative Giving Recognition Henry Suzzallo Society Gates Volunteer Service Award Report to Contributors Contacts Giving FAQs Give now My UW Giving Give to the UW Menu Home Ways to give Get involved Alumni and friends Students Parents Faculty and staff Corporations and foundations Recognition Be Boundless Campaign The President’s Circle Cumulative Giving Recognition Henry Suzzallo Society Gates Volunteer Service Award Report to Contributors Contacts Giving FAQs Give now My UW Giving Home Give to the UW Securities Securities Close Menu Home Securities Tax advantages Thank you for considering a gift of securities to the University of Washington. Donating appreciated securities to the University of Washington is easy; simply follow the step by step stock instructions (available in PDF download) and/or read below for more information. Securities held electronically If your securities are held “in street name” with your broker, send your broker a letter of authorization to transfer (not sell) shares of specific stock(s) to the University of Washington’s main brokerage account. Your instructions should specify your account number; the date by which you wish to complete the gift, the name and number of shares you would like to donate and the purpose of your gift (e.g. unrestricted gift to the University of Washington, gift to specific program or endowment, etc.); and provide the following transfer information: Morgan Stanley Wealth Management DTC: 0015 University of Washington Acct. #144-153275-535 Contact: Robert Bradshaw, 206-685-3814 If you are transferring stock from a joint account, both account owners must sign the letter. You can contribute stock from several companies held within the same account. You can also make a single transfer for multiple purposes. Please send a copy of this letter to Robert Bradshaw, Associate Treasurer, UW Treasury Office, UW Tower, 11th Floor, 4333 Brooklyn Ave NE, Box 359441, Seattle, WA 98195 or fax 206-685-1761. Please, check with your broker soon after sending the letter to ensure that the transfer is complete, especially if you initiate this gift shortly before Dec. 31. Securities in certificate form If you have stock or bond certificates, please contact Robert Bradshaw in the UW Treasury Office to arrange for delivery. Robert Bradshaw 206-685-3814 (Fax: 206-685-1761) Mutual funds Very few mutual funds network with brokerage firms. In most cases we have to open an account with mutual fund companies to handle each individual mutual fund gifts. Since the enactment of the USA Patriot Act of 2001, the opening of a mutual fund account has become complicated and time consuming. Please contact Robert Bradshaw at least a month in advance. Year-end considerations Because of their complexity, securities gifts are best made by Dec. 15. Tax advantages Home Securities Tax advantages Search for: University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA