Emergency Notification: COVID-19 Visit the Health Advisories website for the latest updates, FAQs, vaccination information, and to Report a Case. Skip to main content San José State University Menu Visit Campus Tours Maps Parking Silicon Valley Hammer Theatre SJSU Loves SJ Academics Colleges and Departments Majors and Programs Centers and Institutes Academic Calendar Classes King Library Admissions Tuition and Fees Housing Professional Education Parent and Family Programs Campus Life Health and Wellness Safety SJSU Cares Events Traditions Student Alumni Connection Research and Innovation Office of Research SJSU Research Foundation Student-Faculty Collaborations Become a Research Partner About Administration and Leadership Facts and Accomplishments Partnerships Transformation Defined SJSU on Facebook SJSU on Twitter SJSU on LinkedIn SJSU on Instagram SJSU on YouTube Athletics Alumni Association Giving to SJSU Canvas one.SJSU Search University Menu .Go toSJSU homepage. Visit Campus Tours Maps Parking Silicon Valley Hammer Theatre SJSU Loves SJ Academics Colleges and Departments Majors and Programs Centers and Institutes Academic Calendar Classes King Library Admissions Tuition and Fees Housing Professional Education Parents and Family Programs Campus Life Health and Wellness Safety SJSU Cares Events Traditions Student Alumni Connection Research and Innovation Office of Research SJSU Research Foundation Student-Faculty Collaborations Become a Research Partner Athletics About Administration and Leadership Facts and Accomplishments Partnerships Transformation Defined Home Campus Life Safety Campus Life Safety Committed to Community San José State is dedicated to fostering a safe campus environment through education, collaboration and community empowerment. University Police Department (UPD) SJSU’s police department works 24-7 to provide a safe and secure learning environment through professional, progressive police, emergency, transportation and educational services. Find crime statistics, important safety information and SJSU policies in the Annual Safety Report. View Annual Safety Report Report an Emergency To report an emergency, call UPD or dial 911. Call UPD 408-924-2222 TipNow Anonymous Crime Reporting The TipNow text and email system lets you provide important crime information to UPD using your cell phone or PDA device. It sends an anonymous message to on-duty police personnel any time day or night. Voicemail/Text: 408-337-2919. Email: sjsu@tipnow.org Sign Up for Alerts The campus emergency communication system, Alert SJSU, provides critical information about what to do and where to go during a natural disaster or life-threatening emergency through text, email, phone and TTY/TDD messages. Request a Safety Escort In the event that you feel unsafe walking on campus, UPD will provide an escort to any location on campus and up to two blocks from campus. The service is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Education, Collaboration, Empowerment Spartans for Safety Find safety tips, resources and support through Spartans for Safety. Learn what it means to be an empowered bystander and take the pledge to keep SJSU safe. Take the Pledge to Keep SJSU Safe Behavioral Intervention Team BIT provides guidance, care and assistance to students and employees who are: experiencing crisis, displaying odd or unusual behavior and/or engaging in other behaviors that may be perceived as being harmful (either to the student or employee individually, or to others). Report an Incident Sexual Assault and Intimate Violence CSU campuses are required to provide information on sexual assault and intimate violence to all new students. Students and administrators collaborate to provide information on prevention and education. View California Assembly Bill 1088 (pdf) Discrimination and Harassment Complaints SJSU is committed to creating an atmosphere where everyone can work and study free of discrimination and harassment. Get support and resolution resources if you believe you have experienced harassment or discrimination. Get Support and Resolution Resources Footer San José State University SJSU on Facebook SJSU on Twitter SJSU on LinkedIn SJSU on Instagram SJSU on YouTube One Washington Square San José, CA 95192 408-924-1000 Accessibility Title IX Diversity Land Acknowledgement Privacy Colleges Business Education Engineering Graduate Studies Health and Human Sciences Humanities and the Arts Professional and Global Education Science Social Science Resources A-Z Index Annual Security Report [pdf] Bookstore Calendars Careers and Jobs Catalog Current Students Emergency Food & Housing King Library Parking and Maps Contact Us Contact Form Directory Doing Business with SJSU Emergency Info Report a Web Problem Report a Title IX Complaint Last Updated Jan 5, 2021