Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts Menu Search TTU Home Programs Graduate Programs J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts Doctor of Philosophy in Fine Arts Ph.D. in Fine Arts We train public-facing, interdisciplinary scholars and artists The arts are not silos or ivory towers. They are dynamic practices of give and take. Texas Tech University's unique Fine Arts Doctoral Program (FADP), which leads to a PhD in Fine Arts, encourages students to pursue creative-critical study of the arts as an energetic exchange between multiple disciplines. Our students work both deeply and broadly. They balance focused disciplinary investigation with more integrative research bringing together approaches from the arts, social and natural sciences, and/or humanities. The FADP serves two types of students: 1) those with interdisciplinary scholarly or practice-based research interests, and 2) those with disciplinary research agendas who also want to increase their breadth as educators or administrators in a variety of institutional contexts. Student dissertation projects vary widely—from the creation of a festival of theatre and performance art in shipping containers to evolutionary explanations for music and dance, from an analysis of medieval altarpieces as technologies of virtual reality to a feminist approach to voice-image relations in Iranian film. Some of our students use different disciplinary practices to answer cross-disciplinary questions; others conduct research within a single discipline, but also want the broader knowledge necessary to be a leader in an institution serving diverse needs. Ultimately, interdisciplinarity does not disparage or deny the disciplines, but depends on them for their methods and insights, even as it reorganizes their commitments. The FADP sees interdisciplinarity as a performance of world-making aimed at both current and future cultural institutions. Programs by Track Although the coursework is interdisciplinary, our students are situated within a specific track, making them more legible to hiring committees and facilitating the disciplinary components of the program. Track List Students choose between four tracks: Theatre Arts (concentrations include acting/directing, design, arts administration, playwriting, and history/theory/criticism), Music (concentrations include musicology, music theory, music education, and arts administration), Art, or Interdisciplinary Arts, which allows students to choose two or three concentrations from different Schools or departments across the university. School of Art School of Music School of Theatre & Dance What Sets Us Apart Our program, which was started in 1972, prepares students for disciplinary excellence and interdisciplinary innovation. Our students ask big questions—about power dynamics, aesthetic forms, cognitive processes, the diversity of embodied experience, and the ethics of artistic creation—and have a wide variety of methodological tools at their disposal. Student experience is heavily customized to serve individual research interests. 5 "Core Courses" This suite of courses establishes the shared language and collaborative ethos within the FADP Curriculum Includes field-specific coursework to develop student specialization Research Interests Students with additional research interests are encouraged to take other courses at TTU Student Research Supported through the TCVPA's Student Research and Creative Activity Awards (RCAA) Teaching Opportunities Certain undergraduate courses are available with a broad approach to arts scholarship World-class Faculty We have world-class faculty who care deeply about student success Program Highlights Opportunities for practice-based research Oportunities for place-based education Oportunities for community engagement and advocacy Collaborative approaches to scholarship and arts practice Ph.d. in Fine Arts Faculty Heather Warren Crow Director Kevin Chua Coordinator, School of Art Track David Forrest Coordinator, School of Music Track Andrew Gibb Coordinator, School of Theatre & Dance Track Admissions Apply Now Applicants to the FADP Program will apply to the Graduate School. Students will also choose a specific track within the arts based on interest. Art Track Music Track Theatre Arts Track Spotlight Success Andrew Kagumba Dissertation Orchestrating Social Competence: On the Transformative Work of Musicking in Two Ugandan NGOs (M-LISADA and Brass for Africa) Track Music track, music education concentration Dissertation Chair Janice Killian Lina Kattan Dissertation The Conflicted Living Beings: The Performative Aspect of Female Bodies' Representations in Saudi Painting and Photography Track Art Dissertation Chair Jorgelina Orfila Jared Stanley Dissertation Working Through Grief: Continuing Bonds in the New Golden Age of Television Track Art Dissertation Chair Heather Warren-Crow Collin Vorbeck Dissertation Applying Event Schema Theory to the Evolving Dramaturgies of Dramatic Literature Track Theatre track, History/Theory/Criticism and Acting/Directing concentrations Dissertation Chair Andrew Gibb J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts Like J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts on FacebookLike J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts on Facebook Follow J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts on twitterFollow J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts on twitter Subscribe to J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts on YouTubeSubscribe to J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts on YouTube Follow J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts on InstagramFollow J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts on Instagram Connect with J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts on LinkedInConnect with J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts on LinkedIn Address Holden Hall - Rm 103, 1011 Boston Ave., Lubbock, TX 79409 Phone 806.742.0700 Email talk@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech University May 26, 2022 10:06 AM J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts Programs J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts Back Undergraduate J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts Undergraduate Back Bachelor of Arts Bachelor of Fine Arts Bachelor of Music Interdisciplinary Arts Studies Teacher Education Programs Minors Certificates Graduate J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts Graduate Back Master of Arts Master of Art Education Master of Fine Arts Master of Music Master of Music Education Doctor of Musical Arts Ph.D. in Fine Arts Ph.D. in Music Education Certificates Outreach & Engagement J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts Outreach & Engagement Back All-state Choir Camp Band & Orchestra Camp Pre-College Immersion Program Saturday Morning Art Project WildWind Performance Lab Admissions J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts Back Apply Now New Undergraduate Students J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts New Undergraduate Students Back Orientation Checklist Red Raider Orientation Academic Checklist Student Organizations Fine Arts Learning Community Meet Our Ambassadors Plan Your Visit New Graduate Students Financial Aid J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts Financial Aid Back Scholarships Portfolio & Audition Requirements J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts Back School of Art School of Music School of Theatre & Dance About J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts Back Leadership J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts Back Meet the Dean Associate Dean for Faculty, Research, and Creative Activity Associate Dean for Students & Curricula Dean's Office Directory Faculty Awards & Honors Mission & Vision Galleries & Performance Spaces J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts Galleries & Performance Spaces Back The CH Foundation The Legacy of Christine DeVitt Black Box Theatre Creative Movement Studio Hemmle Recital Hall Live Stream Landmark Arts: Exhibits & Speaker Programs Maegden Theatre MusicHub Moment SOA Satellite Gallery at Charles Adams Studio Project This Week in Art Student Facilities J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts Back Computer Lab (School of Music) School of Art 3D Annex School of Art Lab School of Art Transmedia Lab School of Art Visual Research Center (VRC) Required Covid Testing J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts Required Covid Testing Back Regular Testing for Performance, Production, and Ensembles Requirements for Individual Participants FAQs about testing Exemption Documentation Submission Form Schedule Testing Appointment Student Organizations Careers Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Research J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts Back National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) Research Lab Performing Arts Research Lab (PeARL) Research and Creative Activity Resources J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts Research and Creative Activity Resources Back Faculty Research and Creativity Activity Awards Student Research and Creative Activity Awards News & Events J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts Back College School of Art School of Music School of Theatre & Dance Media Kit Faculty/Staff/Student Resources J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts Faculty/Staff/Student Resources Back Faculty/Staff Current Students Alumni Contact Us Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index