Skip to main content Information For: Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Apply Give to HGSE Search Apply for Degree Programs Apply for Professional Education Donate Give back to HGSE and support the next generation of passionate educators and innovative leaders. Keywords Close Menu Degree Programs Professional Education Faculty & Research Usable Knowledge Keywords About HGSE About the Dean Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Commentary and Media Dean's Office History of HGSE Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Impact Campus and Facilities Office Directory Virtual Tour Gutman Conference Center Reservation Request Form Capacities and Cost Floor Plan Catering Policies Audio Visual Directions, Parking, and Hotels Map of HGSE Directions to HGSE History of HGSE Buildings Faculty & Staff Directory Work at HGSE Title IX Information Doctoral Degree Programs Doctor of Education Leadership Doctor of Philosophy in Education Brochures Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Doctoral Viewbook Master's Degree Program Master's in Education Programs Education Leadership, Organizations, and Entrepreneurship Education Policy and Analysis Human Development and Education Learning Design, Innovation, and Technology Teaching and Teacher Leadership Concentrations Arts and Learning Early Childhood Global, International, and Comparative Education Higher Education Identity, Power, and Justice in Education Literacy and Languages A Personalized Approach Online Master's in Education Leadership Foundations Brochures Academic Catalog Academic Calendar Academic Year 2020-22 Programs Professional Education About Us Programs Early Childhood K-12 Higher Education Online Programs For Organizations Group and Team Enrollment Custom Programs Admissions Payment & Tuition Assistance Refunds & Withdrawals Policies and Accessibility Campus Experience On-Campus Program Health and Safety Policies FAQs Events Contact Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Centers, Projects and Initiatives Faculty Recruitment Faculty Experts Admissions Introduce Yourself Explore Find the Right Program Brochures Life at HGSE Connect Apply Refer a Candidate Frequently Asked Questions Financial Aid HGSE & Harvard University Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Incoming Students Incoming International Students Continuing Students Scholarships, Fellowships & Grants Need-Based Grant Awards HGSE Fellowships Additional Fellowships External Fellowships Student Loans Student Work International Students International Applicant FAQ Funding Sources Students with Families Financial Aid Appeals Presentations & Publications Budgeting & Financial Literacy Budget Calculator Registrar News & Events Harvard Edcast Education Now Askwith Education Forum Upcoming Events Submit an Event Usable Knowledge Ed. Magazine Harvard Education Publishing Group Information for Media Education Now Usable Knowledge Usable Knowledge Harvard EdCast Ed. Magazine HGSE Centennial Community Learning Beyond the Classroom Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Organizations and Initiatives Community Events and Action Resources Teaching and Learning Gutman Library Services Alumni Services Collections Special Collections Request for Library Purchase Library Hours Websites for Educators About the Library Facilities & Equipment Contact Information Coronavirus Response Information Directory Calendar Alumni Network & Connect Get Involved Learn & Grow Benefits & Services my.harvard Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Information For Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Connect with HGSE Facebook Twitter Linked In LinkedIn Symbols Created with Sketch. Instagram Financial Aid International Applicants Frequently Asked Questions How do I apply for financial aid at HGSE? The HGSE Financial Aid Application will be available in January after the Admissions application deadline. The HGSE Financial Aid Office will contact you with information and instructions on how to submit your Financial Aid Application online, and you can find more information here. May I apply for a tuition waiver? Tuition waivers are not available at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. What kind of financial aid is available for international students? Grants & Scholarships International students are eligible to be considered for both need-based and scholarship HGSE aid found on the Fellowships & Grants pages. All HGSE applicants and students may apply for any of the University-wide Restricted Scholarships for which they may be eligible. You can apply for these scholarships when you complete your HGSE Financial Aid Application. International students may refer to our fellowship Information for general information about possible external sources of support and may also want to refer to the list of Funding Sources for International Students available through this website. The Harvard Committee on General Scholarships also provides funding through various scholarships and fellowships; some require nomination from HGSE (utilizing your admissions and financial aid application information) and others may require a separate application as specified by the funding opportunity. Loans International students are not eligible for U.S. Federal Student Loans. Many international students utilize loan programs in their home nations. However, international students may borrow supplemental loans through some private lenders. International students will generally be required to have a credit worthy co-signer/co-borrower who is a U.S. citizen. Please refer to our loan page for information about supplemental loan programs. Work International students are generally restricted from working in the United States, but may be able to work on the Harvard campus depending on visa status. Applicants should refer to the Harvard International Office for questions about work eligibility. For information about on-campus job opportunities students should refer to the Student Employment Office. Please keep in mind that U.S. Federal Work-Study positions, which subsidize employer costs, are available only to U.S. citizens and permanent residents. It is often difficult for international students to find unsubsidized campus jobs. Where can I get information about housing and other living expenses? Upon admission to HGSE, students are sent a packet which includes detailed information from the HGSE Financial Aid Office, Office of Student Affairs, and the Housing Office. How can I calculate the funds I will need to obtain a student visa (for myself/for myself and family members)? The following examples are estimates for full time students entering in the 2022-2023 academic year: A single student must certify: $91,788 for the standard cost of attendance for international students (including tuition, fees, living expenses and books) plus the cost of individual return airfare in guaranteed, available funds (through a scholarship, personal funds in a U.S. bank, agency sponsorship, or combination thereof). Students enrolling in the Teaching & Teacher Leadership (TTL) Program must certify an additional $3,058, totalling $94,846. A student with a spouse must certify: $91,788 for self plus $20,696 for the cost of health fees and living expenses for their spouse, plus the cost of their return airfare for self and spouse in guaranteed, available funds (see above). A student with a spouse and a child must certify: $91,788 for self plus $35,194 for the cost of health fees and living expenses for their spouse and child, plus the cost of their return airfare for self and family in guaranteed, available funds (see above). A student with a spouse and more than one child must certify $2,263 in additional health insurance fees plus $10,000 for each additional child for living expenses, along with the cost of their return airfare for self and family in guaranteed, available funds (see above). Please note the above figures pertain to full-time Ed.M. students. Budgets for Ed.D. students in their third year and beyond are adjusted according to the tuition level they are required to pay. HGSE students who are currently enrolled, or returning from a leave of absence, should contact the HGSE Financial Aid Office for instructions on certifying for an extension of their visa and related documents. When do I receive information about applying for my student visa? The HGSE Admissions Office sends information about visa requirements soon after the notice of admission. In this section Financial Aid HGSE & Harvard University Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Incoming Students Incoming International Students Continuing Students Scholarships, Fellowships & Grants Need-Based Grant Awards HGSE Fellowships Additional Fellowships External Fellowships Student Loans Student Work International Students International Applicant FAQ Funding Sources Students with Families Financial Aid Appeals Presentations & Publications Budgeting & Financial Literacy Budget Calculator Financial Aid Financial Aid HGSE & Harvard University Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Incoming Students Incoming International Students Continuing Students Scholarships, Fellowships & Grants Need-Based Grant Awards HGSE Fellowships Additional Fellowships External Fellowships Student Loans Student Work International Students International Applicant FAQ Funding Sources Students with Families Financial Aid Appeals Presentations & Publications Budgeting & Financial Literacy Budget Calculator Sign up for our newsletters to get the latest from the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Sign Up Now Artboard 1 13 Appian Way | Cambridge, MA 02138 Centennial Contact Us Directory Directions Harvard University ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Linked In Symbols Created with Sketch. Youtube RSS Podcast HGSE Publishing Policies & Disclaimers Digital Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy Trademark Notice