Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Student Accessibility Services Home Frequently Asked Questions Student Accessibility Services Frequently Asked Questions Frequently Asked Questions Academic I am a returning student who has already registered with SAS. Do I need to do anything different to keep/renew my accommodations? This process remains the same for students studying on-campus and remote. Students currently approved for academic accommodations can go to the online SAS portal to download their letters to provide to instructors. Please note that students who need to update documentation from their medical provider will not be able to access their letters and will receive a prompt to contact SAS. If questions about the renewal process please reach out by email ([email protected]) or phone (401-863-9588) during weekday business hours. I am a new or first-year student and need to register for non-housing accommodations (such as academic accommodations). Do I need to do anything different than your usual process? Students who need multiple types of accommodations can follow up on those processes simultaneously, though it is important to note that they are seperate requests. For academic accommodations, please contact [email protected] For housing accommodations, it is advised that you reach out to [email protected] (see Housing Accommodation page for more information). If you reach out to the wrong email don't worry, we will make sure your inquiry gets to the right person. We will provide you with a registration form as well as information on what we need from your medical provider. If any questions please reach out by email or phone during weekday business hours. Is there a deadline to request academic accommodations? There is no deadline to submit a request for academic accommodations. That said, we recommend completing your request early in the semester, as accommodations are not retroactive. Please visit our Academic Accommodations page or reach out via email/phone for more information. I am going to be studying remotely and need to request a work load reduction. What do I do? This process remains the same for students studying on-campus and remote. Students who believe they need an official work load reduction (less than 4 courses) should reach out by phone or email to schedule an appointment with professional staff early in the semester. In that meeting, we can discuss your specific situation and next steps. Please note that all course load reduction requests should be submitted by the mid point of the semester. Transportation I have a recent injury and I am using crutches (or other mobility aid). How can SAS help me? SAS can grant access to the SAS shuttle for transportation around the Brown campus. Students should contact SAS either by phone or email to begin the registration process. SAS can also move classes to more accessible locations and/or add students to the Disability Emergency Evacuation Program (D.E.E.P) which can help individuals evacuate their residence hall in an emergency situation. Graduate Students For additional guidance, please consult the Graduate School’s Fall 2020 FAQ, as well as the general SAS Graduate FAQ for other accommodation-related questions for graduate students. I am a graduate student who has never requested accommodations before. Am I eligible to request anything, especially related to the current COVID-19 pandemic concerns. Students can reach out to Student Accessibility Services at any time to confer with staff. We can learn more about your situation and help you consider follow-up steps. Our phone number is 401-863-9588 during weekday business hours. Our main email address is [email protected] I am a graduate student active in a research laboratory and have a personal health concern. What do I do? Students with personal health concerns should register with SAS. SAS will follow the same process as for all accommodations related to a documented disability, medical condition, or temporary injury. Please reach out to [email protected] and request to connect with one of our professional staff. What documentation do I need to support a request for an accommodation, including an alternative arrangement from my current lab placement? Do I need documentation from a clinician or is my own information enough? The general process for approval or disability related accommodations includes registration and providing documentation from a qualified evaluator. If you are not sure about providing documentation please reach out to get connected with one of our professional staff to discuss. If I am approved for accommodations, what information is shared with my faculty or program? Information about disability diagnoses and symptoms is not shared with faculty or administration. Only information about approved accommodations is shared on a need-to-know basis so that accommodations may be implemented. I need to request to be excused from working in the lab because someone I live with has health concerns rather than my own health concerns. The accommodations process through Student Accessibility Services can address the direct health concerns of students only. For situations in which a student is concerned due to a household member who is high-risk, they should seek an alternative arrangement with their advisor, with support from their Director of Graduate Study, and Maria Suarez, Associate Dean of Student Support in the Graduate School. What other arrangements are available? What should I do? Reach out to SAS at the contact information above to get connected with staff to follow-up. Home FAQ Important Notices Getting Around Campus Registration Accommodations & Services Academic Accommodation Letter Notifications Graduate Student FAQ Faculty Report an Accessibility or Accommodation Concern Access or Accommodation Concerns Appeals Accessibility/Awareness Resources Emergency Planning Event Accessibility Financial Assistance for Evaluations or Coaching Library SAS Rooms Scheduling Support Groups & Events School of Professional Studies (SPS) Programs Print this Page Share this Page Student Accessibility Services Brown University Box Box P Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-9588 Fax 401-863-1444 [email protected] Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Web Links WebServices BrownSites Demo BrownSites Documentation Special Links Your Custom Links PAUR Media Relations Web Style Guide