Skip to content Enter search text All the UW Current site Search scope All the UW Current site MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Menu Home My Husky is a . . . Transfer student International student Out-of-state student First-generation student First-year student Sophomore/Junior Graduating student Resources Parent & Family Guide Student Life Academics Health & Safety Living & Dining Finances Transportation Move In Resources Talk with your Husky Husky Huddle-up podcast Forms, releases, and accounts Common Questions Events All events UW Family Weekend Connect Support Parents & Families Common Questions Jump to a topic: Academics | Campus life | Career exploration | Financial | Health and safety | Visiting campus | International families | Out-of-state families | COVID-19 | Family engagement Academics Academics How do students work with academic advisors and when should they meet? General advisers help students plan course schedules and clarify academic and personal goals. Advisors are working to accommodate students for both in-person and virtual appointments. We encourage new students to meet with their advisors as soon as possible. After the initial meeting, we suggest they schedule meetings during the third week of every quarter, if possible. More information is available on the UW Undergraduate Advising webpage. What academic support and tutoring programs are available to students? The UW has a wide range of academic support opportunities for undergraduates. The Center for Learning and Undergraduate Education (CLUE) provides drop-in tutoring in Mary Gates Hall, the HUB and Othello-UW Commons in South Seattle. Students who are first-generation college students, economically disadvantaged or historically underrepresented groups may also access tutoring through the Office of Minority Affairs & Diversity. Many academic departments also offer tutoring that’s tailored to a student’s area of study. If they need help with time management or study strategies, students can also schedule a 30-minute session with one of our Academic Success Coaches. Can my student take classes over the summer? Yes! The UW offers two summer sessions. Registration typically opens in mid-April. Students often find that summer classes offer a relaxed learning environment and present more opportunities to connect with professors. Where do I find information about graduation? The most up-to-date graduation information is available on the Office of Ceremonies commencement page. My student is sick and missing classes. What should they do? We’re sorry your student isn’t feeling well. Hall Health Center offers medical and mental health care — in person, over the phone and by video. We encourage your student to make an appointment as soon as possible. Your student should also reach out to their professors via email to explore options for keeping up with their classes and making up missed assignments. Their academic advisor may be able to offer assistance in coming up with a plan to get back on track. How can I support my student with time management? The Academic Support Programs page is filled with tips on creating a schedule, prioritizing tasks and minimizing distractions. The weekly study hours worksheet can help your student determine how many hours they need to devote to studying for each class. Talk with your student about which strategies work best for them, and help them identify any roadblocks that might be preventing them from focusing on their studies. Campus life Campus life How is college different from high school? College comes with much more autonomy than high school — especially for students who are living away from home for the first time. The ratio between time studying outside of class and time spent in class also increases, requiring students to be more proactive about time management and seeking assistance when they need it. The Academic Support Programs page is filled with resources to help first-year students make the academic transition between high school and college. First Year Programs, meanwhile, include several ways for students to connect, engage and find their place on the UW campus. What's the weather like in Seattle? Despite Seattle’s rainy reputation, precipitation here is typically light enough that many in the area won’t bother to carry an umbrella. In fact, Seattle is only the 24th rainiest city in the U.S. with an average annual rainfall of 38.6 inches. (A good rain jacket, however, is a wardrobe staple, especially between the wetter months of October through May.) Winters can be cloudy and grey, but temperatures are usually mild with daytime highs in the 40s and 50s. Summers are warm and sunny but not too hot or humid, with average temperatures in the 70s and 80s. Where is the UW in relation to Seattle? The University of Washington’s three campuses can be found in Bothell, Tacoma and Seattle, WA. The flagship Seattle campus, located in the beautiful northeast corner of Seattle, covers over 690 acres. Its neighborhood — called the University District or U-District — boasts extremely high scores for walkability, bike access, and public transit. It is serviced by all the major bus routes, as well as the Husky Stadium and U District stations on the Link light rail (with more stops being constructed). My Husky is having a hard time making friends. What advice would you give? Forming lasting college friendships can take time. One of the best ways to meet new people is by pursuing organized activities outside the classroom. Joining a student club is one way to build friendships, develop leadership skills and discover new interests. If your Husky is a first-year student, you could encourage them to sign up for a First-year Student Network or a First-year Interest Group (FIG).If your student lives on campus, they can take advantage of the many social activities organized through Residential Life. UW also has a lively intramural sports program, with teams and tournaments for everything from bowling to badminton. Where do Huskies find clubs, activities and community on campus? Getting involved on campus is the best way for students to build community, explore university resources and develop leadership skills. The Student Life website is full of information about the people, places, and programs that are here to support your student throughout their Husky Experience. To dig a little deeper, browse hundreds of student clubs in the Registered Student Organization Directory and explore all the offerings for first year students at First Year Programs. Learn about how your Husky can get involved with the Associated Students of the University of Washington (ASUW), including the Community Engagement and Leadership Education (CELE) Center, which provides Huskies with opportunities for community-engaged learning, democratic engagement, leadership education, preK-12 student success and place-based initiatives My student is interested in joining Greek Life at the UW. Where may I get more information? The UW Greek community is a great way for your student to make friends and engage in their community. Our Office of Fraternity & Sorority Life advises our Interfraternity Council the Multicultural Greek Council, National Pan-Hellenic Council, the Panhellenic Association, and their services and programs. You and your Husky can learn more about fraternity and sorority life at the University of Washington, through our Office of Fraternity & Sorority Life. Are there student tickets for athletic events? Yes! Dawg Pack Tickets grant full-time UW students access to home football and men’s basketball games on a first-come, first-serve basis based on availability. Students may attend other sports events for free with their Husky Cards. My student is having issues with their roommate. How can we navigate this? Conflict is a normal part of healthy relationships. Learning to communicate through them helps the relationship grow deeper. We encourage students to turn to their Resident Advisers to get another student perspective or some extra guidance on how to approach a roommate with a concern. We also have full-time professional staff who have master’s degrees; they can help with especially intense conflict mediation. My student is at a campus besides Seattle. Do they have access to the same resources? We encourage you to visit the parent and families website for UW Bothell and the student life webpages at UW Tacoma to learn about the specific offerings on each campus. Career exploration Career exploration My student has an assigned academic advisor. Should my student also work with a career coach? Whereas academic advisors help students navigate their course of study, career coaches can help students think about how they will take those experiences and apply them to a career. For students who aren’t sure what they want to do after college, career coaches can help them figure out a path that aligns with their interests, values and talents. For those who have already identified a career, coaches can help them secure internships, prepare resumes and cover letters, and identify networking strategies. How can my student find a career coach? When should they meet? Students can schedule an appointment by logging into Handshake, the jobs and internships platform for UW students and alumni. More information is available on theCareer & Internship Center website.The best time to make an appointment is whenever your student has something they’d like to discuss. The center also has recorded webinars and other DIY resources that are available 24-7. My student hasn’t picked a major yet. Can a career coach still help? Yes! Career coaches can help undecided students zero in on their interests and identify potential majors and careers. Can a career coach help my student find an internship or help with graduate school applications? Absolutely. Career coaches are available to discuss internship search strategies and to review personal statements or other aspects of graduate/professional school applications. How can students network and find career opportunities through UW? The UW Career & Internship Center has a variety of services to help students build their network and start exploring careers, including resume workshops, career fairs and drop-in coaching. Several online resources are also available. PathwayU is a tool to help students discover their purpose and connect it to college and careers. Handshake is the jobs and internships platform for UW students and alumni. Financial Financial What is the HuskyCard? How can I add money to my student’s Husky Card account? The Husky Card is the official identification card for members of the UW community. It provides access to services and opportunities, including campus libraries. All Husky Cards are automatically linked to a debit account and can be used for purchases at any on-campus dining locations and food markets, and at the University Book Store. They’re also accepted in residence hall laundry facilities and at campus copy machines and printing stations. You can add money to your student’s Husky Card through the online card office. Note that you’ll need their UW ID number to complete the guest deposit. How does a student apply for Washington state residency? To learn more about the process of applying for Washington state residency, visit the Office of the University Registrar. What types of scholarships are available for in-state, out of state and/or international students? Information about scholarships for UW students can be found at the Office of Merit Scholarship Fellowships & Awards. The office maintains a database where students can search for scholarships that align with their background, interests and academic standing. When and how do I pay tuition and/or housing? Tuition is always due the 3rd Friday of the quarter and can be paid via credit card, web check, or in person. Information about tuition, e-billing and late fees can be found on the Student Fiscal Services website. We are preparing our tax return. How do we obtain the 1098T form? The 1098T form is available at the end of January. Students can opt to receive the form in the mail or electronically. Visit the Student Fiscal Services website for more information. Health and safety Health and safety Does UW have a Student Health Services? Yes, the Hall Health Center is our campus medical center, located across from the HUB on the UW Seattle campus. Visit Husky Health & Well-Being website to learn about the broad range of resources, programs and services we offer to support your student’s needs: social, emotional, intellectual, physical, financial, and spiritual. How does my student sign up for UW Alerts? Students can sign up for UW Alerts email and text messages on the Campus Safety & Emergency Resources website, using their UW NetID. How do parents & families receive information in the event of an emergency? UW Alerts are also posted on Facebook and Twitter. More complete information about an incident can be found on the UW Alert blog. What safety tips or services can I share with my student? The UW has dozens of programs and resources to help keep students safe, including nighttime escort services, a 24-7 safety hotline and a free NightRide shuttle. Find more resources on the Campus Safety & Emergency Resources website. What health services are available to my student? The following on-campus health services are paid for by the Services & Activities Fee (SAF), collected with your student’s tuition Short-term mental health support, accessible 24 hours/7 days a week through mySSP Unlimited medical advice from a nurse by phone or videoconference Let’s Talk, a virtual, drop-in counseling program One visit with a medical provider for a problem or concern per quarter OR for a pre-travel consultation. We have questions about health insurance for my student? UW does not offer health insurance to domestic students. Families will need to determine if their insurance covers services in Washington state. If you have health insurance, complete the Know Your Benefits Worksheet to learn about your coverage and benefits. As you and your Husky review your benefits, we suggest checking your out-of-pocket costs, like deductibles, copays for mental health counseling, urgent care and prescription medication. Our Hall Health Center team can be reached at uwhhc@uw.edu for additional questions. Visting campus Visiting campus Is there a Visitor’s Center at UW? Yes. The UW Visitor Center is located in Odegaard Library on the Seattle campus. The Visitor Center website is full of information about transportation and parking, campus highlights and tours. Visitor Center staff are also available via phone and email: 206-543-9198 or uwvic@uw.edu. I am planning to visit Washington. What are my transportation options? The Link light rail runs between the University of Washington and the Sea-Tac Airport every few minutes. The ride takes about 45 minutes and offers scenic views of the International District and Downtown Seattle before arriving at the UW station, just steps from Husky Stadium and Union Bay. Students can use their U-Pass to ride the light rail or bus. Alternate options include prearranged shuttles, taxicabs, Uber, Lyft, Wingz … or even a bike, if you’re feeling adventurous! Where would you suggest I stay when visiting my student? There are many hotels within walking distance of the University, and the entirety of the downtown Seattle hotel scene is easily accessible to campus via the Light Rail. Learn more about hotel accommodations. Where do we sign up for campus tours? The UW Visitor Center has information about student-led tours and self-guided tours. Where can I find a campus map? The UW is an expansive campus with uncountable beautiful places to explore. Find your way around all corners of the campus with UW Maps. What are some must-see places to explore in Seattle? Many of the city’s top destinations are located on or near the UW campus. Learn more about attractions, lodging and dining across the city at Visit Seattle. Interested in outdoor recreation? UWild is a great way for your student to explore Washington’s renowned wilderness areas and public lands. International families International families Who can my student contact with questions? International Student Services (ISS) offers comprehensive assistance for the nearly 8,000 international students enrolled at UW. ISS staff can help students navigate visa requirements, find tax information and explore their employment options. How does my student maintain full-time enrollment? Undergraduate students on F-1 visas are generally required to enroll in 12 credits each quarter. For graduate students, the requirement is 10 credits per quarter. Check with International Student Services for more information. What can my student expect in the classroom? Classes at the University of Washington vary from discipline to discipline and may be significantly different from what your student has experienced in their home country. The Center for International Relations & Cultural Leadership Exchange (CIRCLE) offers one-on-one success coaching to help international students effectively transition to the UW. How can my student improve their English skills? International & English Language Programs (IELP) offers a range of English language courses for students who have at least an intermediate level of proficiency. Additionally, the UW’s Learning Exchange Program pairs English language learners with fluent English speakers for weekly conversation sessions. It’s a fun way for non-native speakers to improve their English fluency, make a friend and learn about American culture. I am planning to visit the U.S. and need a tourist visa. How does my student obtain an invitation letter? Instructions for writing an invitation letter are available on the International Student Services website. How does my student obtain a Social Security Number? U.S. social security numbers are issued to international students who have been offered on-campus employment or are authorized for off-campus employment. A social security number will not be issued for non-work purposes. For more information, visit International Student Services. Other than International Student Services, what are some resources specifically for international students? The Center for International Relations & Cultural Leadership Exchange (CIRCLE) can help international students find their campus community, develop leadership skills and connect to UW resources. CIRCLE also produces a podcast called In the Loop. It’s a great way to learn more about the UW international student experience and stay up-to-date on what’s happening on campus. What is the best way to make a tuition payment? New international students must pay the New Student Enrollment and Orientation Fee (NSEOF) using Flywire or Western Union instead of the UW online payment system. Other fees and tuition may be paid using Flywire, Western Union or a wire transfer. Visit the UW Student Fiscal Services website for more information. How will my student have access to health care/insurance? All matriculated international students in F-1 or J-1 status are required to purchase the UW International Student Health Insurance Plan (ISHIP). Review the details of the plan carefully, including the effective dates of coverage. We advise you to purchase this insurance for the entire year so that you will be covered whether or not you are enrolled each quarter. Out-of-state families out-of-state What plans are contracted with Hall Health/UW Medicine? UW Medicine and Hall Health are contracted with many insurance plans, you can view the contracted insurance plans. The only way to know for sure if your plan is contracted is to call the customer service number on the back of your insurance card to complete the Know Your Benefits worksheet. What if our insurance does not cover Hall Health/UW Medicine? If your insurance does not contract with Hall Health Center and UW Medicine, but does work with other providers in Seattle, you can review the list. You can also check your insurance company’s website to search for additional contracted providers. COVID-19 COVID-19 What COVID-19 precautions or restrictions are currently in place? The University of Washington requires students and personnel to be vaccinated against COVID-19. For the latest guidance on masks and other COVID-related precautions, visit the UW’s coronavirus webpage. All students, faculty and staff planning to be on a campus or at a UW facility are encouraged to enroll in the Husky Coronavirus Testing program. Is remote learning available? The UW returned to in-person learning starting with fall quarter 2021. Remote learning is not available at this time for most programs. How should my student and I adjust expectations, based on the pandemic and missing a year on campus? It may take some time for your student to adjust to being back on campus and get back into the rhythm of in-person learning. While most campus activities and resources will fully reopen this fall, some programs may operate virtually. Certain campus spaces — like the HUB — will have limited capacity and operations. Students who will be living on campus should also review the Coronavirus Information for Residents webpage. Family engagement Family engagement How can I connect with other UW families? Join our official first-year families Facebook group. Connect with our office to learn more about regional/out-of-state groups that have worked with our offices. And be sure to sign up for our UW Parent Insider newsletter to learn about events and other opportunities for connection. How can I access my Husky’s academic, health and financial information? We treat our students as adults regardless of age at the UW. This means that parents and families seeking access to their students’ academic, wellness and billing will need to start with a conversation with their student and ask them directly to share information with you. Students must fill out information release forms to share notifications and billing reminders with families. More information about the UW’s parent notification and student privacy policies is available here. University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA