Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Students Menu About Baylor Academics Academic Records Information College of Arts & Sciences Commencement Diana R. Garland School of Social Work Exam Schedule George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Graduate School Catalog Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Libraries Louise Herrington School of Nursing More Academics Music, School of Office of the Registrar Professional Education Research Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science Undergraduate Catalog Around Campus Baylor University Shuttle Campus Living and Learning Campus Map Dining Services Diversity & Inclusion Health Services Lariat Newspaper Off-Campus Housing Parking & Transportation Student Life Center (SLC) Student Union (SUB, BDSC) Waco Zipcar Online Tools Activate Bear ID/Change Password AirBear Wireless Network Baylor Box Service BaylorConnect Bearweb Canvas E-mail/Outlook Web Access Home Software (Including Anti-Virus Software) Housing Technology Information Technology Services Navigate/Student Success Collaborative (SSC) PawPrints Schedule of Classes Student Technology Services Technology Purchasing Policies & Procedures Academic Integrity and Honor Code EthicsPoint: Anonymous Reporting Report It Sexual and Interpersonal Misconduct/Title IX Student Conduct Administration Student Policies and Procedures Voting Information/Voter Registration Safety BU Campus Guardian Clery Act Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information Department of Public Safety Emergency Planning and Preparedness Environmental Health & Safety Report It Sexual and Interpersonal Misconduct/Title IX University Compliance and Risk Services Student Financial Services Financial Aid Pay Your Bill Payroll Office Student Employment Student Financial Literacy Student Involvement Baylor Athletics BaylorConnect Campus Recreation Gameday for Students Multicultural Affairs New Student Programs Spiritual Life Student Activities Student Government Student Organizations Student Tickets Portal Student Services Baylor Summer Counseling Center International Student and Scholar Services Ombuds to Students Paul L. Foster Success Center Registering for Classes Student Disability Services Student-Athlete Center for Excellence Study Abroad and Exchange Programs Writing Center Complete List of Links Daily Verse “For the Lord himself will come down from heaven, with a loud command, with the voice of the archangel and with the trumpet call of God, and the dead in Christ will rise first. After that, we who are still alive and are left will be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air. And so we will be with the Lord forever.” 1 Thessalonians 4:16-17 (NIV) Source: BibleGateway.com PreviousNext News View all news FeaturedAthleticsNews ClipsBaylor ProudNews from BaylorWhat's New BUThe To-Do List Presidential Perspective - May 26, 2022 Grief continues to fill my heart today. Like everyone in the Baylor Family, my heart broke on Tuesday as we learned about the tragic mass shooting at Robb Elementary School in Uvalde — the deadliest school shooting in Texas history. Baylor Regents Extend President Livingstone’s Contract to 2032 WACO, Texas (May 25, 2022) – At its regular May meeting, the Baylor University Board of Regents voted to extend the contract of President Linda A. Livingstone, Ph.D., to 2032 in recognition of her exemplary University and national leadership that has elevated Baylor as a preeminent Christian research university with strengths across the board in academics, research and athletics. Baylor friends remember Dr. John Cheng (BA ’91) following Laguna Woods shooting Chances are good that by now, you’ve heard the name “Dr. John Cheng.” The Southern California sports physician died Sunday after literally taking the bullet when a gunman opened fire at an Orange County church. Cheng’s actions almost certainly saved multiple lives. What you may not have heard was that Cheng was a Baylor Bear […] Study business or ministry? This 2022 Baylor MDiv/MBA grad answered, ‘Both.’ Before Connor Griffin (BBA ’18, MBA/MDiv ’22) could drive a car, he had already started a business. He and his brother would push a lawnmower around their neighborhood, earning money by caring for nearby yards. As the son of small business owner, he had entrepreneurship in his blood — but he also felt a call […] Baseball Coach Steve Rodriguez Announces Resignation WACO, Texas – Baylor Head Baseball Coach Steve Rodriguez announced today that he is stepping down from his position, after leading the Bears for seven seasons. His 197-146 record marks the third-most wins of any head coach in program history. No. 8/8 T&F: West Prelims Conclude with 10 National Entries FAYETTEVILLE, Ark. – Baylor track and field women wrapped up the NCAA West Preliminaries at the John McDonnell Field on Saturday, qualifying both relays and eight individuals to the NCAA Championships in Eugene, Ore., in two weeks. No. 8/8 T&F: Six Entries Punch Tickets to Eugene FAYETTEVILLE, Ark. – Baylor track and field men wrapped up the NCAA West Preliminaries at the John McDonnell Field on Friday, qualifying four individuals and two relays to the NCAA Championships in Oregon next month. No. 8/8 T&F Sends Two More to Eugene on Day Two of West Preliminaries FAYETTEVILLE, Ark. – Baylor track and field had 11 total student-athletes advance to the next rounds in Day Two of the NCAA West Preliminaries, with 9 to the quarterfinals and 2 with a ticket punched to Hayward Stadium in Eugene. Baptist Standard: Falling Seed: Creating online participatory worship services March 23, 2020 Baylor theology professor Angela Gorrell, Ph.D., has designed a free guide to creating online, participatory worship services. Baylor Lariat: Baylor cancels in-person classes for both summer sessions April 2, 2020 Baylor President Linda A. Livingstone, Ph.D., announced Thursday that Baylor will continue to utilize online instruction for upcoming Minimester (May 13-June 1), Summer I (June 2-July 7) and Summer II (July 9-Aug. 12) classes. Baylor Lariat: Baylor counseling center continues with online services March 25, 2020 Baylor’s counseling center has adapted its treatments amidst the COVID-19 pandemic. With faculty and staff working from home, the counselors have begun counseling sessions via phone and WebEx, a platform for video conferences. KWBU-FM (Waco/NPR): Baylor Connections - Cheryl Gochis April 3, 2020 AUDIO: For last nine years, Baylor has been recognized as a “Great College to Work For” by the Chronicle of Higher Education. In this Baylor Connections, Cheryl Gochis, vice president of human resources and chief human resources officer, examines ways that Baylor supports faculty and staff year-round and specifically talks about the University’s response to help employees transition to remote work during the COVID-19 public health crisis. Not ‘Can we?,’ but ‘Should we?’: Baylor grad’s company aims to center ethics in technology Improvements in technology are awesome. They make it possible for a car to drive itself. Robots can answer complex questions in a flash. They can even save lives. However, as tech evolves, it’s easy for human connections to get left behind. To combat this, Baylor grad Olivia Gambelin (BA ’17) hatched an idea. Gambelin grew […] Baylor students again circle the globe in service through Baylor Missions What bonds Baylor musicians in Scotland with business students in Zambia, or student-athletes in Louisiana with nurses in India? They’re all part of this summer’s Baylor Missions trips, which are again deploying abroad after a two-year hiatus due to COVID-19. Already, Baylor students have completed a handful of domestic summer mission trips, and soon teams […] Updates to Founders Mall and Quadrangle will more fully tell Baylor’s history On Friday, Baylor Regents approved the outline of a plan that will address many of the priorities named by the Commission on Historic Campus Representations last year — recommendations that would more fully tell the history of the university and its early leaders. Many of the details are still in development, but the concepts released […] Baylor friends remember Dr. John Cheng (BA ’91) following Laguna Woods shooting Chances are good that by now, you’ve heard the name “Dr. John Cheng.” The Southern California sports physician died Sunday after literally taking the bullet when a gunman opened fire at an Orange County church. Cheng’s actions almost certainly saved multiple lives. What you may not have heard was that Cheng was a Baylor Bear […] Baylor University Department of Public Safety Hosts Active Threat Training Exercise with Local Law Enforcement WACO, Texas (May 24, 2022) - On Wednesday, May 25, 2022, from 6:30 a.m. to 1 p.m., the Baylor University Department of Public Safety (BUDPS), in conjunction with the Baylor University Police Department (BUPD) and nine other local and federal law enforcement partners, will conduct a joint active threat training exercise in and around Kokernot Hall on the Baylor campus. Baylor in the News – May 15-21, 2022 WACO, Texas (May 22, 2022) – Baylor University researchers and faculty experts were featured in national and local media stories as they shared their thoughts and expertise on the Declaration of Independence as a secular or religious document, an edgy advertising campaign for a popular TV series about the life of Jesus and why Baylor students are receiving more prestigious scholarships - Fulbright, Goldwater, Churchill and more – than ever before. Baylor Regents Extend President Livingstone’s Contract to 2032 WACO, Texas (May 25, 2022) – At its regular May meeting, the Baylor University Board of Regents voted to extend the contract of President Linda A. Livingstone, Ph.D., to 2032 in recognition of her exemplary University and national leadership that has elevated Baylor as a preeminent Christian research university with strengths across the board in academics, research and athletics. Baylor Mourns Passing of Retired Music, Religion/Archaeology Faculty Members WACO, Texas (May 16, 2022) – Baylor University is mourning the recent passing of two retired faculty members, Jean Boyd, Ph.D., Emeritus Professor of Musicology in the School of Music, and Bruce C. Cresson, Ph.D., Emeritus Professor of Religion in the College of Arts & Sciences. What's New BU February 10, 2020 Career Day Spring 2020. Registration for Steppin' Out is open! What's New BU February 17, 2020 Baylor turns 175! Sundown Sessions present pottery painting. What's New BU February 24, 2020 Hope Peace Love at Fountain Mall. UBbreak presents Waffle Tacos. What's New BU March 2, 2020 Need a quiet place to study? Super Tuesday Dr Pepper Hour with Census 2020 and voting! Events View all events Featured EventsUndergraduate Academic CalendarPerforming Arts & ExhibitsMulticulturalAthleticsSpiritual Formation Aug. 19 10:00-11:00am Fall Convocation Sep. 3 Football vs. Albany Sep. 16-17 Family Weekend Sep. 17 Football vs. Texas State Oct. 1 Football vs. Oklahoma State Oct. 14 Fall Break Nov. 12 Football vs. Kansas State Jun. 1 Apply for alternative loans by this date for upcoming fall/spring semesters. Most alternative loans require 4-6 weeks of processing time. You should determine your eligibility and apply prior to bills being sent to allow adequate processing time. May 16 - Jun. 2 Minimester session Jun. 2 Summer 2022 Minimester term ends/exams Jun. 7 Last day to register or add classes for Summer 2022 Session 1 Jun. 8 Last day to drop a Summer 2022 Session 1 class without a "W" Jun. 10 Last day to register or add classes for Summer 2022 Full Session Jun. 14 Last day to drop a Summer 2022 Full Session class without a "W" May 31 Men's Golf at NCAA Championship Jun. 1 Men's Golf at NCAA Championship Jun. 2 Softball at Women's College World Series Jun. 3 Baseball at NCAA Regionals Jun. 8 Track at NCAA Outdoor Championships Jun. 9 Track at NCAA Outdoor Championships Jun. 10 Track at NCAA Outdoor Championships Links View all links Advisement BaylorConnect BearWeb Canvas Center for Academic Success & Engagement Counseling Center Diversity and Inclusion Exam Schedule Housing Technology Navigate/Student Success Collaborative New Student Experience Registering for Classes Report It Student Life Center Directory View all directory Mobile Toolbox View all mobile toolbox Athletics Baylor Proud Calendar Directory Emergency Numbers Library Map My Course Schedule News OsoMobile Schedule of Classes Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Baylor Academics Academic Records Information College of Arts & Sciences Commencement Diana R. Garland School of Social Work Exam Schedule George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Graduate School Catalog Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Libraries Louise Herrington School of Nursing More Academics Music, School of Office of the Registrar Professional Education Research Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science Undergraduate Catalog Around Campus Baylor University Shuttle Campus Living and Learning Campus Map Dining Services Diversity & Inclusion Health Services Lariat Newspaper Off-Campus Housing Parking & Transportation Student Life Center (SLC) Student Union (SUB, BDSC) Waco Zipcar Online Tools Activate Bear ID/Change Password AirBear Wireless Network Baylor Box Service BaylorConnect Bearweb Canvas E-mail/Outlook Web Access Home Software (Including Anti-Virus Software) Housing Technology Information Technology Services Navigate/Student Success Collaborative (SSC) PawPrints Schedule of Classes Student Technology Services Technology Purchasing Policies & Procedures Academic Integrity and Honor Code EthicsPoint: Anonymous Reporting Report It Sexual and Interpersonal Misconduct/Title IX Student Conduct Administration Student Policies and Procedures Voting Information/Voter Registration Safety BU Campus Guardian Clery Act Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information Department of Public Safety Emergency Planning and Preparedness Environmental Health & Safety Report It Sexual and Interpersonal Misconduct/Title IX University Compliance and Risk Services Student Financial Services Financial Aid Pay Your Bill Payroll Office Student Employment Student Financial Literacy Student Involvement Baylor Athletics BaylorConnect Campus Recreation Gameday for Students Multicultural Affairs New Student Programs Spiritual Life Student Activities Student Government Student Organizations Student Tickets Portal Student Services Baylor Summer Counseling Center International Student and Scholar Services Ombuds to Students Paul L. Foster Success Center Registering for Classes Student Disability Services Student-Athlete Center for Excellence Study Abroad and Exchange Programs Writing Center Complete List of Links