Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search within this section Search all sites Human Resources Careers Benefits Events New Employees About Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors Human Resources Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Human Resources Careers Benefits Benefits Insurance Programs Time Off & Leave Retirement Staff Assistance Fund Other Benefits Events New Employees About About Meet the HR Staff Forms Campus Policies Human Resources Careers Thank you for your interest in joining The University of Kansas Medical Center. We're looking for employees to serve our community through excellence in education, research, patient care and community engagement. Join the KU Medical Center View Career Opportunities As you consider joining the KU Medical Center team, we invite you to learn a bit more about the benefits we offer and some of the features that set us apart. Benefits About KU Medical Center Accommodations KU Medical Center encourages qualified individuals with disabilities to apply. To request accommodations to complete an online job application, please contact Human Resources at 913-588-5080 or hr-university@kumc.edu. View our equal employment opportunity (EEO) statement. Clinical Partner Requirements KU Medical Center works closely with its clinical partners, including The University of Kansas Health System. Any KU Medical Center employee that works in a physical location managed by or shared with The University of Kansas Health System or other clinical partner may be subject to the partner's workplace safety policies, including vaccine requirements. Additional Opportunities The University of Kansas Medical Center is an educational and research institution. We encourage you to explore additional career opportunities with our clinical and educational partners. Our clinical partner provides patient care and operates the hospital located on our shared campus. Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Health System KU School of Medicine-Wichita Medical Practice Association employs individuals who provide care and assist with the operations of outpatient clinics. Wichita MPA KU-Wichita Medical Practice Association With campuses in Wichita and Lawrence, the School of Pharmacy has a separate hiring system. KU SOP KU School of Pharmacy Policies Clery Annual Security Report EEO Statement Kansas Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) Nondiscrimination, Equal Opportunity, and Affirmative Action Policy Pay Transparency Notice Title IX Human Resources Human Resources-KC 3901 Rainbow Blvd 1044 Delp Kansas City, KS 66160 913-588-5080 KU Medical Center-Wichita Human Resources 1010 N. Kansas Wichita, KS 67214 316-293-2615 Make a Gift 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.