Alert By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University Skip to Content Toggle menu Search the University Search the University Game Changers Tomorrow's Leaders Real-World Experience Opportunities for All Orange Community Game Changers Tomorrow's Leaders Real-World Experience Opportunities for All Orange Community Home Where Game Changers Rise Providing Real-World Experience Providing Real-World Experience Our students work alongside leading scholars and engage in hands-on research and learning experiences. Engaging Beyond the Classroom Students in our food studies program—one of the fastest growing areas of study in North America—collaborate on community projects, such as developing educational workshops for urban farms and using geographic information systems to leverage e-commerce and address food inequalities. Syracuse Abroad, ranked No. 7 for study abroad by U.S. News & World Report (2020), features more than 100 programs in 60 countries. These overseas programs include internships, field research and community engagement projects that give students an appreciation of diverse viewpoints, cultures, interests and beliefs. More than 300 student tutors serve the community through Syracuse University Literacy Corps each year, providing nearly 40,000 hours of rich literacy support in classrooms and after-school programs. Building Skills Through Groups Students pursue their interests and explore new ones through more than 300 student organizations ranging from esports and a cappella singing to cultural and professional groups that create real-world impact. NEXIS, a student-run research and development team in the School of Information Studies, explores emerging technologies through innovative projects, such as a collaboration with SUNY Upstate Medical University that augments physical therapy through virtual reality technology. Our chapter of the National Organization of Minority Architecture Students took first place in a national competition for their design solution for the rapidly transforming Flatbush neighborhood in Brooklyn. Discover Life at Syracuse Driving Future Impact Faculty in our interdisciplinary Aging, Health and Neuroscience research cluster explore biological and psychosocial factors to reveal relationships among our brains, our behavior and our well-being. In 2020-21, we were named one of the nation’s top Fulbright Award-producing institutions. Through our Invent@SU program, students design, prototype and pitch original inventions using laser cutters and 3D printers in state-of-the-art production facilities—then refine their designs in response to feedback from industry experts. Developing the Leaders of Tomorrow Discover Our Impact Creating Opportunities for All Meet Our Community Connecting a Proud Community Get to Know Our Network PopularToggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-ZToggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search ContactToggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift LoginToggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Like Syracuse on Facebook Follow Syracuse on Twitter Subscribe to Syracuse on YouTube Follow Syracuse on Instagram © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy