Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Undergraduate Admission Student Affairs About News Athletics Events Calendar Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Giving Ways to Give Your gifts at work Give now Menu Search uJdYc2kr79s Video Empowering Mustangs SMU donors inspire more bright minds to think big and do good. They create greater equity in education, innovative programs and research with impact. Donors help empower Mustangs to push through boundaries and affect positive change on the Hilltop and beyond. Tuition only covers approximately 70% of the cost of an SMU education. Donations provide vital support that fuels the SMU experience in the classroom and beyond. Being the first Your gifts at work — A pillar of the SMU Ignited campaign is to empower outstanding students regardless of their financial means and make the SMU experience possible for all high-achieving, future world changers. Read More Empower the next generation Donor Spotlight — “SMU made me feel like the world was my oyster and that helped encourage me to dream big,” said Stephen Reiff ’10. “When I give to SMU, I am helping empower the next generation of leaders and strengthening the brand of SMU to the world.” Read More SMU Giving When you give to SMU, you shape people and programs who are changing the world today – and you invest in a new generation of world changers. SMU donors power the University’s rise in impact and national prominence – and they secure the foundation for even more ambitious efforts in the decades ahead. Give now Ways to giveGive now Back to top Schools and areas Scholarships Endowed faculty positions Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Athletics Libraries Student Affairs Cox School renovation and expansion Hughes-Trigg renovation Owen Arts Center transformation Ways to Give Endowment giving Current-use giving Capital giving Planned giving University-wide initiatives School and unit giving Contact Us Office of the Vice President for Development and External Affairs Principal and Major Gifts School and Project Development Athletics © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Give now SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow Impact Your gifts at work Annual Report Alumni Giving Parent Giving Student Giving Faculty and Staff Giving Recognition Giving Societies SMU Ignited Gifts Donor Spotlights Resources Why support SMU Ways to Give Frequently Asked Questions Contact us Office of Donor Relations Give now Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Current Students Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Faculty & Staff Majors & Minors Alumni COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Did you know? SMU's singular approach to integrating rigorous learning with hands-on experience will prepare you to achieve your educational goals and expand your world in ways you never imagined. Ours is a community of people forging their own paths. We'd like to help you shape yours. Plan your visit Menu Search