Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University Academic Success Center Menu Toggle Search Resources SI Schedule Tutoring Profile Main navigation About Mission & Values Meet the ASC Team Work for the ASC Find Us Academic Coaching & Outreach Meet with a Coach Resources & Worksheets Workshops Meet Our Coaches Supplemental Instruction Tutoring Services Psych 131 Work for the ASC Undergraduate Student Positions Peer Academic Coach A Peer Academic Coach is a paid leadership position where undergraduates meet one-on-one with students to mentor and help develop their academic skills. Peer coaches serve as mentors, accountability partners, and experts on academic skills and ASC resources for their student appointments. They will also conduct outreach initiatives for the Academic Success Center in the form of workshops presented to campus partners, classrooms, and student organizations. Learn more by visiting our Academic Coaching and Workshops webpages and watching our Peer Academic Coaching recruitment video. Applications for fall 2022 are open. The priority deadline for application materials is April 4th, 2022 by 11:59pm. Apply for the Peer Academic Coach Position Here: https://iastate.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_3gz2yYkCve3zlnE Marketing & Social Media Coordinator This paid leadership position in the Iowa State University Academic Success Center (ASC) provides an ISU undergraduate student the opportunity to coordinate and lead efforts in creating and managing brand and marketing for a complex multi-unit organization. The Social Media and Marketing Coordinator will help design and execute marketing plans, manage social media accounts for the ASC, make a cohesive content plan across all social media platforms, and support the ASC in communication efforts with partners and constituents. We are not currently accepting applications for the Marketing & Social Media Coordinator position. ASC Front Desk Student Assistant Student Assistants are undergraduate employees who work as front desk staff and office support staff in the Academic Success Center (ASC) for its three main programs: Academic Coaching, Supplemental Instruction, and Tutoring Services. We are not currently accepting applications for the ASC Front Desk Assistant position. Supplemental Instruction Leader SI Leaders are undergraduate students who provide peer academic support for an assigned course. SI Leaders assist in student learning and retention at Iowa State University through facilitation of SI sessions that help students better understand concepts and applications of course content. To learn more, visit: https://www.asc.dso.iastate.edu/become-si-leader Tutor A tutor provides course-specific academic support to small groups of 2-5 undergraduate students. Each tutoring group meets at a consistent day and time twice a week for 50 minutes during the academic year and three times per week during the summer. Tutors are paid $12/hr. Learn more here! Applications are open from April 4 - April 20 for Summer 2022. Tutor Mentor Tutor Mentors assist Tutoring Services Staff by observing tutoring sessions and holding one-on-one, developmental conversations with tutors. Mentors co-facilitate in-person tutor trainings, help plan community-building events, and inform staff of current trends within observations in order to improve the program. The mentor position is a one-year (fall and spring with summer possible) commitment. Learn more here! Applications are open from March 7 - March 23 for the 2022-2023 academic year. Graduate Student Positions ASC graduate assistants are typically hired during the I-Days process conducted by the School of Education Student Affairs Graduate Program. If you are not a current or prospective graduate student in the Student Affairs Program, you may contact the program coordinator of the program you are interested to inquire about openings. All positions are filled at this time, we are not currently hiring. Academic Coaching Graduate Assistant Position Description Supplemental Instruction Graduate Assistant Position Description Tutoring Services: Graduate Assistant Position Description Professional Staff Positions Please check jobs.iastate.edu for professional staff postings. Iowa State University Academic Success Center Dean of Students Office Contact Academic Success Center 1060 Hixson Lied Student Success Center 515-294-6624 success@iastate.edu Hours Academic Year: 8:00 am - 5:00 pm Summer and Breaks: 7:30 am- 4:00 pm Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information Loading...