Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Give Light Menu Give Light About the Campaign Foundation of the Campaign National Campaign Steering Committee Campaign Timeline Campaign Events Nashville - April 28, 2022 Atlanta - February 3, 2022 Denver - October 22, 2021 Give Light Denver Video Tidwell Ribbon Cutting Medal of Honor Statue Installation Ceremony Mark & Paula Hurd Welcome Center Groundbreaking Video Mark & Paula Hurd Welcome Center Groundbreaking Southern California - October 26, 2019 Dallas - September 14, 2019 Dr. Annette von Jouanne Video New York City - May 23, 2019 Benjamin Goff Video Jeff Theiss Video Houston - May 4, 2019 Dr. Dwayne Simmons Video Dr. Ann Mirabito Video Washington, DC - February 2, 2019 Dr. Lorin Matthews Video Dr. Byron Johnson Video Campaign Priorities Endowed Funds Faculty Chairs and Professorships Endowed Scholarships Endowed Funds for Growth Priorities Endowment Impact Capital Projects Mark & Paula Hurd Welcome Center Paul and Alejandra Foster Pavilion Fudge Football Development Center President's Excellence Fund Support Baylor Students Today Why I Give: Donor Testimonials Initiatives Health Data Sciences Materials Science Human Flourishing, Leadership and Ethics Baylor in Latin America Academic Units Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work Engineering & Computer Science George W. Truett Theological Seminary Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Mayborn Museum Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Music University Libraries Foster Academic Challenge Hord Scholarship Challenge Trailblazer Scholars Program Contact Make a Gift News Illuminate Ways to Give About the Campaign Baylor>Give Light>About the Campaign About the Campaign Give Light is an ambitious $1.1 billion comprehensive philanthropic campaign for the future of Baylor. The campaign was launched publicly on Nov. 1, 2018, to support Illuminate, the University’s strategic plan to become a preeminent Christian research university. On Feb. 3, 2022, Baylor announced a significant milestone as gifts and pledges to the Give Light Campaign surpassed the initial goal of $1.1 billion. Support from the entire Baylor Family - alumni, parents, students, faculty, staff, and friends of the University - have marked the campaign as the largest and most successful fundraising effort in the University’s 177-year history. The Give Light Campaign’s nearly 80,000 donors have given or pledged more than $1.1 billion, including: Helping to grow Baylor’s endowment by $474 million; Providing more than $408 million to fund and create programs and establish scholarships through expendable funds; Supporting the Give Light Capital Fund, which undergirds the campus’s capital priorities and has received $233 million toward its campaign goal of $300 million. Fundraising for the priorities of Illuminate continues through the Give Light Campaign. Faculty endowment remains a priority through the Illuminate Chair Matching Program and scholarship support continues to be a priority with emphasis on merit and need scholarships through the Hord Scholarship Challenge and the Trailblazer Scholars Program. Baylor also continues to seek support for the Give Light Capital Fund to support capital projects like the Paul & Alejandra Foster Pavilion, the Mark & Paula Hurd Welcome Center and the Fudge Football Development Center. The impact of giving will lay a foundation today, and the benefits will be realized for generations to come. Our investment shines a light on the promise of Baylor's future. Foundation of the Campaign National Campaign Steering Committee Campaign Timeline Campaign Events About the Campaign Foundation of the Campaign National Campaign Steering Committee Campaign Timeline Campaign Events Nashville - April 28, 2022 Atlanta - February 3, 2022 Photo Gallery Event Video Press Release Get Involved Denver - October 22, 2021 Give Light Denver Video Tidwell Ribbon Cutting Medal of Honor Statue Installation Ceremony Event Video Photo Gallery About our Honorees Press Release Mark & Paula Hurd Welcome Center Groundbreaking Video Mark & Paula Hurd Welcome Center Groundbreaking Southern California - October 26, 2019 Dallas - September 14, 2019 Dr. Annette von Jouanne Video New York City - May 23, 2019 Benjamin Goff Video Jeff Theiss Video Houston - May 4, 2019 Dr. Dwayne Simmons Video Dr. Ann Mirabito Video Washington, DC - February 2, 2019 Dr. Lorin Matthews Video Dr. Byron Johnson Video Each of us has been entrusted with a great light that can illuminate the path for future generations. When the Baylor Family gives financially to support University priorities, we give light to Baylor's bright future. Make a Gift Today Please select...Baylor Fund Make a Gift Contact Us (254) 710-2561GiveLight@baylor.edu General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About the Campaign Foundation of the Campaign National Campaign Steering Committee Campaign Timeline Campaign Events Nashville - April 28, 2022 Atlanta - February 3, 2022 Denver - October 22, 2021 Give Light Denver Video Tidwell Ribbon Cutting Medal of Honor Statue Installation Ceremony Mark & Paula Hurd Welcome Center Groundbreaking Video Mark & Paula Hurd Welcome Center Groundbreaking Southern California - October 26, 2019 Dallas - September 14, 2019 Dr. Annette von Jouanne Video New York City - May 23, 2019 Benjamin Goff Video Jeff Theiss Video Houston - May 4, 2019 Dr. Dwayne Simmons Video Dr. Ann Mirabito Video Washington, DC - February 2, 2019 Dr. Lorin Matthews Video Dr. Byron Johnson Video Campaign Priorities Endowed Funds Faculty Chairs and Professorships Endowed Scholarships Endowed Funds for Growth Priorities Endowment Impact Capital Projects Mark & Paula Hurd Welcome Center Paul and Alejandra Foster Pavilion Fudge Football Development Center President's Excellence Fund Support Baylor Students Today Why I Give: Donor Testimonials Initiatives Health Data Sciences Materials Science Human Flourishing, Leadership and Ethics Baylor in Latin America Academic Units Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work Engineering & Computer Science George W. Truett Theological Seminary Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Mayborn Museum Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Music University Libraries Foster Academic Challenge Hord Scholarship Challenge Trailblazer Scholars Program Contact Make a Gift News Illuminate Ways to Give