Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Spanish Certificate (Undergraduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Spanish Certificate (Undergraduate) Apply Request More Info Spanish Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Undergraduate Certificate in Spanish Develop the language and interpersonal skills to navigate the Spanish-speaking world with the Undergraduate Certificate in Spanish in Temple University’s College of Liberal Arts. Lay the groundwork for proficiency with highly interactive classes that build oral communication, reading comprehension and written expression. Whether you begin in the Spanish Basic I course or in a more advanced level, this certificate can fit into your undergraduate degree. With more than 500 million Spanish speakers in the modern world, students who earn the Certificate in Spanish have a competitive advantage in the global job market. Increase your problem-solving competencies and gain invaluable cultural capital by immersing yourself in the historical, linguistic and literary aspects of Spanish-speaking communities. The 20-credit Undergraduate Certificate in Spanish program prepares graduates for careers in the public and private sectors, working in an array of professional areas that include education and international relations. Additionally, students with this certificate pursue graduate studies in law school, medical school and other professional degree programs. Classes & Curriculum Students have four years to satisfy the requirements of the Certificate in Spanish, which is awarded at the completion of your bachelor’s program. It cannot be awarded as a stand-alone program of study or after completion of your bachelor’s degree. The curriculum requires six Spanish language courses. Students may begin the certificate at any of our 1000-level courses. The program culminates in the completion of the Composition course and a 3000-level elective in a topic such as professional Spanish (criminal justice, healthcare or businesss), culture, film or literature. The 20-credit program curriculum includes the following five core courses. Basic I and II Intermediate Conversational Review Composition Learn more about Spanish Certificate (Undergraduate) program requirements. Related Graduate Degrees Spanish MA Spanish PhD Careers Speaking more than one language can set you apart in today’s global job market. It can increase your marketability and opportunities for career advancement and promotion. Bilingual professionals can communicate with a larger population and help increase an employer’s competitive edge. According to the American Council on the Teaching of Foreign Languages, acquisition of a second language may help improve standardized test scores, and it may improve memory and problem-solving skills. Additionally, studying a language and its culture can help you develop empathy and global thinking. It can broaden your perspective and help you cultivate a greater understanding of people and, in turn, the world. The critical skills gained from learning a foreign language are directly applicable to today’s rapidly diversifying world and can be used across all fields and disciplines. Graduates of the Spanish Undergraduate Certificate program are prepared for careers in the following areas. Education Government agencies Healthcare Social work Tourism and hospitality Tuition & Fees The tuition for this Certificate is based on school or college of your major, program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Academic Advisors College of Liberal Arts academic advisors help you navigate your curriculum and potential career paths throughout your time at Temple. Joshua Pongan is your advising contact in the Spanish and Portuguese Department. Phone: 215-204-2139 Email: jpongan@temple.edu Program Contact With questions regarding the Spanish Certificate (Undergraduate), contact the following staff member. Patricia Moore-Martinez is the undergraduate chair in the Spanish and Portuguese Department. Phone: 215-204-1707 Email: patricia.moore-martinez@temple.edu The following staff members lead the Spanish and Portuguese Department. Montserrat Piera is the chair. Phone: 215-204-8285 Email: mpiera01@temple.edu Michelle Xu is an administrator in the Spanish and Portuguese Department. Phone: 215-204-5628 Email: xu.michelle@temple.edu Joshua Pongan is a member of the Spanish and Portuguese Department. Phone: 215-204-2139 Email: jpongan@temple.edu Annette Vega is the coordinator. Phone: 215-204-2877 Email: avega1@temple.edu Study Away College of Liberal Arts undergraduate students are encouraged to study away for an academic year, semester or summer. Enrich your experience at Temple by immersing yourself in one of the Spanish and Portuguese department’s many study away programs. Students can choose to spend their junior year abroad, or they can choose one of the following study away opportunities. The Latin American Studies Semester (LASS) is a 17-credit immersion program that includes intensive study of Spanish language, an exploration of Latin American culture and a three-week trip to Ecuador. The Spring in Spain program places students with families in Oviedo, Spain, where they will attend classes at the University of Oviedo. An initial weeklong orientation is held in Madrid. Courses focus on Spanish language, culture and literature. The Summer Abroad in Spain: Spanish Language and Culture in Oviedo is a five-week program that immerses students in the language and culture of Spain. Students may enroll for a total of six credits. Learn more about your options for studying away. Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-SPAN-CR2+ Additional Program Information Available as a minor. Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Spanish Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info