Skip to Main Content Search Exhibition Home Exhibition Business Education & The Case Method The General Shoe Company, 1921 Case Writing & Industry Expansion of the Case Method The Case Method Classroom Teaching & The Case Method Impact on Research & Curriculum Global Reach Timeline Research Resources Credits From the Director Site Credits Visit & Contact Us Special Collections Search Exhibition Business Education & The Case Method The General Shoe Company, 1921 Case Writing & Industry Expansion of the Case Method The Case Method Classroom Teaching & The Case Method Impact on Research & Curriculum Global Reach Timeline Research Resources Credits From the Director Site Credits Visit & Contact Us Special Collections Baker Library Search Search Search Homepage banner FROM INQUIRY TO ACTION HARVARD BUSINESS SCHOOL & THE CASE METHOD Homepage Section Explore an illustrated timeline of 100 years of the Case Method at HBS. Since the 1920s, the case method has been the foundational teaching practice at Harvard Business School (HBS). Based on participant-centered learning, the instructional approach facilitates discussions about real-life problems encountered in business, to prepare students for roles as leaders, managers, and decision makers. The case method encourages students to plan a course of inquiry—analyze, listen, compare other perspectives—and choose a course of action. For over 100 years, HBS has been an innovative leader in the development and refinement of teaching with the case method, helping to shape business education programs and business leaders around the world. “While cases may look different in the future,” HBS Dean Srikant Datar observes, “the fundamental approach of discussion, debate, and deliberation will undoubtedly last into the next century.”1 Drawing on materials from the HBS Archives, From Inquiry to Action explores the introduction of the case method in the teaching of business administration and highlights the School’s early contributions that have led to the enduring influence of this participant-centered teaching practice. Homepage Section2 Business Education Business Education & The Case Method General Shoe "The General Shoe Company," 1921 Case Writing Case Writing & Industry Expansion Expansion of The Case Method Classroom The Case Method Classroom Teaching Teaching & The Case Method Impact Impact on Research & Curriculum Global Global Reach Homepage section3 1Dean Srikant Datar in “Dean Datar Introduces the Case Method Centennial,” 2021. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iI1-K2nECTo. Accessed 2/2/22. Harvard Business School Baker Library | Bloomberg Center Soldiers Field Boston, MA 02163 Phone: 1.617.495.6040 Email: infoservices@hbs.edu Maps and Directions Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes All Social Media Jobs Trademarks Site Map Harvard University Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 President & Fellows of Harvard College. Back to top