COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Engineering Management, Master's Master'sEngineering Management All Programs College of Engineering Industrial and Manufacturing Engineering Wichita State University's Master of Engineering Management (MEM) degree program helps engineers / technologists develop planning, decision-making and managerial skills while receiving advanced technical knowledge. If you find that you need to use (or develop) skills in decision-making and team management, projects and organizations, then you should consider the MEM program. Learn how Engineering Management is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted to the MEM program, applicants must: Possess an undergraduate degree in engineering, science, business or other related discipline Have satisfactorily completed: MATH 243 and IME 255 Have a minimum 3.0 GPA in the last 60 credit hours of undergraduate courses and in all graduate coursework In addition, Applicants whose native language is not English must submit official, acceptable scores for either the TOEFL, the Academic Module of the IELTS examination, or the PTE-Academic The department strongly encourages the submission of GRE scores For additional admission details, click on the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Students teach entry-level coding to next generation Computer science major Zane Storlie developed a three-unit curriculum teaching Scratch, an entry-level coding program, to elementary school students. Zane taught Scratch to fellow students, and together they're doing their part to fill the coder pipeline in the Wichita area. Curriculum Completion of the MEM degree requires at least 36 credit hours. You should submit a plan of study during the first semester. At least 60 percent of the credit hours in a plan of study must be 700 level or higher. MBA to MEM Program: Graduates of the WSU MBA program can use up to 12 credit hours taken from WSU MBA courses as technical electives if they enroll in the MEM program. MEM to MBA Program: Graduates of the WSU MEM program can use up to 12 credit hours of technical electives taken from WSU MBA courses if they enroll in the MBA program. View the curriculum Careers Whether you’re pursuing a promotion or preparing for a Ph.D., WSU’s vast industry connections, research opportunities and unmatched facilities create an environment for our engineering students to gain the expertise that leads to dream careers. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Industrial Engineering (Master's) Business Administration (Master's) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©