Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Morrissey College Information For Current Students Faculty Search BC.edu Links Arts Council Menu Main Nav Arts Council Arts Council Back Back Close About Overview Contact History News & Notes Arts Council Awards Alumni Arts Circle Events and Initiatives Overview Arts Festival Arts Festival 2020 Exhibition: Out of the Studios Salmanowitz Social Justice Film Screenings Fairy Tales for Free Literary Arts Arts and Social Justice Careers in the Arts Gallery 203 Student Arts Coalition Week of Dance Get Involved Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Morrissey College Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Current Students Faculty BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Events and Initiatives Careers in the Arts Events and Initiatives Arts Festival Arts and Social Justice Careers in the Arts Gallery 203 Student Arts Coalition Week of Dance Careers in the Arts Art is a broad field with a wide array of disciplines, ranging from painting to music, performing arts to industrial design. Through your time at Boston College the Arts Council along with partners across the university team up with art professionals to explore creativity and provide opportunities to learn how to succeed in any chosen artistic path. Increase your knowledge about art, design, and visual culture through classroom discussion that inspires creative thinking, and expand your network with alumni artists, and creative professionals, through the pinnacle fall event Career Week in the Arts + Entertainment. Handshake Handshake is BC's official career platform where you will apply for jobs/internships, find events, and more. The key to success on Handshake is completing your profile—80% of students who complete their profile get messaged by an employer. Activate Your Account Career Cluster Careers in communication, arts, and media offer opportunities to use written and verbal communication, creative expression, and diverse mediums to convey meaning and information to audiences. We invite you to explore this cluster to determine if it is a good fit for you and leverage our resources to launch your job, internship, or graduate school search. Join This Cluster Eagle Exchange Eagle Exchange is an interactive virtual platform that fosters connections between students and Boston College alumni. You can use Eagle Exchange to build your professional network, ask career-related questions, find alumni mentors, and more. Explore Alumni “I'd absolutely recommend Career Night to other BC students. I received great advice, and the alumni were all easy to talk to. I've already made connections and secured interviews!” Karalyn Hutton '16 Events Communication, Arts, and Media Explore Careers Arts & Culture Career Week in the Arts + Entertainment Every year, students from all majors gather to network with Boston College alumni who have forged artistic careers. Career Week in the Arts + Entertainament is a great opportunity for current students to discover what it is to work in a chosen field, and how pursuing a passion can lead to a fruitful career. Since its inception in 1999, Career Night for the Arts provided an opportunity for students and alumni to develop dialogue and relationships. Each year, over 100 students join 10-25 BC alumni who have established successful careers as: musicians, composers, conductors, photographers, designers, painters, editors, producers, directors, journalists, administrators, writers, actors, instructors, consultants, and attorneys. Students can navigate the museum talking with alumni from various professions. In 2019, Career Night for the Arts expanded to include the overlapping fields in entertainment and media. Five nights of insights: Career Week in the Arts + Entertainment Uncovering pathways to careers in the arts So, you want to be an artist? At Career Night for the Arts and Entertainment, alumni shared insights with current students. Career Night in Arts + Entertainment This year's 'night' stretches to a week of career insights for students from alumni in the field. Career Week 2021 In collaboration with the Boston College Career Center, Alumni Center, and the McMullen Museum of Art, the Boston College Arts Council will host Career Week in the Arts + Entertainment. Starting Monday, November 8th through Friday, November 12th the week will focus on a variety of virtual conversations with career professionals, as well as a keynote address and networking dinner at the McMullen with Michael J. Bobbitt, Executive Director of the Mass Cultural Council. Network and hear stories behind chosen career paths and engage in conversations around meaningful work. Since its inception in 1999, Career Night for the Arts has provided an opportunity for students and alumni to develop dialogue and relationships. In this expanded format, attendees will have the opportunity to gain valuable insight and advice, but also discover new ways to apply their passion and their current studies. Over the years, speakers and attendees have included photographers, entrepreneurs and designers; musicians, actors and producers; playwrights, journalists and authors; managing directors, development officers and academics; creative headhunters, human resources, and hiring managers in a variety of industries. Career Week is open to all Boston College students, alumni, faculty and staff. Registration is required for the events. Career Week 2021 Participants Keynote Address Michael J. Bobbitt, Executive Director of the Mass Cultural Council Michael J. Bobbitt has dedicated his professional career to arts leadership. He is a theatre director, choreographer, and playwright. On February 1, 2021, he joined Mass Cultural Council as Executive Director, becoming the highest-ranking cultural official in Massachusetts. Timothy Davis '02, President of The Boston New Music Initiative Tim Davis is a composer, writer, arts administrator, and project management consultant. He is a 2002 graduate of Boston College and earned graduate degrees in music from the University of Massachusetts (M.M., 2006) and the University of Iowa (Ph.D., 2009). Tim is the founder and president of The Boston New Music Initiative (BNMI) and has served as a judge for composition competitions with PARMA Recordings, the National Federation of Music Clubs, and on countless judging panels for BNMI’s calls for scores. Currently, Tim is the Process Manager within the Project Management Office at Service Credit Union, and also works with several clients as an independent project management and administrative consultant. Arlo Pérez Esquivel ’16, Digital Associate Producer at NOVA PBS Arlo Pérez Esquivel is a Mexican filmmaker and science communicator who produces popular science content for NOVA PBS. He is best known for co-hosting and producing Antarctic Extremes, a digital series that explores life science in Antarctica, as well as the series Out Of Our Elements, which tackles the chemistry of our day-to-day life. Arlo has also produced and hosted two short films exploring the misinformation surrounding Purepecha Indian beliefs, and the underreporting of COVID-19 cases in Mexico. Gretchen Andrew ’10, Painter and Search Engine Artist Gretchen Andrew (CSOM Information Systems 2010) manipulates systems of power with art, glitter and code. She is best known for her playful hacks on major art world and political institutions, including Frieze, The Whitney Biennial, Artforum, The Turner Prize, and The Next American President. In these digital performances she reimagines reality with art and desire. She does this by making assemblage “Vision Boards” that she programs to become top internet search results. The feminine and trivialized materials of her Vision Boards purposefully clash with the male-dominated worlds of AI, programming, and political control they also operate within. She trained in London with the artist Billy Childish from 2012-2017. In 2018 the V&A Museum released her book Search Engine Art. Gretchen’s work has recently been featured in Fast Company, Flash Art, The Washington Post, Fortune Magazine, Monopol, Wirtschaftswoche, The Los Angeles Times, and The Financial Times. Vincent Roca ’17, Instructor at ARI and 3D Designer at Volley Vincent Roca makes art(/games)(/works). Vincent is a designer with a background in interior and product rendering. He previously worked as a Senior 3D Designer at Wayfair. Vincent holds a B.A. from Boston College and currently works as a 3D artist in Brooklyn, NY. Seth Byrum ’11, Registered Architect with Studio Gang Architects Seth Byrum is a multidisciplinary designer with a focus in theater, architecture, and pastry. As a registered architect, he has worked with the Bjarke Ingels Group, Studio Gang, and Cottage on projects across the world including theaters, schools, museums, private residential, and high rise office towers. As a set designer he has worked with repertory theaters in New York, Boston, North Carolina, and Texas. Seth is also an avid baker and his work has been featured on the New York Times Cooking channel. He holds bachelors degrees in Theater Arts and Psychology from Boston College and a master of architecture from Cornell University. David Altenor '09, CEO of Kindomsound Music Group David Altenor is a multi-award winning artist, pianist, producer and songwriter who has been involved in the music industry from the age of 14. He is a former Music Director for the Voices of Imani and is currently affiliated with the Grammy Recording Academy and various industry and media outlets. In 2012, he launched a music production company, KingdomSound Music, LLC for which he serves over 300 clients. Instagram: @davidisoffkey Matt Hamilton ’09, Reporter and Staff Writer at LA Times Matt Hamilton is a reporter for the Los Angeles Times. He won the 2019 Pulitzer Prize for investigative reporting with colleagues Harriet Ryan and Paul Pringle and was part of the team of reporters that won a Pulitzer Prize for its coverage of the San Bernardino terrorist attack. Matt is a graduate of Boston College and the University of Southern California. Join alumni as they discuss their BC experience, the shape of their career path, and give advice to those wanting to further explore a career in the Arts + Entertainment industries. Student Frequently Asked Questions Alumni Frequently Asked Questions What do I wear? This is an informal networking night, so there is no particular dress code, although it stands to reason that when networking, you want to look clean, polished, and presentable. Do I need to bring anything with me? No – this is not a job fair, so you don’t need resumes or handouts. However, you might want to bring a pad of paper and a pen to jot down notes or information that you receive from alumni. How will I know which alumni I want to talk to, and how will I find them? When you arrive at the event, the Arts Council will provide you with a handout that includes bios and pictures of all the alumni. Alumni will be wearing name tags, and you will also have their photos for reference. Ask Arts Council staff if you would like any help finding the alumni you are looking for. How long can I talk with each alum? As much or as little as you’d like. You can join conversations already in progress or just listen in, move on when you determine you need to, or wait for your opportunity for a one-on-one conversation. I’ve never been to a career event before. I don’t know what questions to ask. You may want to stop in at the Career Center ahead of time to think about what you would like to get out of this event. And remember – it’s not a formal event and there is no “interviewing.” This is an opportunity for you to learn about various careers in the arts. You can always ask about the alum’s experiences as a BC student, how they made their decisions to pursue their careers, what a typical day is like . . . How long should I plan to stay? You can stay for as short or as a long a period as you like. Take your time, though, and get as much out of the event as you can. What time should I arrive? After you register to take part in the event a representative from the Arts Council will get in touch with an itinerary for the evening. Where should I park? You can park on the Brighton Campus infront of the McMullen Muesum of Art. There is additional parking located next to the School of Theology and Ministry Library. Where do I go after I park? Go to the McMullen Museum of Art. Once inside, you will be greated by the Arts Council, Alumni Association, and Career Center staff. Should I bring anything with me? Bring business cards if you have them – to share with fellow alumni, University faculty, and/or students as you wish. If you want to promote your organization, feel free to bring promotional materials to hand to students. Do I need to prepare anything in advance? Will I have to speak publicly? No – you do not need to prepare anything at all. You will be speaking to students in small groups and one-on-one. What kinds of questions will they ask me? Everything! They will want to know about your career path, your work, your time at BC. . .They will ask for your recommendations on web sites and resources – and “what to do first.” They may ask you if they can contact you after this event – or visit you for an informational interview. We don’t have any jobs available in my company/organization right now. Does that matter? No – this is not a job fair, and they know that when they arrive. They need your advice, your guidance, and your enthusiasm. How will it work? Will students just gather around me and I will talk? It varies from year to year. Sometimes students will gather in a large group around a couple of alumni and everyone benefits from the conversation. Other times, they might form a line and wait their turn. If you have a large group waiting, we find it works best if you reach out to the group, encourage them to gather ‘round, and then all the students can benefit from listening to your answers to questions. Sometimes, they will need encouragement to ask questions, and you may need to begin the conversation. Career Networking Night Highlights Career Night for the Arts at the McMullen Museum. Career Night for the Arts at the McMullen Museum. Assoc. Prof. Kenneth Craig (Art History) talking with Matthew DiBenedetto. Career Night for the Arts at the McMullen Museum. Career Night for the Arts at the McMullen Museum. Molly Phelps of the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum. Career Night for the Arts at the McMullen Museum. Nemo Xu, Margherita Bassi and Emma Campbell speaking with freelance photographer Christopher Huang and freelance writer and editor Kathy Behan. Career Night for the Arts at the McMullen Museum. Arts Council student representatives Jaileen Rivera and Emma Hardy. Career Night for the Arts at the McMullen Museum. Career Night for the Arts at the McMullen Museum. Thali Boruchovitch and Alessandra Escalante. Career Night for the Arts at the McMullen Museum. WCRB 99.5 FM Morning Program Host and Producer Laura Carlo talking with Kate Mahoney. Career Night for the Arts at the McMullen Museum. Annabel Hodson-Walker and Sebastian Bonaiuto, Director of Bands, Boston College. Career Night for the Arts at the McMullen Museum. Tim Lemire of Fidelity Investments talks with students. Career Night for the Arts at the McMullen Museum. Louise Nessralla and Nicole Rodriguez-Rowe. Career Night for the Arts at the McMullen Museum. Elliot Smith-Hastie listens to Christopher Huang, freelance photographer. Career Night for the Arts at the McMullen Museum. Career Night for the Arts at the McMullen Museum. Career Night for the Arts at the McMullen Museum. Assoc. Prof. Kenneth Craig (Art History) talking with Matthew DiBenedetto. Career Night for the Arts at the McMullen Museum. Career Night for the Arts at the McMullen Museum. Molly Phelps of the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum. Career Night for the Arts at the McMullen Museum. Nemo Xu, Margherita Bassi and Emma Campbell speaking with freelance photographer Christopher Huang and freelance writer and editor Kathy Behan. Career Night for the Arts at the McMullen Museum. Arts Council student representatives Jaileen Rivera and Emma Hardy. Career Night for the Arts at the McMullen Museum. Career Night for the Arts at the McMullen Museum. Thali Boruchovitch and Alessandra Escalante. Career Night for the Arts at the McMullen Museum. WCRB 99.5 FM Morning Program Host and Producer Laura Carlo talking with Kate Mahoney. Career Night for the Arts at the McMullen Museum. Annabel Hodson-Walker and Sebastian Bonaiuto, Director of Bands, Boston College. Career Night for the Arts at the McMullen Museum. Tim Lemire of Fidelity Investments talks with students. Career Night for the Arts at the McMullen Museum. Louise Nessralla and Nicole Rodriguez-Rowe. Career Night for the Arts at the McMullen Museum. Elliot Smith-Hastie listens to Christopher Huang, freelance photographer. Career Night for the Arts at the McMullen Museum. Career Night for the Arts at the McMullen Museum. Career Night for the Arts at the McMullen Museum. Assoc. Prof. Kenneth Craig (Art History) talking with Matthew DiBenedetto. Career Night for the Arts at the McMullen Museum. Career Night for the Arts at the McMullen Museum. Molly Phelps of the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum. Career Night for the Arts at the McMullen Museum. Nemo Xu, Margherita Bassi and Emma Campbell speaking with freelance photographer Christopher Huang and freelance writer and editor Kathy Behan. Career Night for the Arts at the McMullen Museum. Arts Council student representatives Jaileen Rivera and Emma Hardy. Career Night for the Arts at the McMullen Museum. Career Night for the Arts at the McMullen Museum. Thali Boruchovitch and Alessandra Escalante. Career Night for the Arts at the McMullen Museum. WCRB 99.5 FM Morning Program Host and Producer Laura Carlo talking with Kate Mahoney. Career Night for the Arts at the McMullen Museum. Annabel Hodson-Walker and Sebastian Bonaiuto, Director of Bands, Boston College. Career Night for the Arts at the McMullen Museum. Tim Lemire of Fidelity Investments talks with students. Career Night for the Arts at the McMullen Museum. Louise Nessralla and Nicole Rodriguez-Rowe. Career Night for the Arts at the McMullen Museum. Elliot Smith-Hastie listens to Christopher Huang, freelance photographer. Career Night for the Arts at the McMullen Museum. « » Back To Top Back To Top Arts Council Office of the Arts Council Rubenstein Hall, Office 4 617-552-6500 arts@bc.edu Facebook Instagram Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Gasson Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Contact Departments Art, Art History, and Film Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics Engineering English German Studies History Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Romance Languages and Literatures Slavic & Eastern Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology Apply Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College