Skip To Main Content Report an Accessibility Barrier The Department for Disability Support Services Search | Menu Search Resources Email Canvas Banner PiratePort PirateID IT Help Videoconferencing Engage Work Request Directory Maps Virtual Tour A-Z Index Academic Calendar Event Calendar Catalog PRR Catalog A-Z Recently Updated Interim Repealed About Policy Sources University Policy Committee Help PRRs> Campus Environment> Health, Safety and Welfare> Protective Footwear - Version 1 Protective Footwear Version 1 (Current Version) Print All Versions: Version 1 Policy RUL05.20.05 Title Protective Footwear Category Campus Environment Sub-category Health, Safety and Welfare Authority Chancellor History 2000, 2009 Placed in University Policy Manual after EXPEDITED REVIEW, transitioned without substantive change from prior version, March 25, 2013. Contact Industrial Hygienist, 252-328-6166 Workers Compensation Manager, 252-328-6166 Assistant Director, 252-328-6166 Associate Vice Chancellor, 252-328-6166 Related Policies Protective Footwear Purchase Information Additional References OSHA 1910.136 FSSP 60-0003.1 (doc) 1. Introduction 1.1. Purpose: To ensure the safety of employees, appropriate protective footwear must be worn by all persons when working in areas where there is a danger of foot injuries due to falling or rolling objects that could crush the foot, objects that could pierce the sole, and where the employee's feet are exposed to electrical hazards. 1.2. Requirements for Foot Protection 1.2.1. Appropriate foot protection is required when employees are in areas where there is danger of foot injuries due to falling and rolling objects, slip hazards or objects piercing the sole, and where employees are exposed to electrical hazards. 1.2.1.1.Examples of job classifications likely to require safety shoes or boots include, but are not limited to, carpenters, housekeepers, welders, electricians, plumbers, maintenance mechanics, laborers, grounds workers operating power machinery or tools, and power plant maintenance workers. 1.2.2. Six to eight-inch safety shoes are recommended for employees involved in activities which include, but are not limited to, climbing, crawling, construction and demolition. This shoe height is necessary for proper ankle protection. 1.2.3. Over-the-shoe footwear should be worn over safety footwear or boots when in wet locations. 1.2.3.1.Rubber boots with toe protection are recommended for employees working in flooded trenches or other locations where ordinary over-the-shoe protection would be inadequate to insure that the employee's shoes would remain dry. 2. Responsibility 2.1. Department/Supervisor: 2.1.1. Each department is responsible for maintaining and updating their specific hazard assessment that outlines required personal protective equipment. 2.1.2. The department must provide and enforce the use of protective footwear and all other required personal protective equipment. 2.2. Employees: 2.2.1. Employees whose job duties require protective footwear will be required to obtain safety shoes before beginning work in any hazardous situation where foot injury is possible. 2.2.1.1. Once a job has been designated as requiring safety shoes, employees will not be allowed to work without the required foot protection. 2.2.1.2.If required, protective footwear should be worn at all times to complete the employment duties assigned. 2.2.2. Protective footwear is the responsibility of the employee. Damaged, lost or stolen footwear unrelated to the employee's job will be replaced at the employee's expense. 2.2.3. Sandals or other open-toe shoes are not permitted to be worn by employees working in laboratories, shops, or other job locations where glass, caustic or corrosive chemicals, or hot materials are used or handled. 2.3. Students: 2.3.1. Students are expected to wear appropriate footwear while participating in laboratory exercises, or other instructional activities involving the use of glass, caustic or corrosive chemicals, or hot materials. 2.3.2. Sandals and other open-toe style shoes are prohibited in laboratories. 2.4. Office of Environmental Health & Safety (EH&S): 2.4.1. EH&S is available to assist departments with their hazard assessments and selection of appropriate personal protective equipment. 2.4.2. EH&S serves as the protective footwear facilitator and will be responsible for coordinating on-site vendors, issuing vouchers to eligible employees, maintaining the protective footwear database and coordinating reimbursement for merchandise not purchased from the on-site vendors. 2.5. Prospective Health: 2.5.1. If there is a medical request to use alternative protective footwear, Employee Health (division of Prospective Health) will review the request from the employee's personal physician. 3. Procedure 3.1. Standards: 3.1.1. Protective footwear shall comply with ASTM standards: F2412-05 "Standard Test Methods for Foot Protection" and F2413-05 "Standard Specification for Performance Requirements for foot Protection." 3.1.2. A hazard assessment is required of the employee's workplace to determine required personal protective equipment. The department must maintain a copy of the hazard assessment and forward it to the Office of Environmental Health & Safety for inclusion in the protective footwear database. A list of specific employees should be included so that vouchers for protective footwear can be issued. 3.2. Purchasing: 3.2.1. Employees must have department or University approval prior to the purchase of protective footwear. All protective footwear purchases must be authorized and coordinated through the Office of Environmental Health and Safety. 3.2.2. When protective footwear is a requirement of the job, the University will reimburse the employee for purchase, with the following parameters: 3.2.2.1.No more than one pair of protective footwear can be reimbursed in a twelve (12) month period at the current rate of $80.00 per pair (established by the Office of State Budget and Management). 3.2.2.2.The employee is responsible for any additional expense associated with the purchase of safety shoes. 3.2.3. On-site vendors will be scheduled quarterly by EH&S to provide an opportunity for employees to purchase footwear of an approved quality and to receive professional assistance with the fit. 3.2.3.1.To obtain protective footwear, employees must present a valid voucher to the on-site vendor. The vouchers are distributed to eligible employees through their supervisor. 3.2.3.1.1.The Office of Environmental Health and Safety will distribute vouchers to supervisors prior to each quarterly visit. 3.1.3.2.Costs in excess of $80.00 are the responsibility of the employee and must be paid at the time of purchase. 3.2.4. Employees who are unable to purchase protective footwear from the on-site vendors may purchase from a vendor of their choice and be reimbursed up to the current rate of $80.00. 3.2.4.1.The employee must bring the footwear and the original receipt for the footwear to the Office of Environmental Health and Safety. EH&S will verify that the protective footwear satisfies ASTM requirements and will coordinate reimbursement. 3.3. Exceptions: 3.3.1. Employees who cannot wear conventional safety shoes for medical reasons must obtain documentation from their personal medical provider and submit a formal exception request to their supervisor. 3.3.1.1.Prospective Health will review the medical record to verify that there is a medical condition precluding the use of conventional safety shoes. If the request is approved, the employee will be provided alternative foot protection. If the request is not approved, the employee may appeal to their provider. 3.3.2. A medical exception does not preclude the need for some type of protective footwear. The University is still responsible for protecting the employee and cannot waive or transfer that obligation for any reason. 3.3.2.1.If employees are exposed to a hazard then they still must be protected or otherwise removed from the hazard exposure (i.e. reassignment). East Carolina University E 5th Street | Greenville, NC 27858 | 252-328-6131 ©2022 | Terms of Use | Accessibility | Report a Barrier