https://wwww.healthyhorns.utexas.edu/ Student Services Building (SSB) APPOINTMENTS MyUHS SERVICES ABOUT UHS LOCATION CONTACT Monday - Friday, 8am to 5pm by appointment Coronavirus updates COVID Positive: What To do Medical Emergencies and What to do when UHS is closed Nurse Advice Line Charges and insurance Immunizations and medical clearance requirements Search a health topic Medical and immunization record requests Meet the staff Tour UHS Eligibility to use UHS Affordable UT Student Health Insurance Plan You Share, We Care Incoming students International students LGBTQIA+ inclusive healthcare Longhorn Wellness Center Pharmacy Resources Emergency HIV risk reduction Sexual Assault Forensic Exams Volunteering FOLLOW US (512) 471-4955 Email UHS LOCATION 100 West Dean Keaton Student Services Building (SSB) https://www.healthyhorns.utexas.edu/ Appointments MyUHS Services About UHS Location Contact UHS University Health Services is closed on Monday, May 30 in observance of Memorial Day. If you’re experiencing a medical emergency: Call 911 or go to the nearest emergency room. Find information on what to do if you have a medical emergency when UHS is closed. If you’re ill or injured and want to speak with a nurse: Call the 24/7 Nurse Advice Line at 512-475-6877 (NURS) for recommendations on self-care or whether and how soon you should be evaluated by a healthcare provider. University Health Services provides medical care to undergraduate, graduate and professional students as well as public health leadership at The University of Texas at Austin. UHS Information Monday - Friday 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Tel: (512) 471-4955 Location 100 West Dean Keeton Student Services Building (SSB) Immunization and Medical Clearance All entering UT Austin students, regardless of age or classification, must comply with one or more vaccine/medical test requirements before they will be allowed to register for classes.More Information Nurse Advice Line FREE service to UT students. Call for advice on how to care for an illness or injury or guidance about when to see a healthcare provider. Tel. 512-475-6877 (NURS)More Information COVID-19 Information and Resources Learn about testing options, what to do if you test positive and how to stay safe.More Information Charges and Insurance The patient responsibility for most office visit charges is $10, however it may be higher for certain visit types, and there can be additional charges. UHS accepts most major insurance plans, and you do not need insurance to use services provided by this department.More Information Longhorn Wellness Center The Longhorn Wellness Center promotes well-being for all students by providing evidence-informed resources and programs that enhance mental and physical health.View our Programs IMPORTANT UPDATES COVID-19 Self-Test Kits All students, faculty and staff can pick up free COVID-19 self-test kits at various distribution sites around campus. For questions, please visit the FAQ page. Open Enrollment for Student Health Insurance Plan (SHIP) Open enrollment for summer 2022 coverage by the optional Student Health Insurance Plan (SHIP) is underway through June 15, 2022. SHIP is underwritten by Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas. Visit utexas.myahpcare.com for more information. Health Clearance Exams for Summer 2022 Study Abroad Trips Students studying abroad in Summer 2022 can schedule an appointment for a health clearance exam with the UHS General Medicine clinic at any time. Search Health Topics: https://healthyhorns.utexas.edu/ Affordable UT Student Health Insurance Plan If your parents have insurance, ask them to help you compare the benefits and cost of their plan to the UT Student Health Insurance Plan to see what option would be best for your family. Learn More INFORMATION Home Appointments Medical emergencies / After-Hours care Service extension fee Diversity statement Health topics STI testing Sexual assault exams Tour UHS Medical and Immunization record requests Eligibility to use UHS Medical withdrawal & course load reductions Patient rights and responsibilities Campus concealed carry Hours Parking Jobs Volunteering You Share, We Care Monday - Friday, 8am to 5pm by appointment (512) 471-4955 Email UHS University Health Services is committed to providing high-quality care to patients of all ages, races, ethnicities, physical abilities or attributes, religions, sexual orientations, or gender identities/expression. SPECIFIC QUESTIONS? Incoming Students International Students Dell Medical Students LGBTQIA+ Inclusive Healthcare Parents Faculty and Staff LOCATION 100 West Dean Keeton Student Services Building (SSB) FOLLOW US Monday - Friday, 8am to 5pm by appointment (512) 471-4955 Email UHS University Health Services is committed to providing high-quality care to patients of all ages, races, ethnicities, physical abilities or attributes, religions, sexual orientations, or gender identities/expression. INFORMATION Home Medical emergencies / After-Hours care Appointments Service extension fee Diversity statement Health topics STI testing Sexual assault forensic exams Medical and Immunization record requests Tour UHS Eligibility to use UHS Medical withdrawal & course load reductions Patient rights and responsibilities Campus concealed carry Hours Parking Jobs Volunteering You Share, We Care LOCATION 100 West Dean Keeton Student Services Building (SSB) FOLLOW US SPECIFIC QUESTIONS? Incoming Students International Students Dell Medical Students LGBTQIA+ Inclusive Healthcare Parents Faculty and Staff Home l ©2022 The University of Texas at Austin l UT Emergency Information l Accessibility l Privacy l Finding Credible Health Information Online l Report violence, misconduct, harassment or discrimination l Staff Intranet