Calculus Placement Most students entering Brown will fit somewhere into our calculus sequence. If you think you are one of these students, you should follow the instructions on this webpage. If you do not feel like some version of calculus is an appropriate course for you to take, but you still want to take math at Brown, you should send email to calcplacement@math.brown.edu. We are especially interested in hearing from you if you have taken enough advanced math classes during high school so that you can skip our calculus sequence entirely. Also, even if you are not especially advanced in math, but wonder what math options you have besides calculus, you should feel free to ask us about it. For inquiries about courses past calculus, you should contact the current Director of Undergraduate Studies, whose e-mail address you can find here. If you are an incoming first-year student, and you received a 4 or 5 on one of the Advanced Placement (AP) calculus exams, please read this note; these scores may limit your course options. If you are still reading this page, then the most likely situation is that you will fit somewhere in our calculus series. We have a variety of tools available to help you determine where you fit in the calculus series. (NOTE: Several of the tools below reference Math 0170, which is temporarily removed from our course offerings; students considering Math 0170 should take Math 0100 or Math 0190 instead.) The first tool is an interactive page that asks you a series of questions about the calculus concepts you have seen and then makes a recommendation. This is the quickest way to get an initial placement suggestion. While the interactive page will give you an approximate placement, we encourage you to take our self-graded online Calculus Placement Exam. This will help you review some calculus, and it will give a more accurate sense of what you currently know, which is sometimes different from what topics you've seen. For more information about calculus placement, you can watch this video that summarizes our various calculus and linear algebra courses and how they fit together. And if you want more information about calculus placement, you can see our course placement FAQ, which answers additional questions about the calculus program. The FAQ is less direct than the methods above, but it covers more situations in more detail. Keep in mind that this document has existed for a while, and some elements may be outdated. Finally, if you have questions after consulting the resources above, you can e-mail calcplacement@math.brown.edu, or you can come see us at the session described in the Orientation Handbook as "Mathematics Placement Exam." Since the placement exam is now online, this event will instead be an advising session to answer your questions about placement. We recommend taking the online exam in advance and bringing your results with you, as it will help us lead you to the right decision. BONUS RESOURCES: If you intend to take calculus but do not feel confident about trigonometry (which is a prerequisite), our Trigonometry Boot Camp may be helpful. Similarly, if you plan to take a course that assumes knowledge of vectors, our Vector Boot Camp may help.