Skip to main content Skip to main content Give Give Schedule a Visit Lyle Visit SMU Tour Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content About Lyle Our Namesake: Bobby B. Lyle Mission Statement Message from the Dean Dean's Office Faculty Directory Support Lyle Support Lyle Giving Initiatives Connect with Lyle Development Corporate Relations Get in Touch ☰ About Lyle Lyle Home About Lyle Mission Statement The SMU Lyle School of Engineering strives to have a measurable positive impact in all of the dimensions it chooses to work in and on all of the people it touches. The impact of the research we conduct ripples through our fields of study, our community, our economy, our country and throughout the world. It has a significant impact on the quality of students and faculty we attract to the Lyle School: We choose to focus our efforts on topics in which our faculty have the expertise to be truly excellent. We support innovative new research through seed funding that helps bridge the gap between ideas and first external funding. We strive to combine our collective expertise and seek out collaborators to enable novel and important research, which we are uniquely situated to jointly accomplish. We train Ph.D. students to be outstanding academics, as well as respected industry leaders. We partner with colleagues in other institutions to explore how our ideas may impact the world outside the boundaries of the University. The impact of our students is felt in the organizations where they are employed, throughout the sectors in which they work, and in the communities where they live: We apply best practices in our teaching and training. We provide students with a firm grasp of the fundamentals of their field, as well as a taste of emerging and relevant innovations. We purposefully develop their “soft skills” and leadership acumen. We expose them to global challenges where their skills can make a difference. We nurture their innovative problem-solving talents. We instill in them the importance of moral and ethical behavior in their professional and personal lives. We prepare them to be effective leaders in business enterprises. We encourage and nurture their entrepreneurial spirit. To ensure we maximize our impact, the Lyle School will continually strive to be a high-performance organization where: We are ever mindful of what is best for our students. We invest in the development of the talent at all levels within our organization. We work to foster a deep level of trust and kinship across the organization. We recognize that the quality of ideas matters more than who suggested them. We continually seek to be efficient in our processes. Through vigilant focus we will impact: the state-of-the-art in our chosen fields of research, the known best practices in engineering education, the bottom line in organizations in which our students and faculty are engaged, the global poor, the schools at which our students become professors, the pipeline of STEM-interested students, innovative new products, Dallas, healthcare policy, the security of our nation … the list goes on and on. What do you want to impact today? Mission Statement The mission of the Lyle School of Engineering is to: Educate engineers and engineering leaders who can compete in new and emerging technologies and markets by teaching them to think critically, plan strategically, communicate effectively, and be adaptable to social changes. Conduct basic and applied research with the ultimate goal of technology transfer for the betterment of mankind. Encourage the engineering, technology, and industrial communities to stay abreast of changing technology by providing opportunities for life-long learning In addition to providing the highest quality traditional engineering education, the Lyle School emphasizes the study of technology, leadership, engineering management, and entrepreneurship in basic engineering areas while providing exposure to the new areas of e-technology, information engineering, and knowledge engineering. This educational process prepares graduates to be highly valued engineers with the appropriate interdisciplinary knowledge to be entrusted by society to create a sustainable and resilient world and enhance the global quality of life; serve others competently, collaboratively, and ethically as designers, managers, or leaders; demonstrate mastery and leadership as builders, planners, environmental stewards, innovators, and advocates for public health, safety, and welfare; and obtain licensing as professional engineers. About Lyle Our Namesake: Bobby B. Lyle Mission Statement Message from the Dean Dean's Office Faculty Directory 9 Things Every Lyle Student Should Know Job Opportunities Support Lyle Get in Touch School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube search-plus