Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of the Bursar Bursar right arrow down arrow Tuition & Fees right arrow down arrow Tuition Guarantee Policy Graduate & Professional Students Non-Resident Surcharges Program Fees Special Course Fees Student Health Insurance How Fees Are Determined Prior Year Tuition & Fees right arrow down arrow Academic Year 2021-2022 right arrow down arrow Graduate & Professional Students Non-Resident Surcharges Program Fees Special Course Fees Student Health Insurance Academic Year 2020-2021 right arrow down arrow Graduate & Professional Students Non-Resident Surcharges Program Fees Special Course Fees Student Health Insurance Academic Year 2019-2020 right arrow down arrow Graduate & Professional Students Non-Resident Surcharges Program Fees Special Course Fees Student Health Insurance Paying your Bill right arrow down arrow Payment Options Tuition Payment Plan International Payments Scholarship Payments Billed Sponsored Aid Veterans Benefits Refunds right arrow down arrow Direct Deposit Enrollment Refund Frequently Asked Questions Tuition Refund Appeals right arrow down arrow Tuition Refund Appeals Process Frequently Asked Questions Tuition Insurance Past Due Accounts right arrow down arrow Collections Payment Plans Collections Timeline Loans right arrow down arrow Short Term Loan Loan Repayment Student Loan FAQ's Tax Forms & Disclosures right arrow down arrow Form 1098-T right arrow down arrow Detailed Explantion of the 1098-T Form 1098-T FAQs Form 1042-S Banking Contract Disclosure Contact Us right arrow down arrow The Team Bursar Contact Form Home » About UC » Office of the Bursar » Paying your Bill » Veterans Benefits Set Navigation title in component Payment Options Tuition Payment Plan International Payments Scholarship Payments Billed Sponsored Aid Veterans Benefits Veterans Benefits It's important that any student wishing to take advantage of Veterans Educational Benefits contact the Veterans Program and Services (VPS) Office. The Bursar's Office has no authority when certifying or explaining VA benefits to students. Only VPS Office staff can speak with authority on this topic. This web page exists solely for the purpose of explaining Bursar processes, procedure and policies relating to Chapter 33 Post-9/11 GI Bill Benefits. Chapter 33 Payments The Bursar's Office only deals with Chapter 33 benefits because the VA pays the school directly for certified tuition and fees. Other VA Educational benefit chapters pay the student directly. UC VPS staff will post a budget/benefits estimate (credit) to the student's account for the amount certified by their office. This transaction will be described on the bill as "VA C33 Cert Amt (Estimate)". This is a temporary informational credit memo posting in anticipation of payment from the U.S. Department of Veterans Affair (USVA). The budget will remain for a maximum of 8 weeks at which time it will be removed unless UC VPS can attest to extenuating circumstances warranting extension of this budget posting. Once payment from USVA is received, the estimate amount is removed/reversed, and the amount of the payment is posted. In some cases, the payment amount will not be the same as the budget. Any remaining balance will be the responsibility of the student. Students who fail to pay this outstanding balance will be subject to late fees and service blocks. Changes in classes after certification need to be reported to UC VPS Office promptly or students risk losing all or some of their VA educational benefits. Students with questions regarding their VA educational benefits or how their benefit amount was calculated, and subsequently posted, should direct their inquiry to: UC Veterans Programs and Services Office Voice: (513) 556-6811 Fax: (513) 556-0959 E-mail: vetcert@uc.edu In-Person: 230 University Pavilion (2nd Floor) (Monday - Friday from 8:30am - 4:30pm) Additional Details: When the USVA determines that an over payment was made they will issue a debt letter to the school or the student. If the Bursar Office receives a debt letter it will promptly return the amounts demanded in the debt letter to USVA. Usually this will result in a balance due to the student which must be paid within 7 days or the student will be subject to late fees and/or service blocks. Late fees will only be waived if it is determined that administrative error or processing caused the delay in certification or posting of budgets/payments. Late fees are not waived due to the students failure to comply with deadlines, failure to follow instructions, or act on e-mail notifications. UC VPS Office will also complete the certification process for any student who wishes to use their benefits from The Montgomery GI Chapter 1606. Office of the Bursar University of Cincinnati 2618 McMicken Circle 500 University Pavilion Cincinnati, OH 45221 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Office of the Bursar University of Cincinnati 2618 McMicken Circle 500 University Pavilion Cincinnati, OH 45221 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top