COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Business Administration - Business Analytics and Information Management, Master's Master'sBusiness Administration - Business Analytics and Information Management All Programs W. Frank Barton School of Business Graduate Studies in Business The AACSB-accredited Master of Business Administration (MBA) from Wichita State's Barton School of Business prepares students for leadership in business, government, health-related organizations and other institutions. As a Barton MBA student, you’ll pay the area’s most affordable tuition and enjoy flexible evening classes. Learn how Business Administration - Business Analytics and Information Management is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program Admission to the MBA program is based on the following: GMAT/GRE score Personal goals essay References Current resume TOEFL, IELTS or PTE-Academic score for international applicants For additional admission details, click on the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program High-tech trading center brings Stock Market to life There's a big difference between listening to a finance professor talk about how markets work and being able to see those markets work in real time. The Koch Global Trading Center in Clinton Hall allows you to participate in real-time financial simulations based on the Stock Market. The center features a 60-foot long digital financial ticker that displays live market data. You'll be prepared with the knowledge and skills to immediately enter the workforce upon graduation. Curriculum The MBA business analytics and information management concentration will equip you with knowledge and skills to effectively analyze large amounts of corporate data and information to support decision making and business performance management. Most MBA classes are eight-week hybrids, where you attend class once a week and also complete work online. View the curriculum Careers A graduate degree in business from Wichita State's Barton School will help you take the next step in your career—while opening doors to new possibilities. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Business Analytics (Graduate Certificate) Economics - Data Analytics (Master's) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©