Skip to main content FSU >> FSU LIBRARIES Top Right Search Box Search Our Website... * OneSearch | My Account Florida State University Libraries Search & Find Advanced Search Find a Database Journal Search Special Collections Search DigiNole Search Services & Research All Services Subject Librarians Distance Learning Digital Research & Scholarship Special Collections & Archives Government Information About the Libraries Libraries Overview Member Libraries Departments Accessibility @ FSU Libraries Diversity & Inclusion Giving to the Libraries Facts & Figures Strategic Plan Advancement Board Materials & Borrowing Borrowing Materials Library Express Delivery Interlibrary Loan Materials Purchase Request Help & Support Get Help Library Hours Maps & Directions Visitor Information COVID Guidelines Home >> Help & Support Help & Support Get Help Need help? This page can connect you with the correct contact to fit your needs. Library Hours If you are planning a visit many weeks or months in advance, we encourage you to check this page a few days prior to your visit. Maps and Directions Maps and directions to our libraries located in our Tallahassee campus. Visitor Information The University Libraries at Florida State University welcome visitors and researchers. Any person may visit the libraries and use print materials, licensed databases, government documents, and the FSU Library Catalog on-site. About The Florida State University Libraries The mission of the University Libraries is to support and enhance the learning, teaching, research, and service activities of the Florida State University... READ MORE > Library Hours Maps and Directions Our Libraries Staff Directory Subject Librarians All Forms Library News Library Departments Library Events Library Services Employment Visiting the Libraries Giving to the Libraries Policies About the Libraries FAQ Government Information Staff Intranet Content Editor Login Internal Knowledge Base © Florida State University Libraries 116 Honors Way Tallahassee, FL 32306 Website Suggestions Privacy Principles Copyright Policy Contact Us (850) 644-2706 Search Articles, Books and More... * Connect with us!