skip to main content University of Nevada, Reno Homepage Apply Visit News Give Search www.unr.edu Search www.unr.edu Search Search www.unr.edu Search www.unr.edu Quicklinks Expand or Collapse to view popular links for this site Alumni Faculty & Staff Parents Students Academic Calendar Campus Catalog Directory Email Access Library Maps MyNevada WebCampus Workday Zoom Login Website Navigation Menu Expand or Collapse to view links grouped by top level headings About About the University Campus safety Diversity initiatives Employment & careers Giving EO & Title IX Degrees & programs Majors Minors Online programs Graduate programs Colleges & schools Admissions Freshman admissions International admissions Transfer admissions Graduate admissions Financial aid & scholarships Tuition & fees Campus Life Campus experience Housing Dining First-year student guide Fitness & recreation Student engagement Events calendar Research & Innovation University research Graduate research Undergraduate research Innovation hub Research hub Athletics NevadaWolfpack.com Buy tickets Events schedule Support athletics TV & radio Menu Expand or Collapse to view links grouped by top level headings Quicklinks Alumni Faculty & Staff Parents Students Academic Calendar Campus Catalog Directory Email Access Library Maps MyNevada WebCampus Workday Zoom Login About About the University Campus safety Diversity initiatives Employment & careers Giving EO & Title IX Degrees & programs Majors Minors Online programs Graduate programs Colleges & schools Admissions Freshman admissions International admissions Transfer admissions Graduate admissions Financial aid & scholarships Tuition & fees Campus Life Campus experience Housing Dining First-year student guide Fitness & recreation Student engagement Events calendar Research & Innovation University research Graduate research Undergraduate research Innovation hub Research hub Athletics NevadaWolfpack.com Buy tickets Events schedule Support athletics TV & radio Apply Visit News Give Apply to the University of Nevada, Reno Apply today to help us power the next generation of knowledge-building, exploration, innovation and discovery. The first step in your undergraduate, graduate or medical school journey starts now. Start an undergraduate application Use our online application portals to register for an account and start an application by your student type. New freshman Transfer student international student high school dual enrollment returning student Second Bachelor's Non-Degree student Continue an application Log back into our online application portal to complete the required steps and get ready to join the Pack. Continue your application Check application status You can check the status of your application through MyNEVADA. You must activate your MyNEVADA account prior to accessing your application status. Check your application status Already admitted? Learn about the next steps to take after acceptance to the University of Nevada, Reno. Use MyNEVADA to access your student application dashboard, accept or deny admission (if offered), review fees, make payments and more. Admitted students next steps Learn more about undergraduate student types Need more information before applying? Review admission requirements, deadlines and more by your student type. Freshman You are a new freshman if you are applying during your senior year of high school (with or without college coursework); or you have already graduated high school and have no college coursework. Freshman admissions Transfer You are a transfer student if you attend or previously attended an institution of higher education and have a minimum GPA of 2.5 and at least 24 transferable credits. Transfer admissions International You are an international undergraduate student if you are studying at the University of Nevada, Reno on a non-immigrant F-1 or J-1 status. The Office of International Students and Scholars issues you an I-20 (F-1) or DS-2019 (J-1) to enable you to maintain your status at the University. International student admissions Dual enrollment You may be considered for dual enrollment if you are currently a high school student and you have a 3.0 cumulative high school GPA (weighted/unweighted). Dual enrollment admissions Returning student You are a returning student if you previously attended the University of Nevada, Reno but had a lapse in enrollment. A lapse occurs when you have not enrolled for and/or attended classes for one semester (not including summer session) or more. Returning student admissions Second Bachelor's Students may earn a second bachelor’s degree subsequent to earning the first degree provided all specified requirements are satisfied. 2nd Bachelor's Admissions Start a Graduate School application Use our online application portals to create an account and start your application. graduate student graduate special Continue an application Admissions information Review are the basic requirements for graduate school admission for domestic, international and graduate special applicants. Graduate school admissions How to apply Review our step-by-step checklist will help you apply to your graduate program quickly and easily. How to apply Graduate Special You are a Graduate Special student if you have earned a bachelor's degree and wish to take graduate courses without enrolling in a graduate program leading to an advanced degree (e.g., master's or Ph.D.). Graduate special information Apply to the University of Nevada, Reno School of Medicine UNR Med has specific rules regarding prospective student eligibility. Review these requirements prior to applying. M.D. program Application requirements Application timeline Non-discrimination statement NSHE is committed to providing a place of work and learning free of discrimination on the basis of a person’s age (40 or older), disability, whether actual or perceived by others (including service-connected disabilities), gender (including pregnancy related conditions), military status or military obligations, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, genetic information, national origin, race (including hair texture and protected hairstyles such as natural hairstyles, afros, bantu knots, curls, braids, locks and twists), color, or religion (protected classes). The University of Nevada, Reno does not discriminate on the basis of sex in any education program or activity that it operates. Non-discrimination on the basis of sex is mandated by Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 (20 U.S.C. §§ 1681 et seq.) and the corresponding implementation regulations (34 C.F.R. Part 106). The University’s commitment to nondiscrimination in its education programs and activities extends to applicants for admission and employment. Inquiries concerning the application of these provisions may be referred to (or to both): Maria Doucettperry, J.D. Title IX Coordinator University of Nevada, Reno 1664 North Virginia Street Continuing Education Building Room 206 M/S 158 Telephone: (775) 784-1547 Email: eotix@unr.edu The Assistant Secretary of the United States Department of Education U.S. Department of Education Office for Civil Rights 400 Maryland Avenue, SW Washington, DC 20202-1100 Telephone: (800) 421-3481 Fax: (202) 453-6012 TDD: (800) 887-8339 Email: OCR@ed.gov Information pertaining to the University’s grievance procedures and grievance process, including how to report or file a complaint of sex discrimination, how to report or file a formal complaint of sexual harassment, and how the University will respond can be found on the Equal Opportunity and Title IX website. Follow the University University Twitter University Facebook University YouTube University Vimeo University Flickr University Instagram University LinkedIn University of Nevada, Reno 1664 N. Virginia Street, Reno, NV 89557 (775) 784-1110 Employment & Careers Non-Discrimination Statement Privacy Website Help Commitment to Diversity Commitment to Accessibility Contact the University Equal Opportunity and Title IX