Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Prospective Newly Admitted Current Alumni Columbia University School of General Studies Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Admissions Educational Financing Academics Student Services About Undergraduate Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Transfer Students Postbac Premed Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Newly Admitted Students International Students Planning Day Placement Exams University-Wide Placement Exams U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Types of Financial Aid Institutional Scholarships Federal and State Grants Loans Private Scholarships and Grants Student Employment Financial Aid for Military Veterans Post-9/11 GI Bill® and the Yellow Ribbon Program Veterans Request for Certification Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Prospective Students Newly Admitted Students Current Students University Employees Postbac Premed Students Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Undergraduate The Core Curriculum Degree Fulfillment Course Listings Majors and Concentrations Research Opportunities Study Abroad Academic Calendar Postbac Premed Program Curriculum & Courses Sample Schedule Course Listings Preparatory Coursework Previously Completed Coursework Glide Year Master’s Programs Academic Calendar Applying to Medical School General Admission Linkage Admission Linkage Specific Program Requirements Reapplicants Letters of Recommendation Academic Policies Registration Enrollment and Courseload Leaves and Withdrawals Academic Integrity and Standards Faculty of Arts and Sciences Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Programs & Services Jumpstart Series Tutoring Peer Advising Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Accelerated Master's Programs Fellowships and Research Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Leadership Development Multicultural & Social Justice Education Programs Student Organizations Upcoming Events Veterans Resources and Initiatives Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries School of General Studies You are here: Home Educational Financing Financial Aid for Military Veterans Veterans Request for Certification Veterans Request for Certification In addition to completing the online application, students must complete the Veterans Request for Certification each term in order to continue receiving VA benefits. New students should submit their VA Certificate of Eligibility to [email protected] or fax it to the GS Office of Educational Financing at 212-854-6316. Webform Full Name First Middle Last Email Columbia UNI If you do not know your UNI, you may search for or activate it on the CUIT website. CUID (e.g., C000123456) Your CUID number may be found in SSOL. Program Undergraduate Postbac Premed Enrollment Status Newly Admitted Continuing Did you use VA educational benefits last semester/term? - Select -YesNo Will you begin the term on active duty (including terminal leave)? - Select -YesNoNot applicable Term Requested for Certification Term - Select -Summer A (May 23 - July 1)Summer B (July 5 - August 12)Summer X (May 23 - August 12)Fall (September 6 - December 23)Spring (January 17 - May 12) Year Number of Points Which session(s) are you registered for? Session 1 (D) (May 26 – July 2) Session 2 (Q) (July 6 – August 14) 12-Week Session (X) (May 26 – August 14) Session C (May 26 – June 26) Session E (May 26 – July 24) Session F (June 1 – July 2) Session G (May 26 – June 19) Session H (June 8 – July 2) Session J (June 22 – July 17) Session R (July 6 – July 31) Number of Points - Summer Session D (May 26 - July 2) Number of Points - Summer Session Q (July 6 - August 14) Number of Points - Summer Session X (May 26 - August 14) Number of Points - Summer Session C (May 26 – June 26) Number of Points - Summer Session E (May 26 – July 24) Number of Points - Summer Session F (June 1 – July 2) Number of Points - Summer Session G (May 26 – June 19) Number of Points - Summer Session H (June 8 – July 2) Number of Points - Summer Session J (June 22 – July 17) Number of Points - Summer Session R (July 6 – July 31) Military Status - Select -Active dutyCivilian serviceDependentReady reserveRetired reserveStandby (inactive) reserveVeteran Will you be enrolled in the Columbia University Student Health Insurance Plan? Yes No Branch of Service - Select -Air ForceArmyCoast GuardMarine CorpsNational GuardNavyReservesOther VA Educational Benefit Program - Select -Post-9/11 GI Bill (Chapter 33)Montgomery GI Bill (Chapter 30)Survivors and Dependents (Chapter 35)Fry Scholarship Learn more about the benefit programs here. You must apply for each of these benefits with the VA. If you have not done so already, visit VONAPP and submit your application for benefits to the VA. Are you eligible for the Yellow Ribbon Program? - Select -YesNo You are eligible for the Yellow Ribbon Program if you are 100% eligible for the Post-9/11 GI Bill (Chapter 33). To be 100% eligible, you must have served at least three years of aggregate active duty service after September 11, 2001 and have been honorably discharged. Are you a New York State resident? - Select -YesNo Do you intend to receive either of the following New York State educational benefits? - Select -Veterans Tuition Award (VTA)Tuition Assistance Program (TAP) You must apply for New York's Tuition Assistance Program to be eligible for these benefits. Note: Students using Vocational Rehabilitation (Chapter 31) are ineligible to apply for VTA or TAP. Additional Information I understand that in order to comply with Veterans Administration (VA) regulations, Columbia University must submit registration, and at times, academic progress reports to VA. Furthermore, I understand that any changes in my registration status or enrollment (e.g., add, drop, withdrawal) may affect VA benefit amounts, and as a result, other financial aid I receive or any balance owed to VA. I further understand that if my enrollment changes, I am responsible for notifying the School certifying officials Tessie Scroggins (ts21) or Chris Connelly (cec2246) and the VA. I understand that if there is any change in my enrollment, it may create a debt due to overpayment. I understand that the VA will not pay for courses I don’t attend, courses from which I withdraw, and courses I complete but received a grade which will not count towards graduation. I understand that I am responsible for all debts resulting from reductions or terminations of my enrollment even if the payment was submitted directly to the school on my behalf. Finally, I understand that I am responsible for any outstanding balance on my student account that is not covered by VA benefits. Signature Submit Contact Information VA Certifying Official Columbia University School of General Studies Office of Admissions and Educational Financing 408 Lewisohn Hall, MC 4101 2970 Broadway New York, NY 10027 Fax: (212) 854-6316 [email protected] Certification Requirement In addition to completing the online application, each semester students must complete the Veterans Request for Certification in order to receive VA benefits for that semester. New students should submit their VA Certificate of Eligibility to [email protected] or fax it to the General Studies Office of Educational Financing at 212-854-6316. University-Wide Military and Veteran Affairs Website Important Post-9/11 GI Bill (Chapter 33) Update Students using their Post-9/11 GI Bill® (Chapter 33) benefits and receiving a Monthly Housing Allowance (MHA) and/or kicker payment will be required to verify their enrollment by the end of each month to continue receiving their payments. Please review the FAQ’s and follow-up with the VA Education Call Center at 1-888-442-4551. Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Postbac Premed Admissions Newly Admitted Students U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Educational Financing Types of Financial Aid Financial Aid for Military Veterans Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Academics Undergraduate Postbac Premed Program Applying to Medical School Academic Policies Faculty of Arts and Sciences Student Services Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Veterans Resources and Initiatives About Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close