Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering [email protected] Information Home Tutorials Glossary of Terms Creating Events Adding Images Embedding Maps Adding an RSVP Scheduling Event Visibility Managing Events Sharing Events Calendar-specific Tags and Locations Switching Calendars Additional Features Creating Online Events Hiding Events [email protected] Login Editor Request Site Navigation Home Tutorials Glossary of Terms Creating Events Adding Images Embedding Maps Adding an RSVP Scheduling Event Visibility Managing Events Sharing Events Calendar-specific Tags and Locations Switching Calendars Additional Features Creating Online Events Hiding Events [email protected] Login Editor Request Adding Images to an Event Images appear in list views on [email protected] (on the Day, Week and All Upcoming Events tabs) and on individual event detail pages. Adding an image to your event will help users browse upcoming items and identify events they wish to attend. You can add images to an event or reuse images from previous events. Click the “Add/change images“ square [+] or drag an image from your computer onto that square to add a photo to your event. To meet accessibility standards, be sure to enter a caption for all images, unless the image is only for decoration. When necessary, enter the credit information for the image. The maximum file upload size is 10MB. Crop the Thumbnail To set the crop for the thumbnail that shows in the calendar in Day and Week views, click the crop symbol in the upper left corner of the window. You can also use saved images from a prior event by clicking on the image in “Your image library.” You can edit the caption and change the crop for the thumbnail. Creating Events Adding Images Embedding Maps Adding an RSVP Scheduling Event Visibility Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top