Skip to main content Menu Audiences Clemson Home CECAS Home Department Home Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift About Academics Conservation Energy People News About Research, Innovation and Education in Charleston, SC The Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) was established in 2004, in North Charleston, as a means for driving economic growth, innovation and workforce development in South Carolina's Lowcountry. Facilities in North Charleston provide researchers, scientists, students and faculty with ample opportunity to impact the growing tech economy while also appreciating the rich historical heritage in the surrounding area. At any given time on the CURI campus, teams can be found working on a diverse range of projects including: historic preservation, restoration ecology, advanced materials research, digital production arts and filmmaking, marine conservation and electric grid testing - just to name a few. ENERGY The $98M Dominion Energy Innovation Center houses the world’s most-advanced wind-turbine drivetrain testing facility capable of full-scale highly accelerated mechanical and electrical testing of advanced drivetrain systems for wind turbines. The Duke Energy eGRID — Electrical Grid Research Innovation and Development — Center is also housed in the Dominion Energy Innovation Center. The 15-megawatt hardware-in-the-loop grid simulator supports education, research and economic development to speed new electrical technologies to market. The eGRID can simulate the electrical grid of any country in the world. CONSERVATION At the Warren Lasch Conservation Center, Charleston’s proud history serves as a foundation for its future as an innovation center. The lab is a state-of-the-art materials analysis and characterization facility that can analyze artifacts or modern materials of metal, wood, textiles, polymers, glass, or ceramics. An international team of materials scientists, chemical engineers, archeologists, and conservators are developing new processes for digitally documenting and conserving fragile metal artifacts that have suffered extreme corrosion. This includes work on the famous H.L. Hunley, which has yielded a wealth of knowledge not only for archaeologists discovering the incredible stories of the brave soldiers who piloted the vessel, but also for scientists developing state of the art technologies for the future. EDUCATION The Zucker Family Graduate Education Center fosters collaboration and innovation in a place where students, university faculty and staff, and private industry interact on a daily basis. The center’s graduate programs in engineering, science and digital production arts support the growing technical workforce in the area and enable working professionals to get career-advancing degrees without leaving the Lowcountry. Office space is also available to industry looking to engage with faculty, students and researchers. The approximately 70,000-square-foot center opened in the fall of 2016. Overview Visitors Employment Prospective Student Tour Request Copyright © Clemson University Clemson in Charleston | 1240 Supply Street | North Charleston, SC 29405 843-730-5113 | Email Us