Navigation Home About COVID-19 Work Overview Contact Tracing Social Needs Response Team (SNRT) COVID-19 Communications University’s COVID Response Initiatives Overview Penn Community Scholars Service Link Junior Scholars Forum Walk with a Future Doc Walks 2 Wellness NatureRx at Penn Penn Food and Wellness Collaborative Healthy Penn Service Corps Public Health Pipeline Program Healthy Library Initiative Education and Training Overview Master of Public Health Program Fieldwork: Host a Student Seminars Learning Institutes Fellows Overview Fellow Information Fellows-in-Residence Senior Fellows Associate Fellows Adjunct Fellows Events Overview Seminar Series Learning Institutes CPHI Events Archive About COVID-19 Work Overview Contact Tracing Social Needs Response Team (SNRT) COVID-19 Communications University’s COVID Response Initiatives Overview Penn Community Scholars Service Link Junior Scholars Forum Walk with a Future Doc Walks 2 Wellness NatureRx at Penn Penn Food and Wellness Collaborative Healthy Penn Service Corps Public Health Pipeline Program Healthy Library Initiative Education and Training Overview Master of Public Health Program Fieldwork: Host a Student Seminars Learning Institutes Fellows Overview Fellow Information Fellows-in-Residence Senior Fellows Associate Fellows Adjunct Fellows Events Overview Seminar Series Learning Institutes CPHI Events Archive Engage with CPHI Join Our Mailing List Search CPHI Initiatives NatureRx at Penn NatureRx at Penn With support from the Provost’s office, Penn Center for Public Health Initiatives (CPHI), Facilities and Real Estate Services (FRES), and other campus partners are launching an exciting new program: Nature Rx at Penn. The idea behind Nature Rx is writing prescriptions to be out in nature, since research has shown that time spent in nature can have a positive impact on our health and well-being. Our hope is to engage Penn students, faculty, and staff to go out in nature to reduce stress and anxiety, increase energy, and have protective, restorative time. This program is based on a successful model from Cornell University. Check out the article in Penn Today to see what we are up to during the COVID-19 outbreak to stay in nature. Prescriptions for nature? What does that mean? While the idea is to give out "prescriptions," anyone can recommend nature to a friend or colleague. We have many campus partners that will be interacting with the Penn community who will be providing prescriptions as a reminder that spending time outside is a free and impactful way to feel relief. We are on an urban campus. How do I get to nature? There are many great options to get to nature FAST on or near campus. Did you know that Penn's campus is an accredited arboretum? You are never far from green space. Check out our interactive map here to find some spots now! We have partner programs, like weekly wellness walks, that make it easier for you to join others outside. Get Involved As we launch this new program for our Penn community, we are excited to tell as many people as possible about the benefits of being in nature through NatureRx at Penn. For more information, email Moriah Hall at moriahh@pennmedicine.upenn.edu. There are many ways to help us spread the word and be involved with the program! Everyone can benefit from being in nature. Below you can find our "prescription pad." We hope to see you out there! Click to download the front and back of our prescription pad to share with anyone you know! Note: They are formatted to print in a 4x6 postcard. Center for Public Health Initiatives Anatomy Chemistry Building, Room 148 3620 Hamilton Walk Philadelphia, PA 19104 Directions to CPHI Email:  Fax: 215.573.9025 University Mail Code: 6011 Links to Public Health-Related Programs at UPenn ASPPH News and Events Campus Health at UPenn Check Out CPHI on Twitter Follow Us on Facebook Follow Us on Instagram © The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania | Site best viewed in a supported browser. | Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help | Privacy Policy | Site Design: DART Web Team.