Skip to content Menu Search Request Information Visit Apply Give Login Menu News Calendar Map Directory Login Menu homepage :: audience buttons 123456798546546142 Future Students Parents Current Students Alumni Employees Athletics Back to menu Leading Dallas in Higher Education A&M-Commerce At Dallas Your future is waiting. Your future is waiting at A&M-Commerce. If you are driven to succeed, A&M-Commerce is the place for you! Our university community is ready to help you achieve your goals. With resources and support from your Lion family, you can accomplish more than you ever thought possible. Prepare for a rewarding career and a life of purpose at A&M-Commerce! Gain real-world knowledge and skills that will help you stand out in the job market. We are on your side, helping you achieve your goals and create a bright future! You’ll feel right at home. Join a university where diversity and equality are valued. Back to menu Anchor Copied! Copy a link to this section of the page Texas A&M University-Commerce | Transforming East Texas through Research, Education, and Service :: Explore Our Programs copied not edited copied not edited Explore Our Programs Degree Level SELECT A DEGREE LEVEL Bachelor's Graduate Certificates Master's/Specialist Educator Certifications Doctoral Undergraduate Minors Graduate Minors Department ALL DEPARTMENTS Accounting and Finance Agriculture Art Biological and Environmental Science Chemistry Computer Science and Information Systems Counseling Curriculum and Instruction Dallas College Educational Leadership Engineering and Technology Gender Studies Health and Human Performance Higher Education and Learning Technologies History Innovation and Design Liberal Studies Literature and Languages Management and Economics Marketing and Business Analytics Mathematics Music Nursing Physics and Astronomy Political Science Psychology and Special Education Social Work Sociology and Criminal Justice Theatre Find Programs Back to menu Admissions Forge your future. Explore the possibilities at A&M-Commerce! Discover all that A&M-Commerce has to offer and submit your application. Your future is waiting! Learn More Tuition and Cost Make it happen. A&M-Commerce tuition rates are some of the most competitive in Texas. That means you can receive quality education at an incredible value. Use our Net Price Calculator to find out how much it will cost, and let us help you find a way to pay for college. Calculate Cost Graduate Programs Push past expected. Boost your career in one of our 40+ nationally recognized programs, including master’s and doctoral degrees, and graduate certificates. You’ll learn from experienced faculty and form connections with peers who will become an integral part of your professional network. Learn More Campus Build strength and courage — and a group of friends for life. Becoming an A&M-Commerce Lion means joining a community of people who lift each other up. We believe that greatness is something bigger than ourselves, and we’re proud to be one of the best colleges near the Dallas-Fort Worth Metroplex. When you bring your unique genius here, you’ll make us even better. Where you'll eat. Stop by our full-service dining hall, pizza shop, cafe or Chick-fil-A whenever you’re hungry. There’s also a Starbucks to start your morning right or pull you out of that afternoon slump. LEARN MORE What you’ll do for fun Head to the Rayburn Student Center for a variety of free events, including concerts, lectures, poets, comedians and game nights. Get involved with the Student Government Association or join one of many student organizations. Relax in the Club with music, TVs and a covered patio. LEARN MORE Ways you’ll get involved At A&M-Commerce, you’ll feel right at home! Our campus is bursting with fun events and inspiring communities for you to engage with and enjoy. LEARN MORE Prev Next Anchor Copied! Copy a link to this section of the page Texas A&M University-Commerce | Transforming East Texas through Research, Education, and Service :: Athletics copied Leaders on and off the field A&M-Commerce Lion Athletics is moving up! The Lions begin their first season of NCAA Division I competition in Fall 2022. Learn how to catch all the action with Lion Athletics. View Schedules Back to menu Anchor Copied! Copy a link to this section of the page RFI Got Questions Request Information block version <p>Your browser does not support Iframes. Please fill out our <a href="//tamuc.secure.force.com/form?formid=217825">Request more Information form</a> to get more details.</p> Back to menu Anchor Copied! Copy a link to this section of the page Required Links Links Accessibility Policy Carrying Concealed Handguns on Campus Clery Act Compliance Counseling Center Community Psychology Clinic Departmental Budgets Disclaimer Faculty Curriculum Vitae Higher Education Opportunity Act Institutional Resume Marketplace Mental Health Resources University Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Public Information Public Access to Course Information Risk, Fraud and Misconduct Hotline State Auditor Hotline State of Texas State Website Linking and Privacy Policy Texas Consumer Resource for Education and Workforce Statistics Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Title IX Compliance University Police Department Visitor Parking Permit Back to menu A Member Of The Texas A&M University System 2200 Campbell Street · Commerce, TX 75428 866.649.4919 Facebook Twitter Instagram TikTok YouTube LinkedIn myLeo Admissions Transfer Cost & Aid How to Apply Explore and Visit Accreditation Map Parking Planetarium and Observatory Directory of Faculty and Staff Current Students myLeo Schedule of Classes Register for Classes University Catalog Academics Degree Program Finder Online Programs Graduate Programs Education Programs Health Programs Complete Your Degree Quickly Academic Calendar Student Life Campus Life Virtual Tour Athletics Campus Recreation Employment Technology Email Technical Support Email Webmaster to request an update Login to Update this Webpage Yourself © 2022 All rights reserved. Texas A&M University-Commerce. Directions Mailing Shipping Navigate This Page Search Search Search Search Search Search Search Search Search Search Menu Google News Programs Events People Catalog Search All Webpages Texas A&M University-Commerce Cookie Policy We use cookies to improve your experience and to understand how you use our site. By continuing to use our site, you consent to our Privacy Policy, including the use of cookies. Okay