Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open the search panel Open the main menu Search Go Close the search panel Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers News Events Alumni Giving About Library Login Open the Search panel Admissions Admissions Why Columbia J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics Academics J.D. Program and Curriculum LL.M. Program and Curriculum Executive LL.M. Program and Curriculum J.S.D. Program and Curriculum Dual and Joint Degrees International Programs Public Interest and Public Service Experiential Learning Courses Registration Services Academic Calendar Executive Education Areas of Study Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Criminal Justice Data Analytics Environment and Energy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Intellectual Property and Technology International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace Leadership Legal History Litigation and Dispute Resolution National Security and Privacy Social Justice and Human Rights Faculty & Scholarship Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Directory Research Centers and Programs Scholarship Archive Workshops, Lectures, and Colloquia Careers Careers Private Sector Careers Public Interest and Public Service Careers Academic Careers Judicial Clerkships Employment Statistics Employment Policies Community Life Community Life Visit Campus Dean’s Welcome Your Campus, Your City Student Life Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Strategic Initiatives Executive Education Academics Executive Education Columbia Law School’s Executive Education and Non-Degree Programs offer highly specialized, intensive legal training for corporate leaders, policymakers, legal practitioners, and other professionals. More in this Section Explore Executive Education: About Executive Education CLE Accreditation Events & Programs Online Certificate Program Summer Offerings Whether focused on information security or international transactions, our programs blend theory and practice so that participants leave empowered, with the deep knowledge and strategic skills, and having built a fortified network that enables them to manage the complex challenges inherent in a fast-changing, global environment. Contact Us Petal Modeste Associate Dean for Professional Development, Graduate Degrees, and Executive Education (212) 854-1664 Send An Email Programs Columbia Law School provides high-level, targeted training sponsored by and for law firms, NGOs, corporations, and government entities. It also offers the option of immersive open enrollment courses for individual practitioners. Connections Our programs bring together in-house counsel, corporate leaders, investors, and other legal professionals from around the world, creating a professional community committed to leading and to embracing change. Global Reach Our faculty members come from a wide range of disciplines. They are skilled educators, researchers, scholars, and practicing attorneys with close ties to leading law firms around the world. Upcoming Events View All Events View All Events Admissions Why Columbia Visit 435 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 212-854-2640 Contact Us Social Media (Administrative Title) Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Instagram Admissions Academics Areas of Study Faculty & Scholarship Careers Community Life Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers Login News Events Alumni Giving About Library Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Donate © Copyright 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York.