COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Biological Sciences with Biological / Biomedical Emphasis, Major MajorBiological Sciences with Biological / Biomedical Emphasis All Programs Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Biological Sciences The Bachelor of Science (BS) in biological sciences—biological / biomedical emphasis—will expand your knowledge of biology and chemistry. You'll have access to research and internships, faculty who are active in their fields, and modern, well-equipped labs—preparing you for professional careers and graduate school. Learn how biological sciences with a biological / biomedical emphasis is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted into the Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU's admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Graduate research explores glioblastoma tumor cell invasion in 3D environments As a biological sciences student you can pursue your own research projects. Graduate student Pranita Kaphle always dreamed of making a difference in cancer research. Now she is researching the migration of cancer cells in a 3D environment and hopes her studies will help find a way to inhibit tumor cell invasion. Curriculum A major in biological sciences, leading to the Bachelor of Science with a biological/biomedical emphasis, requires a minimum of 40 credit hours of biological sciences coursework. Up to 50 hours may be taken for credit. View the curriculum Careers Graduates of the biological sciences program are frequently employed as technicians in labs involved in basic biological research or applied research. They work in fields such as the physical, engineering and life sciences, education, pharmaceutical manufacturing and scientific consulting. Learn more about careers in this field 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©