Skip to main content Kansas State University « Sign in Close » Connect Canvas KSIS SSC HRIS Webmail OrgSync Close » A-Z search Search K-State web, people, directories Browse A-Z K-State home »Diversity and Inclusion Diversity and Inclusion Home About Diversity data Accolades and awards See all of About Initiatives Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Belonging Strategic Plan Action Plan for a More Inclusive K-State KSUnite365 Diversity Point People See all of Initiatives Resources Academic success programs Campus-wide diversity programs Careers at K-State Faculty/staff ombudspersons Student ombudsperson See all of Resources Communications Current communications KSUnite Weekly All news See all of Communications Events Conferences All events See all of Events Our Vision and Our Mission Vision: K-State dedicates itself to providing equitable access to an ever-more diverse and mutually inclusive public university. We build and enrich safe, respectful environments and learning communities that value our backgrounds and intersectionalities that contribute to the inherent dignity and growth of all. Mission: At Kansas State University, diversity, inclusion, equity, and belonging, in the broadest sense, reflect the idea that all community members are welcomed, valued and free to be their authentic selves. We strive to empower all members and remove barriers throughout our campus caused by social injustice and inequity to provide access to all regardless of identities. We commit ourselves to engaging the voices of our community to promote equity and empathy for a more inclusive K-State. Learn more about our legacy as a land grant instution > DEIB Strategic Plan Explore the university's first five-year diversity, equity, inclusion and belonging strategic plan, Our Lens, Our Focus, Our K-State. Action Plan for a More Inclusive K-State Through the Action Plan for a More Inclusive K-State, the university focuses on 11 distinct action steps to address racial and social injustice issues at our university. Track progress on the action plan dashboard. <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> Committed to diversity The Department of Diversity and Multicultural Student Affairs offers programming, intercultural learning and extracurricular activities to students from all walks of life. We're dedicated to building an inclusive campus climate encouraging understanding, self awareness, compassion and more. Through leadership and communication, we can make positive changes at K-State and in the world around us. Student life > News K-State selected to participate in Truth, Racial Healing and Transformation Summer Institute Africa Night set for April 23 Boyer/Switzer Lecture Series this Thursday President Linton provides updates on the university’s diversity, equity, inclusion and belonging efforts All diversity and inclusion news Kansas State University named 2022 Top Employer by DiversityJobs.com College of Veterinary Medicine receives Health Professions Higher Education HEED Award for diversity efforts University's commitment to diversity, inclusion earns national honor for eighth year in a row Office of the President Kansas State University 110 Anderson Hall 919 Mid-Campus Dr. North Manhattan, KS 66506-0121 785-532-6221 View our principles of community Contact us Emergency Statements and disclosures Accessibility Manhattan, KS 66506 785-532-6011 © Kansas State University Updated Updated: 4/7/22