Skip to main content Skip to main content SMU Home Giving Giving Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Simmons About Dean's Message Programs, Degrees, and Certifications Faculty and Staff Directory Simmons Governance Simmons School History Executive Board Simmons Luminary Award XPRIZE Honor Code Simmons Resources Travel-Study Programs Simmons Lecture Series AERA 2022 Graduation Ceremony May 2022 Paving the Way to Inclusion Conference Simmons Graduate Council Faculty and Administrative Position Openings Simmons Blogs and Social Media Hub Annette Caldwell Simmons Hall Harold Clark Simmons Hall Photo Tour Contact Us Academic Departments & Areas of Study Applied Physiology & Wellness B.S. | Applied Physiology & Sport Mgmt. Undergraduate Specializations Applied Physiology and Health Management Sport Management Sport Performance Leadership M.S. | Health Promotion Management M.S. | Sport Management Non-Degree | Wellness Dispute Resolution & Counseling M.S. | Counseling Specialties Clinical Mental Health Marriage, Couple and Family School Counseling M.A. | Dispute Resolution Non-Degree | Dispute Resolution Specialties Executive Coaching Education Policy & Leadership M.Ed. | PK-12 School Leadership M.Ed. | Higher Education Ed.D. | PK-12 School Leadership Ed.D. | Higher Education Graduate Liberal Studies MLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities DLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities Non-Degree | Science, Arts, & Humanities Ph.D. in Education Teaching & Learning B.S. | M.Ed | MBE | Ph.D. Graduate Specializations Bilingual Special Ed ESL Gifted Literacy Math STEM Urban Education Research Research A comprehensive list of Simmons research projects Faculty Research Publications & Presentations Recent research publications and presentations Center on Research & Evaluation (CORE) Offers comprehensive program evaluation services, largely in the non-profit sector, and performs education research Research in Mathematics Education Conducts research in mathematics education and disseminates findings Integrative Physiology Laboratory Investigates autonomic function and thermoregulation in healthy and clinical populations Locomotor Performance Laboratory Studies terrestrial locomotion and the relationship of muscle function to metabolic energy expenditure and performance Center for VR Learning Innovation Investigates the use of virtual, augmented and mixed reality for education and human development Youth Sports Impact Partnership SMU and the Children’s Health Andrews Institute have launched a collaboration dedicated to improving the health, activity levels, and well-being of kids. Research Resources for Simmons Faculty and Staff Technology and Education Cluster Our Faculty Community Engagement Advanced Placement Summer Institute Summer Institute for AP and Pre-AP Teachers The Budd Center Partners with community agencies to offer educational opportunities for disadvantaged children Center for Family Counseling Counseling services in Plano for individuals and families College Access Programs Programs and workshops that help students advance academically Institute for Leadership Impact Leaders in education, health and social enterprise enhance skills to lead organizations and solve real-world problems Project Connect A repository of ideas, activities and videos for educators interested in improving instruction for English Language Learners West Dallas STEM-Focused School Preparing students for the next generation of STEM jobs Alumni Search Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Dispute Resolution Master's Degree Master's Degree Admissions & Financial Information Course Descriptions Curriculum Study Abroad Academic Calendar Course and Seminar Schedule Dispute Resolution & Conflict Management Scholarships Grad. Certificate Grad. Certificate Admissions & Financial Information Course Descriptions Course & Seminar Schedule Curriculum Scholarships Executive & Leadership Coaching Faculty & Staff Apply ☰ Dispute Resolution & Conflict Management Graduate Studies Simmons Academics Dispute Resolution & Conflict Management Graduate Studies For additional information about SMU’s response to COVID-19 is available on SMU's Blog. Application Deadlines The SMU Dispute Resolution Program offers rolling admissions throughout the academic year with priority admissions deadlines below. Fall Term - June 1st Spring Term - December 13th Summer Term - May 1st Master of Arts in Dispute Resolution Prospective Students Because conflict is a natural and recurring part of all aspects of society, students from all walks of life benefit from a Master of Arts in the study of dispute resolution and conflict management. These skills can enhance current career paths or launch new careers. Career and Personal Benefits Rooted in the social and behavioral sciences, the curriculum provides in-depth study of conflict theory with options for concentration in alternative dispute resolution, organizational transformation and conflict management, executive coaching, and healthcare collaboration and conflict engagement as they apply to business, family, education, public policy, religion, law and healthcare. Field-based opportunities in a variety of settings further enhance the skills of dispute resolution and conflict management. Program Details Graduate Certificate in Dispute Resolution Prospective Students Because conflict is a natural and recurring part of all aspects of society, training in dispute resolution and conflict management can enhance the lives of individuals in a variety of professions and industries. Career and Personal Benefits The seven-course program offers a solid foundation in conflict theory and skill development. Students learn the skills of negotiation, problem solving, mediation, arbitration, and systems design through classroom instruction that includes simulations. Program Details Executive & Leadership Coaching Concentration Prospective Students One of the fastest-growing fields of management consulting in America, SMU’s Executive and Leadership Coaching Concentration is designed for individuals who want to work as executive coaches or coaching consultants. Career and Personal Benefits The 3-course curriculum offers a comprehensive, classroom-based, learning experience in the areas of theory and practice, professional context, and International Coach Federation competencies. The Concentration can also be taken as a stand alone set of courses leading to a departmental certificate of completion. Program Details Dispute Resolution & Conflict Management Graduate Studies Master of Arts in Dispute Resolution Graduate Certificate in Dispute Resolution Executive & Leadership Coaching Concentration Our Faculty & Staff Apply Now 2020 Virtual Graduation Celebration VR Simulations Upcoming Events Request info Contact the Dispute Resolution Program Call or Email Us 214-768-4500 disputeresolution@smu.edu Request Information Visit Us SMU East Campus 6116 N. Central Expressway Suite 300 Dallas, Texas 75206 Connect with Us Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 facebook twitter