COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Musical Theatre Program Section Menu School of Performing Arts Home Musical Theatre Home Musical Theatre Program Auditions Honors & Awards Train, Perform & Grow Prepare for your career in Musical Theatre at Wichita State University by combining quality curriculum with numerous opportunities to perform and explore your craft. You will have the perfect environment to train, perform and grow into a true artist while studying closely with industry professionals. Request more information Audition for the Program As a Music Theatre Major You will train equally in acting, voice, and dance You will receive conservatory-quality training combined with WSU’s affordable tuition You will have the opportunity to direct, choreograph and perform in stage productions, student projects and course work You will work with guest artists and participate in Master Classes with Industry Professionals Program and class sizes intimate enough for one-on-one attention but large enough to be competitive Courses you will take Beyond the Books Kennedy Center Gold Medallion In 2016, School of Performing Arts Director, Linda Starkey, was awarded the Kennedy Center American College Theater Festival GOLD MEDALLION. Akin to a lifetime achievement award, it is the organization's most prestigious award and a great honor in theater education. Kennedy Center National Awards In 2016, Smokey Joe’s Cafe received the National Award for Distinguished Production of a Musical. It's a musical revue featuring the songs of legendary hit makers Mike Stoller and Jerry Leiber. It pays homage to some of the most powerful and recognizable early icons of rock and roll such as The Drifters, The Coasters, Dion of Dion and the Belmonts, and of course, Elvis Presley. Productions You will follow the legacy of performers who have gone on to perform on Broadway in shows such as Book of Mormon, Motown, Scottsboro Boys, Evita, If/Then, and American Psycho; on National Broadway Tours, Off Broadway, in prestigious regional theatres across the country, on cruise ships, theme parks, and for Walt Disney World. Opportunities Our current students work professionally at summer regional theatres such as MTWichita, Lyric Theatre of Oklahoma, Prairie Repertory Theatre, and in the local theatre community. 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©