Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries French Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs French Major Apply Visit Request More Info French Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Arts in French Become proficient in the French language with the Bachelor of Arts in French in the College of Liberal Arts at Temple University. In this 123-credit undergraduate degree program, you’ll immerse yourself in the language, and explore the rich history and cultural heritage of France and Francophone regions. The French BA program’s engaging linguistic experiences and small class sizes allow students to not only develop a strong foundation in French but also graduate ready and able to converse with native speakers. Students gain the communication skills needed to navigate the world across local, regional, national and global perspectives. In addition to learning French, you’ll explore the cultural and social norms, practices and traditions of the many diverse regions of the Francophone world; the evolution of French cinema, literature and art; and how France’s rich, but turbulent, history helped shape the country as it is today. Graduates have a comprehensive knowledge of French language, culture and societal structure, which is necessary in an increasingly interconnected world. Students in Temple’s foreign language programs are globally minded, observant and travel oriented, and they are encouraged to take advantage of the university’s study away opportunities to implement their studies in the real world. Students are expected to have a certain degree of French language education before entering the program. Learn more about the program’s admissions requirements. Classes & Curriculum In addition to Temple University and College of Liberal Arts course requirements, students in the French BA program will be required to complete 10 courses in French, including reading and composition. Reading courses focus on techniques that promote understanding French texts without translating to English, and writing courses emphasize vocabulary and sentence patterns that are helpful for writing French. Students will also be required to complete two survey courses, which covers the movements, trends and events that shaped French literature throughout key time periods. Examples of elective courses available include the following. Conversation Francophone Literatures and Cultures French for Business French Culture through Film Topics in French Cinema and Literature Learn more about the French BA program requirements. Related Graduate Degrees Anthropology PhD History MA History PhD Hospitality Management MS* Liberal Arts MLA Travel and Tourism MS* Related Graduate Certificates Destination Management* Global Tourism* * School of Sport, Tourism and Hospitality Management Certificate Programs The College of Liberal Arts has 22 undergraduate certificate programs for you to expand your knowledge and diversify your Temple education. Certificates can complement bachelor's programs, allowing you to specialize in an area and highlight your exposure to disciplines outside of your major. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Arts offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $16,488.00 per year Out-of-state: $29,712.00 per year Our Academic Advisors College of Liberal Arts academic advisors help you navigate your curriculum and potential career paths throughout your time at Temple. Ruth Thomas is the faculty advisor in the French Department. Phone: 215-204-1758 Email: rpthomas@temple.edu Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development Dedicated advisors at the Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development in the College of Liberal Arts are available to guide students through their academic careers and with their career paths beyond Temple. They can help you choose a major, navigate your curriculum, identify internship opportunities, explore career opportunities and determine your post-graduation plans. Learn more about the center. Program Contact With questions regarding the French BA program, contact the following staff member. Michelle Xu is an administrator in the French Department. Phone: 215-204-5628 Email: xu.michelle@temple.edu The following staff members lead the French Department. Cristina Gragnani is chair of the French Department. Phone: 215-204-1816 Email: gragnani@temple.edu Stephanie Smith is the program coordinator in the French Department. Phone: 215-204-1261 Email: ssmith14@temple.edu University Honors Program The College of Liberal Arts participates in Temple’s Honors Program. Learn more about the program and how to be admitted. Students who meet certain academic and extracurricular criteria may become members of the following honor societies. Alpha Lambda Delta is a national society that honors academic excellence during a student's first year at college. Golden Key is an international society that enables members to realize their potential through the advancement of academics, leadership and service. Phi Beta Kappa is open to juniors and seniors in the College of Liberal Arts. To qualify for Phi Beta Kappa, a student must maintain a high grade point average in a broad, rigorous program of study in the liberal arts, including mathematics and foreign languages. Learn more about Temple’s Honor Societies. Student Clubs & Organizations Supplement your College of Liberal Arts coursework and enhance your undergraduate experience at Temple with more than 300 student clubs and organizations. You’ll have opportunities to meet and network with other students, get involved with the community, grow your interests, and develop résumé-boosting skills and experiences. Students pursuing a French BA degree are encouraged to join French Club, intended to educate its members about French language, history, culture and cuisine. Learn more about Temple student clubs and organizations. Study Away College of Liberal Arts undergraduate students are encouraged to study away for an academic year, semester or summer. Enrich your academic experience and fine-tune your conversational French through Temple’s summer study program in Paris. Learn more about Temple study away programs. Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-FREN-BA Additional Program Information Available as a minor. Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in French Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info