Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links About COVID-19 Stories UW Medicine stories Media coverage Experts for journalists FAQ Stories All stories News releases UW News blog UW Notebook Official notices UW in the media Multimedia Video stories Soundbites/b-roll Interactives Experts Directory Expert quotes COVID-19 experts Speakers Bureau Media contacts For Journalists For researchers Media Training Data and Reports UW News Menu About COVID-19 Stories UW Medicine stories Media coverage Experts for journalists FAQ Stories All stories News releases UW News blog UW Notebook Official notices UW in the media Multimedia Video stories Soundbites/b-roll Interactives Experts Directory Expert quotes COVID-19 experts Speakers Bureau Media contacts For Journalists For researchers Media Training Data and Reports Home UW News UW Today submission guidelines UW Today submission guidelines UW Today is a daily email newsletter sent to staff, faculty and others in the community who sign up to receive it. All submitted items must have a story or event to link to. For events, a calendar listing on the UW Trumba calendar is sufficient. (This is the “permalink” at the bottom of the calendar item.) Content guidelines The UW Today newsletter is primarily focused on story-based content as opposed to program-based content, as well as events that have broad community interest and appeal. Due to the overwhelming number of alumni stories, we don’t typically include them in UW Today. Please reach out to Karen Chilcote of UWAA with your alumni stories. Events Events should be open to the public and either involve a UW faculty member and/or be hosted by a unit on campus (virtual or in-person). They don’t need to be free, but that is preferred. When submitting an event, specify your “run-by” date as the date you wish the event to appear in the email. If you have an RSVP deadline, the run-by date should be before that. Stories Submissions can include stories by internal units or external news media. All stories must appeal to the broader campus community. Internal Internal stories typically live on a UW unit’s website. These stories need a photo — horizontal is required (600×358 ratio preferred). For accessibility reasons, we prefer to run photos without embedded text. External External stories are typically shared via the “IN THE NEWS” section of the email, which highlights where UW researchers are quoted in the media. These items must relate to the individual’s work here at the UW and come from reputable news sources. Editing UW News staff may edit your proposed headline for length, style and clarity. Photos might also be cropped or changed depending on available context. In rare cases, UW News staff might reach out to ask for small revisions to your content (i.e. accessibility improvements, additional context for photos, etc.) Submitting an item Please use this form to submit an item for UW Today. Depending on how much content we have in any given week, your item might not appear in the UW Today email for 5 to 7 business days. Please let us know in the form’s “Any additional comments” section if there’s a news peg (an event, holiday, etc.) that makes your item more timely. Other questions? Email UW News. Search UW News Search for: UW Experts Ukraine Climate COVID-19 Full directory Categories Browse Administrative affairs Arts and entertainment Buildings and grounds Education Engineering Environment For UW employees Health and medicine Honors and awards Interactive Learning News releases News roundups Official notices Politics and government Population Health Profiles Research Science Social science Technology UW and the community UW Notebook UW Today blog Latest news releases Critical race theory at center of UW study of unequal access to treatment for opioid addiction 3 days ago Seattle democracy vouchers increase donations, number of candidates in city elections 4 days ago Social cohesion found to be key risk factor in early COVID infections 1 week ago More Connect Campus publications A&S Perspectives College of Education University of Washington Magazine The Daily UW Press More publications Evans School Foster School of Business UW Medicine Newsroom Information School IT Connect News Jackson School Law School News President's blog School of Dentistry School of Nursing School of Pharmacy School of Public Health School of Social Work The Trend in Engineering UW Libraries: News & Events UW Video Washington Engineer UW Today Newsletter Subscribe UW Today Daily UW Today Week in Review If you're trying to subscribe with a non-UW email address, please email uwnews@uw.edu for assistance. For UW employees Submission guidelines Submission form University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA