Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Film Certificate (Undergraduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Film Certificate (Undergraduate) Apply Request More Info Film Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Undergraduate Certificate in Film Explore the fundamentals of filmmaking with the Undergraduate Certificate in Film at Temple’s School of Theater, Film and Media Arts. This 14-credit undergraduate program includes courses in film and video analysis, media arts, and media culture to help expand and inform your interest in filmmaking. Through the certificate’s curriculum, you’ll have opportunities to analyze film and television from varying perspectives; better understand the critical role of film and media arts in American culture; translate your creative visions into original video and audio projects; and write for motion pictures and work from scripts. If you decide to pursue the Film and Media Arts major, the four courses completed in the certificate program count toward the degree. Classes & Curriculum The courses in the Film Certificate program are designed to introduce students to the study and production of film. The required courses are Introduction to Film and Video Analysis, Media and Culture, Media Arts I, and Media Arts II. Learn more about course requirements in the Film Certificate program. Related Graduate Degrees Documentary Arts and Visual Research PhD Film and Media Arts MFA MediaXarts: Cinema for New Technologies and Environments MA Careers With a foundation in film study and production, students have the skills necessary for a variety of careers in film and media arts. Graduates have pursued positions such as camera operator, casting director, director, film editor, lighting and sound technician, performer, producer, and screenwriter. Career Services The Film and Media Arts Department encourages students to find job opportunities by checking the information boards in Annenberg Hall, consulting with faculty, and visiting the Career Center for guidance on career direction and job search strategies. Tuition & Fees The tuition for this Certificate Program is based on school or college of your major, program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors The School of Theater, Film and Media Arts academic advisors will guide you through choosing electives and registering for courses. Contact Dariq Cobb is an academic advisor for the Undergraduate Certificate in Film. Phone: 215-204-2227 Email: dariq.cobb@temple.edu Leanna Arnold is the senior academic advisor for the Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts. Phone: 215-204-2227 Email: leanna.arnold@temple.edu Program Contact Paul Swann is chair of the Film and Media Arts Department. Phone: 215-204-1735 Email: pswann@temple.edu Accreditation The Film and Media Arts program is associated with the University Film and Video Association, an international organization of university and industry professionals working in the field of media production. CA-FILM-CERT Additional Program Information Visit School Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Film Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info