COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU News - All Stories For WSU News and WSU Today content older than July 2018, Search the WSU News Archive. WSU News Archive Return to WSU News Home Filter by: All students Applied Learning Faculty/Staff Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences pandemic community Alumni College of Engineering COVID-19 Research Graduate Profiles Community Engagement Innovation Campus Life Diversity/Inclusion Scholarships Talent Pipeline Innovation Campus College of Applied Studies College of Health Professions SearchDirectory Filter Search WSU Esports varsity team marks a milestone for the program May 18, 2022 — After winning the Eastern College Athletic Conference Championship, the Wichita State Varsity Esports Valorant team qualified for a direct bid to compete in the Collegiate Esports Commissioners Cup, a milestone for WSU's Esports program. New esports director brings his vision of gaming to Wichita State March 30, 2022 - The vision for varsity esports at Wichita State encompasses much more than people gaming on Cybertron Computers and wearing a Logitech Headset. While gaming success is important, the program is also seen as way to provide extra-curricular activity and applied learning for students in disciplines across campus. Travis Yang, hired in December as WSU’s Esports director, wants to build a program that follows that direction. WSU announces new esports director Dec. 7, 2021 — The College of Applied Studies at Wichita State University announced today that Travis Yang has been hired as the new director of varsity esports. Courtney Calder leads WSU Esports with background in athletics, business June 9, 2021 - Wichita State’s Esports director Courtney Calder played soccer more often than video games growing up in California. Those experiences, however, helped prepare her for running the Esports program, as did her time working in sales for Apple after graduating from Northwestern University. Wichita State’s varsity program, housed in the Heskett Center, offers four teams competing in Overwatch, League of Legends, Rocket League, and Valorant. New partnership provides custom jerseys for WSU Varsity Esports Sept. 25, 2019 - Agent Ink Apparel has partnered with Wichita State to become the official outfitter for WSU Varsity Esports. They recently delivered custom jerseys to the team and released the final design on social media. Fast-growing varsity Esports program, gaming lab put WSU on the map July 3, 2019 - Tyler Levesque, Wichita State’s Esports coordinator, moved fast during his first semester as Esports coordinator, putting together two teams and arranging practices on the fly in January. When his Esports students return in the fall, the program will look and feel much different. Q&A with Tyler Levesque of WSU varsity Esports team Jan. 29, 2019 -- Tyler Levesque is Wichita State's coordinator for Esports. He is organizing the new varsity club with teams competing in Overwatch and Rocket League. Junior grows passion for gaming through WSU's Esports program Jan. 25, 2019 -- Meet Blane 'Deadly' Steckline, the Damage Per Second player for the Wichita State Overwatch team. In addition to being a junior computer science major, Blane is also a Grandmaster-tier Overwatch player, reached rank #64 on the North American server, and has competitive gaming experience at a semi-professional level. 1 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©