Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Humanities East Asian Studies Access Course Offerings CHI 101 Elementary Chinese I Professor/Instructor An introductory course in modern spoken and written Chinese, stressing oral-aural facility and the use of language structure for communication. Five hours of class. No credit given for CHI 101 unless followed by CHI 102. CHI 102 Elementary Chinese II Professor/Instructor Continued study of modern spoken and written Chinese, stressing listening, speaking, reading, and writing. Five hours of class. CHI 103 Intensive Elementary Chinese Professor/Instructor An intensive course covering 101 and 102 in one semester for beginning heritage learners and students with fair fluency and limited ability in reading and writing skills. The course will emphasize reading and writing skills. Prerequisite: instructor's permission (oral interview in Chinese). Five hours of class. CHI 105 Intermediate Chinese I Professor/Instructor A study of modern spoken and written Chinese, this course shifts the emphasis to the reading of contemporary Chinese dialogue. Five hours of class. CHI 107 Intermediate Chinese II Professor/Instructor Continuing the study of modern spoken and written Chinese, this course shifts the emphasis to the reading of contemporary Chinese cultural and social issues. Five hours of class. CHI 108 Intensive Intermediate Chinese Professor/Instructor An intensive course that covers 105 and 107 in one semester for students who have completed 103. Conducted in Chinese, with emphasis on reading and writing. Prerequisite: 103 or instructor's permission. Five hours of class. CHI 301 Introduction to Classical Chinese I Professor/InstructorChih-p'ing Chou CHI 301 not only provides basic training for students in classical Chinese, but also introduces students to theme-based readings about important cultural aspects of pre-modern China, such as the concept of Dao, life and death, etc. Each theme is consisted of passages selected from Chinese classics and short essays or stories full of wisdom and wit from later dynasties. This course will not only improve your four skills in Chinese language but also enhance your understanding of traditional Chinese philosophy and culture in general. Three hours of classes conducted in Chinese. CHI 302 Introduction to Classical Chinese II Professor/InstructorChih-p'ing Chou Following CHI 301, the readings for CHI 302 is also theme-based and includes more philosophical and cultural topics of pre-modern China such as debates between various philosophical schools, military and political strategies, law, etc. Three hours of classes conducted in Chinese. CHI 303 Third-Year Modern Chinese I Professor/Instructor Designed to develop further the student's overall language skills through reading and discussion of contemporary affairs published in Chinese newspapers. Four hours of class, conducted in Chinese. Prerequisite: CHI 105-107, or instructor's permission. CHI 304 Third-Year Modern Chinese II Professor/Instructor A continuation of CHI 303, designed to improve the student's facility in written and oral expression through a close study of newspaper essays and commentaries. Four hours of class, conducted in Chinese. Prerequisite: CHI 303 or instructor's permission. CHI 305 Intensive Third-Year Modern Chinese I Professor/Instructor CHI 305 is an intensive intermediate class designed for heritage learners and students who are interested in current political and social issues in Chinese affairs. CHI 306 Intensive Third-Year Modern Chinese II Professor/Instructor A continuation of 305, designed to further improve the student's facility in written and oral expression through a close study of essays published in contemporary Chinese newspapers and magazines. Four hours of class, conducted in Chinese. Prerequisite: 305 or instructor's permission. CHI 401 Advanced Classical Chinese I Professor/Instructor Intensive introduction to classical Chinese through the study of selections from ancient texts. Four classes conducted in Chinese. CHI 402 Advanced Classical Chinese II Professor/Instructor Continuation of 401. Intensive introduction to classical Chinese through the study of selections from ancient texts. Four classes conducted in Chinese. CHI 403 Fourth-Year Modern Chinese I Professor/Instructor Reading and discussion of selections from Chinese scholarly journals and newspapers on contemporary Chinese political, economic, and social issues. Four hours of class, conducted in Chinese. Prerequisite: 304 or instructor's permission. CHI 404 Fourth-Year Modern Chinese II Professor/Instructor A continuation of 403. Reading and discussion of scholarly writings in the fields of Chinese literature and modern Chinese intellectual history. Four hours of class, conducted in Chinese. Prerequisite: 403, or instructor's permission. CHI 405 Intensive Fourth-Year Modern Chinese I Professor/Instructor CHI 405 is an intensive advanced Chinese class designed for heritage learners. It focuses on reading and discussion based on Chinese scholarly journals, popular essays, and newspaper articles. Students are exposed to a variety of modern Chinese literary genres, as well as some of the major substantive issues that modern Chinese intellectuals have faced. Four hours of class conducted in Chinese. Prerequisite: 306 or instructor's permission. CHI 406 Intensive Fourth-Year Modern Chinese II Professor/Instructor Continued reading and discussion of scholarly writings on modern Chinese literature. This course also exposes students to the social issues China has faced in recent years, while discussing various aspects of contemporary Chinese society. Four hours of class, conducted in Chinese. Prerequisite: 405 or instructor's permission. CHI 411 / EAS 411 Readings in Modern Chinese Intellectual History Professor/InstructorChih-p'ing Chou Designed to give students who have had advanced training in both classical and modern Chinese an opportunity for directed readings in their own fields. The focus of readings is modern Chinese intellectual history. One class, two hours of discussion, conducted in Chinese. Prerequisite: three or more years of modern Chinese, or instructor's permission. CHI 412 / EAS 412 Readings in Classic Chinese Short Stories Professor/InstructorChih-p'ing Chou Focuses on reading and discussing selections from Feng Menglong's Sanyan, the most popular and well-known collection of classic Chinese short stories published in the late 16th century. One class, two hours of discussion, conducted in Chinese. Prerequisite: three or more years of modern Chinese, or instructor's permission. HIS 207 / EAS 207 / MED 207 History of East Asia to 1800 Professor/InstructorThomas Donald Conlan, Xin Wen General introduction to major themes in the cultural, intellectual, and institutional history of China and Japan, with some attention to Korea and Southeast Asia. Two lectures, one preceptorial. HIS 208 / EAS 208 East Asia since 1800 Professor/InstructorJanet Y. Chen, Sheldon Marc Garon The civilizations of East Asia at the beginning of the modern era; the impact of the West; the contrasting responses of China, Japan, and Korea to the confrontation; the development of the present societies. Assignments will be drawn from contemporary sources as well as from secondary accounts. Two lectures, one preceptorial. ART 216 / EAS 213 Aesthetics and Politics of Chinese Painting Professor/InstructorCheng-hua Wang Thematic introduction to the role of painting in Chinese cultural history, with attention to the interaction of stylistic standards, materials, and techniques; the impact of regional geographies on landscape painting; the influence of class, gender, and social behavior on figure painting; the engagement of art with traditional philosophies and 20th-century socialism; and the shape of time in art-historical development. For department majors, this course satisfies the Group 2 distribution requirement. Three lectures. ART 217 / EAS 217 The Arts of Japan Professor/InstructorAndrew Mark Watsky Surveys arts of Japan from the pre-historic period through the present day. Painting, sculpture, and architecture form the core of study. Examines critical role of other forms, including calligraphy, lacquer, and ceramics. Takes close account of the broader cultural and historical contexts in which art was made. Topics include ongoing tension in Japanese art between foreign and indigenous, role of ritual in Japan's visual arts, re-uses of the past, changing loci of patronage, and formats and materials of Japanese art. For department majors, this course satisfies the Group 1, 2, or 3 distribution requirement. Two lectures, one preceptorial. EAS 221 Introduction to Modern Japanese Literature Professor/InstructorAtsuko Ueda The course will cover major writers and works of the 20th century. We will examine how Japanese writers responded to modern fictional and linguistic forms imported from the West, how they negotiated what they had inherited from their long and illustrious literary past, and how postwar writers view their newly "democratized" world. Load More More in Academics Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice