Skip to content Xavier University Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Giving to Xavier Open search dialog Open Navigation Menu Undergraduate Admission Admission Process Undergraduate Application Tuition and Aid Visit Campus Make Your Commitment Contact Us Close Undergraduate Admission sub menu Graduate Admission Apply to Xavier Graduate Financial Aid Events and Information Sessions Contact Us Close Graduate Admission sub menu Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Student Outcomes Academic Support Education Abroad Honors Programs Xavier University Colleges Close Academics sub menu Campus Life Residence Halls Campus Dining Options Clubs and Organizations Diversity Faith and Service Recreational Sports Cincinnati Health and Wellness First-Year Experience Close Campus Life sub menu Athletics goxavier.com Close Athletics sub menu About Xavier Xavier University Rankings Mission, Vision, and Values What is Jesuit Education? Close About Xavier sub menu Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Giving to Xavier Current Students Alumni Relations Employees Parents and Families Employment Opportunities Maps and Directions Search Xavier University: Search Clubs and Organizations Residence Halls Campus Dining Options Clubs and Organizations Diversity Faith and Service Health and Wellness Menu Residence Halls Campus Dining Options Clubs and Organizations Diversity Faith and Service Health and Wellness Find Your Place in the Community Xavier students have formed more than 160 clubs and organizations, dabbling in everything from computer science to community service, languages and art. Club sports and intramurals are popular too, covering everything from bass fishing to rugby. Academics Academic clubs allow you to explore you interests outside of the classroom or experience another subject you are intrerested in. Biology Club Educators for Justice Political Science Club All Clubs Arts Arts clubs and organizations support creative interests from the student body either through visual art or performance. Acabellas Don't Tell Anna The International Animation Club All Clubs Business These organizations represent various business programs and draw in students from across disciplines who want to advance their experience with business. American Marketing Association Xavier Chapter Delta Sigma Pi Professional Fraternity Economics Association All Clubs Club Sports Club Sports are competitive teams that provide structured competition for student members who are non-intercollegiate athletes. Teams compete against other university teams throughout the Midwest. Sports can be either co-ed or single gender. Club Swimming Running Club Women's Club Softball All Clubs Greek Life The National Pan-Hellenic Council (NPHC) is the governing body of the historical Black Greek organizations known as the Divine Nine. The National Pan-Hellenic Council at Xavier University promotes interaction through forums, meetings and other mediums. Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority Inc. Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity Inc. Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc.- Rho Xi Chapter All Clubs Health Professions Organizations often help to network and connect students with professionals in the field and encourage collaboration across disciplines. Pre-Medical Student Association Psi Chi Psychology Club Student Nurse Organization All Clubs Identity Identity-based organizations unite underrepresented populations, students with similar ethnic background or a group of individuals identifying with a specific nationality or culture. Black Student Association Citizens of the World LGBTQ Alliance All Clubs Language and Culture Language and Culture organizations support student interest in exploring the language and history of various cultures. Several of these organizations are supported by academic programs where language and culture are taught within a discipline. French Club German Club Sign Language Club All Clubs Service and Social Justice Service and Social Justice organizations seek to offer students with opportunities to serve others, either through direct community service participation and philanthropic fundraising, or to support social justice causes by promoting a deeper understanding of an issue, igniting activism. Alternative Breaks Colleges Against Cancer Habitat for Humanity All Clubs Spirituality Spirituality based organizations engage members of a shared faith tradition with one another as well as members of multiple faith communities to celebrate their beliefs and to deepen their spiritual lives. Athletes in Action Coalition of Christian Organizations Life After Sunday All Clubs Wellness Wellness organizations serve to connect students with similar interests embodying wellness. Many of these organizations assist with bettering the student body through programming, advocacy and opportunities for educating others around health issues. Active Minds CHAARG Yoga and Holistic Awareness Club All Clubs Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Xavier University 3800 Victory Parkway Cincinnati, OH 45207 513-745-3000 Privacy Policy Accessibility Policy Non-Discrimination Policy Editor Access Xavier University on facebook Xavier University on twitter Xavier University on linkedin Xavier University on youtube Xavier University on instagram