Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Legal Affairs & General Counsel General Counsel right arrow down arrow Office of General Counsel right arrow down arrow Public Records Requests Contracting with UC Ethics Attorneys & Staff Contact Us Enterprise Risk Management right arrow down arrow Insurance & Claims right arrow down arrow Insurance Verification or Claims History right arrow down arrow Claims History / Proof of Insurance Request Non-Employee Exception Sheet Medical Malpractice Cross Reference Certificate of Insurance Loss Control & Training right arrow down arrow Drones right arrow down arrow Flight Request Form Fleet Safety right arrow down arrow Driver Registration Protection of Minors Special Events Student Organizations About the Process right arrow down arrow Staff FAQ's Ask a Risk Manager Privacy Internal Audit Home » About UC » Legal Affairs & General Counsel » Enterprise Risk Management » Loss Control & Training » Protection of Minors Set Navigation title in component Insurance & Claims Insurance Verification or Claims History Claims History / Proof of Insurance Request Non-Employee Exception Sheet Medical Malpractice Cross Reference Certificate of Insurance Loss Control & Training Drones Flight Request Form Fleet Safety Driver Registration Protection of Minors Special Events Student Organizations About the Process Staff FAQ's Ask a Risk Manager Protection of Minors What is the Protection of Minors Program? The University sponsors programs and activities that are specifically designed for children, for example, summer camps. The University also makes its facilities available to outside groups and organizations that conduct programs geared toward children. The University is committed to providing a safe environment for all members of our community as well as all those who participate in programs and activities on campus. This page is designed to raise awareness of some concerns affecting children and equip us to address such issues appropriately. Begin by watching United Educator's "Shine a Light" video (10 min), which highlights the importance of this topic and then take the applicable courses below. Accessing Minors on Campus Courses Below is a detailed set of instructions for both volunteers and others to login, access, and complete the required training for minors programs. University Employees UC Employees will access SuccessFactors Learning to register for and complete the required training material relevant to the Protection of Minors on Campus program. Employees can register for these programs directly from following the links below. The link will take you to the registration page for the program in SuccessFactors Learning. Click on "Enroll" to add the program and all learning content to your Learning Assignments. Protecting Minors Employee: Complete this course if you will be helping in a minors on campus program, but not directing or supervising employee or affiliate volunteers. Protecting Minors Supervisor: Complete this course if you will be supervising any part of a minors on campus program. Volunteer Login (Including University Students) Volunteers will register for, and complete the required training for the Protection of Minors on Campus program via the EduRisk training platform. Volunteers will need to follow the steps below after they have accessed the EduRisk education portal: Complete the Registration Form by entering first name, last name, and email. You will receive a welcome email with your username and temporary password. Follow the link in the email to sign in. You will be prompted to do the following: Enter a temporary password. Create a new password. Create and answer a security question. Once logged in, be sure to complete the course that has been assigned to you. Next Steps Review the Protection of Minors Policy and complete any required documentation and/or training. All providers of non-University sponsored programs must maintain similar coverage (General Liability $1 Million/ occurrence and $2 Million/aggregate, naming the University as an additional insured. Refer to URMIA to purchase sports camp coverage. Employees should refer to - Human Resources Resources Anonymous Reporting Hotline UC Public Safety Title IX Office If you ever suspect misconduct with a minor on our campus, REPORT IT! University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top