COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Global Studies, Major MajorGlobal Studies All Programs Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Anthropology Wichita State’s Bachelor of Arts (BA) field major in global studies allows you to focus your studies in multiple areas of interest—equipping you with skills and knowledge tailored to your career goals or graduate school plans. The global studies emphasis will enhance your perspective to help you operate as a well-informed global citizen in a world that’s increasingly connected, interdependent and complex. Learn how global studies is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted into the Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU's admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program International business group gives students competitive advantage Cynthia Matson's time at Wichita State shaped who she is today. As a business major, she was vice president of the Barton International Group, a student-run consulting firm through the Barton School of Business at WSU. Every fall, BIG takes undergraduate students from all majors and classes, ranging from finance to mechanical engineering for an opportunity to get involved in unique capacities. As a BIG member, students have the opportunity to gain a competitive advantage through real-world experience, working alongside business professionals from diverse industries in a fast, highly driven environment with other liked-minded students. Curriculum The major consists of 36 credit hours selected from a list of approved courses that either address their subjects from a global perspective or address geographic areas outside of the United States. View the curriculum Careers Thanks to WSU's extensive network of employer connections, field majors have opportunities to gain real-world experience in diverse areas—helping them build a resume, make professional connections and land their dream jobs. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Anthropology History Art History Sociology Geology Ethnic Studies 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©