Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Electrical and Computer Engineering Welcome Future Students Current Students Research People Contact Us Accreditation Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Doctor Who? Earn a Ph. D. in Engineering with EECE Concentration Engineer your future Choose the degree program that's right for you Herff College of Engineering View resources available to Herff students Dynamic Research Take part in research in Biomedical Imaging and Signal Processing, Nanotechnology, Electric Power, Biomedical Electronics and Advanced Sensors PreviousNext Take Action Degrees in EECE Faculty Resources Herff College of Engineering Contact Us Follow EECE Online Linkedn Nationally Ranked # 146 U.S. News and World Report Computer Engineering - Graduate View All Rankings Home EECE Electrical and Computer Engineering Congratulations EECE Graduates! Front lines of the digital revolution. Nowadays, what isn't digital? It's no secret that electrical and computer engineers are needed more than ever. Building and designing computer hardware and software, developing sustainable energy, inventing new ways to communicate information and control machinery are just a few of the things they do. That phone in your pocket? You can thank them for that. Herff puts you on the front lines of the digital revolution. Design devices and develop sustainable energy. Find ways to identify someone more accurately than their fingerprint. We're even working on ways to capture brain waves and revolutionize the way we teach and learn. It's not science fiction. It's real, and it's happening right now at Herff. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/11/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.