COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU Haysville Section Menu WSU Haysville About WSU Haysville Admissions Classes & Calendar WSU Haysville Contacts / Operation / Emergencies WSU Haysville Community Education Classes WSU Haysville Little Free Library WSU Haysville Traveling Art Exhibition Events at WSU Haysville Student Assistant Grads Highlights Serving Haysville and the greater Wichita area: convenient day and evening class schedules with small classes, comfortable learning environment, friendly student services and free parking. About Us Get Personalized Information WSU Haysville on Facebook The Latest WSU to remove mask requirement on campus; masks strongly recommended. Details. Please finish enrolling your summer and fall '22 classes at WSU South early to save your space. Summer and Fall '22 classes at WSU South. Celebrating and highlighting our graduating student assistants! Please visit www.wichita.edu/fall2021 and check your BlackBoard to get the latest course plans and information of classes you are enrolled in. Also, here is some important information on The First Day of Classes. Please visit a brand new WSU WSU Announcements page for a wealth of WSU/pandemic information. For questions and assistance, please contact us at 316.978.8000, or email michael.yeung@wichita.edu Serving Greater Wichita WSU Haysville is a WSU satellite facility inaugurated in the City of Haysville on July 1, 2018, to provide WSU learning opportunities to Haysville, Greater Wichita and the surrounding communities. For more information, please visit our "About" page. About WSU Haysville Happening at WSU Haysville Community Education Classes Discover our fun, non-credit courses offered through the Community Education Department. These popular classes will fill fast, so please enroll early. WSU Little Free Libraries Network In response to the community needs, WSU Haysville has established and maintains a popular network of Little Free Libraries with sponsorhip from and collaboration with various community members. Online transfer gateway Online transfer gateway gives easy answers for prospective transfer students interested in transferring from community college to WSU now have an transfer online gateway designed just for them. Other WSU News WSU South WSU News Quick Links These links may be useful to anyone considering becoming a WSU Haysville student. WSU Haysville spring '22 class schedules Noncredit community education classes Full WSU catalogs WSU Academic Calendar Become A WSU Shocker High School Guest Student online application Apply for admission Apply for degree (AFD) online Student reactivation Scholarships and financial aid Transcript request General Education classes and transfers 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©