Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Topics News and Events Date January 26, 2022 2022-01-26 Media Contact Brian E. Clark [email protected] 401-863-1638 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Brown extends test-optional policy for 2022-23 undergraduate admission cycle In recognition of the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on prospective students and their families, the University has extended for the second time its policy making the submission of standardized test scores optional. PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — With the COVID-19 pandemic continuing to impact prospective college students and their secondary school experiences across the globe, Brown University has extended its temporary test-optional undergraduate admission policy for a second time. The submission of SAT or ACT scores will be optional for applicants who apply for admission during the 2022-23 year. The University has already welcomed one class of incoming students — the Class of 2025, who arrived in Fall 2021 — under a test-optional policy that took effect in June 2020 after the onset of the pandemic. It was extended in Spring 2021, and Dean of Admission Logan Powell said this second extension will assist prospective students who are contending with the implications of COVID-19 during their final years of high school. “We recognize that the last two years have caused great disruption and difficulty for communities across the globe,” Powell said. “Our goal is to support prospective Brown students and their families during the application process as they simultaneously navigate the continued challenges of this global health crisis, and we hope that extending this policy plays a small part in assisting our next class of applicants.” "Our goal is to support prospective Brown students and their families during the application process as they simultaneously navigate the continued challenges of this global health crisis." Logan Powell Dean of Admission Powell said the Office of College Admission will continue to review SAT or ACT scores submitted by applicants who take the tests, but those who do not submit scores will face no disadvantage in the admission process. While tests have traditionally been one requirement for undergraduate admission, Brown considers each application holistically and individually, making admission decisions on a case-by-case basis to build a class that is both academically talented and reflective of the diverse range of perspectives and experiences essential for a world-class learning and research community. Applicants will be reviewed with the same foundational values that guide the work of the admission office, Powell said: “We are committed to reviewing every applicant individually and in context. A test score can be helpful in our evaluation process, but we always consider the whole person when making admission decisions.” The extension of the test-optional policy for the 2022-23 cycle applies to all first-year, transfer and Resumed Undergraduate Education applicants to Brown. The University will reevaluate the temporary policy before the 2023-24 admission cycle begins. The full policy statement and a set of FAQs are included on the Office of College Admission website. Tags Admission and Financial Aid Related news: News and Events In three ceremonies, medical, doctoral and master’s graduates celebrate hard-earned degrees May 29, 2022 In addresses at Brown’s Commencement ceremonies on Sunday, May 29, student speakers entreated their peers to make a positive impact using lessons they had learned during the COVID-19 pandemic. Read Article Open details for In three ceremonies, medical, doctoral and master’s graduates celebrate hard-earned degrees News and Events Student voices shine as Brown commemorates Class of 2022 May 29, 2022 In a sunny, spirited celebration, three Brown graduating seniors addressed Class of 2022 members, encouraging their fellow graduates to honor their roots while forging new paths ahead. Read Article Open details for Student voices shine as Brown commemorates Class of 2022 News and Events Brown confers nine honorary doctorates May 29, 2022 During Commencement and Reunion Weekend, the University bestowed honorary degrees on U.S. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Dr. Seth Berkley of the Vaccine Alliance, recording artist Shaggy and six other accomplished leaders. Read Article Open details for Brown confers nine honorary doctorates Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Brown extends test-optional policy for 2022-23 undergraduate admission cycle Open details for Brown extends test-optional policy for 2022-23 undergraduate admission cycle Bookmark this Page