Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information You are here Home > COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC > COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students > February 5, 2021: Update on COVID-19 Vaccine Distribution COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff February 5, 2021: Update on COVID-19 Vaccine Distribution Dear Colleagues, Vaccinations are continuing today, February 5th. As of today, over 44,000 faculty, staff, and students at NewYork-Presbyterian, Weill Cornell, and Columbia have received their first dose of the vaccine. There have also been over 35,000 second doses administered. This includes over 27,000 first and second doses administered on the CUIMC campus alone. The Armory site is open today and will be closed Saturday 2/6, Sunday 2/7 and Monday 2/8. CUIMC Employees Hours for The Armory, Myrna Daniels, and Workforce Health and Safety are posted here and are updated as changes occur: https://www.cuimc.columbia.edu/covid-19-resources-cuimc/covid-19-vaccine-information-cuimc-employees-and-students First Doses An important reminder that 1st doses at The Armory are only for CUIMC employees in 1A including those who are in patient facing roles who directly interact with patients, care team members and staff who provide in-person support to those delivering patient care, and those conducting COVID-19 tests, handling COVID-19 specimens, and administering COVID-19 vaccinations. Second Doses Second doses of the Pfizer vaccine are being administered to CUIMC employees in the Myrna Daniels Auditorium today. Second doses of the Moderna vaccine are not being administered this week. Important update for the CUIMC campus- second dose Pfizer vaccinations for employees and staff will be offered in the Myrna Daniels auditorium on Friday February 5, Friday February 12 and Friday February 19 onlyduring hours of operation 6am – 7:30pm. Individuals with scheduled return dates over the weekend or Monday-Thursday are invited to shift their dates to these Fridays. Second dose guidelines safely allow for a several day vaccination window. If an individual is unable to get their second vaccination on one of the Fridays above or prefer to return on a different day they may go to the Armory for second dose Pfizer vaccinationsduring hours of operation (7am-9pm) on the following days next week: Tuesday, 2.09.21 Wednesday, 2.10.21 Thursday, 2.11.21 Friday, 2.12.21 Saturday, 2.13.21 Patient and Community Vaccinations at the Armory At this time, per NYS guidelines, we are vaccinating people in Group 1B who are 65 years and older and who live in New York City. In addition, a minimum of 60% of all those appointments are reserved for eligible residents of the Washington Heights, Inwood, Harlem, and South Bronx communities. All existing appointments, including those for second vaccination doses, will be fully honored, even if the individual does not live in NYC. For those who meet these eligibility criteria outlined above, appointments can be made through Connect and appointment availability can be checked on the VaccineTogetherNY.org site. Information is also available at 646.697.VACC. Other vaccination sites in NYC and in NYS can be found here: NYC Vaccination Locations New York State Vaccination Locations Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) The FAQ documents on the CUIMC COVID Vaccine Information page continue to be updated, so please check the site for the latest versions. Below is a Question of the Day that relates to topics raised in recent Town Halls: How do I reschedule my appointment for the second dose? It is strongly recommended that you keep your appointment date for your second dose. If you tested POSITIVE for COVID-19 and are on home isolation OR if you were exposed to COVID-19 and are on home quarantine, you may receive your second dose AFTER you have met criteria to return to work and been cleared by the WH&S Hotline (646-697-9470). If you are unable to receive the second dose on the originally scheduled date for any reason, it should be given as close as possible to the original date. You can reschedule through Connect. If you are not currently registered, you may do so here. NOTE: You will be able to reschedule AFTER you miss your original second dose appointment. Thank you and stay safe! Magda Sobieszczyk MD, MPH Chief of Infectious Diseases and Co-Chair of the CUIMC COVID-19 Vaccine Committee Melissa Stockwell MD, MPH Chief of the Division of Child and Adolescent Health and Co-Chair of the CUIMC COVID-19 Vaccine Committee Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top