Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Current Students Alumni Recruiters Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About Overview Dean's Message Why the Carroll School? Diversity & Inclusion Diversity News Accreditation Board of Advisors Faculty Openings Visit Contact Related Links About Boston College Maps & Directions BC News Undergraduate Overview Academics Advising Peer Advisors Staff Advisors Concentrations Minors The Kevin Eidt Memorial Scholarship Career Accelerator Summer Management Catalyst Program Portico Careers Social Media CSOM Undergraduate Career Resources Placement Data Career Accelerator Study Abroad Community & Student Life FAQ CSOM Undergrad FAQs: COVID-19 Mar 13: Letter From Undergraduate Dean's Office Mar 20: Registration and Advising Updates Contact Graduate Overview Admission Visits and Events Tuition and Aid O’Brien Fellowship Graduate Admission FAQ International Applicants Information for U.S. Military MBA Programs Full-Time MBA Part-Time MBA Data Analytics Sequence Electives Applied Learning BC MBA Ambassadors M.S. Programs M.S. in Finance M.S. in Accounting Ph.D. Programs Ph.D. in Accounting Ph.D. in Finance Ph.D. in Organization Studies Community & Student Life Living in Boston Career Development Faculty Overview Faculty Directory Part-Time Faculty Faculty Expertise Departments Overview Concentrations Academics Accounting Undergraduate Concentrations Seminar Series Careers Message From the Chairperson Business Analytics Concentration & Academics Careers Seminar Series Message From the Chairperson Business Law & Society Finance Academics and Study Abroad F22 Registration Info Faculty Ph.D. Program Seminar Series Job Market Candidates Message From the Chairperson Information Systems Concentration & Academics Message From the Chairperson Seminar Series Management & Organization Concentration & Academics Seminar Series Careers Message From the Chairperson Marketing Concentration & Academics Careers Awards and Appointments Faculty Message From the Chairperson Fall 2022 Registration Centers Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Carroll School Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Current Students Alumni Recruiters BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Graduate MBA Programs MBA Programs Full-Time MBA Part-Time MBA Data Analytics Sequence Electives Applied Learning BC MBA Ambassadors The BC MBA Thought-leading faculty, dynamic learning opportunities, and the resources of a globally renowned university drive our students to master professional skills and build their brands. The same faculty from our undergraduate business school—ranked third in the country by Bloomberg Businessweek—teach our MBA students. They lead MBA courses and programs organized around a dynamic market-driven curriculum, designed to respond to employers’ constantly evolving needs. Through coursework and experiential learning, our students acquire both foundational business knowledge and real-world experience. They also hone a combination of hard and soft skills—building their expertise in areas like data analysis and public speaking and graduating with a well-rounded skillset applicable across industries and job functions. During their time here and throughout their careers, our students have access to the extensive and famously loyal Boston College alumni networks, which help them launch and accelerate rewarding careers. APPLY Inquire Visits and Events Graduate Admission Questions about graduate admission or programs? Email us, call us at 617-552-3920, or visit our Graduate Admission Blog. Your Life, Your MBA, Your Timeline Full-Time MBA The full-time MBA is a two-year degree that offers the skills and insights you need to take your career to the next level. Small class sizes provide you with a personalized experience, and you can tailor your MBA to your goals. The full-time MBA offers a wide range of experiential learning opportunities—through internships, competitions, real-world projects, study trips, skills-training workshops, and other experiences. Each cohort is comprised of carefully selected individuals who bring a diverse set of backgrounds and perspectives to class discussions, team projects, and applied learning opportunities. You will immerse yourself in a community of students who share a desire for learning, personal growth, and professional advancement. Two years to complete a degree On-campus program Accelerate your career or switch your career path Full-Time MBA Part-Time MBA Acquire the skills you need to accelerate your career on your own terms with our part-time MBA program. Students receive all benefits of the full-time MBA program but have access to convenient evening class times as well as online and hybrid courses—allowing you to maintain your career while furthering your education. All applicants to the part-time MBA program are considered for advanced-standing credit based on previous academic experience and professional certifications (such as CPA or CFA)—saving you time and money. Complete the degree in as few as 18 months Average time to complete is 3 years For eligible candidates, admission does not require the GMAT or GRE Part-Time MBA “Coming from getting a liberal arts degree in undergrad, and then working in finance, but primarily in client servicing and relationship management, I didn’t truly understand the importance of good data analytics skills. BC gave me a toolkit that I had been lacking, and the opportunity to leverage it to my advantage.” Kate Uehlinger (Full-Time MBA ’19) Sr. Associate Brand Manager, Mars, Incorporated “The BC network and brand recognition of the MBA program have opened doors for me ever since I started the program. The flexibility of the part-time program allowed me to ascend quicker into roles with greater responsibility, while enabling me to apply classroom concepts in real time.” Mike Barton (Part-Time MBA ’17) FP&A Manager, athenahealth Our Jesuit Heritage Boston College’s Jesuit heritage is at the core of the Carroll School community. Our graduate students bring to life the University’s commitment to the greater good by providing pro bono services to local nonprofits or acting as mentors in underserved communities. Graduate Community Back To Top Back To Top Carroll School of Management Fulton Hall Boston College 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467-3809 About the Carroll School Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Centers Contact Accreditation Apply Visit Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College