Open Mobile Nav Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Toggle navigation Search Campuses Coral Gables Campus Map and Directions Rosenstiel School Campus Map and Directions Miller School Campus Map and Directions Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Academics Admissions Student Life U Miami Home Research UHealth Athletics UM Home About UM Campuses AAA Campuses Coral Gables Campus Map and Directions Rosenstiel School Campus Map and Directions Miller School Campus Map and Directions The Coral Gables campus, the University’s main campus, is home to two colleges and seven schools and is located on a 239-acre tract in Coral Gables, approximately seven miles from downtown Miami. The Leonard M. Miller School of Medicine campus, in the Health District near downtown Miami, consists of 72 acres within the 153-acre University of Miami/Jackson Memorial Medical Center complex. The Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science is located on an 18-acre waterfront campus on Virginia Key in Biscayne Bay. The University of Miami has three campuses on more than 400 acres in Miami-Dade County locations stretching from Coral Gables and the city of Miami to South Dade. Coral Gables The Coral Gables campus, the University’s main campus, is home to two colleges and seven schools and is located on a 239-acre tract in Coral Gables, approximately seven miles from downtown Miami. These academic units include the School of Architecture, College of Arts and Sciences, Miami Herbert Business School, School of Communication, School of Education and Human Development, College of Engineering, School of Law, Phillip and Patricia Frost School of Music, and School of Nursing and Health Studies. The Division of Continuing and International Education is housed on the campus. The campus is one of South Florida’s prime destinations for a rich variety of arts and culture offerings. The Lowe Art Museum houses South Florida’s largest and most varied art collection and hosts traveling exhibitions. The Jerry Herman Ring Theatre brings vitality to the South Florida cultural community. The acoustically superb Gusman Concert Hall and Clarke Recital Hall are the sites of hundreds of concerts, including Festival Miami, spanning the musical spectrum that are presented by the Frost School of Music. The Cosford Cinema screens a wide variety of first-run, classic, rare, and art-house films. The Coral Gables campus is also home to the University’s celebrated intercollegiate athletics program. Since the millennium, many major new facilities have been added to the Coral Gables campus—Watsco Center, Weeks Music Library and Technology Center, Flipse Building, Epstein and Kosar Faculty Building at the School of Business Administration, Wolfson Building and International Buidling at the School of Communication, Perez Architecture Center, Schwartz Center for Nursing and Health Studies, Palley Pavillion for Contemporary Glass and Studio Arts at the Lowe Art Museum, University Village (the first housing project, which includes 800 student beds, in more than 35 years), Newman Alumni Center, and the Shalala Student Center. The Lennar Foundation Medical Center, a 200,000-square-foot ambulatory medical facility, opened on the campus in 2016. Miller School Campus The Leonard M. Miller School of Medicine campus, in the Health District near downtown Miami, consists of 72 acres within the 153-acre University of Miami/Jackson Memorial Medical Center complex. The medical center includes the medical school as well as three University-owned hospitals that are part of the University of Miami Health System (UHealth): University of Miami Hospital, Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center, and Anne Bates Leach Eye Hospital, home to the top-ranked Bascom Palmer Eye Institute. Our affiliated hospitals on the medical campus include Jackson Memorial Hospital, Holtz Children’s Hospital, and the Miami VA Medical Center. More than a dozen UHealth outpatient clinics are located in Miami-Dade, Broward, Palm Beach, and Collier counties. Miller School of Medicine faculty conduct more than 1,600 research projects in basic science and clinical care. The 15-story Clinical Research Building opened in 2006, and the nine-story Biomedical Research Institute, opened in 2009. The 252,000-square foot Miami Life Science and Technology Park, designed to foster biotechnology and other leading-edge innovations, opened in 2011. Rosenstiel School Campus The Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science is located on an 18-acre waterfront campus on Virginia Key in Biscayne Bay. In 2014 the $50 million Marine and Life Sciences Seawater Complex and the Alfred C. Glassell, Jr. SUSTAIN Building opened; the latter facility will enable researchers to study why some storms rapidly intensify into mega-hurricanes The campus is part of a 65-acre marine research and education district that includes two U.S. Department of Commerce National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration research laboratories and the MAST Academy, the Miami-Dade County magnet high school for marine science and technology. Richmond Facility The Richmond Facility, established in 2001, is a 76-acre site in south Miami-Dade County. Research facilities for the Rosenstiel School’s Center for Southeastern Tropical Advanced Remote Sensing (CSTARS) and Richmond Satellite Operations Center (RSOC) are located on a portion of the new facility. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 305-284-2211 UM Network About UM UM News and Events Admissions Alumni Association UHealth Hurricane Sports University Hotline UM Culture UOnline Programs Tools and Resources Academic Calendar People Search myUM CaneLink Blackboard Workday Employment DACA Information For the Media Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2021 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices Title IX & Gender Equity Website Feedback