Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Alumni Association Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Alumni Clubs Alumni Community Benefits CAA Arts Access Career Resources Events Get Involved News Columbia Alumni Association You are here: Home CAA Chicago | Virtual Wine & Sake Comparative Tasting Event Events Past Event CAA Chicago | Virtual Wine & Sake Comparative Tasting Event Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo May 19, 2022 6:30 PM - 8:45 PM America/Chicago Online Join Columbia graduate and Chicago’s Elliot Wine School Owner and Founder, Miranda Elliot, along with your fellow alumni and friends for a guided comparative tasting of wine and sake. Miranda is an Advanced Sommelier with a BA in Classical Studies from Columbia University, has been a sommelier at several top Chicago restaurants, and was named by Zagat as one of Chicago’s 30 under 30 and a Chicagoist’s Top Ten Buzz-worthy Sommelier. Miranda has won several wine competitions and has held positions in education, sales, and import and distribution of French, Italian, Portuguese, and domestic wines. Miranda launched Elliot Wine School LLC which offers beverage and WSET classes, certifications, private wine education events, and consulting. During the event, Miranda will discuss styles of wine and sake, proper methods for tasting, how to choose wine and sake at retail shops or in restaurants, and answer questions you may have about these topics or Miranda’s experiences as a sommelier. Since this is a virtual event by necessity, YOU must provide your own wine and sake to fully participate in the event. We’ve listed the types to be discussed below but it’s up to you to select those you want to taste during the event. We recommend you have at least one wine and one sake for tasting purposes. Wines Light, unoaked white wine (examples: Chablis, Pinot Grigio, Sancerre, New Zealand Sauvignon Blanc) Light-bodied red wine (examples: Pinot Noir, Beaujolais) Full-bodied, tannic red wine (examples: Cabernet, Malbec, Barolo) Sake Honjozo Ginjo or Daiginjo Nigori Time: 6:30 p.m. – 8:15 p.m. Central Standard Time Cost: No cost for Chicago Club Members/Sponsors, $10 for non-members. Non-members can become members through the Club website for $50 and pay no fee for this event and receive member pricing on future events. Contact Information CAA Chicago [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Alumni Center 622 West 113th Street, Mail Code 4525 · New York, NY 10025 Phone 212-851-7800 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close