Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links BC Bands Menu Main Nav BC Bands Contact Us Back Back Close About Overview Meet Our Staff Sebastian Bonaiuto David P. Healey, Ph.D. Kara Robbins Tim Leonelli Karen Sayward Brian Shanbrun Andre Sonner Band Alumni Rental and Repairs Ensembles Overview Marching Band University Wind Ensemble BC bOp! Jazz Ensemble Symphonic Band: SymBa Pep Band Dance Team Sights & Sounds Get Involved Contact Us Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Division of Student Affairs Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close The Boston College Bands program was founded in 1919 with 30 members. Today, we have six ensembles with over 250 members. We perform for thousands of enthusiastic fans at dozens of high-profile local, regional, and national events each year. Find your best friends, perform at the highest levels, and make the most of your time at Boston College! Our Ensembles Interested in joining BC Bands? Participate in one of our Virtual Meet and Greets! Sign up Form Wind Ensemble This highly skilled ensemble performs literature for winds and percussion. Members receive a small scholarship and free private lessons. Auditions are in the fall. Dance Team The Golden Eagles Dance Team is the official Dance Team of the Boston College “Screaming Eagles” Marching Band Marching Band The “Screaming Eagles” have traveled the globe to represent BC at football games, parades, and international celebrations. Membership is open to all students. Jazz Ensemble Instrumental & Vocal Jazz Ensemble, BC bOp!, performs great jazz in a big band setting on campus, throughout New England, and nationally. Membership is by audition. Symphonic Band The Symphonic Band, affectionately known as SymBa, is the largest concert ensemble at Boston College, with membership open to the entire BC community. Pep Band Considered the musical voice of BC athletic traditions for nearly a century, BC's Pep Band offers students the excitement of performing at men’s and women’s basketball and hockey games. BC Bands BCBop Marching Band Pep Band SymBa Wind Ensemble Stay Informed We send concert and event announcements plus notable news as it happens throughout the semester. Join our e-mail list to stay informed. Sign up Connect With Us @BCBandsOfficial @BCMarchingBand @BCMarchingBand @TheBCMarchingBand bands@bc.edu Prospective Students Applying to Boston College? Interested in learning more about BC Bands? We want to hear from you. Take Our Survey Back To Top Back To Top Boston College Bands Program Conte Forum 213 617-552-3018 bands@bc.edu About Ensembles Sights & Sounds Get Involved Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College