Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts Home » UC News » Search Keyword Events Include Events (default) Exclude Events Only Show Events Only Show Past Events Only Show Upcoming Events Start Date End Date topics Select topics Answers Arts & Culture Athletics Bicentennial College bound COVID-19 Diversity Entrepreneurship Experience-based Learning Faculty Staff Health Impact In The News Insights International Must Read Next Lives Here Science & Tech Student Experience Thought Leadership colleges Select colleges College of Arts and Sciences Blue Ash College College of Allied Health Sciences College-Conservatory of Music College of Engineering and Applied Science College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services Clermont College Lindner College of Business College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing Online College of Pharmacy units Select units Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Continuing Education Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources UCIT Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Author Clear All Filters {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove Angela Koenig | Archives Angela is a public information officer for the Media Relations + Content team with Marketing + Communications. She is the content and media representative for the College of Arts and Sciences and the James L. Winkle College of Pharmacy. angela.koenig@uc.edu | 513-558-4625 804 Results Sort By: Newest First right arrow down arrow Newest First Oldest First KNX In Depth: Twitter cracks down on misinformation May 27, 2022 Social media expert Jeffrey Blevins featured guest on live radio show, KNX InDepth. The topic is Twitter and information regulation. DAAP grad Lee Wilger lands job at Relativity Textiles in... May 26, 2022 Relativity Textiles offers co-op experiences for DAAP students, and Lee Wilger is returning there as an employee. WLWT: ‘Everyone is attacking everyone’: cyberattacks skyrocket May 18, 2022 Cyber theft is on the uptick and everyone with a digital connection is at risk, say cyber security experts NEWSNATION: Air Force says it successfully tested hypersonic... May 18, 2022 U.S. test of hypersonic weapons is a field exercise, but shows capability, says UC political scientist Dinshaw Mistry WCPO: Expert discusses social media's role in Buffalo mass... May 17, 2022 Social media gives those with ill intent a faceless way to research reasons and ways to harm others UC industrial design students use VR technology to model the... May 9, 2022 VR software provided by corporate partner Gravity Sketch assists UC industrial design students in mocking up transportation designs faster than old school sketching technique. Lifewire: Why Twitter users are flocking to Mastodon May 4, 2022 New social media platforms gain traction now that Musk has acquired Twitter, but they lack what Twitter already has, says UC social media expert Jeffrey Blevins. Reuters: Trump backed candidate wins Republican nomination for... May 4, 2022 Political scientist David Niven describes J.D. Vance nomination for Ohio U.S. senator as a slim victory among other Trump supporters in the Republication primary. The Columbus Dispatch: If abortion banned in Ohio… April 27, 2022 Sociologist Danielle Bessett writes guest column on potential abortion ban in Ohio. The Tampa Bay Times: What are ‘tactical’ nuclear weapons...? April 22, 2022 If Russia drops nuclear bombs it will become a pariah, says UC political scientist Brendan Green. The Los Angeles Times: French accuse Russian mercenaries of... April 22, 2022 UC political scientist Alexander Thurston weighs in on images of burials in Mali, West Africa WVXU: Journalists shouldn't call themselves 'storytellers' April 22, 2022 Media coverage continues on a study of journalist's using the term 'storyteller' in their credentials. It's not a good idea, the study says. UC researchers looking for the Goldilocks of exosuits April 20, 2022 Research team led by Vesna Novak studies improvements needed to make exosuits a viable tool for relieving back strain. UC launches School for Public and International Affairs: SPIA April 20, 2022 The University of Cincinnati is pleased to launch the new School of Public and International Affairs (SPIA) within the College of Arts and Sciences. WVXU: Analysis: Republicans want Ohio's Chief Justice impeached. April 15, 2022 Vote against Ohio's redistricting maps draw ire of GOP. UC expert says it's unfair to target one person. Load More Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top