Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Search Type Faculty & Staff Event Featured Profile News Opportunity Resource Student Research Project Videos Search Menu Info for… [Select an Audience] [Select An Audience] Admitted Graduate Students Current Graduate Students Employers Departments» Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics Biomedical Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering and Engineering Mechanics Computer Science Earth and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering Industrial Engineering and Operations Research Mechanical Engineering Admissions» Application Requirements Apply Admissions Events Campus Tours Frequently Asked Questions Graduate Funding Opportunities Tuition and Financial Aid Visit Us Brochures Graduate Student Life» Professional Development & Leadership Housing New Student Checklist Student Organizations Campus Resources Graduate Career Placement Graduation Class Day 2022 events for Graduate Students Fellowships & Opportunities The Graduate Student Affairs Team Graduate Students Resources Events & Activities Diversity and Community Engagement» Events Student Life Bridge to PhD Program Graduate Enrollment Services» Registration Requests Change of Status Change of Status Forms Learning Online Resources List» Columbia Engineering COVID-19 Emergency Fund for Doctoral Students Virtual Event Opportunities» Welcome New Students!» New Student Checklist Admitted Student Webinars Applying for a Visa Campus Resources Connect Engineering Welcome Day & Orientation Housing Information International Student Panel Frequently Asked Questions Program Kick-Off Schedule Apply Now News Bulletin Graduate Engineering Home > Admissions Campus Tours Application Requirements Apply Admissions Events Campus Tours Frequently Asked Questions Graduate Funding Opportunities Tuition and Financial Aid Visit Us Brochures Visit Columbia Engineering (virtually!) on a tour designed for prospective graduate students. We look forward to showing you around the campus we call home. Details Join us for a live virtual campus tour! This tour is specifically designed for students who are applying to, or have been admitted to, a Master's or Doctoral program at Columbia Engineering. The campus tour will showcase campus highlights such as the Seeley W. Mudd Building, Pupin Hall, The Northwest Corner Building, Science & Engineering Library, Low Library, College Walk, and more. Take in all that Columbia Engineering has to offer, from the comfort of your home! RSVP for a live virtual tour now! Unable to join us for a live virtual tour? Watch the Columbia University Virtual Tour now. In light of evolving information about COVID-19 (novel coronavirus) and out of an abundance of caution, Columbia Engineering will not be offering in-person Graduate Engineering Campus Tours at this time. We want to ensure the safety and well-being of our entire Columbia community, including you, our guests. We look forward to resuming these tours as soon as we are able. In the meantime, feel free to visit campus virtually by viewing our Virtual Tour. Campus Highlights Let Roar-ee show you a few of his favorite spots on the Columbia Engineering Campus Tour! Low Memorial Library is the heart of campus. Butler Library is Columbia's largest library, with over 2 million volumes! A visit to campus wouldn't be complete without stopping by Alma Mater, and trying to find her hidden owl. Will you be succesful in spotting it? Scholars Lion, a gift from alumnus and sculptor Greg Wyatt, makes for a great photo opportunity! The Northwest Corner building, home to interdisciplinary research and the Science & Engineering Library. Admissions Events Check out our many other event offerings! Admissions Events Directions Please note that the Office of Graduate Admissions is not currently accepting visitors in-person. However, we are happy to set up virtual appointments for you. Please contact us at [email protected]. The Office of Graduate Admissions is located in the S.W. Mudd Building at 500 West 120th Street (between Broadway and Amsterdam Avenue), Suite 1220. To access our office, enter the S.W. Mudd Building from 120th St, or from the campus entrance, and take the elevator to the 12th Floor. Make a right upon exiting the elevator. Having trouble? Give us a call at 212-854-3543. Office of Graduate Student Affairs 500 W. 120th Street New York, NY 10027 Admissions (212) 854-4688 | [email protected] Academics and Student Affairs (212) 854-6438 | [email protected] Apply Now Plan a Visit Directory Columbia Engineering Columbia University