COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU News - All Stories For WSU News and WSU Today content older than July 2018, Search the WSU News Archive. WSU News Archive Return to WSU News Home Filter by: All students Applied Learning Faculty/Staff Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences pandemic community Alumni College of Engineering COVID-19 Research Graduate Profiles Community Engagement Innovation Campus Life Diversity/Inclusion Scholarships Talent Pipeline Innovation Campus College of Applied Studies College of Health Professions SearchDirectory Filter Search Sport management junior tells student-athletes' stories Aug. 29, 2019 -- Aliyah Funschelle is a junior studying sport management at Wichita State University. She is the campus representative for the American Athletic Conference and provides stories about WSU student-athletes to the network. University Innovation Fellows preparing Shockers for the future Jan. 28 2019 -- RJ Clark is a graduate student at Wichita State and is one out of six WSU students accepted last year into Stanford’s prestigious University Innovation Fellow (UIF) program. Discovering study locations through Innovation Fellows Jan. 2 2019 -- Maggie Brown is a sophomore aerospace engineer major and is one of a only six Wichita State students chosen as a University Innovation Fellow. Student athlete gains experience through KMUW internship Dec. 6, 2018 -- Trudy Martin is a fifth-year senior at WSU studying electronic media and is an intern at KMUW. First generation student sets the model for others to follow December 6, 2018-- First generation student Ana Lopez found that determination and passion trumped uncertainty every time. Entrepreneurial students bring StartUp Grind U to WSU Nov. 2, 2018 -- Jessica Aldrich, a graduate student at Wichita State University, is leading the way in bringing StartUp Grind U to WSU. StartUp Grind is a global startup company designed to educate, inspire and connect entrepreneurs. Student improves skills working in real-world classroom Oct. 31, 2018 -- Wichita State student Suzie Wright, a social work major, had the opportunity to work with children through an applied learning experience at the Wichita State Child Development Center. Student gets hands-on experience through police internship Oct. 31, 2018 -- Lauren Gawlak, a junior studying criminal justice at Wichita State, spent the summer gaining firsthand experience as an intern with the Lenexa Police Department. Jump!Star gives student a taste of her dream job Oct. 26, 2018 -- As part of a summer class, senior fine arts major Xuan Ha got the opportunity to work on the Jump!Star sculpture, working to fabricate a large, illuminated paper sculpture. Sophomore turns struggles into success Sept. 19, 2018 -- Carli McCloud, a sophomore majoring in exercise science, was told she would never be able to cheer again after being diagnosed with a degenerative bone disorder. She's currently a member of the WSU Spirit Squad. The best wheelchair tennis player in America is a 19-year-old from Wichita April 11, 2018--Wichita State University student -- and Wichita native -- Casey Ratzlaff has become the No. 1 wheelchair tennis player in the United States. Student uses drone imaging for hurricane relief effort in Texas October 25, 2017--Wichita State University student James Balman is in Rockport, Texas furthering hurricane relief efforts by utilizing drones with neural imaging technology to assess damage to buildings following Hurricane Harvey. Cousin with autism inspires WSU student to write children's book Internship awakens student's love for helping others Competition winners look to provide for homeless, continue innovation April 10, 2017--When Michael Lee and Kristian Buan enrolled in Engineering 101, they never imagined they would win Wichita State University's first Koch Innovation Challenge. 1 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©