COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU News - All Stories For WSU News and WSU Today content older than July 2018, Search the WSU News Archive. WSU News Archive Return to WSU News Home Filter by: All students Applied Learning Faculty/Staff Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences pandemic community Alumni College of Engineering COVID-19 Research Graduate Profiles Community Engagement Innovation Campus Life Diversity/Inclusion Scholarships Talent Pipeline Innovation Campus College of Applied Studies College of Health Professions SearchDirectory Filter Search Wichita State grad primed to start new job at Amazon April 20, 2020 -- Aidan Jude – a spring 2020 Wichita State University graduate in electrical engineering, computer engineering and mathematics – will be embarking on a full-time career as a software engineer for Amazon web services in July. New students get jump start in Summer Research Institute April 16, 2020 -- Many Wichita State University freshmen enter college with undecided majors. WSU offers programs that expose students to different fields of work so they will be informed when deciding on their major. One of these programs is the Summer Research Institute. Wichita State junior wins national cybersecurity competition April 10, 2020 - Wichita State computer science major Dexter Gerig placed first in the Individual Event of the National Cyber League competition.The cybersecurity competition, over two days and eight hours, involved a series of 40 challenges with 155 questions. Connections, encouragement help Shockers deal with new circumstances April 9, 2020 - Wichita State faculty, staff and students are helping each other deal with the pandemic. Whether it's a fun Zoom meeting, a phone call or help with a technology question, examples are abundant of people working together in a difficult time. Wichita State junior pitches in with sewing to make protective masks April 2, 2020 - Wichita State softball pitcher Caitlin Bingham is sewing protective masks for medical personnel during the COVID-19 pandemic. Wichita State teams with community to produce face shields for first responders March 30, 2020 - The relationship between Wichita State's College of Engineering and the Wichita Police Department led to 3D printing of face shields used by first responders. Wichita State announces eight new Koch Scholars The Wichita State Dorothy and Bill Cohen Honors College is proud to announce eight recipients of the Koch Scholars program for the fall 2020 semester. Each of the students will receive between $30,000 and $45,000 during their four-year attendance at WSU. WSU professors and students recognized for innovative research March 11, 2020 -- Three Wichita State University researchers and a student group have been awarded the John A. See Innovation Award. Wichita State licenses wind turbine protection technology to Lightning Diversion Systems Feb. 26, 2020 -- Wichita State University and WSU Ventures have entered into a new strategic partnership with California-based Lightning Diversion Systems, a Ducommun Company. The partnership involves the exclusive licensing of a lightning strike protection system for rotor blades in the wind turbine industry. Recent WSU grad helps transform hazardous training with virtual reality Feb. 20, 2020 -- Dane Laughlin started working for INVISTA, Koch Industries’ textiles, polymers, fiber and resin producer, while he was a biomedical engineering student at Wichita State and got hired on full time after graduating in May 2019. Wichita State awards $228,000 in engineering scholarships Feb. 7 2020 -- Ten high school seniors have won the 2020 Wallace Scholarship in engineering to attend Wichita State University. Gift to Wichita State will fund solar panel, electrical research Feb. 5, 2020 -- Thanks to a generous gift from utility company Evergy, students in the College of Engineering at Wichita State University can learn about and conduct research on solar power technology, as well as how to protect an electric grid from short circuiting. Three high school seniors win $64,000 Gore scholarships to attend Wichita State Jan. 31, 2020 -- Wichita State University has selected the 2020 recipients of the Harry Gore Memorial Scholarships. Each student will receive a $64,000 scholarship to attend Wichita State University in August 2020. WSU, Butler create powerful degree pathway in biomedical engineering Dec. 19, 2019 -- Those interested in a career in biomedical engineering just received another degree option that’s closer to home. Wichita State University and Butler Community College have joined forces to create a 2+2 agreement that articulates a complete four-year plan of study in biomedical engineering. Three WSU students recognized as new University Innovation Fellows Dec. 18, 2019 -- Stanford University’s Hasso Plattner Institute of Design has named three Wichita State students as University Innovation Fellows. Jacob Burns, Molly Carlson and Savannah Redfern will join more than 2,000 Fellows at 267 institutions worldwide. First Previous ... 4 5 6 7 8 Next Last 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©