Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Fogelman College - Department of Business Information and Technology Welcome Programs Faculty Research Admissions & Current Students FCBE Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Programs Degree Programs Certificate Programs Apply Now Take Action Contact Us Return to FCBE Follow Us Online FacebooktwitterYoutube Home BIT Programs Graduate Certificate Program In Data Analytics for Technology Graduate Certificate Program in Data Analytics for Technology The business intelligence and analytics discipline has become very important in information systems and industry, due to increased access to big data, unstructured and structured data, and strategic business decision making. These increasingly complex decision making capabilities lead directly to competitive advantage and increased profits. Thus, trained business analysts with skills in addressing data management and business intelligence and analytics are in high demand. Memphis-area companies are particularly interested in employees and applicants with business intelligence and analytics skills. The objectives of this certificate program will be to educate individuals in the current tools, techniques, and processes of business intelligence and analytics, so that they can effectively contribute to industry analytics efforts with a specific emphasis in the integration of data from a variety of business processes and sources. It will also develop individuals' applied data analytics skills so that they can serve in appropriate corporate roles. Specifically, it will deal with techniques and methods, including artificial neural networks, decision trees, nearest neighbor approaches, predictive modeling, and genetic algorithms. The program will offer guidance on building the business case, building the model including problem definition and data evaluation, and evaluation of the model. ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS Same as College and University requirements The certificate program in Data Analytics for Technology may be pursued concurrently with other graduate programs at the University of Memphis. To be approved for the program, students currently admitted to a graduate program at this University must complete an application form and submit it and a current graduate transcript to the Department of Business Information and Technology for review. Non-degree seeking graduate students may also pursue this certificate program of study. To be approved for the program, these students must submit evidence of this non-degree-seeking graduate student status, along with the completed application form, to the Department of Business Information and Technology for review. Admission to this certificate program is not an implied acceptance into any master's degree program in the Fogelman College of Business and Economics. You do not need a GRE or GMAT score for admission into the certificate program unless applying for degree-seeking status to earn master's degree. Program Requirements Please visit the Data Analytics for Technology entry in the graduate catalog for more information on these courses. This program requires completion of 12 semester credit hours, as follows: The following 4 courses must be satisfactorily completed for a total of 12 hours of credit. (Note that the first and last class listed are mandatory, but the middle two sections have options). MIS 7190 - Programing For Business Choose one of these three hours (one course) from this group: MIS 7660 - Advanced Data Management COMP 7116 - Adv Database Systems Choose one of these three hours (one course) from this group: MIS 7620 - Business Machine Learning I ** COMP 7118 - Data Mining ** MIS 7621 - Business Machine Learning II Graduation Requirements To obtain the certificate, a student must complete all four of the required courses with an average grade of 3.0 (B) or higher, for a total of 12 credits. In the semester of graduation, the student must submit an Intent to Graduate form to the Graduate School and a Graduate Certificate Candidacy form to the College Director of Graduate Studies by the deadline specified by the Graduate School. Course Descriptions Please visit the Data Analytics for Technology entry in the graduate catalog. Contact Us To apply or for more information, please contact: Dr. Euntae "Ted" Lee Email | 901.678.2697 To apply, please visit the Graduate Admissions website. * Means that a class can be substituted out to replace that class, if given permission. ** Means the course can be offered online some semesters. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/11/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.