Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Earth Sciences About Programs Faculty Research Student Resources Career Path Make a Gift Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Take Action Apply Now! News and Colloquium Field Activities Contact Us Home Earth Sciences Earth Sciences News News Earth Sciences graduate program to be featured at UM Tigers vs. Tulsa game, Nov. 10. We will have an Earth Sciences booth and displays along Tiger Lane. Please join us! See this link for more information about the game. The Department of Earth Sciences Graduate Program is again ranked by US News and World Report! This year we are at 111th, a minor drop from last years' 106th ranking. We continue to strive for excellence in all that we do! For a complete list of UofM degree rankings, visit https://www.memphis.edu/academics/rankings.php Colloquium Spring 2022 Department Newsletters Fall 2019 Fall 2017 Fall 2016 Fall 2015 Fall 2014 New Documentary Video Earth Sciences graduate student investigates recharge to the Memphis aquifer through work at CAESER (Center for Applied Earth Science and Engineering Research) The Department of Earth Sciences Joins WeatherBug Schools Program The Department of Earth Sciences has joined the WeatherBug Schools Program. WeatherBug (www.weatherbug.com) is a provider of consumer and professional weather products and services and operator of the nation's largest weather observing and lightning network. The University has installed a WeatherBug station, which is able to provide weather data for meteorological teams at WREG, News Channel 3, and stations across the country to broadcast on-air and online. The program will allow UofM students to more effectively understand weather and climate phenomena. "We will integrate the STEM-enhancing capabilities of our new WeatherBug station into our laboratory exercises," said Dr. Dorian Burnette, assistant professor of Earth Sciences. "Students will not only be able to compare weather observations at the University of Memphis with other weather stations nearby and around the world, but also use the graphing tools and past weather observations stored on our new station's website to assess extreme weather events." In addition to helping protect the community, WeatherBug provides an engaging teaching tool for educators. WeatherBug software enables teachers to apply real-world conditions to help teach skills and concepts in math, science and geography. The current weather conditions at Johnson Hall can be accessed here. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/3/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.