Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Parking Services Parking right arrow down arrow Locations right arrow down arrow Maps Visitors right arrow down arrow Maps Uptown UC Blue Ash UC Clermont 1819 Innovation Hub UC Reading Victory Parkway Students right arrow down arrow Uptown UC Blue Ash UC Clermont Leased Properties Parking Permits Faculty & Staff right arrow down arrow Uptown UC Blue Ash UC Clermont 1819 Innovation Hub Victory Parkway UC Reading Value Pass Mobile Pay Instructions Citations right arrow down arrow View Account Events right arrow down arrow Events Calendar Football Basketball College-Conservatory of Music Event & Meeting Planners Other Event Prepaid Parking Instructions Athletic Events Prepaid Parking Resources right arrow down arrow Policies How-To Videos Alternative Transportation FAQ Home » About UC » Parking Services » Faculty & Staff Set Navigation title in component Uptown UC Blue Ash UC Clermont 1819 Innovation Hub Victory Parkway UC Reading Value Pass Mobile Pay Instructions Faculty & Staff Parking Permits In order to park in campus parking facilities, all UC employees must purchase a parking permit, regardless of work shift or pay the hourly rate in a visitor facility. Please make sure to review the permit guidelines and instructions for purchasing a permit prior to purchasing a parking permit. If you arrive on campus and the sign for your permitted garage says FULL, space is still available for permit holders. The FULL sign is directed towards visitors to campus. When you need to provide parking for visitors, convenient options are available. If you're planning an event, review instructions for Event & Meeting Planners. purchase a permit or view your account UC Blue Ash and UC Clermont Daily Parking Option New! A mobile pay option* has been released for those faculty and staff customers that wish to pay daily in lieu of a permit. Please note the following: There is a 30-minute free option for loading/unloading, and is limited to one (1) use per day. There is a $2 flat rate for all-day parking. Using mobile pay allows you to park in the yellow-lined stalls. There is no reciprocity on other campuses with the mobile pay option. How it works: Text UCBLUA (or UCCLER) to 25023. Follow the prompts to make your payment. The vehicle license plate number is required. Credit cards can be stored for future payments. An account can be set up to email you receipts for your parking sessions. Interested in learning more about Mobile Pay? Watch this how-to-video to see how it works! *Attention T-Mobile Users: It has been determined that some individuals with T-mobile service will receive a Server Access Denied message when attempting to use the mobile pay option. Please refer to this article on how to resolve the issue. Customer feedback indicates that contacting T-mobile may be a better option for resolving the issue. UC Victory Parkway & UC Reading Daily Parking Option New! A mobile pay option* has been released for those faculty and staff customers that wish to pay daily in lieu of a permit. Please note the following: There is a 30-minute free option for loading/unloading, and is limited to one (1) use per day. There is a $5 flat rate for all day parking. There is no reciprocity on other campuses with the mobile pay option. How it works: Text UCVICPARK (or UCREADCAM) to 25023. Follow the prompts to make your payment. Vehicle license plate number is required. Credit cards can be stored for future payments. An account can be set up to email you receipts for your parking sessions. Interested in learning more about Mobile Pay? Watch this how-to-video to see how it works! *Attention T-Mobile Users: It has been determined that some individuals with T-Mobile service will receive a Server Access Denied message when attempting to use the mobile pay option. Please refer to this article on how to resolve the issue. Customer feedback indicates that contacting T-Mobile may be a better option for resolving the issue. Available Facilities Faculty and Staff may select a parking facility from which to purchase a permit. Parking facilities currently available for permit purchase can be found on the following pages by location. Uptown Campus Rates Blue Ash Campus Clermont Campus 1819 Innovation Hub Reading Campus Victory Parkway Campus Waitlisted Facilities University of Cincinnati staff , faculty and designated affiliates are eligible for placement on one waiting list. When a waiting list exists, a faculty or staff member must go to the Parking Services portal and place his/her name on the list. Designated affiliates will work with parking staff to add their name to a list, when appropriate. When a space becomes available in the parking facility, the first individual on that list will be notified either by phone or in writing. Individuals who do not respond within the set period of time will be removed from the list. It is the responsibility of the individual to update contact information on file. The university reserves the right to move individuals outside of the waitlist policy when it is in the best interest of the university. Approval for exceptions will be made by the vice president responsible for parking services. Permit Options Effective August 1, 2020 Payroll Deduction Permits Full-time and 50 percent FTE part-time employees (non-student) may use pre-tax payroll deduction to pay for permits. Permits on payroll deduction will automatically renew each month, so it is the employee's responsibility to contact Parking Services to cancel their parking. How to Purchase Log in to the parking portal using your central login Click on Get Permits Select the Payroll Auto-Renewal permit for the facility of your choice. Only facilities that are currently available will be shown. Follow the prompts to finish the purchasing process. You will see the pro-rated amount for the current month listed. A deduction for the pro-rated amount and the first full month will appear on your paycheck the following month, For example, a permit purchased in June will have the pro-rated amount for June and the full month of July deducted on the last paycheck of July. Access to any gated facility will be added to the UC ID within 2 hours of purchase. Monthly Permits Individuals not eligible for payroll deductions (e.g., fellows, visiting faculty, contractors, adjunct faculty below 50% FTE, etc.) may purchase a monthly permit. Payroll eligible employees may choose to purchase a monthly permit in lieu of the automatically renewing payroll deduction permit. University employees may purchase the monthly permit online. Individuals not on payroll deduction may renew online prior to the expiration date, or in the office for up to three months. How to Purchase Online - Credit Card Only University Employees Log in to the parking portal using your central login Click on Get Permits Select the Monthly permit for the facility of your choice. Only facilities that are currently available will be shown. Follow the prompts to finish the purchasing process. You will see the pro-rated amount for the current month listed. After the initial purchase, you can renew the permit online prior to the expiration date, for up to three months at a time. Access to any gated facility will be added to the UC ID within 2 hours of purchase. In-Office Purchase The pro-rated amount for the current month will be due and can be paid for by cash, check or credit card. You can also renew up to 3 months at the point of purchase. Cancellations The permit holder is responsible for notifying the Parking Services office to cancel parking. Refunds for cancelled parking are made on a prorated basis. Retroactive refunds are not offered for failure to terminate parking in a timely manner. No refunds are issued for permits revoked due to misuse. For any questions, please contact us at parking@uc.edu or 513-556-2283. Monthly Payroll deduction permit holders For permit holders currently using monthly payroll deduction, you are able to cancel your permit online. Parking must be terminated online prior to the last day of the month to stop future payroll deductions.  Any pro-rated refund will be issued in the month following cancellation. For example, a cancellation in July will result in a refund issued on the August paycheck. Instructions for processing are listed below. You may also cancel by visiting the parking office. Returning a Payroll deduction parking Permit Online Login to the parking portal with your UC central login Click on View Your Permits Select the current active permit Scroll to the bottom and click on Return Permit Complete the requested information and click Submit Permit Details will display, and status will change to “Returned” Pro-rated refund will be issued on your following month's paycheck Non-payroll deduction permit holders For permit holders using non-payroll deduction, permit cancellation must be conducted in the Parking Services office. Employees may phone or visit the parking office in 4 Edwards Center (51 Corry Blvd. | Cincinnati, Ohio 45221) to terminate parking on their last workday. Office hours are 8 a.m. to 4 p.m., Monday - Friday. If you pay your permit by any other means, please contact our office at 513-556-2283 to process the return. Voucher Pass Order Form Visitor Parking will be charged to the designated department's account as vouchers are used. You may wish to use our convenient form to track vouchers through the accounting process. Your visitors may appreciate a copy of the instructions on how to use the vouchers. Print several pages, and cut them into quarters. An expedite service fee of $15 will be assessed to all voucher orders requested with a “Date Needed” of less than 5 business days from the order date. An expedite service fee of $25 will be assessed to all voucher orders requested with a “Date Needed” of less than 4 business days from the order date. Parking Voucher Pass Order Form 1819 Visitor Coupons The 1819 Coupon Request Form allows occupants of the 1819 Innovation Hub to give their visitors a code to use at the pay station. The occupant will be charged or billed for the visitor’s parking expense. You can submit a request for them below. Please read the instructions carefully. 1819 coupon request form Parking Services University of Cincinnati 4 Edwards Center 51 Corry Boulevard Cincinnati, OH 45221-0624 513-556-2283 parking@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Parking Services University of Cincinnati 4 Edwards Center 51 Corry Boulevard Cincinnati, OH 45221-0624 513-556-2283 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top