Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open the search panel Open the main menu Search Go Close the search panel Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers News Events Alumni Giving About Library Login Open the Search panel Admissions Admissions Why Columbia J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics Academics J.D. Program and Curriculum LL.M. Program and Curriculum Executive LL.M. Program and Curriculum J.S.D. Program and Curriculum Dual and Joint Degrees International Programs Public Interest and Public Service Experiential Learning Courses Registration Services Academic Calendar Executive Education Areas of Study Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Criminal Justice Data Analytics Environment and Energy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Intellectual Property and Technology International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace Leadership Legal History Litigation and Dispute Resolution National Security and Privacy Social Justice and Human Rights Faculty & Scholarship Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Directory Research Centers and Programs Scholarship Archive Workshops, Lectures, and Colloquia Careers Careers Private Sector Careers Public Interest and Public Service Careers Academic Careers Judicial Clerkships Employment Statistics Employment Policies Community Life Community Life Visit Campus Dean’s Welcome Your Campus, Your City Student Life Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Strategic Initiatives Office of Career Services About Departments Office of Career Services More in this Section Explore Office of Career Services: Contact Us You can contact the staff of the Office of Career Services for more information about our services at [email protected] or by phone at 212-854-2684. Appointments are available for students via Symplicity. We look forward to hearing from you. Mailing Address 435 West 116th Street, Box A-5 New York, NY 10027 Symplicity for Students and Alumni Symplicity for Employers Department Services The Office of Career Services and Professional Development helps students and alumni explore opportunities in the private sector. We advise students and alumni, provide career-related resources, and host career exploration, professional development, and recruitment programs. Identify the kind of law practice that is right for you, given your interests, personalities, talents and other qualifications Determine the environment in which you will best thrive as a practicing attorney Introduce you to the hundreds of employers who actively recruit on campus Prepare you to interview and find meaningful work as a lawyer Train you to successfully navigate the professional work environment Prepare you to lead as a member of a team of professional service providers Help you meet and form relationships with our distinguished alumni Meet the Career Services Team Danielle Schweiloch Assistant Dean and Dean of Career Services Email:[email protected] Phone:212-853-3487 Nancy Merriman Director of Recruiting and Professional Development Email:[email protected] Phone:(212) 854-3275 Frantz Price Director of International and Alumni Careers Email:[email protected] Michael Kerman Director of Career Counseling Email:[email protected] Steve Buchman Associate Director of Career Advising Email:[email protected] Marsha Diamond Associate Director of Career Advising Email:[email protected] Julie Gottlieb Schulman Assistant Director of Career Advising Email:[email protected] Nicole F. Seawright Assistant Director of Career Advising Email:[email protected] Chaula Harshad Shukla Assistant Director of 1L Professional Development Advising Email:[email protected] Sara Smithken Career Counselor Email:[email protected] Sonovia Harmon Assistant Director of Programming Email:[email protected] Jennifer Leibowitz Assistant Director of Recruiting Email:[email protected] Phone:(212) 853-3719 Tania Rodriguez Program Coordinator Email:[email protected] Phone:212-854-2684 Remote Counselors & Consultants Shary Peguero Career Counselor Jay Rhoderick Communications Consultant and Interview Coach Admissions Why Columbia Visit 435 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 212-854-2640 Contact Us Social Media (Administrative Title) Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Instagram Admissions Academics Areas of Study Faculty & Scholarship Careers Community Life Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers Login News Events Alumni Giving About Library Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Donate © Copyright 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York.