Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Mission & Ministry Mission & Ministry Information For: Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Campus Ministry Menu Main Nav Campus Ministry Racial Justice Back Back Close About Overview Meet the Staff Racial Justice Pastoral Counseling Axios Center Pregnancy Resources Together Graduate Programming Connections Religious Vocations Becoming a Jesuit Support Campus Ministry Alumni Resources Liturgy & Sacraments Overview Mass Schedule Liturgical and Music Ministries Sacraments University Chapels Rise and Reflect Related Links BC Jesuit, Catholic Maps Retreats Service Immersion Overview 4Boston 4Boston Community Partners Appa Arrupe International Immersion Global Public Health–Honduras Habitat for Humanity Ignatian Family Teach-In Faith Communities Overview Catholic Christian Life Community Gratia Plena Ignatian Society Knights of Columbus St. Thomas More Society Sons of St. Patrick Una Voce Multi-Faith Student Faith Groups Off-Campus Worship Multi-Faith Chapel Racial Justice Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Mission & Ministry Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Pastoral Counseling Home About Pastoral Counseling Being in college can bring with it many struggles, both past and present, expected or unexpected, and addressing them in a spiritual context may be helpful. Pastoral Counseling embraces the Jesuit principle of cura personalis – care for the whole person – by integrating mental health counseling with one's spirituality or faith tradition. Support, Now Pastoral Counseling continues to be available to students during COVID-19, using phone or video meetings. In-person meetings may be possible in certain circumstances with appropriate physical distancing requirements. Campus Ministry is committed to providing a welcoming environment for all members of the BC community, fully recognizing and valuing all identities, beliefs, and experiences. Especially in the context of this unprecedented climate of ongoing uncertainty, shared social and racial trauma, and increased vigilance, we encourage students to seek support from our staff. Highlighted Programs Axios Axios is a welcoming and affirming space for undergraduate students of the LGBTQ+ community and those who are questioning their sexuality to discuss the impact of religion and spirituality in their lives Learn More Center Center is a free, 6-week spiritual mindfulness group. With guidance and support, each week we’ll learn a distinct and accessible meditative practice and spiritual outlook to deepen our relationship with each other and ourselves. Learn More Together Together is a student-centered grief support group at Boston College. It’s an opportunity for anyone carrying grief at BC to get to see that they’re far from alone in this experience. Learn More Pregnancy Resources The Boston College community is here to support students expecting a child. We hold the emotional, physical, and spiritual well-being of a woman, the child, and those who care about them, in a strong network of support. Learn More About Pastoral Counseling Overview About Rick Practice Specialties What is Pastoral Counseling? Pastoral counseling is a form of therapy that gives special attention to the role that spirituality plays in a person’s mental health and overall well-being. Rick is happy to consult on any issues to find the best fit for addressing whatever might be necessary. Rick works with a social work graduate student who is also available to meet. Contact Rick by email, phone, or in-person to set-up an appointment or to refer someone: Rick.Rossi@bc.edu (617) 552-6592 McElroy 227 You may also find value in starting a conversation with one of our campus ministers, who can be a resource in discussing life’s joys, struggles, and big questions. Campus ministers can provide private spaces for these conversations and can be great starting points to work with you in figuring out where to go from here. Rick joined Campus Ministry at BC in 2002. Over the years, he has worked with many Campus Ministry programs including Kairos, 4Boston, the Ignatian Society, and the Manresa Retreat. Rick is a trained spiritual director and has also been a BC SANet Advocate since 2005. He completed his degree and licensure for clinical social work in 2015, and coordinates BC’s grief support, including Grief Group meetings. More information can be found in the Support Groups section. Adjustment Issues Anxiety Academic Stress/Questions Crisis/Trauma Depression Grief/Loss Life Transitions Personal Growth Relationship Issues Self-esteem Sexual Orientation/Gender Identity Spirituality/Faith Stress Management Family issues Back To Top Back To Top Campus Ministry Boston College McElroy 233 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About Racial Justice Liturgy & Sacraments Service Immersion Retreats Faith Communities Support Campus Ministry Division of Mission & Ministry Mission and Ministry Campus Ministry Center for Ignatian Spirituality Center for Student Formation First Year Experience Intersections Montserrat Pastoral Support The Volunteer and Service Learning Center University of Mission and Ministry Service Center Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College