Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Okta Outlook More Sign Ons... Iowa State University Graduate College Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Application Programs Contact Mission Prospective Application Application for Nondegree Application Fee / Waivers Available Programs Connect With Us Frequently Asked Questions Request more information Funding International Students International Instructions English Requirements University Resources Current Students Academic Awards & Events Academic Information Events & Deadlines Graduate College Handbook Graduation New Student Orientation New Student Checklist Program Handbooks Program of Study / Committee Theses & Dissertations You and Your Major Professor Funding Professional Development Career Services Center for Communication Excellence Graduate & Professional Student Senate Student Forms Student Tools University Resources Faculty and Staff Academic Awards & Events Academic Information Events & Deadlines Graduate Program Review Graduate College Handbook Mentoring & Advising Online & Paper Forms Funding Graduate Tools Program Contacts (DOGE List) Program Handbooks Postdoctoral Getting Started Postdoctoral Scholar Resources Principal Investigator Resources Academic Awards Benefits Policies Postdoctoral Appointments Postdoctoral Association Postdoctoral Contact People (PCP) Professional Development Career Services Center for Communication Excellence Grant Writing Diversity Faculty Funding Recruiting Practices Mentoring Student George Jackson Symposium McNair Student Associations Mission Statement of the Graduate College Home > Mission Statement of the Graduate College Mission The Graduate College at Iowa State University provides an institutional home for graduate students and postdoctoral scholars. We enhance the university as a premier destination for advanced scholarship and research. We seek to improve the academic experiences of graduate students, postdoctoral scholars, and graduate faculty. We minimize barriers to graduate education and foster diversity and inclusion. The college provides opportunities for academic advancement, the development of communication skills, and career planning with the goal of preparing those we serve to benefit human society, the global ecosystem, and economic vitality. We take pride in facilitating the joy of discovery and act based on our core values: equity, integrity, ethical practice, and excellence. Approach The Graduate College partners with other service, support, and academic units essential to the success of graduate education and postdoctoral scholarship. Policies that guide the academic journeys of students and scholars are initiated by the Graduate Council, which represents broad constituencies of stakeholders. The Graduate College ensures academic integrity by applying approved policies equitably across the broad spectrum of disciplines that offer graduate courses, certificates, and degrees. The college offers academic courses and professional-development opportunities, and contributes to recruitment and retention. Our goal is to assist in preparing graduate students and postdoctoral scholars to conduct and disseminate the outcomes of high-quality scholarship and research. ➤ Graduate College 1137 Pearson Hall 505 Morrill Rd Ames, IA 50011 grad_college@iastate.edu 515-294-4531 phone Facebook Twitter Linkedin Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Loading...