Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager For Faculty and Staff For Alumni For Students For Potential Students Biomed A-Z People Directory Medical [email protected] Show/Hide News and Events Our Community Volunteer Giving Contact Us Medical Family Weekend | October 15-17, 2021 Medical Family Weekend is October 15-17, 2021 We hope you will share in the campus experience during Family Weekend! This is your chance to tour the Medical School, hear from faculty members, and spend some time with your student. For more information, please visit the official Family Weekend website. Ensuring Health and Safety Brown University has required all students, faculty, and staff to be vaccinated against COVID-19. For the safety of our community, we are encouraging those who are vaccinated against COVID-19 to join us for Family Weekend and asking unvaccinated guests to receive a negative result from a COVID-19 test taken within 72 hours prior to arrival on campus. All participants in Family Weekend are considered limited-duration visitors to campus and must abide by Brown’s COVID-19 Campus Safety Policy, including the mask wearing requirements in place at the time of Family Weekend. Currently Brown requires all individuals — vaccinated or not — to wear masks indoors at all times. Masks are also required at large outdoor gatherings that include individuals from outside the Brown community (who may or may not be vaccinated), and that is likely to be the case for Family Weekend events and gatherings. As Family Weekend approaches, please visit the Campus Activity Status page of our Healthy Brown website to learn more about the health protocols in place at that time. You also may learn more about the Brown community’s response to the current COVID-19 environment in this video message from Dr. Ashish Jha, dean of the Brown University School of Public Health. Brown Biology and Medicine Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Warren Alpert Medical School Program in Biology Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty and Staff Potential Students Alumni Giving to Brown Division of Biology and Medicine Brown University Box G-A1, Providence, RI 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-3330 Maps / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram LinkedIn SnapChat