Georgetown University Open Search Form Who We Are The Whole Person Our Catholic & Jesuit Heritage Our History Student Stories Faculty Stories Alumni Stories Campus & City Living in DC Opportunities Getting Around Service & Action Campus Life Housing On-Campus Dining Clubs & Organizations Arts & Culture Community & Diversity Student Life Blog Wellness & Safety Sports & Fitness Health Center Safety & Emergency Preparedness Athletics External Link Academic Life Restless Inquiry Our Schools Areas of Study Study Abroad Research Centers and Programs Global Initiatives External Link Library System Admissions & Aid Undergraduate Admissions External Link Graduate Admissions Financial Aid External Link Commitment to Access News Events Giving Alumni Info For Students Faculty Staff/AAP Alumni Parents Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Content Skip to Footer News Events Giving Alumni Info For Students Faculty Staff/AAP Alumni Parents Georgetown University Who We Are The Whole Person Our Catholic & Jesuit Heritage Our History Student Stories Faculty Stories Alumni Stories Campus & City Living in DC Opportunities Getting Around Service & Action Campus Life Housing On-Campus Dining Clubs & Organizations Arts & Culture Community & Diversity Student Life Blog Wellness & Safety Sports & Fitness Health Center Safety & Emergency Preparedness Athletics External Link Academic Life Restless Inquiry Our Schools Areas of Study Study Abroad Research Centers and Programs Global Initiatives External Link Library System Admissions & Aid Undergraduate Admissions External Link Graduate Admissions Financial Aid External Link Commitment to Access Open Search Form Georgetown University Home Who We Are Faculty Stories Faculty Stories Learn from former diplomats, public health officials, economists, scientists and more who are passionately committed to fostering your curiosity and discovery. Working side-by-side with your professors, you’ll turn your interests into impact as you question, learn and explore. Play Youtube Video Ask a Professor Our faculty engage in the world around them, bringing their expertise to bear on your pressing questions about the world. From the science of drug discovery, to digital addiction, to solar eclipses, our professors share a wealth of knowledge. They’ll help you think critically, while being aware of current social issues and engaged in helping solve today’s most pressing challenges. Hear From an Expert Faculty at Work Read About Our Faculty Guggenheim Fellowships Go to Georgetown Philosophy, Law Professors Scientists Mark First Evidence That Dolphins Give Birth in Potomac River The first evidence that the Potomac River is a breeding area for wild bottlenose dolphins has been gathered by graduate students working with Georgetown biologist and dolphin expert Janet Mann. Linguistics Professor and Students Document Endangered Language in Ivory Coast Hannah Sande, assistant professor of linguistics, and her students document the endangered language of Guébie in the Ivory Coast and are working to publish the first official grammar of the… “The moment that encapsulates my Georgetown experience: when I interviewed people in a village in rural Rajasthan and recorded their voices to share with students at our DC campus, and they instantly connected with the message! The world felt smaller and my whole life came together!” Professor Shareen Joshi’s Story “My first year at Georgetown, I was so overwhelmed. Georgetown students, faculty, staff, even Jack the Bulldog, move and shake at a super-fast pace … slowly but surely, I stopped seeing Georgetown’s energy as trolling me, and instead decided it can inspire me.” Professor Marcia Chatelain’s Story “To be able to reach people and have an effect that helps transform, particularly, the way they look at the world is rewarding.” Professor James Freerick’s Story Previous Story Next Story 1 of 1 Previous Slide Next Slide Work with Experts Undergraduate and graduate students have numerous opportunities to conduct research with faculty experts. Break ground on new discoveries, under the mentorship of a community of dedicated scholars. Discover Play Youtube Video An Academic Community “The beauty of working in academia is that every year, every class, is a new adventure … I see it as a privilege, the privilege of really being able to innovate. This is what I have always asked of life. Georgetown has given me this.” -Professor Nicoletta Pireddu, director of the Georgetown Humanities Initiative. Meet our Faculty Contact Us Directory Visit Maps About Academic Calendar Careers Media Resources FacebookFacebook TwitterTwitter InstagramInstagram LinkedInLinkedIn YouTubeYouTube Georgetown University 37th and O Streets, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20057 P. 202-687-0100 Georgetown University Privacy Policy Copyright Web Accessibility Notice of Non-Discrimination © 2022 Georgetown University Search Georgetown Search Close the Search Dialog