Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Home About Meet Our Staff Doctoral Internship Program Services Scheduling an Appointment What to Expect FAQs Individual Counseling Group Counseling and Workshops Career Counseling Let’s Talk Culture of Care Anti-Racism Resources for Black Individuals and Communities Anti-Racism Resources for Non-Black Individuals and Communities of Color Anti-Racism Resources for White Individuals and Communities Coping with Discrimination Resources for Our UW AAPI Community Mindfulness Off-Campus Resources COVID-19 Winter Toolkit Coping with Social Isolation International Student Resources Mindfulness and Self-Care Navigating Living at Home Tips for Studying from Home Mental Health Resources Resources for Concerned Others Outreach and Prevention Services Useful Links Mental Health Resources Off-Campus Resources Online Mental Health Screening Crisis Services Counseling Center Counseling Center Menu Home About Meet Our Staff Doctoral Internship Program Services Scheduling an Appointment What to Expect FAQs Individual Counseling Group Counseling and Workshops Career Counseling Let’s Talk Culture of Care Anti-Racism Resources for Black Individuals and Communities Anti-Racism Resources for Non-Black Individuals and Communities of Color Anti-Racism Resources for White Individuals and Communities Coping with Discrimination Resources for Our UW AAPI Community Mindfulness Off-Campus Resources COVID-19 Winter Toolkit Coping with Social Isolation International Student Resources Mindfulness and Self-Care Navigating Living at Home Tips for Studying from Home Mental Health Resources Resources for Concerned Others Outreach and Prevention Services Useful Links Mental Health Resources Off-Campus Resources Online Mental Health Screening Crisis Services Home Counseling Center Log-in to the new Student Portal to schedule a first-time visit, see your upcoming appointments, check-in and fill out forms, sign up for text reminders, and update your personal information like your name and pronouns! Statement of Solidarity in Response to Domestic Terrorism in Buffalo Words are wholly inadequate every time this occurs. Yet we cannot remain silent in the face of persistent domestic terrorism, racist violence, and an epidemic of death in the U.S., our land of highly selective liberty. Our hearts go out to all who are directly impacted by Buffalo’s mass shooting, and to all who feel even more vigilant and even less trusting today. Let us all examine ways we are affected by the ideology of white supremacy, from more blatant ways (perpetuating myths such as “white replacement”) to more subtle ways (numbing ourselves). In times like these, white supremacy benefits from Black bodies being dysregulated and from white bodies being numb. Therefore, we encourage Black bodies to take time to do what helps you regulate (e.g., be in community, rest, breathe). We also recognize the ways in which persistent acts of hatred impact non-Black indigenous communities and people of color who are navigating white supremacy. White supremacy as an ideology divides us and it is at moments like these that we are invited to bear witness to the suffering caused by white supremacy. We encourage everybody to seek out community in ways that reduce suffering. We invite you to visit our Culture of Care webpages for resources on anti-racism for Black individuals and communities, for non-Black individuals and communities of Color, and for white individuals and communities. This resource is intended to help the UW community, particularly faculty and staff, navigate important conversations about violence perpetrated against communities of color. In this resource guide, you will find strategies for fostering thoughtful and difficult conversations in light of emotionally- or politically-charged news as well as mental health resources for students who may need additional support during challenging times. Coping with Stress Related to Coronavirus Outbreak Click here to learn more about Common Reactions towards the Coronavirus, Coping skills, dealing with biases and discriminations, and other resources. Tips for Studying at Home The University of Washington have transitioned from in-person to classes to online classes due to the Coronavirus. Studying from home can be very challenging and you may find yourself easily distracted. Here are some tips for studying from home. Coping with COVID-19 Related Stress Daily exposure to news about coronavirus may result in a range of responses. Reactions can be emotional, somatic, and/or behavioral, and can impact mental and physical health. Download and save the flyer for quick reference on how to cope during this difficult time. How to Get Help The Counseling Center offers multiple options for students seeking help coping with stress and mental health concerns. Students who are currently enrolled in degree-seeking programs at the Seattle campus are eligible for our counseling services. Mental Health Resources Wants tips to manage stress right now? Our mental health resources page contains relaxation podcasts, suggested mental health apps, and topical information (e.g., academic success, culture shock, grief), and more. Resources Workshops We have a variety of workshops available to students on various topics. Workshops Individual Counseling The Counseling Center offers individual short-term counseling to degree-seeking students enrolled at the Seattle campus. Students receiving short-term counseling will meet for an average of four to six sessions, scheduled bi-weekly or monthly. Learn more about the counseling process or read some frequently asked questions about counseling. Schedule an APPOINTMENT Group Counseling Check out our group counseling offerings for this quarter! Groups Referrals The Counseling Center offers referrals for students interested in long-term or specialized counseling. Referrals Crisis Services The Counseling Center has partnered with My SSP to give students access to real-time, confidential mental health and crisis intervention support, 24/7 and in multiple languages. There are several ways to connect: Phone: Call 1.866.743.7732 (If calling from outside the US or Canada, dial 001.416.380.6578). Online chat: Chat with a My SSP counselor on the My SSP website or on the My SSP app (Apple App Store | Google Play) Crisis Services BLOG You Matter 1 year ago Anniversary Reminder: You are an Essential Element in Our UW Tapestry 1 year ago Using Acceptance to Reduce Distress 1 year ago The Body Whisperer: Becoming a Better Listener to Your Body 1 year ago More Follow Us Contact Us UW Counseling Center 401 Schmitz Hall Phone: 206-543-1240 Fax: 206-616-6910 Log-in to the new Student Portal to see your upcoming appointments, fill out forms, sign up for text reminders, and update your personal information like your name and pronouns! Hours Monday: 8 ᴀᴍ – 5 ᴘᴍ Tuesday: 9:30 ᴀᴍ – 5 ᴘᴍ Wednesday: 8 ᴀᴍ – 5 ᴘᴍ Thursday: 8 ᴀᴍ – 5 ᴘᴍ Friday: 8 ᴀᴍ – 5 ᴘᴍ If you are experiencing a psychological crisis outside our working hours and cannot wait until we are open, please call the My SSP at 1-866-775-0608. Check out our flyer and feel free to distribute! Let’s Talk Let’s Talk connects UW students with support from counselors from the Counseling Center and Hall Health without an appointment. Other UW Resources Wellness Resources Hall Health Mental Health Hall Health Primary Care Livewell Diversity on Campus Ethnic Cultural Center Leadership Without Borders Office of Minority Affairs & Diversity Q Center Student Veteran Life Financial Services Any Hungry Husky Emergency Aid Financial aid Tuition and fees Academic Resources Academic Advising Academic Calendar Academic Support Programs Disability Resources for Students Student Guide Donate Give to the Counseling Center University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA