Skip to main content Skip to main content Follow Us Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Twitter Skip to main content Log In Log In Student Login Log In Instructor Login Log In Canvas Login Canvas Login My Profile My Applications My Enrollment History My Certificate Plan My Account My Saved Items Log Off Contact Us Contact Us Help Help <span class="sr-only">Number of items in the shopping cart: </span><span id="cartCount"></span> Number of items in the shopping cart: Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Program Search Programs and Courses Areas of Study Career Building College Prep Communications & Marketing Creative Development Design & UX Engineering & Technology Humanities & Fine Arts Languages Legal & Finance Management & Leadership Program Types Certificate Programs Short Courses Corporate Programs & Customized Learning Instructors Resources for Current Instructors Instructor Portal Canvas for CAPE Instructors Become a CAPE Instructor Propose a Course Help Center New Students Payment Options & Financing Veterans Benefits FAQ Current Students Student Portal Canvas Zoom Instructors Instructor Portal Canvas for Instructors Policies & Procedures Parking & Maps About About Us Contact Us Blog Navigate Search Skip to main content CAPE Program Search All Programs & Courses All Programs & Courses Areas of Study Certificate Programs SMU College Prep Customized Learning Short Courses Areas of Study Areas of Study Career Building Communications and Marketing Creative Development Design and UX Engineering and Technology Humanities and Fine Arts Languages Legal and Finance Management and Leadership Courses Instructors Instructors Propose a Course Help Center Help Center Canvas for CAPE Courses Information about SMU NetIDs Frequently Asked Questions Instructor Portal Parking & Maps Payment Options and Financing Policies and Procedures Student Portal Digital Badges Adding Your SMU Certificate Credential to LinkedIn Veterans Zoom About SMU CAPE About SMU CAPE Contact Us ☰ CAPE Program Types SMU College Prep SMU College Prep Looking for something to do in Summer 2022? SMU College Prep will offer in-person SAT and ACT workshops. Look for additional programs in Fall 2022. Sign up for email updates SMU College Prep offers ambitious middle and high school students the opportunity to explore new interests, dive into topics that ignite passions, and use leading-edge tools in programs led by expert educators. From strategies for mastering standardized tests, to STEAM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Arts and Mathematics) programming focusing on new technologies, to hands-on projects that encourage critical thinking, creativity and collaboration — our courses are designed to support you in achieving your educational goals. Workshops are facilitated by experienced instructors, experts in their fields, who share real-life problem-solving skills and guide your learning through group activities and one-on-one interactions. Pre-College Workshops Develop essential skills to achieve personal, academic and professional success for college and beyond. Learn More Pre-College Webinars Preview a variety of topics to jumpstart your college experience. Browse Topics Test Prep Improve your test-taking skills and make a difference in your scores. Enroll Now "Better than any online course than you could imagine! I feel like I have a strong foundation in Photoshop." – Student in Beginner Photoshop "The course really helped further develop my understanding of the US college system. As an international student, I feel more comfortable picking, visiting and applying for college." – Student in College Admissions Bootcamp "This course helped me understand the importance of how to save money and why I should start to save. With the help of Ms. Magliolo, I was also able to finally the grasp the idea behind taxes and why we pay them." – Student in Money Matters "Loved the interactive examples and the information we got to protect ourselves online and how to pursue a career in cybersecurity." – Student in Cybersecurity Concepts Previous Next pause play hide show Contact Us SMU College Prep SMU Workshops for Teens Webinars Test Prep Contact Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University 5539 SMU Blvd, Dallas, TX 75206 instagram twitter linkedin facebook