Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Admission Visit Admitted Students Alumni & Friends Current Students Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About Overview Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, & Justice Dean Stanton Wortham Mission & History About Carolyn and Peter Lynch Facts & Figures Contact Related Links Catholic Education Research Initiative Formative Education Initiative Admission Overview Why LSEHD? Tuition & Aid Deadlines & Requirements Request Info Related Links Undergraduate Admission & Aid Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, & Justice Academics Overview Undergraduate Programs Applied Psychology and Human Development Elementary Education Secondary Education Transformative Educational Studies Lynch School Minors Interdisciplinary Majors Experience, Reflection, Action (ERA) Study Abroad Internal Transfer Master's Programs Doctoral Programs Professional & Continuing Education professional-certificates-instructional-design Certificate Programs Certificate in Human Rights and International Justice Certificate in Positive Youth Development Certificate in Child and Family Mental Health Certificate in Social Justice Leadership Certificate in Educational Policy Development Certificate in International Higher Education Certificate in Institutional Research Certificate in Serving Exceptional Learners in Catholic Schools Certificate in Autism Spectrum Disorder Certificate in Bilingual Education Certificate in Deafblindness Certificate in Special Education Certificate in Teaching English Language Learners Online Programs Commencement Summer Session Departments CDEP Master of Arts (M.A.) in Mental Health Counseling Master of Arts (M.A.) in School Counseling Dual Master of Arts (M.A./M.A.) in Theology and Ministry and Counseling Psychology Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Applied Developmental and Educational Psychology Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Counseling Psychology Counseling Practicum Applied Psychology Practicum z_archive applied-developmental-and-educational-psychology-ma /counseling-psychology-phd Test Page school-counseling mental-health-counseling counseling-psychology-phd Faculty & Expertise Counseling Practicum Program Offerings Admission Mission Program Aims & Learning Outcomes Student Admissions, Outcomes, & Other Data About Our Program Counseling Psychology Accreditation Professional Associations Academics & Training ELHE Educational Leadership and Policy, M.Ed. Master of Arts (M.A.) in Higher Education Higher Education Interview Days Master of Arts (M.A.) in International Higher Education Dual Degree Program (M.A./M.B.A.) Dual Degree Program (J.D./M.Ed./M.A.) Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) in Educational Leadership Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Higher Education _z_archive Certificate in Social Justice Leadership About Us Higher Education Scholars @ BC Blog higher-education-ma Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) in Higher Education Comprehensive Exams Information master-of-arts-in-higher-education-master-of-business-administra law-and-education-dual-degree-programs Certificate in Social Justice Leadership Certificate in Educational Policy Development Certificate in Educational Policy Development Educational Leadership & Higher Education Blog Field Experience Program History Higher Education FAQ Higher Education Comprehensive Exams Mary Kinnane Award IDPG Master of Arts (M.A.) in Learning Engineering _z_archive MESA M.S. in Applied Statistics and Psychometrics M.A. in Research and Evaluation Methods Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Measurement, Evaluation, Statistics, and Assessment _z_archive Test New MESA Faculty Member Mission Statement Margeau Jong MESA Testimonials applied-statistics-and-psychometrics-ms Graduate Testimonials Graduate Voices MESA Students MESA Alumni & Employment Data MESA Research TCS Master of Education (M.Ed./C.A.E.S.) in Curriculum and Instruction Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Early Childhood Education Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Elementary Education Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Jesuit Education in a Global World Master of Education (M.Ed., C.A.E.S.) in Special Education for Moderate Support Needs Master of Education in Secondary Education Master of Education (M.Ed./C.A.E.S.) in Special Education for Extensive Support Needs Global Perspectives Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Curriculum and Instruction Special Education Licensure Offerings M.Ed. in Elementary Education & Extensive Support Needs M.Ed. in Elementary Education & Moderate Support Needs M.Ed. in Moderate & Extensive Support Needs M.Ed. in Secondary Education & Moderate Support Needs Urban Catholic Teacher Corps Student Teaching _z_archive Teacher Certification Related Links Programs of Study Student Teaching Academic Calendar Study Abroad Faculty & Research Overview Faculty Directory & Expertise Research Opportunities AERA 2022 Presentations APA 2021 Presentations Related Links News & Videos Academic Calendar Centers & Initiatives Overview Administrators in Catholic Higher Ed Catholic Education Research Community Justice & Engaged Pedagogy Early Childhood Policy Equitable Instruction Initiative Formative Education International Higher Ed International Human Rights Center for Thriving Children Psychological Humanities & Ethics Roche Center Testing, Evaluation, & Educational Policy The Campus School The Study of Race & Culture TIMSS & PIRLS International Study Center Urban Outreach Initiatives Donovan Urban Teaching Scholars Program Work Intervention Network Community Overview Mentoring & Advising Service Learning Living in Boston Global BC Resources Related Links Diversity & Inclusion Global Faculty Directory & Expertise BC Campus Life BC Veterans News & Videos Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Lynch School Website Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Admission Visit Admitted Students Alumni & Friends Current Students Faculty & Staff Non-Degree Students BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close home Academics Departments TCS Master of Education (M.Ed./C.A.E.S.) in Curriculum and Instruction Master of Education (M.Ed./C.A.E.S.) in Curriculum and Instruction Master of Education (M.Ed./C.A.E.S.) in Curriculum and Instruction TCS Teaching, Curriculum, and Society The Master of Education (M.Ed.) program in Curriculum and Instruction is a 30-credit-hour graduate program for students with teaching experience who wish to pursue new interests and extended study. Who is this program for? U.S. students who already possess an initial license and want to enhance learning further in their area of licensure International students who wish to engage with foundational and leading edge thinking and thinkers on curriculum, pedagogy, and educational reform All candidates who want to explore new areas of interest such as policy, teacher leadership, teaching English language learners, universal design for learning, assessment, and special education Students interested in curriculum design and instructional design Private school educators, Boston College students enrolled in the fifth year program, and educators from areas such as publishing, curriculum design, and museum education Classroom teachers who wish to become educational leaders in their schools and districts. Please note, this degree program does not lead to licensure, nor are students in this program eligible to apply for supervised practicum experiences. Apply Inquire At a Glance Number of courses 10 courses, for a total of 30 credits. Program length Full time students typically finish in 1–1.5 years. Start dates Fall, spring, and summer semesters. Curriculum This program prepares teachers to become familiar with different ways to conceptualize a school curriculum, and to consider how school curricula and pedagogical practices can be structured to promote social justice and democratic citizenship. Requirements Courses: 10 Credits: 30 Program of Study Core: 6 courses Electives: 4 courses Master's Comprehensive Exam Students will choose an additional 4 Curriculum & Instruction courses (3 credits each) with the help of their advisor. Course Course Title Credit EDUC7421 Theories of Instruction This course provides an in-depth review of modern instructional models classified into selected families with regard to perception of knowledge, the learner, curriculum, instruction, and evaluation. Each student will be asked to survey models in his/her own field(s) and to select, describe, and defend a personal theory in light of today's educational settings based upon personal experiences, reflection on current research, and contemporary issues central to the education of all learners. 3 EDUC7436 Curriculum Theories and Practice This course asks teachers to analyze the philosophical underpinnings of educational practices and examine their own philosophies of education to construct meaning and practice from the interplay between their beliefs and alternative theories. Designed for individuals advanced in their professional development. 3 Students will select 4 electives (3 credits each) with the help of their advisor. Course Course Title Credit EDUC4100 Master's Comprehensive Exam In order to ensure that all students graduating from the master's program have a fundamental understanding of their coursework and the field, they are required to take a comprehensive examination covering the broad areas of the core courses. 0 Learning Outcomes As a graduate of this program, you will: Develop and clarify your philosophy of education, in particular, your beliefs regarding the purposes and processes of effective curricular organization; Become familiar with different ways to conceptualize a school curriculum and with major curriculum designers, both past and present; Assess your own experiences with educational and curricular change as a means to gain greater insight into educational and institutional change processes writ large; Examine approaches to multicultural education, anti-racist education, and inclusion that aim to transform the curriculum; Explore the tensions and possibilities that face teachers day-in and day-out in the current social and political context; Learn alternative strategies for assessment that provide multiple and authentic measures of student learning; Analyze existing curricula in terms of various philosophical orientations; Examine implications and applications of learning theories as drawn from teachers in elementary and secondary schools as well as from professionals working in higher education and contexts outside of formal schooling; Consider how school curricula and pedagogical practices can be structured to promote social justice and democratic citizenship. Accreditation The Lynch School has a long history of national accreditation, which includes NCATE (National Council for Accreditation of Teacher Education), TEAC (Teacher Education Accreditation Council), and CAEP (Council for the Accreditation of Educator Preparation). Most recently, the Lynch School was granted full and complete accreditation through CAEP, valid from Fall 2018 through Spring 2024. Boston College is currently the only CAEP accredited education preparation organization in Massachusetts. Faculty View More View Less #19 National ranking for Curriculum and Instruction program U.S. NEWS & WORLD REPORT Financial Aid Education should level the playing field. We feel the same way about financial aid. The Lynch School of Education and Human Development provides more than $8.4 million in financial aid to students each year. As a result, the quality of BC’s instruction, the benefit of our alumni network, and the impact a BC degree will have on your employment options is both affordable and invaluable. More About Financial Aid Careers Roles Assistant Principal of Academics Fourth Grade Teacher Sixth Grade Teacher High School History Teacher Director of Exhibits Court Procedures Attorney First Grade Teacher Special Education Teacher Mathematics Instructor School Principal & ELL Coordinator Organizations St. John's Preparatory School Littleton Public Schools Papillion La Vista School District Concord-Carlisle Regional School District Museum of Science Goodwin Procter LLP Boston Public Schools Needham Public Schools Steppingstone Foundation North Attleborough Public Schools Apply Apply Print Application & Deadlines Apply Now A non-refundable application fee of $75 is required; however, this fee is waived for select applicants. Deadlines Fall Regular decision — 1/6 Rolling Admission — Until 7/15 Intl. Applicants — Until 7/1 Spring Regular Decision — 11/1 Summer Regular Decision — 4/1 Résumé To be uploaded to your online Application Form. In addition to your academic history and relevant work experience, please include any licenses currently held, any social justice-related experience, any language skills other than English, and any research experience or publications. Personal Statement To be uploaded to your online Application Form. In 1,000-1,500 words, describe your academic and professional goals, any experience relevant to this program, and your future plans, expectations, and aspirations. Letters of Recommendation Identification of recommenders/instructions to recommenders are outlined in the online Application Form. Two letters of recommendation are required with at least one required from an academic source. Applicants may submit one additional recommendation of their choice. Transcripts Unofficial transcripts will be accepted in lieu of official transcripts for the application review process. In the event that one is admitted into a program and enrolls, our office will need official transcripts prior to course registration. To expedite application processing times, our office encourages you to send unofficial transcripts electronically to our email address at GSOE@BC.EDU. Please note that unofficial transcripts must include all of the following items: Course titles and grades for each course Year and entry term for each of the courses listed Translated into English by certified translation agent (if not already in English) Original and translated transcripts must be provided If you are able to secure official transcripts, please note the following: An official postsecondary transcript must be printed on official institutional paper and include at least one of the following: an institutional watermark, the registrar’s signature, or the registrar's seal. Copies and unofficial transcripts sent directly from applicants are not acceptable, the transcript must come directly from the institution. If you are a current student and have not completed your undergraduate and/or graduate degree, the most updated version of your transcript is acceptable. Official electronic transcripts are accepted when sent directly to gsoe@bc.edu from the institution. When requesting electronic transcripts, you must manually type in gsoe@bc.edu to ensure it is received by our office. Mailed transcript(s) should be sent to the following address: Lynch Office of Graduate Admissions, Boston College Campion Hall 135 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Standardized Tests Submitting GRE test scores is optional and not required for 2022 entry term(s). If you wish to send GRE scores, the Lynch School GRE code is 3218. Writing Sample Not required. International Students International applicants are encouraged to apply to the Lynch School of Education and Human Development. Requirements for International Students Quick Links Facts & Figures Faculty Why LSEHD? Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, & Justice Tuition & Aid Department TCS Teaching, Curriculum, and Society Contact Us gsoe@bc.edu 617-552-4214 Back To Top Back To Top Carolyn A. and Peter S. Lynch School of Education and Human Development Campion Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-4200 About Admission Academics Faculty & Research Centers & Initiatives Community Apply Visit Give CONNECT WITH US Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College