Skip to the main content United States Air Force Academy Go to home page image/svg+xml Page 1 Go to home page Link to home page Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Menu Search the Site Academics A rigorous academic program that balances STEM with the arts and humanities. Academics Core Curriculum Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Registrar Faculty and Staff Directory Academic Success Center Request a Transcript Investigator or Verifications Admissions News Research Learn more about cutting-edge research that supports the Air Force and our global society. Research Office of Research Research Centers Cadet Summer Research STEM Outreach Future Conflict Cadet Life Take a peek into the life of a United States Air Force Academy cadet. Cadet Life Dormitories & Dining Cadet Clubs Cadet Support Services Day in the Life Frequently Asked Questions Military With a focus on innovation and adaptation to the changing world of warfare, we’re setting higher expectations for what it means to serve. Military Basic Cadet Training Squadrons Airmanship Military Careers Wings of Blue Athletics About There’s no limit to what you will achieve here. Academics. Athletics. Military training. We deliver the future leaders of modern warfare. About Leadership Character Development History Awards Traditions Educational Innovation More Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Back To Military Basic Cadet Training Squadrons Airmanship Careers Airmanship Programs A core part of the United States Air Force Academy experience involves flying. From instruction in concepts of flight, navigation and operations to real-life application of these principles via soaring and parachuting courses, there is no shortage of opportunities to experience a challenge at a different altitude. The 306th Flying Training Group provides oversight and management of these programs, involving 2,500 cadets each year. Immersive Training Our Airmanship program provides cadets an opportunity to experience aviation through immersive virtual reality simulators and live flight experiences. This four-year continuum of learning starts with fourth-class (freshman) cadets in Aviation 100, a 10-lesson class designed to teach the fundamentals of aviation and powered flight. We’ve also partnered with the Air Education Training Command to allow cadets to participate in Aviation 300 and Airmanship 302, a combined 30-lesson flying training course that gives cadets the opportunity to solo the T-53. Cadets who are interested in attending pilot training may take Aviation 400, a 20-lesson class conducted in a virtual T-6 Texan II designed to advance skills such as formation flying and low-level navigation. Soaring Most fourth-class (freshman) cadets are first exposed to airmanship during their Introduction to Soaring course, which includes four glider flights culminating in the opportunity for basic aerobatics. Third-class (sophomore) cadets can enroll in Basic Soaring for the opportunity to solo pilot a glider. Graduates of this course are then eligible to apply to become Cadet Soaring Instructor Pilots. Those selected complete a year-long upgrade program during third-class year where they earn G-Wings and eventually conduct 95 percent of all glider flight instruction. Powered Flight Cadets may have the opportunity to participate in powered flight during their second-class year or during the summer before their first-class year. Cadets interested in precision flight with a FAA Private Pilot Certificate may apply to become part of the Academy’s Flying Team. Typically, cadets try out for the team and are selected during their fourth-class year, but may be added to the team in a later year as circumstances require. Selected cadets receive training in precision landings, cross-country navigation, instrument flying and more. Click here to learn more about the Cadet Precision Flying Team. Parachuting The 98th FTS conducts parachute training for 700 Academy cadets annually. This training focuses on safety and emergency procedures, which enhance student confidence and maximize performance under extremely stressful conditions. In addition to basic jump training (Airmanship 490), the 98th FTS also oversees Airmanship 491 “Wings of Green” and Airmanship 492 “Wings of Blue” competitive and demonstration parachute programs. The Wings of Blue has been a long standing tradition at the U.S. Air Force Academy. This group of professional jumpers perform all across the United States in amazing aerial acts to large crowds of enthusiastic audiences. Visit the Davis Airfield ACADEMICS Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Research Centers Faculty and Staff Directory CAMPUS Events Employment Emergency Weather Helping Agencies Apps COMMUNITY AF CyberWorx USAFA Band Force Support Wings of Blue VISIT Visitors Campus Map Facilities Cadet Chapel Planetarium Base Access Contact Us Social Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Flickr © 2022 United States Air Force Academy, All Rights Reserved The appearance of hyperlinks does not constitute endorsement by the Department of the Air Force or the information, products, or services contained therein. For other than authorized activities such as military exchanges and morale, welfare and recreation sites, the Department of the Air Force does not exercise any editorial control over the information you may find at these locations. Such links provided are consistent with the stated purpose of this DOD Web site.