Your browser does not support JavaScript! Your browser does not support JavaScript! Skip to main content Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Canvas | Webmail | Contact Us Request Info Apply Now eCourseware | Webmail | Contact Us Request Info Apply Now About UofM Global Learn More Rankings Accreditations Contact Us Degrees & Programs Undergraduate Graduate Certificates All Programs Complimentary Courses Admissions Apply Now Request Info Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Current Students Student Services & Support Register for Courses Graduation Home UofM Global Current Students Learning Support Current Students Student Services and Support Learning Support Tutoring Libraries Disability Resources Adult & Returning Students Veterans & Military Students Career Services Internships Register for Courses AdvisingCourse SearchDeadlinesPrior Learning AssessmentRegistration Student Success Online Course IntroSuccess StrategiesSmartStart Technology RequirementsResources Graduation Need Help? Call 844-302-3886 Email Us Learning Support Learning support services and resources available to you include a Smartstart learning readiness assessment, success strategies for online students, opportunities to get connected with your class and instructor, and 24/7 online tutoring. Each of these resources provide you an opportunity to remain a successful student and reach your academic goals in a fully online environment. See more information below to learn more about learning support and resources available to you as a UofM Global student. Complimentary College Prep Course UofM Global is pleased to offer College Prep, a complimentary course open to anyone interested in learning more about academic preparedness in a university setting. If you're interested in completing your degree online but aren't sure how the online format works, this is a fun, no-risk introduction for you. You'll learn about proper study habits, time management, how to access university resources, writing skills and more. College Prep is 100% free and can be completed online at your own pace, on your own time. Learn More > SmartStart Readiness Assessment SmartStart is a three tiered initiative and readiness assessment designed to address the needs of adult learners returning to school. It is our aspiration to inform students who have been pre-admitted, currently enrolled to the University of Memphis about their academic preparedness to return to college and provide them with resources and assistance to address their possible deficiencies prior to enrollment into an online course or program. Complete the Readiness Assessment > Success Strategies for Online Students Online learning is a great opportunity that provides a great deal of flexibility and convenience in earning your degree. Learn more about strategies that can help you to be successful as a fully online student. Explore the Strategies > Find an Online Tutor The University of Memphis offers online tutoring options to students who are enrolled in fully online degree programs. Options include Live 24/7 online tutoring through Smarthinking and question/paper submissions through Tutoring@ESP. Find a Tutor > About UofM Global Learn More Ranked Online Degrees Accreditations Contact Us Degrees and Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Certificates Corporate Partners Complimentary Courses Admissions Apply Now Request Info Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Contact Us Tuition Financial Aid Students Canvas Student Services & Support SmartStart Learning Support Technology Support Advising Register for Courses Experiential Learning Credit Graduation Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/25/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.