Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Advocacy and Organizational Development MEd You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Advocacy and Organizational Development MEd Apply Visit Request More Info Advocacy and Organizational Development MEd Admissions Careers & Opportunities Our Faculty Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Education in Advocacy and Organizational Development Master the skills to advocate for and support organizations and communities through informed research and theory by earning the Master of Education in Advocacy and Organizational Development at Temple University. Develop the breadth of knowledge necessary to become a leader in advocacy, community engagement and organizational development. This interdisciplinary program will equip students with the theory and practice to lead and advocate for change in a variety of settings. Students will focus on the following areas. Community development and social change Organizational dynamics Nonprofit leadership and management Research and evaluation Field-based experience Theories on advocacy, communication, conflict resolution, organizational dynamics and community engagement can be immediately applied in non-profit and for-profit settings. Classroom instruction and assignments draw on students’ experience along with training in conceptual, theoretical and methodological applications. Who might be interested? Students in the Advocacy and Organizational Development MEd have diverse educational and professional backgrounds and hold academic degrees in varied fields, including business, communication, education, liberal arts, hospitality, nursing, psychology, social work, and sports psychology. Students work in and prepare for diverse positions, such as Training and Development Specialists, in a wide range of organizational sectors, including local and global nonprofit and for-profit organizations in education, community, corporate, government and religious settings. The program's diverse student body contributes richly to the educational experience. Classes & Curriculum The Advocacy and Organizational Development MEd program consists of 36 credits, including 27 core credits and 9 elective credits. All courses are taken on Temple's Main Campus in Philadelphia. Students can attend full- or part-time, and may take up to five years to complete the program. Related Graduate Degrees Higher Education EdD Higher Education MEd PhD in Policy and Organizational Studies with a concentration in Adult and Organizational Development Related Graduate Certificates Institutional Effectiveness Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Education offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $966.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,329.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Student Clubs & Organizations Find peer support and leadership opportunities while tackling the challenges of your program by joining organizations such as the ones below. The Graduate Student Organization of the College of Education and Human Development runs community-based events like school supply drives as well as professional development workshops and activities. The organization upholds a strong commitment to social justice, regularly organizing political events and engaging in projects with community partners. The Temple University Graduate Students Association, a student employee union, maintains positive working lives and conditions for graduate student assistants. Program Contact Shanta Hattikudur, associate professor of instruction, is the program coordinator of the Advocacy and Organizational Development MEd. Phone: 215-204-6101 Email: shanta@temple.edu Our Advisors Individual faculty advisors will guide you in navigating the curriculum and selecting the appropriate coursework to achieve your academic and professional goals. A graduate academic advisor will also be available to help you with scheduling, policies and procedures to ensure your smooth passage through the program. Accreditation This program is listed with the Association for Talent Development and the Organization Development Network. Questions For more information about this program, the College of Education and Human Development, how to apply for admission, and your application status, contact Enrollment Management. Enrollment Management Ritter Annex 150 1301 Cecil B. Moore Ave. Philadelphia, PA 19122 Phone: 215-204-8011 Email: educate@temple.edu ED-AVOD-MED Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Advocacy and Organizational Development MEd Admissions Careers & Opportunities Our Faculty Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info