Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Media and Public RelationsMenu Featured Research Announcements Accolades Hot Topics In the News Experts Expert Directory Media Kits Contact Media & PR Media & PR Staff Contact Information Baylor University Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information Media Access to Campus Policy Graduation / Award Lists Marketing and Communications Scholarship Recipient Information IRS form 990: June 2020 through May 2021 IRS form 990: June 2019 through May 2020 IRS form 990: June 2018 through May 2019 IRS form 990: June 2017 through May 2018 IRS form 990: June 2016 through May 2017 IRS form 990: June 2015 through May 2016 Report on Investigation - Willis & Pena Baylor’s iEngage Summer Civics Institute to be Honored with the Sandra Day O’Connor Award for the Advancement of Civics Education iEngage Summer Civics Institute campers at Baylor are assigned to small groups based on grade level and work together to research and strategize about how to address a local issue of concern. Founded in 2013, Baylor University's iEngage Summer Civics Institute is a free, five-day civics camp designed to help middle school students learn how to make a difference in their schools, neighborhoods and communities. iEngage Summer Civics Institute campers at Baylor are assigned to small groups based on grade level and work together to research and strategize about how to address a local issue of concern. Playing innovative and free online iCivics games is among the many activities of the iEngage Summer Civics Institute at Baylor University. Baylor University students studying education serve as the counselors for each small groups during the iEngage Summer Civics Institute. Brooke Blevins, Ph.D., The Conwell G. Strickland Endowed Chair, associate professor and chair of the Department of Curriculum and Instruction, Baylor University School of Education. Karon LeCompte, Ph.D., associate professor of curriculum and instruction, Baylor University School of Education. Tweet May 10, 2022 Baylor School of Education faculty Brooke Blevins, Ph.D., and Karon LeCompte, Ph.D., will receive the award in July in Chicago Media Contact: Shelby Cefaratti-Bertin, Baylor University Media and Public Relations, 832-577-8027 Follow us on Twitter: @BaylorUMedia WILLIAMBURG, Virginia (May 10, 2022) – The iEngage Summer Civics Institute at Baylor University has been named the 2022 recipient of the Sandra Day O’Connor Award for the Advancement of Civics Education. This annual award, presented by the National Center for State Courts, honors an organization, court, program or individual who has promoted, inspired, improved or led an innovation or accomplishment in the field of civics education related to the justice system. The award will be presented in late July in Chicago. Founded in 2013, the Baylor iEngage Summer Civics Institute is a free, five-day civics camp designed to help middle school students learn how to make a difference in their schools, neighborhoods and communities. Funded by the Hatton W. Sumners Foundation and Baylor University, the program is led by Baylor School of Education faculty members Brooke Blevins, Ph.D., The Conwell G. Strickland Endowed Chair, associate professor and chair of the Department of Curriculum and Instruction, and Karon LeCompte, Ph.D., associate professor of curriculum and instruction with an emphasis in social studies education. “The iEngage team embraces their responsibility to provide high-quality civic education to students and educators across various communities and has even bigger plans, including a high school internship program,” wrote Texas Supreme Court Chief Justice Nathan Hecht in his nomination letter. “I am so proud that Texas lays claim to this innovative and effective program, and I am hopeful that the model will expand to other states in time.” The 2022 award marks the 12th year NCSC has presented the O’Connor Award to honor the retired justice’s longstanding commitment to improving civics education. Following her service on the bench, Justice O’Connor became a tireless advocate of civics education and founded the iCivics program to inspire students to become active in their communities. Baylor’s week-long iEngage camp – which will be held Aug. 1-5, 2022 – focuses on developing young people’s civic and political competence and strengthening their community and political engagement through inquiry-based civics projects in which they research and act upon local community issues. Focused on middle school youth, iEngage teaches students about the structure of government, what it means to be an active and engaged citizen in their community and how they can work to make a change even as a young person. Campers are assigned to small groups based on grade level and work together to research and strategize about how to address a local issue of concern. Baylor students studying education serve as the counselors for each of these small groups. Additional activities include a field trip to a legislative library to explore primary source artifacts, simulations of effective communication and deliberation hosted by the Baylor Law School, interfaces with local civic and political leaders, and playing iCivics games. To date, the Baylor iEngage program has reached more than 1,500 students, 40 teachers and 100 college students. The impact of iEngage is well documented by research conducted and published in peer-reviewed journals by Baylor faculty. “In addition, we see student impact through media coverage, including stories of campers who have gone on to organize community projects on their own, as well as through the many letters of appreciation we receive from campers, parent, and teachers,” Blevins said. In 2014, Blevins and LeCompte completed the first independent research study of iCivics effectiveness on students’ civic knowledge and dispositions, finding positive results in students’ content knowledge, engagement and inclination to engage in civic-minded practices. The study – “Civics Education Goes Digital” – was published in The Journal of Social Studies Research. Two years earlier, the Baylor researchers had the honor of presenting their preliminary findings to Justice O’Connor during a community symposium in Waco. Inspired by Justice O’Connor and iCivics, Blevins and LeCompte continue their work in civics education at Baylor University, including the creation of the iEngage Summer Civics Institute. ABOUT BAYLOR UNIVERSITY Baylor University is a private Christian University and a nationally ranked Research 1 institution. The University provides a vibrant campus community for more than 20,000 students by blending interdisciplinary research with an international reputation for educational excellence and a faculty commitment to teaching and scholarship. Chartered in 1845 by the Republic of Texas through the efforts of Baptist pioneers, Baylor is the oldest continually operating University in Texas. Located in Waco, Baylor welcomes students from all 50 states and more than 90 countries to study a broad range of degrees among its 12 nationally recognized academic divisions. ABOUT BAYLOR SCHOOL OF EDUCATION For more than 100 years, Baylor educators have carried the mission and practices of the School of Education to classrooms and beyond as teachers, leaders in K12 and higher education, psychologists, professors, researchers, and more. With more than 60 full-time faculty members, the school’s growing research portfolio complements its long-standing commitment to excellence in teaching and student mentoring. Baylor’s undergraduate program in teacher education has earned national distinction for innovative partnerships with local schools that provide future teachers deep clinical preparation, while graduate programs culminating in both the Ed.D. and Ph.D. prepare outstanding leaders, teachers and clinicians through an intentional blend of theory and practice. Visit www.baylor.edu/SOE to learn more. More News ... News Archives Looking for more news from Baylor University? Tweets by @BaylorUMedia Contact Us mail Media and Public Relations Baylor University One Bear Place #97024 Waco, TX 76798 tel (254) 710-1961 Email mediacomm@baylor.edu More Contact Info Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Featured Research Announcements Accolades Hot Topics In the News Experts Expert Directory Media Kits Baylor University Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information Baylor Bears 2019 Sic 'em for Safety Campaign Baylor Religion Survey Baylor Research and Innovation Collaborative Detecting Biomarkers for Cancer Eye Cancer App Helps Save Lives Exhuming Immigrant Remains Fighting Tropical Diseases Higgs Boson Research iCivics Baylor Model Life Patterns in Extreme Environments Paul L. Foster Campus Leadership and Innovation Summit Paul L. Foster Campus for Business and Innovation Small Business and Community Health Research Texas Hunger Initiative Water Quality Research Whale Earplug Reveals Lifetime Contaminant Exposure and Hormone Profiles Data Privacy Day 2019 Contact Media & PR Media & PR Staff Contact Information Baylor University Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information Media Access to Campus Policy Graduation / Award Lists Dean's Academic Honor List Graduation List Academic Scholarship Awards List Marketing and Communications Scholarship Recipient Information IRS form 990: June 2020 through May 2021 IRS form 990: June 2019 through May 2020 IRS form 990: June 2018 through May 2019 IRS form 990: June 2017 through May 2018 IRS form 990: June 2016 through May 2017 IRS form 990: June 2015 through May 2016 Report on Investigation - Willis & Pena