Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Student Affairs About News Events Calendar SMU Research Bush Center Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Undergraduate Admission Apply Visit Financial Aid Menu Search Undergraduate Admission Campus Life Health and Safety Health and Safety Campus Life SMU and Dallas Residence Life Dining Health and Safety Spirit and Traditions Diversity At SMU Activities and Organizations Fitness and Recreation Sports Spiritual Life En Español FAQs | Living on Campus FAQs | Student Life SMU is committed to fostering a safe learning and working environment for our campus community. Dr. Bob Smith Health Center The Dr. Bob Smith Health Center is a convenient medical clinic located on the SMU campus for diagnosis and treatment of illness and injury. The clinic is staffed by full time physicians, registered nurses, pharmacists, and laboratory and x-ray technologists for diagnosis and treatment of illness and injury. Additionally, counseling services for various concerns are provided by a psychiatrist and several psychologists in the Health Center. Health Promotion The Office for Community Health Promotion serves as a resource for health information on campus. The office promotes programs and activities that focus attention on health-related issues affecting college students. Students can also get involved with health education on campus through Mustangs Who Care and other student initiatives. SMU Police Department The SMU Police Department works diligently to promote the security of our campus community through a variety of services and programs which are conducive to the support of the learning that occurs in the classroom. Such services and programs include: Blue Light Phones Emergency Blue Light phones are strategically located throughout the exterior areas of the campus, parking garages and parking lots. Upon pressing the call button, you will be in immediate contact with SMU Police Department. When an emergency phone is activated, an officer will dispatch to the location of the Blight Light phone to investigate. TapRide SMU's campus security escort service offers free safe rides throughout the main campus between 7 PM and 3 AM daily when classes are in session. For a ride, download the TapRide app from the App Store or Google Play, call (214) 768-1111 or flag us down. During severe weather, Safety Escort service may be suspended until conditions allow the service to resume operations. Vehicle Assist Need a jump start? Locked your keys in your car? Vehicle Assist is offered to anyone on the SMU campus 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Annual Security Reports As part of SMU's commitment to safety, the SMU Police Department prepares and distributes an annual security report in accordance with the Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act. You may view or request a copy of this report here. Apply NowVisit Us Back to top Academics Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Science Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education & Human Development SMU CAPE SMU Libraries The Guildhall Audience Links Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Media Parents Quick Links SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Bush Center SMU Store Academic Calendar Events Calendar Employment Giving to SMU Virtual Tour Get in Touch Contact Us Maps Directions Compliance Legal Disclosures Report Sexual Harassment Reporting a BIAS Incident HEERF Reporting Emergency Preparedness Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Apply First-Year Domestic Student* Application First-Year International Student* Application Transfer Forms and Applications Readmission to SMU Graduate Studies FAQs | Undergraduate Temporary Test-Optional Policy Visit Virtual Campus Experience In-Person Visit Virtual Tour Admission Events Maps and Directions Residential Commons Tour Where to Stay Academics Majors and Minors Schools Faculty Virtual Connections Support and Resources Honors and Scholars Tips SMU Abroad SMU-in-Taos FAQs | Academics Campus Life SMU and Dallas Residence Life Dining Health and Safety Spirit and Traditions Diversity At SMU Activities and Organizations Fitness and Recreation Sports Spiritual Life En Espanol FAQs | Living on Campus FAQs | Student Life Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Types of Aid Access SMU Financial Aid Process Payment Plan Options SMU Net Price Calculator Mustang Scholars Robert H. Dedman Scholarship for North Dallas High School En Español Contact Us Deadlines FAQs FAQs | Financial Aid FAQs | Tuition, Fees, and Deadlines Scholarships and Assistance Connect Meet Your Admission Counselor School Contacts Request Information High School Counselor Information Parent Information Social Media and Zoom Backgrounds Frequently Asked Questions Publications Student Ambassadors Coronavirus (COVID-19) Updates Incoming and Current Students Prospective Student Publications Wallpapers International How to Apply Visit SMU Life in Dallas Living at SMU International Student Events Intercultural Engagement Athletics at SMU Spirit and Traditions Immigration Information Obtaining an I-20 Transfer Benefits of an SMU Education Transfer Scholarships Transfer Admission Application Process Transfer Dates and Deadlines Transfer Pathway Guides Transfer Equivalency Tool Meadows Auditions and Portfolios Transfer Forms and Applications International Transfer Students FAQs Congratulations on your admission to SMU! How Credits Transfer Partnership Programs Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Apply Academics Campus Life Majors and Minors Visit Financial Aid Did you know? SMU's main campus is located in the nation's fourth largest metropolitan area, Dallas-Fort Worth, with 7.4 million people and more than 20 Fortune 500 headquarters.Learn More Menu Search