Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Conference & Event Services Conference & Event right arrow down arrow Services right arrow down arrow Conference Planning Event Registration Event Equipment Rental Specialty Lighting Promotional Tabling Weddings Summer Intern Housing Summer Conferences & Camps Catering On-Demand Meeting Rooms Venues right arrow down arrow Tangeman University Center right arrow down arrow Great Hall Rates Meeting Rooms Other Event Spaces Nippert Stadium West Pavilion right arrow down arrow West Pavilion Event Policies West Pavilion Catering right arrow down arrow Corry Street Catering Menu West Pavilion Rates Campus Recreation Center Outdoor Classrooms Athletic Facilities Other Stratford Heights Resources right arrow down arrow COVID-19 For Students For Faculty & Staff For Non-University Clients Event Policies Use of Facilities Catering Guide West Pavilion Event & Catering Guide FAQ Contact Us Request A Space right arrow down arrow 25 Live Instructions Home » About UC » Conference & Event Services » Services » Conference Planning Set Navigation title in component Conference Planning Event Registration Event Equipment Rental Specialty Lighting Promotional Tabling Weddings Summer Intern Housing Summer Conferences & Camps Catering On-Demand Meeting Rooms Conference Planning Conferences & Event Services offers comprehensive planning services to ensure that your program runs smoothly and efficiently. Each program is assigned to an experienced Event Coordinator to assist you. Our team will help organize your program from beginning to end, providing complete support every step of the way. Conference Services We Provide Event Registration Budget Management Marketing & Promotions Contract Negotiations Event Venue Arrangements & Logistics Exhibit Hall Logistics Speaker Logistics, Communication & Travel Continuing Education Accreditation On-site Services Many more Peace of Mind What we do best is put your mind at ease throughout the process. Our staff can help think through the details, plan the steps, organize the timeline, and execute a professional experience for your attendees. If you only need help at the planning stage, we can. If you need on site experts to work with the venue, we can help. If you need CES to collect the registrations, process payments, and communicate with the attendees, we can work with you to determine how to best meet your needs in planning and executing a successful event for you and your attendees. Our One-Stop Shop service means you will receive one contact, one contract, and one invoice for your program. And when the conference makes money, we return the surplus to you! Next Steps If you have committed to planning a conference, contact us. We will explain our services, you decide what you want help with, and we provide you an estimated bundled fee for our services. When you hire CES you are assured that the planning process will be professionally executed and the day-of results successful for your guests. For more information on Conference Planning Services, complete our inquiry form with your details and a CES staff member will review and contact you directly. Conference & Event Services 513-558-1810 Tangeman University Center, Suite 265 2766 UC MainStreet Cincinnati, OH 45221-0031 event.services@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Conference & Event Services 513-558-1810 Tangeman University Center, Suite 265 2766 UC MainStreet Cincinnati, OH 45221-0031 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top