Skip to main content Clemson University Degrees Home Degree Programs MENU Electrical Engineering (B.S.) LEARN MORE ABOUT The laws of physics govern electricity, magnetism and light, and electrical engineering students at Clemson learn how to take those laws and use them to develop systems and services. From building a battery on a cordless drill to a GPS to electric power generators, electrical engineers' work directly affects our daily lives. Hands-on problem solving, relevant research and direct contact with major industry leaders just scratch the surface of what you'll encounter when you step into our classrooms and labs. Whether you envision yourself working in a lab or out in the field, this profession is about creating innovative technology solutions. You could be a part of the next revolution of vehicle electronics or working for a top technology company. FAST FACTS The electrical and computer engineering department is one of Clemson’s largest with nearly 550 undergraduates and 200 graduate students. According to data from 2018-2019 electrical engineering graduates, the average starting salary was $68,000. Our graduates have found positions with companies such as Lockheed Martin, Duke Energy, Bridgestone, NASA and SPAWAR. WHAT YOU'LL STUDY Freshmen who major in engineering at Clemson are initially admitted into our general engineering program, where you'll have a year to explore many different engineering disciplines, meet faculty from each of our engineering departments and discover which major fits your personal interests and talents. On the admissions application, you will apply as a general engineering major. Once into your core electrical engineering classes, you will build on a foundation of mathematical and physical sciences and progress into the application of these in the engineering science areas of circuits, electronics, communications, controls, electromagnetic fields, signal analysis, power and electromagnetics. Senior year, you can narrow your study focus even more by choosing one of the following technical elective tracks: communications and networks; digital signal processing; electronics; robotics; computer hardware, software and architecture; electromagnetics; power; biomedical systems; renewable energy; and electric vehicle systems. Many of our students take their studies and concept understanding to the next level by participating in Clemson's cooperative education program. With this program, you'll spend alternating semesters on campus and working at an industry partner, which allows you to take what you're learning in the classroom and apply it in the workplace, and vice versa. Curriculum Electrical Engineering, B.S. Popular Minors Cybersecurity Computer Science Similar Majors Computer Engineering (B.S.) Mechanical Engineering (B.S.) EXPERIENCES BEYOND THE CLASSROOM Electrical engineering students have numerous outlets for gaining chances for hands-on learning, applying what they've already learned to real-world situations and networking with professionals already practicing in the field. Co-op Put your classroom knowledge to work by spending alternate semesters working at an industry and studying on campus as part of Clemson's cooperative education program. Learn More » Design A two-semester capstone experience gives our students hands-on experience in designing, building and programming a mechatronic system to compete against fellow students. Ambassador As an upperclassman, join the ECE Undergraduate Ambassadors and be a cheerleader for our department. Conduct recruiting events for prospective students, direct study halls and network with faculty, alumni and fellow students. Robotics Design, build and program robots to accomplish given tasks using MathWorks MATLAB software during this semester-long class specifically for freshmen. Learn More » Connections Form mentorships with electrical and computer engineering alumni or strong advocates. Mentors stay in touch with their mentee students throughout the academic year to motivate and excite them about the field. CONNECT WITH OTHER STUDENTS Creative Inquiry Eta Kappa Nu Study Abroad PEER WISE AFTER GRADUATION Your college decision isn't really about the next four years. We get it. It's about what doors are opened by your degree and whether those opportunities are what you had envisioned for yourself. Here's a snapshot of what life after graduation looks like for some of our most recent students. WHERE OUR RECENT GRADUATES HAVE GONE KEY 41-100% 21-40% 11-20% 0-10% RECENT EMPLOYERS ExxonMobil Michelin Walt Disney Company Lockheed Martin Aeronautics Duke Energy RECENT POSTGRADUATE STUDIES Ph.D. Electrical Engineering University of California, Berkeley Ph.D. Aerospace Engineering University of Colorado Boulder Ph.D. Bioengineering Georgia Tech M.S. Electrical Engineering University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign Ph.D. Photonic Science and Technology Clemson University COMMON CAREER AREAS Electrical / Computer Engineering Power Electronics Power Systems Communications Electronics Control Systems Digital Signal Processing Microelectronics Image Processing and Robotics Computer Engineering Plasma Engineering Computer Vision Any Engineering Discipline Production Sales and Marketing Management Consulting Research and Development Teaching Law Used with permission from the University of Tennessee. FIND OUT MORE Have more questions or want more information? Fill out the form below, which goes directly to the following department contact. If you’d also like to receive general University information from Clemson’s admissions office, please follow the link to the right and sign up to join our mailing list. Christopher Porter CECAS Undergraduate Recruitment Director 864-656-7870 cporter@clemson.edu Department Website College Website Loading... Department Website College Website Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2015 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on Google+ Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on YouTube Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram Search Clemson University degrees Clemson Degree Programs Search Alphabetical List Schedule a Visit Campus Life Admissions Costs & Financial Aid Similar Majors To Electrical Engineering (B.S.) Computer Engineering (B.S.) Mechanical Engineering (B.S.)