Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Facilities Management University Event and Conference Services Show/Hide Services Event Management Virtual Events For Brown Departments For Other Organizations & Individuals Event Support Fees & Labor Rates Related Services Events Toolkit Virtual Events Planning Guide Step by Step Planning Guide Facilities Fees & Labor Rates Visiting Guest and Dignitaries Campus Event Venues Campus Partners Commencement Departmental Ceremonies Events Policies Postering and Publicity About Us Staff See What We Do Virtual Event Gallery Volunteer with us Contact Us Presidential Host Program Planon Volunteer with us Commencement Volunteers Brown’s Commencement is truly a unique day of festivities that combine centuries old traditions with the celebration of each new graduating class. The Office of University Event and Conference Services relies on the assistance of staff to make this fun and exciting event run smoothly. What are we looking for? Your time! Volunteers are needed on Sunday, May 26, 2019 from approximately 7 AM- 2 PM. We are seeking: procession assistants, main green ushers, and individuals who are knowledgeable about campus and can serve as a resource to visiting parents, families and guests. What can you expect? An In-Depth Training with UECS staff A meet and greet training will be provided to all volunteers. Training dates will be announced in early spring. At this training you will receive a Brown Commencement Polo Shirt, name tag and thank you gift. Snacks and beverages will also be provided. To be an instrumental part of Brown’s Commencement Ceremonies Your role is important – each and every volunteer plays a vital role in the success of the overall event. Breakfast and lunch will be provided An Invitation to a ‘Thank You’ reception with President Christina Paxson You will be acknowledged for your support at a private reception which will take place in the summer of 2019. Sign me up to volunteer! Event Support Request Event Management Inquiry Staff See What We Do Volunteer with us Contact Us Presidential Host Program Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Office of University Event & Conference Services Brown University 295 Lloyd Ave., Box 1941 Providence, RI 02912 Conferences & Event Support: Phone: (401) 863-3100 Fax: (401) 863-1943 Office Hours: 8:30AM-5:00PM FM Home Maps Feedback Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat