COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Research Compliance Section Menu Research Compliance Business Ethics CITI Online Training Conflict of Interest FAQ Financial Conflict of Interest Depository of Certifications & Assurance Export Compliance International Travel Regulatory Disclosures Report Export Compliance Concerns Restricted Party Screening Unmanned Aerospace Systems/Vehicles Compliance WSU Foreign Influence Office of Research Home Page COI - What Not to Disclose About the Research Compliance Office Overview In addition to the many federal laws and regulations that govern institutions of higher education, there are also state laws and board of regents polices that must be followed. A resource for these regulations can be found by visiting the Higher Education Compliance Alliance website. Purpose The Research Compliance Office serves the WSU community by providing guidance for complying with federal and state regulatory matters that intersect with research. Our office has primary responsibility for the following areas: Export Compliance Conflicts of Interest and management of those conflicts International Shipping Screening of individuals and entities against lists of restricted or debarred parties International Travel for Research/WSU related purposes Collection and Maintenance of WSU departments’ annual representations & certifications The Research Compliance Office also supports the following departments on campus: International Education - Visa Applications, Study Abroad opportunities General Counsel – completion of forms and repository for completed representations and certifications Purchasing – procurement from international vendors WSU Post Office – resource for review of items being imported into the U.S. or exported out of the U.S. Culture of Compliance Wichita State University is committed to conducting its academic and administrative responsibilities in an ethical manner and in accordance with all applicable laws, regulations and University policy. The University not only expects, but also depends on you to share this responsibility. Research Compliance Office Staff Contact us at compliance@wichita.edu or 978-COMP (2667) with questions, concerns or for assistance. We are here to help you navigate the world of research compliance. 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©