Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Maguire Center Events Events 21st Annual Bonhoeffer Lectures in Public Ethics: Everyday Ethics for Exceptional Times J. Erik Jonsson Ethics Award Delta Gamma Lectureship in Values and Ethics Ethics & Compliance Certificate Public Scholar Lecture Conference of the Professions Past Events Student Engagement Student Engagement The Ethics Essay Prize Public Service Fellowships Teaching and Research Teaching and Research Teaching Fellowship Public Scholars Faculty Incentive Grant Program Resources Resources COVID-19 SMU Ethics Toolbox Papers Sound Ethics Research Newsletter Newsroom Newsroom From the Director's Desk Ethics Blog About Us About Us Leadership Cary M. Maguire Ethics Center Advisory Board Faculty Advisory Committee Contact Give ☰ Cary M. Maguire Center for Ethics and Public Responsibility Cary M. Maguire Center for Ethics and Public Responsibility Newsroom From the Director's Desk From the Director's Desk In addition to leading the Maguire Ethics Center as the inaugural William F. May Endowed Director, Dr. Rita Kirk is an Altshuler Distinguished Teaching Professor in the department of Corporate Communications and Public Affairs. For over thirty years, Dr. Kirk has served as a leading community expert in matters of political communication strategy and hate speech. Books and Research Hate Speech Soundbite Culture: The Death of Discourse in a Wired World Political Empiricism: Communications Strategies in State and Regional Elections Ethics at the Heart of Higher Education Selected News History Making Women at SMU (The Dallas Morning News - March 2022) Kirk: Democrats Can Reclaim the Center by Listening to James Carville (NH Journal - March 2022) Blurring the Lines: Governing or Campaigning? (The Idaho Journal - December 2021) Selected Videos A Teach In on President Trump & The Current Constitutional Crisis Center for Presidential History at SMU event About Dr. Rita Kirk of SMU SMUExperts Profile The Power of the Press: Freedom, Ethics and Responsibility The Press Club of Dallas event Newsroom From the Director's Desk Ethics Blog Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share