Skip to main content Menu Audiences Clemson Home CECAS Home Department Home Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift About People Research Contact Us Welcome to the Clemson University Water-Energy Consortium (WEC) The Water-Energy Consortium (WEC) at Clemson University (CU), officially launched on July 1, 2014, is a multidisciplinary group of CU faculty members, designated as WEC Fellows, who have assembled their knowledge and expertise to address an important global challenge: the Water-Energy Nexus. The nexus between water and energy encompasses energy aspects of water systems (energy footprint of water production) and water aspects of energy systems (water footprint of energy production). Learn more by visiting our About section. JOIN US at 10 am on Thursday, March 26th for our 1st Water Energy Consortium seminar. Mr. Mike Hightower, from Sandia National Laboratories, will be presenting on the "Energy-Water Nexus: National Perspectives and DOE Initiatives." The presentation will be followed by a discussion session for all who are interested. Learn more by viewing the Hightower seminar pdf. Dr. Gary Amy Dr. Gary Amy is a Dean's Distinguished Professor in the College of Engineering, Computing & Applied Sciences at Clemson University and the coordinator of the WEC. Prior to Prof. Amy’s recent appointment at Clemson, he served as Director of the Water Desalination and Reuse Center (WDRC) at the King Abdullah University of Science and Technology (KAUST). His recent research at KAUST focused on: (i) low-energy desalination processes including forward osmosis (FO), membrane distillation (MD), adsorption desalination (AD), and various hybrids; and (ii) aquifer recharge and recovery (ARR) as a low-cost/-energy wastewater treatment/reuse process. Upcoming Events AUG22 General Faculty Meeting 10:30 am to 12:00 pm Memorial Stadium (Death Valley) Copyright © Clemson University Water-Energy Consortium | 114 Riggs Hall | Clemson University | Clemson, SC 29634 (864) 656-3201 | Email Us