Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Division of Research and Innovation About Vision, Mission, & Values Researchers Business & Partners News Facilities Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Researcher Resources Identify Interest Getting StartedCommon Funding OpportunitiesInternal Funding OpportunitiesCollaboration and Networking ERA Getting StartedCayuse TrainingImportant FormsSponsor News & Updates Route & Submit Getting StartedElectronic Research AdministrationPI EligibilityResearch Forms & GuidesSponsor Guidance Research Compliance Getting Started Human Subjects (IRB) Research Data Security Financial Conflict of Interest Animal Care (IACUC) Export Controls Award & Grants Getting StartedSponsored AgreementsAdvance AccountsNon-Financial Post-AwardReports and DeliverablesSubaward AdministrationClosing the Award Training Resources Training CalendarCurrent Training ResourcesArchive of Past TrainingFIT Training ResourcesCayuse TrainingCoRS Training How do I? Institutional Information Research Forms Take Action For Researchers For Business Strategic Goals & Tactical Plan Contact Us @UofMemphis FacebooktwitterLinkedn Home Division of Research and Innovation Researchers Research Data Security Research Data Security NIST SP 800-171 Compliance Certain research projects sponsored by U.S. federal agencies, in particular the Department of Defense (DoD), are required to demonstrate compliance with the standards outlined in NIST SP 800-171. The University of Memphis has developed guidelines to assist research teams with achieving and maintaining compliance. Visit the IT Security NIST SP 800-171 webpage for more information. HIPAA Hybrid Entity The University of Memphis is a HIPAA Hybrid Entity with several designated components. For our researchers using HIPAA data (Protected Health Information), please be in contact with Beverly Jacobik to discuss your data security requirements. Data Sharing Agreements Data agreements that do not involve human subjects research data under IRB review, submission for review will start with CayuseSP and the Office of Sponsored Programs. OSP will coordinate with Research Compliance for ITS review. The following is the procedure for review and signature approval of data sharing agreements where human subject data is being shared by another party with a University of Memphis Investigator: 1. When submitting a protocol to the IRB, Cayuse IRB will prompt the researcher to attach data sharing agreements, the Research Data Security Agreement, and a data management plan. 2. IRB analysts will review materials for completion and ensure that the IRB protocol matches the terms of the data sharing agreement, and the data management plan. 3. IRB analysts will assign a protocol number and affix it to the Research Data Security Agreement. They will forward to the Director of Research Computing, the Research Data Security Agreement, the data sharing agreement, and the Researcher's data management plan. 4. Information Technology Services(ITS), the Director of Research Computing or a designated representative will review the data security requirements of the agreements, consult with the Researcher as needed, assist the Researcher, Research Compliance and the IRB with understanding the technical requirements of the agreements. 5. ITS will approve the final Data Management Plan by signing the Research Data Security Agreement, the data sharing agreement (if there is a required IT signature) and forwarding signed agreements to the IRB. 6. The IRB protocol will then be reviewed with the approved data management plan in place. 7. When the IRB protocol has received IRB approval, the IRB analysts will forward the Data agreement to the Executive Vice President for Research and Innovation (EVPRI) for Signature and return the signed document to the Researcher. IRB analysts will also forward a copy of the executed Research Data Security Agreement to the Researcher. If electronic authorization is required by the EVPRI, that notification of authorization will made by email to the EVPRI. Research Compliance Training Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/19/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.