Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Spanish and Latin American Studies for Business Certificate (Undergraduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Spanish and Latin American Studies for Business Certificate (Undergraduate) Apply Request More Info Spanish and Latin American Studies for Business Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Undergraduate Certificate in Spanish and Latin American Studies for Business Gain an in-depth understanding of the growing Latino population in the United States with the Undergraduate Certificate in Spanish and Latin American Studies for Business in Temple University’s College of Liberal Arts. This 18-credit, interdisciplinary certificate program is designed so that Temple students in business-related bachelor's degree programs develop skills and knowledge in two complementary areas, allowing them to become more competitive in the job market. You'll study the Latino population through analyzing economic development, United States-Latin American foreign relations, and underdevelopment in these regions from a comparative and global perspective. You’ll also explore aspects of the Spanish language and Hispanic culture specifically intended for business students and business professionals, with an emphasis on the development of vocabulary and conversation skills. Learn to translate a variety of texts including banking and financial documents, business correspondence, and promotional and informational materials. In addition, you may take courses in the culture, history, politics and societies of Latin America. Through the Spanish and Latin American Studies for Business Certificate (Undergraduate), you’ll acquire up-to-date knowledge and skills directly concerned with the Americas from a variety of methodological perspectives. Classes & Curriculum Students have four years to satisfy the requirements of the Spanish and Latin American Studies for Business Undergraduate Certificate, which is awarded at the completion of your bachelor’s program. It cannot be awarded as a stand-alone program of study or after completion of your bachelor’s degree. Courses you will take as part of the curriculum include Basic Spanish I & II, Business Spanish, Fundamentals of Latin American Business, and Latin America Through Film & Fiction. Learn more about Spanish and Latin American Studies for Business Certificate (Undergraduate) courses. Related Graduate Degrees Liberal Arts MLA Spanish MA Spanish PhD Business Administration MBA* Business Administration PhD* *Fox School of Business Careers Speaking more than one language can set you apart in today’s global job market. It can increase your marketability and opportunities for career advancement as bilingual professionals can communicate with a larger population. According to the American Council on the Teaching of Foreign Languages, acquisition of a second language may help improve standardized test scores, and it may improve memory and problem-solving skills. Additionally, studying a language and its culture can help you develop empathy and global thinking. It can broaden your perspective and help you cultivate a greater understanding of people and, in turn, the world. The critical skills gained from learning a foreign language are directly applicable to today’s rapidly diversifying world and can be used across all fields and disciplines. Employment of Latin American studies students is estimated to grow in the coming years. Currently, the largest employers of Latin American studies students include the federal government; state and local government; and professional, scientific and technical services. Tuition & Fees The tuition for this Certificate is based on school or college of your major, program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Academic Advisors Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development Dedicated advisors at the Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development in the College of Liberal Arts are available to guide students through their academic careers and with their career paths beyond Temple. They can help you choose a major, navigate your curriculum, identify internship opportunities, explore career opportunities and determine your post-graduation plans. Learn more about the center. Program Contact For more information about the Spanish and Latin American Studies for Business Certificate (Undergraduate), contact the following staff members. Joshua M. Pongan is the administrator for the Spanish and Latin American Studies for Business Certificate (Undergraduate). Phone: 215-204-2139 Email: jpongan@temple.edu Michelle Xu is an administrator in the Latin American Studies Department. Phone: 215-204-5628 Email: xu.michelle@temple.edu The following staff member leads the Latin American Studies Department. Adam Joseph Shellhorse is the director. Phone: 215-204-8285 Email: aj.shellhorse@temple.edu Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-SLSB-CR2+ Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Spanish and Latin American Studies for Business Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info