Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links HR Menu Main Nav HR How can we help you? Back Back Close About Overview Meet Our Staff Departments Directions Related Links Office for Institutional Diversity Office of Employee Development Compensation Office Health & Well-being Work at BC Overview Benefits at a Glance Apply for a Staff Position Job Fairs Mission Videos Policies & Forms Overview HR Forms BC Holiday Schedule Emergency Closing Notary Locations Protection of Minors Required State & Federal Workplace Notifications Related Links Employee Handbook Title IX Federal & State Laws Programs & Events Caring for Our People How can we help you? Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Human Resources Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Human Resources Forms Home Policies & Forms HR Forms Get Support Boston College Bias-Related Incident Report Form This Form can be completed by either victims of bias, by witnesses to such incidents, or by students, faculty and staff members to whom others have reported incident(s). Print Details Incidents reported on this form will be recorded in a database maintained by the Office for Institutional Diversity. Reports will be kept confidential to the extent possible unless it requires judicial or administrative action. The purpose of the database is to tally incidents and track details related to them. We expect to use this information to prevent and better respond to future incidents, and reassure the community that campus authorities are attentive to incident reports. This form is not necessary if you have reported the incident to another campus authority (BCPD, ODSD, Res Life, HR, Deans, etc.) because those reports will automatically be included in the database. Hate Crimes and Bias-Related Incident Protocol Reasonable Accommodation Request Form For employees to request a reasonable accommodation. Print Details In accordance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, and the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, Boston College will provide a reasonable accommodation to qualified people with disabilities (including special disabled veterans) to enable them to safely and effectively perform the essential functions of their positions, to enjoy equal benefits and privileges of employment whether as faculty, staff, or student employees, or for applicants to participate in the employment application process. If you have any questions regarding this process please contact Peilun Wu at accommodation@bc.edu at 617-552-2373. Reasonable Accommodation Process COVID-19 Vaccination Exemption Form For Employees to request COVID-19 Vaccination Exemption Print Details If you have any questions regarding this process please contact accomodations@bc.edu COVID-19 Testing Exemption Request Form For Employees to request COVID-19 Testing Exemption Print Details If you have any questions regarding this process please contact accomodations@bc.edu Health & Family Adoption Assistance Claim Form Benefits-eligible employees can request reimbursement for “qualified adoption expenses” incurred. Learn more about BC's Adoption Benefit Adoption Leave — Primary Caregiver Affidavit Form is submitted along with a formal request for leave which is submitted in writing to the employee’s department and the Benefits Office as soon as the dates are available. Print Details Effective Date and Eligibility Effective August 1, 2008, employees who have completed at least one year of benefits-eligible service are eligible for the following adoption leave-of-absence policies. Paid Adoption Leave Boston College will grant up to eight weeks of Paid Adoption Leave to an eligible employee during the period immediately following placement of the adopted child in the employee’s home. To be eligible, the employee must certify that he or she is the primary caregiver for the adoptive child, and the child must be under the age of 13. This leave will not be charged to the employee’s sick or vacation accruals. If both adoptive parents work for Boston College, only one may be designated as primary caregiver. (This Paid Leave policy does not apply to an employee adopting a blood relative or the child of the employee’s spouse or other member of the employee’s household.) [Note: A primary caregiver who has not completed a year of service will be entitled to one week of Paid Adoption Leave for each full calendar month of completed service, to a maximum of eight weeks.] The paid leave will not apply to periods when the employee would otherwise not be working - for example, in the case of an academic year position where the eight-week period extends into the summer. The paid period is not extended by the occurrence of any holidays or emergency closing days that fall within the first eight weeks. A benefits-eligible employee who is an adoptive parent, but not the primary caregiver, will be granted one week of Paid Adoption Leave, also not charged to sick or vacation accruals. The leave must be taken within 12 weeks of placement of the child in the employee’s home. Adoption leaves run concurrently with any entitlement under the federal Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA). Unpaid Adoption Leave Under the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA), an employee who has completed a year of service is generally entitled to a maximum of 12 weeks of unpaid adoption leave. Any portion of an eligible FMLA leave not covered by the Paid Adoption Leave policy or by available vacation accruals will be unpaid. Employees not eligible for Paid Adoption Leave or FMLA leave, or who are eligible but wish to request extended leave, may request an unpaid leave. The request will be subject to approval by their department and the Benefits Office. Procedure for Leave-of-Absence As early as they can, employees are requested to provide their supervisor/manager with preliminary information regarding their need for adoption leave, including any necessary pre-placement time off to be charged to vacation accruals. The formal request for leave should be submitted in writing to the employee’s department and the Benefits Office as soon as the dates are available. A completed “Primary Caregiver Affidavit” must be submitted with the application for Adoption Leave. Children's Center Lottery & Waitlist Form Interested parents may register for the lottery by filling out this form; form is also utilized to be placed on the waitlist. Print Details How to Register Interested parents may register for the lottery by filling out the Lottery Form online and submitting it by clicking Submit Application. We recommend using Internet Explorer as your browser. For additional questions, please call Karen Cristello at the Children's Center at (617) 552-3089. Lottery/Enrollment Process BCCC is a preschool program with extended day in the afternoon. Its mission is to provide high-quality preschool education and care to the children of employees and students. There are 42 full-time spaces. Enrollment for open spaces is done through an annual lottery; the lottery process is designed to afford all employee/student families an opportunity to access the program. The lots for openings are made up annually. The application period begins in October and ends before the Holiday break (annual dates are on the form). The lottery takes place at the end of Fall session, when a blind draw is done by the Vice President of Human Resources. Applicants are placed in lottery categories by the BCCC director according to the information given on the application. A count of the current members is taken, and priority for openings is given to full-time applicants and underrepresented categories. Family categories include Faculty, Professional/Admin, Support Staff, Serv/Tech, Graduate Student, and Undergraduate Student. Other areas that affect the lots drawn are age group, schedule requested, and gender. Once the lots are drawn, parents are informed of their status by email, and appointments for tours and intake interviews are scheduled. Parents are asked to read the Parent Handbook on the web prior to their intake appointment. The center requests a commitment to accept enrollment or withdraw shortly after the intake interview so that any vacancies can be given to families on the wait list. Once the decision to join BCCC is made, an enrollment process with a contract for service and a one month’s advanced tuition is initiated. This tuition payment holds the child’s place in the Fall class. This advanced payment is non-refundable. In June, an information packet with registration, permission forms, and medical/health documentation is processed. School visits for the children are also scheduled. The new school year begins in early September. Dependents Life Insurance Enrollment To add or change dependents listed on life insurance please email benefits@bc.edu Employee Request for Leave under FMLA Employees request for leave under the Family and Medical Leave Act. FACHEX Eligibility Certification Form Faculty and Staff Children’s Exchange is an undergraduate tuition remission program which allows dependents eligible for tuition benefits at one Jesuit institution to apply for the same benefits at participating Jesuit institutions. Flexible Spending Reimbursement Form - Dependent Care WageWorks form to file a claim for eligible dependent care expenses. Flexible Spending Reimbursement Form - Medical Care WageWorks form to file a claim for eligible medical expenses. Print Details File claim online: Log into your account at www.wageworks.com to submit your claim electronically. File claim via fax or mail: Claim details may be entered online and a completed form may be printed and faxed or mailed with documentation. Fax: 877-353-9236 , US Mail: CLAIMS ADMINISTRATOR, P.O. Box 14053, Lexington, KY, 40512 See the Open Enrollment site for more information regarding eligible FSA expenses. Open Enrollment Information Supplemental Life Insurance Enrollment To enroll in supplemental life insurance please email benefits@bc.edu Personal Profile Invitation to Self Identify for People with Disabilities Voluntary Self Identify Disability Status via via Peoplesoft HR Voluntary Self Identify Disability Status via Paper Form Optional form for employees with disabilities to self identify. Please visit the Self-Service area within PeopleSoft HR to update your Disabilty status electronically or you may complete the forms below and forward to Patricia Lowe, Patricia.lowe@bc.edu in order to ensure the information is kept confidential. Invitation to Self Identify for Race/Ethnicity Voluntarily Self Identify Race/Ethnicity via the Agora Portal Voluntarily Self Identify Race/Ethnicity via Paper Form Optional form for employees to self identify their race. Please visit the Account and Personal Info area within the Agora Portal to view or update your race/ethnicity electronically or you may complete the paper form and forward to Patricia Lowe, Patricia.lowe@bc.edu in order to ensure the information is kept confidential. Invitation to Self Identify for Veterans Voluntarily Self Identify Veteran Status via PeopleSoft HR Voluntarily Self Identify Veteran Status via Paper Form Optional form for employee to self identify as a veteran. Please visit the Self-Service area within PeopleSoft HR to update your veteran status electronically or you may complete the forms below and forward to Patricia Lowe, Patricia.lowe@bc.edu in order to ensure the information is kept confidential. Personal Data Form Must be completed by new faculty members and certain student employees only. The information contained on the Personal Data Form is required in order to enter new employees into the HR/Payroll System and to grant access to the BC Network. To be completed with the Hire Form. Manager Hire Form Used to hire Faculty and Non-BC Student Employees into an open position. Role Description Form Details a position's key responsibilities, reporting, scope, and minimum qualifications. It is used as the basis for documenting and evaluating a position. Print Details Helpful Hints Performance Appraisal Form The performance appraisal form is designed to link employee performance to our institutional mission and values as reflected in the Ignatian tradition and to provide guidance and consistency to the performance evaluation process. Print Details You may either: Print the form and hand write or type your responses directly on the hard copy of the form OR Save the form to your computer so that you can edit it electronically in Microsoft Word. This is the recommended option since it gives you more flexibility in terms of space for responses and making various edits. *Note: Both methods require that you forward any hard copies to the appropriate Vice President. Goal Tracking Worksheet This worksheet serves as a planning document to be used throughout the performance management cycle. Details Every year in June or July the school’s/department’s objectives for the performance period and the individual's role description should be reviewed before completing the worksheet. Employee Change Request (ECR) The ECR Form is used to communicate employee status changes to Human Resources. It should be completed when the following occur: Changes to job status (hours/schedule/pay) Job promotions, demotions or transfers Pay or Hours Changes Resignation or Retirement Termination (with prior approval from Human Resources) Details The ECR Form is not available online, but several ECR functions have been made available directly in PeopleSoft. These include Leave of Absence, Hours Change, Pay Rate Change, Long Term Disability, Short Term Disability with Pay, Reclassification, Faculty Promotion/Transfer, Revise Existing Short Work Break, Termination, Earnings Distribution and Extension, and BCPD Shift Transfer. Instructions Probation Evaluation Form for BC Staff To be completed after first six (6) months of employment for professional/ administrative employees and the first four (4) months for office/clerical and service employees. Flexible Work Agreement Form To make a request for a flexible work schedule, the employee should complete this form and send it to their supervisor for review. Flexible work schedules must be endorsed by the employee’s supervisor and approved by the respective Vice President, Vice Provost, or Dean. Payroll Foreign National Information Form Collects previous and current visa data which is needed to determine tax liability for foreign national students and employees. Form I-9 | U.S. Employment Eligibility Verification Required to verify that a new employee is eligible to work in the United States. Print Details I-9 Information The Form I-9 is required to verify that a new employee is eligible to work in the United States. In addition to completing the first section of the Form I-9, the new employee must also show proof of identity and employment eligibility to an authorized Boston College employment representative. A list of acceptable documents is included on the third page of the form. Instructions for completing the Form I-9 What is the Form I-9? The 1986 Immigration and Reform Act sought to control the problem of illegal migration by eliminating a key incentive for unauthorized persons to come to the United States: employment. To accomplish this, IRCA made all US employers responsible to ensure that US citizen as well as non-citizen employees hired after November 6, 1986, document both that they are eligible to work in the United States and that their identities match the information on their employment authorization documents. To implement this, employers were required to complete the Employment Eligibility Verification Form I-9 for all employees. Employers are responsible for the completion of Form I-9 for all employees, regardless of citizenship or national origin. An employee is any individual compensated for services to an employer, whether by payment in the form of wages/salary or in the form of goods or services such as food and lodging. Terms used within this document: Employer = Boston College BC Rep = Boston College staff member authorized to sign off on the Form I-9 Employee = New hire presenting identity and work eligibility information WHO IS AUTHORIZED TO COMPLETE A FORM I-9 FOR A NEW EMPLOYEE? Boston College authorizes various non-student staff members involved in the hiring process to sign off on Form I-9s. SECTION 1. EMPLOYEE INFORMATION AND VERIFICATION Step 1 Employee must fill in all applicable personal information on the first three lines. Step 2 Employee must check one of the three boxes attesting to work eligibility. Information for BC Rep follows: If the first box, "A citizen or national of the United States," is checked: No additional paperwork must be completed along with the Form I-9. If the second box, "A Lawful Permanent Resident," is checked: (1) BC Rep must make a photocopy of the front and back of the Employee's green card, making sure that the dates are legible, and attach the copies to the Form I-9. (2) Employee must complete the Citizenship Information Form in addition to the Form I-9. (3) Both completed forms should be forwarded directly to Diane Cronin, the HRSC Foreign National Tax Specialist, in Room 100, 129 Lake Street. If the third box, "An alien authorized to work until," is checked: Employee must bring completed Form I-9 personally to Diane Cronin, the Foreign National Tax Specialist in the HRSC, Room 100, 129 Lake Street, where additional paperwork will be processed. Step 3 Employee must sign and date the Form I-9. Step 4 BC Rep must verify that all information has been fully and properly completed in this section. SECTION 2. EMPLOYER REVIEW AND VERIFICATION Step 1 BC Rep must personally review original document(s) that demonstrate the Employee's identity and eligibility to work in the US. A list of acceptable documents (please scroll to page 3 of the Form I-9 document to view the list) is available with the Form I-9. A person can present one document from List A (which establishes both identity and employment eligibility) or one document from List B (which establishes identity) and one document from List C (which establishes employment eligibility). BC Rep may not accept a photocopy of a document. Employee must present original documents. The only exception is the presentation of a certified copy of a birth certificate. Step 2 BC Rep must record the Document title, Issuing authority, Document # and Expiration date (if any) of the document(s). The law does not require the Employer to keep photocopies of any documents. Step 3 BC Rep must fill in the date of hire in the Certification block. Step 4 BC Rep must sign, print name, title, organization name (Boston College) and address, and date the Form I-9. ROUTING Forward the completed Form I-9 (along with Citizenship Information Form, if applicable) to the Human Resources Service Center in Room 100, 129 Lake Street. Kronos Time Approver Form Required to submit a request for a new Kronos Approver or to terminate a current Kronos Approver's access to the Kronos Workforce Timekeeper System. Print Details A Kronos Time Approver Form must be completed for all Boston College employees granted Manager access to the Kronos Workforce Timekeeper system. The Time Approver Form is completed by the Department Head or budgetary responsible person. Instructions for completing the Kronos Time Approver Form are available below. Instructions for Completing the Kronos Time Approver Form Department Name Enter the Department Name. Approver Name Enter the Approver's first and last name. Eagle ID # Enter the Approver's 8-digit Eagle ID number. Phone Ext. Enter the Approver's office telephone extension. Username Enter the Approver's username (login name). Approver is Paid Click the radio button to indicate whether the Approver is paid Monthly or Weekly. Type of Kronos Access Click the radio button to indicate what level of access the Approver should have: Approval Access pertains to supervisors who verify the hours that are actually worked. Sign Off and Approval Access provides final departmental authorization that the hours are to be paid. Replacing Approver Click the radio button to indicate whether this Approver is replacing a former Approver in your department. Replacing If you selected Yes for Replacing Approver, enter the previous Approver's name. Department Number(s) Enter all department numbers that the Approver will be responsible for. Approval access is granted on the departmental level, not the account distribution level. Comments Use this section to list additional department numbers, if necessary, or to add comments. Approver's Signature Approver's signature is required. Date Print the date the Approver signed the form. Dept. Head Signature Department Head's signature is required. Date Print the date the Department Head signed the form. Form M-4 | State of MA Tax Withholding Allows an employee to specify the number of exemptions and, optionally, an additional amount to be withheld from his/her paycheck for Massachusetts State Tax. Print Details The Form M-4 is required of all new employees so that withholding amounts may be deducted from payroll correctly. Current employees should also use the Form M-4 to make changes to current withholding amounts, if necessary. Instructions for completing the Form M-4 are available with the form. The Form M-4 must be submitted to the Human Resources Service Center, Room 100, 129 Lake Street on the Brighton Campus. Form W-4 | Federal Income Tax Withholding Allows an employee to specify the number of exemptions, and, optionally, an additional amount to be withheld from his/her paycheck for Federal Income Tax. Supplemental Payment Requisition Used to request payment for employee services rendered to the University outside of his/her regular position. Special Write-in Time Sheet Used to record hours for hourly paid employees not on the pre-printed time report. Retirement & Finance MetLife Legal Enrollment Form Details Plan Coverage Summary Frequently Asked Questions Fee Reimbursement Schedule (if using a non-Plan attorney) Credit Union Membership Form To enroll in a Credit Union account, change future payroll deduction amounts, or set up direct deposit. Financial Planning Subsidy Application To apply for the Financial Planning Subsidy offered by Boston College. Print Details Financial Planning Subsidy Boston College will provide a partial subsidy for certain financial planning services obtained by faculty and staff members, in accordance with the following guidelines. The primary purpose of this policy will be to assist employees with retirement and estate planning decisions. These decisions may include such considerations as investment analysis, education funding for children or grandchildren, catastrophic illness planning, or strategies for taking retirement plan distributions. Full-time faculty and staff, age 40 and over, with at least one year of current full-time service at Boston College will be eligible to participate in this program. To be eligible for the subsidy, a participant must utilize recognized professionals in the financial planning field, including but not necessarily limited to, Certified Financial Planners, Chartered Financial Consultants, Certified Public Accountants, and attorneys specializing in financial and/or estate planning. In order to participate, an employee must complete, in advance, a Financial Planning Subsidy Application (also available at the Benefits Office, Room 140, 129 Lake Street) indicating the person or company whose services are to be used and providing appropriate information about the provider's financial planning credentials. It is the University's intent to allow a participant as much flexibility as possible in selecting a financial planning advisor. Nevertheless, the University reserves the right to seek additional information about a planner's credentials and, when deemed appropriate, to decline to subsidize the planner's services. Boston College will subsidize 80% of the cost of eligible financial planning services, up to a maximum contribution of $560 per person. Payment will be made directly to the employee upon submission of a receipted invoice to the Benefits Office detailing the cost of services rendered. The subsidy maximum may be reached in more than one installment, but the final request for reimbursement must be made within one year of the initial payment. The reimbursement is taxable and the amount will be included in the employee's W-2 Form. (Participants in the 90-91 Financial Planning Pilot Program will not be eligible for this subsidy.) Five years after receiving the last reimbursement, an eligible employee may receive an additional subsidy for the cost of follow-up financial planning services. The additional subsidy will be 80% of the cost of eligible services, up to a maximum reimbursement that is one-half of the current primary benefit (e.g., 80% of the $350 = $280). Subsequent additional subsidies will be available on a rolling five-year basis. (Note: Participants in the 90-91 Financial Planning Pilot Program are eligible for this subsidy.) This program will be subject to continuing review to determine if it is meeting its intended objectives. The University reserves the right to suspend, terminate, or limit participation in the program at any time. 401(k)/403(b) Salary Reduction Agreement Required with 401(k) and 403(b) retirement plan enrollment forms, to change contributions, and to change investment vendors (TIAA, Fidelity). Fidelity Investments 401(k) Enrollment Form To enroll in Fidelity 401(k) retirement plan. Fidelity Investments 403(b) Enrollment Form To enroll in Fidelity 403(b) retirement program. TIAA 401(k) Enrollment Form To enroll in TIAA 401(k) retirement plan. TIAA 403(b) Enrollment Form To enroll in TIAA 403(b) retirement program. Boston College 401(k) Plan Waiver of Participation To waive enrollment in Boston College's 401(k) Retirement Plan. Print Details Complete the form and return to the Benefits Office via email to benefits@bc.edu or mail to Benefits Office Brighton Campus 140 Commonwealth Ave Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Quick Links Benefits Departments Forms Events HR Wiki Back To Top Back To Top Human Resources 129 Lake Street Brighton Campus 617-552-3330 About Work at BC Policies & Forms Programs & Events Caring for Our People Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College