Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Campus Recreation Campus Recreation right arrow down arrow Hours & Schedules right arrow down arrow Campus Recreation Center (CRC) Fitness Center at CARE/Crawley Aquatics Fitness Classes Intramurals Climbing Wall Severe Weather Policy COVID-19 Operations right arrow down arrow Fitness Floor Map Virtual Resources Visit right arrow down arrow Getting Started right arrow down arrow Fitness Floor Orientation Equipment Tutorials Parking Facility Hours Terms & Conditions Lockers & Towels Pro Shop FAQ Things To Do right arrow down arrow Fitness Classes right arrow down arrow Online Fitness Fitness Programs & Special Events 30 Minute Workout Area Personal Training Trainings & Certifications Aquatics Climbing right arrow down arrow Policies & Waiver Intramural Sports right arrow down arrow Intramural Sports Rules right arrow down arrow Intramural Sports Handbook 3-on-3 Basketball 5-on-5 Basketball 7-on-7 Football 7-on-7 Soccer 11-on-11 Soccer 4-on-4 Volleyball 6-on-6 Volleyball Dodgeball Futsal Kickball Pickleball Softball Spikeball Tennis Ultimate Wallyball FAQ Racquetball REC Kids Camp right arrow down arrow Parent/Guardian Guide Team Building Pickleball Membership right arrow down arrow Rates & Discounts Fitness Floor Orientation Terms & Conditions Facilities & Rentals right arrow down arrow Facility Rentals Birthday Parties Process Rates Policies Reservation Jobs right arrow down arrow Staff Directory Student Employment Student Employment Below is a list of current positions that are accepting applications. Some of the applications below will require you to sign in to a Gmail account in order to attach your resume. If you do not have a Gmail account in order to access an application, please e-mail campusrec@uc.edu with your name and the positions interested in. Eligible positions for summer and fall 2022 employment Hiring For Summer 2022 Semesters Hiring For Application Open: Application Closes: How to Apply: Member Services Staff Summer Open Until filled Application Form Personal Trainer Summer/Fall Open Until filled Application Form Group Fitness Instructor Summer/Fall Open Until filled Application Form Lifeguard Summer/Fall Open Until filled Application Form Intramural Official Fall Open Until filled Application Form Job Descriptions Building Assistant right arrow down arrow Building Assistants will focus on preparing and maintaining the gym courts and other areas of the facility for member and guest use. This includes the enforcement of policy and procedures, maintaining safety and cleanliness, and providing exceptional service to members and guests. This position will support the Building Supervisor in management of day-to-day operations, special event management, and customer service of the gym courts. Successful candidates must ensure members, prospective members, rental groups, and guests are presented with a safe and enjoyable environment. Pay rate - $9.30/hr Building Supervisor right arrow down arrow The Building Supervisor is responsible for directing the operations of the Campus Recreation Center including assisting in the management of the day-to-day operations of the facility, equipment maintenance, special event management, and customer service. Successful candidates must ensure members, prospective members, rental groups, and guests are presented with a safe and enjoyable environment. Email Amber Green (amber.green@uc.edu) for more information. Pay rate - $11.50/hr Camp Counselor right arrow down arrow Under supervision of camp administrators, camp counselors supervise and maintain the safety of campers who range from Kindergarten through 8th grade. Primary Responsibilities: Along with other counselors, supervise a group of 20-30 children ranging from grades K-8. Monitor and maintain overall safety and wellbeing of designated children and fellow staff members. Assist in the development, setup, and implementation of camp activities and participate routinely. Distribute daily lunches, snacks, and drinks as needed throughout the course of the day. Adhere to and enforce discipline guidelines and policies towards children. Complete all necessary paperwork. Effectively communicate to fellow staff members, administrators, camp parents, and guardians in a positive manner regarding REC Kids Camp. Conduct and/or assist with daily cleaning operations. Administer first aid and emergency care according to certifications acquired during training. Abide by all camp policies, procedures, and guidelines as communicated from training week. Other duties as assigned. Minimum Requirements: Must be age 16 or older. Must be actively seeking a degree. Must pass a state background check, a national background check, a sex offender registry check, and three reference checks. Preferred Qualifications: At least one year of experience working with elementary and/or middle school aged children. Certified in CPR/AED/First Aid for the Professional Rescuer through the American Red Cross. Pay rate - $11.00/hr Camp Supervisor right arrow down arrow Under supervision of the Assistant Director of Intramural Sports & Camps, plan, design, coordinate, and evaluate various logistics and operations of REC Kids Camp. There will be four (4) total camp supervisors, each with an area of focus. Primary Responsibilities (All Supervisors): Plan, coordinate, and conduct parts of camp counselor training. Conduct written evaluations of all camp counselors. Conduct camper check-in and/or check-out. Fill in as a camp counselor when necessary. Adhere to and enforce discipline guidelines and policies towards children. Complete all necessary paperwork. Effectively communicate to fellow staff members, administrators, camp parents, and guardians in a positive manner regarding REC Kids Camp. Accompany campers to/from drop-off/pickup location during the camp day. Administer first aid and emergency care according to certifications acquired during training. Abide by all camp policies, procedures, and guidelines as communicated from training week. Other duties as assigned. Primary Responsibilities (By Area of Focus): Camp Supervisor – Logistics (Programming) Plan, coordinate, and implement Friday special events, field trips, and thematic activities. Communicate and confirm guest speakers. Develop weekly activity schedules for each camp group. Plan and implement daily snack schedule and assist with purchasing of food, supplies, and equipment. Plan, coordinate, and implement weekly counselor challenge activities. Reserve necessary facilities for camp activities including campus classrooms, green space, and time in the Arlitt garden. Publish daily camp schedules in print and web versions. Camp Supervisor – Operations During hours outside of standard drop-off/pickup times, accompany campers to/from drop-off/pickup location. Monitor camp text message phone line and respond to inquiries in a timely, friendly manner. Work with Coordinator of Aquatics to create online swim lesson progress reports and communicate them to parents/guardians. Create and implement daily cleaning schedule and maintain inventory of cleaning supplies. Assist logistics camp supervisor in planning, coordinating, and implementing thematic activities. Camp Supervisor – Customer Service Serve as camp historian by taking photos, videos, and documenting camp events daily. Monitor and review payments from parents/guardians. Communicate with parents/guardians regarding late/missing payments. Monitor and review form intake from parents/guardians. Communicate with parents/guardians regarding missing information. Manage camp waitlists and coordinate registration for additions. Produce and send weekly parent/guardian newsletter. Collect and maintain daily attendance forms from counselors. Camp Supervisor – Arts & Crafts Plan, coordinate, setup, and implement two to three arts & crafts projects per week. Assist with purchasing of art, craft, and decoration supplies. Coordinate weekly coloring contest for campers. Develop and maintain camp classroom charts/bulletin boards including camper/counselor of the week board and counselor challenge board. Oversee camp classroom decorations and wall coverings. Minimum Requirements: Must be age 16 or older. Must be actively seeking a degree. Must pass a state background check, a national background check, a sex offender registry check, and three reference checks. Preferred Qualifications: At least one year of experience working with elementary and/or middle school aged children. At least one year of experience working in a camp setting. Certified in CPR/AED/First Aid for the Professional Rescuer through the American Red Cross. Pay rate - $12.00/hr Climbing Wall Specialist right arrow down arrow The Climbing Wall Specialist is responsible for assisting in the daily operations of the University of Cincinnati Campus Recreation Center Climbing Wall including maintaining a safe climbing environment, processing and scheduling course enrollments and payments, selling Pro Shop merchandise, and issuing equipment. Successful candidates must ensure members, prospective members, rental groups, and guests are presented with a safe and enjoyable environment. Pay rate - $9.30/hr Fitness Floor Coordinator right arrow down arrow The Fitness Floor Coordinator is responsible for maintaining the safety and well-being of the fitness floor at the Campus Recreation Center, including answering patron questions and concerns, maintaining machines and equipment, assisting patrons with spotting and providing proper machine instruction. Pay rate - $9.30/hr Group Fitness Instructor right arrow down arrow A nationally recognized group exercise certification is required to be considered for employment. Group Fitness Instructors will be responsible for leading multiple group fitness classes that range in variety and levels. This includes counting, cueing, organizing choreography, and planning playlists ahead of class time. Pay rate - $10.50 - $12.00/hr Intramural Official right arrow down arrow Intramural Officials are responsible for safely and fairly maintaining intramural sports game play. Officials must understand the rules of the current sport they are officiating and be able to make fair and unbiased judgements through play. Intramural games take place indoors and outdoors, subject to weather conditions. Pay rate - $9.50/hr Lifeguard right arrow down arrow An active American Red Cross Lifeguarding/First Aid/CPR/AED certification is required to be considered for this position. Lifeguards are responsible for maintaining the safety of the patrons and staff in the Aquatic Center by practicing active, preventative lifeguarding skills, and providing emergency care in the case of an emergency. Pay rate - $11 during the school year, $12 during the summer Member Services Staff right arrow down arrow The Member Services Staff is responsible for granting access to the facility, processing and scheduling services and payments, selling memberships, and issuing equipment. Staff members must provide members, prospective members, and guests with accurate information about University of Cincinnati Campus Recreation. Pay rate - $9.50/hr Personal Trainer right arrow down arrow Current nationally-recognized personal training certification (ACSM, NSCA, NASM, or ACE preferred) and American Red Cross CPR/AED/First Aid for Professional Rescuers certification required to be considered for this position. Personal Trainers assess, discuss, motivate, and teach clients how to improve their physical fitness, strength or physique. By providing quality, personalized instruction, the personal trainer is to challenge the client, by providing a fun, safe, and professional approach towards to the client’s goals. Pay rate - $11.50 - $12.00/hr Further action is required to make this table accessible All of the below must be satisfied: Table must have a caption AND Headers must be assigned to either the first row, first column, or both The table will not display on the live site until the issue above is resolved. Campus Recreation Center | 2820 Bearcat Way | Cincinnati OH 45221 | 513-556-0604 Fitness Center at Care Crawley | 3230 Eden Avenue | Cincinnati OH 45267 | 513-558-0604 campusrec@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Campus Recreation Center | 2820 Bearcat Way | Cincinnati OH 45221 | 513-556-0604 Fitness Center at Care Crawley | 3230 Eden Avenue | Cincinnati OH 45267 | 513-558-0604 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top