On-Campus Testing - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to COVID-19 Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search COVID-19 Information for... Students Faculty & Staff Guidelines & Protocols Face Coverings on Campus Potential Exposure to Coronavirus COVID-19 Diagnosis Completion of Self-Quarantine / Isolation Campus Prevention Travel Guidelines Event Guidelines Campus Cleaning Protocols COVID-19 Information Coronavirus Symptoms Positive Case Reporting On-Campus Testing COVID-19 Vaccine Information Communications FAQs UH Home COVID-19 COVID-19 Information On-Campus Testing COVID-19 Information Coronavirus Symptoms Positive Case Reporting On-Campus Testing COVID-19 Vaccine Information Reporting COVID-19 Diagnosis/Symptoms Reporting Potential COVID-19 Exposure Request to Return to Campus Inquiries: Inquiries regarding a positive case or exposure: UH COVID-19 Case Support Helpdesk 832-84C-OVID or 832-842-6843 10:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m., Monday through Friday covid19coordinator@uh.edu On-Campus Testing Free COVID-19 Testing The University of Houston is partnering with the well-known testing company Curative to provide a free, walk-up kiosk on campus where faculty, students and staff can be tested regardless of whether they have symptoms. The testing service will be available seven days a week by appointment only and is located in front of the UH Student Center South. The testing kiosk will offer nasal swab PCR testing with results returned by email within 48 hours of the test arriving at the lab. The Curative kiosk will be open to faculty, staff and students with their UH Cougar Card identification. If you receive a positive test result, you must complete the University’s Reporting COVID-19 Diagnosis form as soon as possible. Curative Testing Appointments: Appointments can be made on the updated appointment site. More information about Curative testing can be found on the Curative website. As a reminder, if you receive a positive test result, you must complete the Reporting COVID-19 Diagnosis form as soon as possible per UH protocol. Testing for the General Public Additional free testing resources in Houston may be found on the Houston Emergency Operation Center COVID-19 Testing page. Testing Frequently Asked Questions Expand All Collapse All What type of test is being administered at UH? Curative Kiosk: The Curative testing kiosk in front of the UH Student Center offers nasal swab PCR testing. When performing your self-collected test, you will be observed and directed by a trained Curative Healthcare Worker. Results are expected within 24-48 hours of the test being received at the lab. Does UH require mandatory testing for students or employees? UH does not require mandatory testing, but we strongly encourage our campus community to get tested, especially if they have recently traveled, are attending in-person classes, are living or working on campus, or have been potentially exposed to COVID-19. When can I return to campus if I have tested positive for COVID-19 and have been instructed to self-isolate? Written approval is required before any UH community member may return to campus after self-isolation. The timing of your return depends on whether you have exhibited Coronavirus Symptoms or not. See Completion of Self-Quarantine/Isolation for the process and considerations for determining when a return to campus is allowed. As a reminder, if you receive a positive test result, you must complete the Reporting COVID-19 Diagnosis form as soon as possible per UH protocol. What do I do if I am diagnosed with COVID-19? If you are diagnosed with COVID-19, do not come to campus (even if you are symptom-free). Follow the guidance – COVID-19 Diagnosis/Symptoms, which outlines protocols for students, employees, visitors and vendors. What should I do if I have had close contact with a person who tested positive for COVID-19 or is suspected/presumed to have COVID-19? Follow the protocol described in Potential Exposure to Coronavirus. Do I need a negative test or doctor’s note to be able to return to campus after a positive test and self-isolation? No, the university does not require a negative test, a doctor's note or negative lab results for return to work/class/campus nor is this type of test-based strategy recommended by the CDC. However, you must first be approved to return to campus before resuming your normal school, work and related activities. To initiate the process to return to campus following a positive COVID-19 diagnosis, complete the form Request to Return to Campus. Reporting COVID-19 Diagnosis Potential COVID-19 Exposure Request to Return to Campus COVID-19 Inquiries Teach Remotely Deliver your classes online. Learn About Teaching Online >> Technology Guide for Faculty >> Learn Remotely Attend classes online. Learn About Learning Online >> Technology Guide for Students >> Do You Need a Laptop? >> Work Remotely Make a flexible workplace arrangement. COVID-19 Telecommuting Form >> Technology Guide for Staff >> Reporting COVID-19 Diagnosis Reporting Potential COVID-19 Exposure Request to Return to Campus University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies