Skip to content Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Search Faculty & Staff Apply Visit Request Info Academics Undergraduate Study Graduate Study Certificates of Advanced Study Maxwell-in-Washington Non-Degree Programs and Short-Format Courses Workplace Training Departments Admission & Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission & Financial Aid Graduate Admission & Financial Aid Non-Degree Program Admission Research Centers & Institutes Faculty Books Research News Research Support Services News Events Calendar About School Leadership Partnerships Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Search Faculty & Staff Apply Visit Request Info Search Public Administration & International Affairs Department > Master of Public Administration Top-Ranked, 1-Year Program for Bright Futures in Public Service Master of Public Administration (MPA) Degree Program For public service minded professionals, the M.P.A. will prepare you to lead public, private and non-profit organizations aimed at improving the lives of those around you. Master of Public Administration Program Overview The nation’s first established and most highly regarded M.P.A. program empowers service-minded professionals to put their creative ideas into action. Integrating theory and practice, you will train to collaborate across sectors, apply public service values and model responsible citizenship as a leader. Strong policy analysis and public management skills back by optional areas of study will prepare students with the fundamental foundations and specializations. Public Administration & International Affairs Department Master of Public Administration Curriculum Areas of Study Admission Mission Statement Apply Now Request Info 8 Areas of Study help you define your focus without narrowing your options 11 Research Centers provide opportunity to work alongside faculty on pressing issues 6 Certificates of Advanced Study can be earned concurrently with your M.P.A. Master of Public Administration Core Requirements The M.P.A. requires 40 credits, 25 of which satisfy the core requirements of the program. Public Affairs Colloquium (1 credit) Public Budgeting (3 credits) Public Administration and Democracy (3 credits) Public Organizations and Management (3 credits) Economics for Public Decisions (3 credits) Introduction to Statistics (3 credits) Quantitative Analysis (3 credits) M.P.A. Capstone (combined course): Executive Leadership and M.P.A. Workshop (6 credits) The remaining 15 credits can be selected from the Department, other social science programs in the Maxwell School or elsewhere at Syracuse University. Master of Public Administration Areas of Study In addition to core courses, many Maxwell M.P.A. students align their electives around one of eight areas of study: Data Analytics for Public Policy Environmental Policy and Administration International Development Administration National and International Security Policy Public and Nonprofit Management Social Policy State and Local Government Financial Analysis and Management Real clients. Real-world skills. In the M.P.A. Workshop, students work with actual clients to collect and analyze data and formulate a plan for future action, while learning to address the very real and complex challenges that organizations face. The range of clients across sectors have included NASA, Save the Children, the City of Philadelphia and RAND Corporation, to name a few. How will you change the world? With a strong foundation in leadership, management and program evaluation and opportunities to build specialized skills and topical knowledge, Maxwell’s M.P.A. will prepare you to make an impact in areas most meaningful to you. Certificates of Advanced Study Students enrolled in our M.P.A. programs are also eligible to earn a Certificate of Advanced Study (CAS) in the following areas of specialization as they work toward their degree (concurrently): Civil Society Organizations Conflict and Collaboration Data Analytics for Public Policy Health Services Management and Policy Post-conflict Reconstruction Security Studies Not enrolled in a degree program? Stand-alone certificates are also available. Public Administration Dual Degree Programs Earn two master’s degrees at once, faster than it take would take to earn them separately. Maxwell’s dual graduate degree options in public administration include: M.P.A./M.A. in international relations Dual M.P.A./M.A. in international relations, or an M.P.P./M.A. in international relations (Atlantis Program) Dual J.D./M.P.A. Maxwell undergraduates in the following majors can apply to the accelerated B.A./M.P.A. program: anthropology, economics, geography, history, international relations, policy studies, political science and sociology. I am Maxwell. While earning my M.P.A. at Maxwell, I worked as a graduate assistant with the Aging Studies Institute and earned a certificate in Health Services Management and Policy. Today, I am pursuing my life’s passion and directing a study that will provide the National Institute on Aging with a 10-year research agenda in behavioral and social sciences focused on Alzheimer’s disease and related dementias.” Molly Checksfield ’16 (M.P.A.) Program Officer, National Academy of Sciences, Washington, D.C. Visit the Aging Studies Institute Midcareer Executive M.P.A., Online or On Campus Designed for public-service oriented professionals with managerial and budgeting experience looking to advance in their career or make a career change, the E.M.P.A offers the flexibility and efficiency you need to take the next big leap. Explore Our E.M.P.A Options Master of Public Administration Admission Events We continue to follow the advice of local public health officials in regards to in-person events. Please check Syracuse University’s Stay Safe website for the latest safety protocols before coming to campus or other in-person venues. See All Events Schedule a One-on-One Meeting Tailor a path that’s right for you. Contact us for an in-person or virtual conversation with the Associate Director of Admission and Financial Aid.Schedule an Appointment Maxwell ranks #1 for schools of public affairs. Apply Now Visit Maxwell Request Info Public Administration and International Affairs Department 215 Eggers Hall paia@syr.edu 315.443.4000 Maxwell Quick Links: Answers Undergraduate Advising Graduate Career Advising Support Maxwell Alumni Relations Maxwell Computing Support Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs 200 Eggers Hall Syracuse, NY 13244-1020 315.443.2252 Academic Calendar Accessibility Emergencies Maps & Directions MySlice Privacy Syracuse U © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her.