Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University Division of Student Affairs Menu Toggle Search Cyclones Forever Cyclone Support Sexual Assault Contact Us Main navigation Home About Mission & Priorities Meet the VP Senior Leaders Organization Chart Reporting Units Campus Life Central Office Dean of Students Office Student Health and Wellness Directory Impact Assessment By The Numbers Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Outside the Classroom Reports Students Career Competencies Co-Curricular Learning Domains Scholarships Student Organization Funding Staff Resources Assessment Awards CARE Recognition Committees Communications Events Calendar Division Meetings Policies Professional Development What Cyclones Are Saying I've always recommended Student Assistance to my students and mentees, but never went myself, so it was a great experience to just get things off my chest and have someone hear me out and give me suggestions without judgment. [Meeting with Student Assistance] was very uplifting and made me feel like I was not alone even though I was feeling like I was. I now have options with what I can do for my next steps. I am so glad I took the opportunity to try out the Sleep Well Program. During the four weeks, I learned a lot about my sleeping patterns and thought the app was very insightful. I found it helpful to be able to track my sleep every day from the past night as well as set up reminders for doing so. I learned various effective intervention strategies when a situation comes up, ways to promote Green Dot without direct confrontation, and how important and helpful being an active Green Dot in the community actually is. I learned new strategies for meal planning and which ones would work best for me and my living situation. I also learned how to utilize my leftovers better and thus saving me some money and maximizing my budget. I was highly satisfied with my experience at the student health center. I felt that they cared about my issues and they made sure that I would feel better. They also were great about explaining why I was feeling the way that I was and how I could get better. I really enjoyed my experience and will be going back in the future. Thielen is such a wonderful asset to the university. I love the care team there and the location is so very convenient. Fitting in appointments and pharmacy pickups between classes is ideal. It is truly the best medical care I have ever had. I truly enjoyed my appointment [at TSHC]. Every provider that I have seen has been wonderful and I feel that they actually care about my wellbeing. I don't feel rushed during my appointments and they check EVERYTHING to make sure that I am healthy. TSHC has great staff and I'd stay in school forever so just that they could be my providers. Previous Next I've always recommended Student Assistance to my students and mentees, but never went myself, so it was a great experience to just get things off my chest and have someone hear me out and give me suggestions without judgment. [Meeting with Student Assistance] was very uplifting and made me feel like I was not alone even though I was feeling like I was. I now have options with what I can do for my next steps. I am so glad I took the opportunity to try out the Sleep Well Program. During the four weeks, I learned a lot about my sleeping patterns and thought the app was very insightful. I found it helpful to be able to track my sleep every day from the past night as well as set up reminders for doing so. I learned various effective intervention strategies when a situation comes up, ways to promote Green Dot without direct confrontation, and how important and helpful being an active Green Dot in the community actually is. I learned new strategies for meal planning and which ones would work best for me and my living situation. I also learned how to utilize my leftovers better and thus saving me some money and maximizing my budget. I was highly satisfied with my experience at the student health center. I felt that they cared about my issues and they made sure that I would feel better. They also were great about explaining why I was feeling the way that I was and how I could get better. I really enjoyed my experience and will be going back in the future. Thielen is such a wonderful asset to the university. I love the care team there and the location is so very convenient. Fitting in appointments and pharmacy pickups between classes is ideal. It is truly the best medical care I have ever had. I truly enjoyed my appointment [at TSHC]. Every provider that I have seen has been wonderful and I feel that they actually care about my wellbeing. I don't feel rushed during my appointments and they check EVERYTHING to make sure that I am healthy. TSHC has great staff and I'd stay in school forever so just that they could be my providers. Previous Next Culture of Care Brian Vanderheyden, Student Wellness "Student Wellness can help you succeed at ISU by connecting you to resources and programs for support to help you thrive. Every student goes through challenging times in college, you are not alone and we are here to help. I’ll work to meet you where you’re at, without shame, guilt or judgement." Chris Wilson, Student Counseling Services “Therapy is like other relationships in that we need safety and trust first. Part of creating a safe and trusting relationship is learning about students in their context, including their identities, background and experiences, and honoring differences in identities.” Heather Ayers, Thielen Student Health Center "When students call for assistance from the providers or medication refills, I help navigate their needs to ensure they are taken care of quickly. It is important to me that students feel listened to and reassured. Asking for help, can be emotionally challenging and knowing that someone is listening, can make things feel less intense." Sasha Ruane-Borges-Ho, Student Counseling Services “As a therapist, my role is to support students in reaching their personal goals whether that be to solve problems, improve a relationship, or change a pattern. The student sets the destination, and I support them in navigating there.” Milly Agai, Student Assistance "The opportunity to meet with each student is a gift to me and I feel humbled to be part of their journey as they navigate their path towards success as Cyclones. My priority is to give a listening ear and hopefully meet their needs whether academic, personal or wellbeing concerns." Michelle Roling, Student Counseling Services “Therapy is like all other services. I’ve had bad haircuts, but I didn’t stop getting my hair done. I simply kept searching for a person who cut my hair in a way that works for me. Know that you may need to try more than one therapist before you connect the way you’d like – that’s OK!” Carver Nebbe, Thielen Student Health Center “I provide care for mental health problems, including evaluation, counseling and diagnosis as well as medical management. Coming to see me requires courage, time and effort. I want students to know their needs are taken seriously. It can be scary to ask for help, but it’s almost always a rewarding experience.” Iowa State University Division of Student Affairs Office of the Senior Vice President and Provost Division of Operations and Finance Office of the President Contact 2350 Beardshear Hall 515 Morrill Road Ames, IA 50011 Summer Hours | May 16- August 12; Monday- Friday, 7:30 a.m.- 4 p.m. studentaffairs@iastate.edu 515-294-4420 phone Give Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information Loading...