Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Faculty Professional Development Home Teaching & Learning Diversity & Inclusion Wellness Leadership Scholarship Career Development Site Navigation Home Teaching & Learning Diversity & Inclusion Wellness Leadership Scholarship Career Development Enhance your skills. Find support. Build a network. Our portal connects Division faculty to a range of offices, programs, and resources that foster personal and professional growth. We invite you to browse the listings and the event calendar to find professional development opportunities on campus and beyond. Learn more View the Calendar On-Demand Programs To view On-Demand Programs offered by the Office of Faculty Professional Development, please visit the CME website HERE. The Benefits of a Brown Faculty Appointment This video highlights the perks and benefits that come with your Brown faculty appointment. Blog “An Educated Opinion” is a blog by and for Alpert Medical School faculty on all things Medical Education. Details about post submissions can be found on the blog's "About" page. Request for Proposals: Faculty Development Modules Do you have expertise on a professional development topic? Are you interested in sharing your knowledge with others at Alpert Medical School? Read more about this opportunity and submit a proposal HERE. Professional Development Events Jun 15 5:30pm - 7:00pm Celebrated Practices and Missed Opportunities: Lessons learned about small group facilitation from a cohort of peer observers Jun 16 8:00am - 1:30pm OWIMS Annual Conference - Women in Science and Medicine: Forging a Bright Future Jun 22 5:30pm - 7:00pm How to Make Friends and Influence People (via academic proposals that are actually accepted for presentation!) View full calendar > AMS Faculty Professional Development AMS Faculty Professional Development The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University 233 Richmond St Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-9139 Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top