Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Epidemiology PhD You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Epidemiology PhD Apply Request More Info Epidemiology PhD Accreditation Admissions Curriculum Departmental Research Scholarships & Financial Aid Epidemiology PhD The Epidemiology PhD in Temple’s College of Public Health prepares students for independent, research-oriented careers in epidemiology. The doctorate program emphasizes rigorous, advanced epidemiologic methods and statistical techniques, which can be used to understand the distribution and determinants of health-related outcomes. Students work with faculty in an interdisciplinary environment to conduct research and answer pressing questions related to the public’s health. As a doctoral student in the program, you will build expertise in traditional and innovative study designs and appropriate data analyses to accurately quantify and assess population-based, health-related outcomes; application of modern statistical computing software, such as SAS, R, and Mplus, and statistical methods for large and complex data sets in public health and medicine; and proficient interpretation and presentation of results to various audiences through publications and scientific conference presentations. Students in the Epidemiology PhD examine complex global and local challenges through the critical assessment and the application of epidemiologic methods; train in substantive content areas aligned with their career goals; and apply their skills through teaching and research assistantships and grant writing. Our doctorate students are prepared to work in a wide range of settings, including academia and research institutions; applied research settings in health systems and hospitals; local, state and federal governmental agencies (such as the National Institutes of Health, Food and Drug Administration and Centers for Disease Control); and pharmaceutical companies. What sets apart our Epidemiology PhD? Collaborative, interdisciplinary education: The doctoral program has a 2-to-1 student-to-faculty ratio, which provides students with opportunities to work and engage with diverse faculty. Our location in the College of Public Health prepares students for interdisciplinary practice and research. Renowned professors: Our faculty includes experts who focus on behavioral and chronic disease epidemiology, cancer prevention and control, causal inference, latent variable modeling, social determinants, and water-related diseases. In addition to funded independent research, they have practical experience working in interdisciplinary teams in a wide variety of settings, including community-based entities; health systems and clinical practices; international nongovernmental organizations; and local, state and federal government agencies. Real-world experience: You will gain hands-on experience working on projects with faculty, local or state agencies, nonprofit organizations, or private companies —making you competitive and prepared to launch your career after graduation. Program Format The Epidemiology PhD is a full-time, 45-credit program. Students take core courses in epidemiology to advance their understanding of epidemiological and statistical methodology. Coursework addresses topics such as analyses of hierarchical (multilevel or clustered) data; grant writing; intermediate and advanced epidemiologic methods and strategies to reduce bias in traditional and innovative study designs; latent variable and structural equation modeling; multivariable regression of general linear and generalized linear models; and spatial analyses. See a full list of program courses. Funding for Doctoral Students The College of Public Health offers all PhD students a competitive level of support, including tuition, stipend and health insurance, for four years. Graduate assistantships sponsored by the College of Public Health are outlined below. Research assistants perform supervised research activities and work with faculty on grant proposals and ongoing research. Through these experiences, you will develop both research and grant writing competencies. Teaching assistants are assigned to assist in teaching courses, including grading exams and papers or teaching lab sections. Teaching assistants learn current pedagogies that prepare them for academic teaching. They can also receive certification in higher education teaching. Highly qualified candidates will be nominated for university fellowships. Our Advisors The College of Public Health offers personalized advising services to students in each department. PhD candidates may seek academic and program support from their faculty advisors. Student Organizations You can engage with peers and find leadership opportunities in student-led clubs and organizations in the College of Public Health. Learn more about student clubs and organizations. HP-EPID-PHD Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Epidemiology PhD Accreditation Admissions Curriculum Departmental Research Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info