Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Stephen Robert '62 Campus Center Associated Facilities Page-Robinson Hall Stephen Robert '62 Campus Center Page-Robinson Hall Welcome! Formerly known as J. Walter Wilson, Page-Robinson Hall is home to a myriad of Brown University student services. Together with the Stephen Robert ’62 Campus Center, Page-Robinson represents the realization of key objectives in the Plan for Academic Enrichment: fostering a greater sense of community at Brown and more effectively integrating the academic and co-curricular lives of students. Building Rename "In honor of two trailblazing black graduates, Brown will rename the J. Walter Wilson building as Page-Robinson Hall. The six-story facility will be renamed for Inman Edward Page - who, with a classmate, became one of the first two black graduates of Brown in 1877 - and Ethel Tremaine Robinson, who earned her degree in 1905 as the first black woman to graduate from the University." -Christina Paxon News From Brown: Newly renamed Page-Robinson Hall will honor Brown’s first black graduates President Christina Paxson's statement: Page-Robinson Hall Address & General Building Hours 69 Brown Street Providence, RI 02912 Located at corner of Brown Street and Waterman Street. Open everyday from 7:00 AM to 11:00 PM. Student Study Hours Sunday through Thursday, students may continue using seminar rooms from 11:00 PM to 1:00 AM. During these hours, students may enter the building by using their Brown cards at the Waterman Street entrance. Please note that when the building is closed (i.e. holidays), students have card access from 8:00 AM to 6:00 PM daily to the lobby via the Waterman Street entrance in order to check their mail. Please refer to individual offices for their hours. Reserving Rooms Page-Robinson Hall is home to 11 seminar rooms (rooms 201, 202, 301, 302, 303, 401, 402, 403, 501, 502, and 503). Priority is given to the scheduling of classes through the Registrar. During available hours, the rooms may be reserved for meetings and other events through the University Scheduling Office. When seminar rooms are not reserved, students are free to use them to study. Before you leave the study space, leave it in as good a condition or better than you found it. Please be careful to remove any trash and to leave the tables and chairs in an organized and presentable manner. Remember these rooms are used primarily as classrooms. If the primary use is compromised by missing furniture, damage, etc., student use of these rooms for studying could be restricted. In addition, Page-Robinson is home to the Chaplains' Meeting Room (Room 411), which may be reserved through the Office of the Chaplains and Religious Life. Building Services In addition to being home to various campus offices and resources, Page-Robinson offers the following services: A computer kiosk in the first floor lounge. Television connected to campus IPTV system in the first floor lounge. Five tables in the first floor lobby for reservation Four available to student groups and one available to campus vendors. To sign up: Student groups may contact the Student Activities Office. Campus vendors may contact Brown Student Agencies. Vending machines on the 2nd and 4th floors (by the elevator). Quiet meditation and prayer room (room 408), courtesy of the Office of the Chaplains and Religious Life. Bicycle racks located just outside the building along Brown Street. Office Directory Office Location Mail Services 1st floor Brown/RISD Dual Degree Program Brown Business Center Financial Aid Student Employment Office 212 213 2nd floor 2nd floor Office of International Student and Scholar Services Office of the Registrar 3rd floor 3rd floor Office of the Chaplains and Religious Life Prayer and Meditation Space Office of International Programs 410 412 420 IT Service Center Brown Card Office Transportation and Parking Services Counseling and Psychological Services 510 511 511 512 Home Building Hours & Services History of Faunce House Associated Facilities T.F. Green Hall Page-Robinson Hall Print this Page Share this Page Brown University 75 Waterman Street Providence, RI 02912 Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory In the Building Blue Room BSA LGBTQ Center CRC SAO Important Links Brown Center for Students of Color Sarah Doyle Women's Center OCRL