COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Student Organizations Section Menu General Degree Requirements Bachelors of Arts in Psychology Community Certificate Human Factors Certificate Home Psychology Graduate Student Organization (PGSO) The PGSO is an organization that is open to all graduate students in psychology (Clinical, Community, and Human Factors). It is designed to promote the advancement of the students in the graduate level psychology program at Wichita State University. Visit the PGSO website for more information. President: Melissa Miller Vice-President: Erah Ali Secretary & Social Media Chair: Makenna Snodgrass Treasurer: Mouhamad Ballout Social & Fundraising Coordinator: Grace Lyons Research: Jonathan Larson Faculty Advisors: Dr. Rhonda Lewis Human Factors & Ergonomics Society (Student Chapter) The student chapter of the Human Factors and Ergonomics Society consists of students from both the department of psychology and engineering. It is open to both graduate and undergraduate students. Visit the HFES student chapter website for more information. President: Dakota Scott Vice President: Stephen Monroe Treasurer: Secretary/Webmaster: Social Coordinator: Fundraising/Community Outreach: Outreach Liaison: vacant Undergraduate Representative: Faculty Advisor Dr. Carryl Baldwin Psi Chi Psi Chi is the National Honor Society in Psychology, founded in 1929 for the purposes of encouraging, stimulating, and maintaining excellence in scholarship, and advancing the science of psychology. Membership is open to graduate and undergraduate men and women who are making the study of psychology one of their major interests, and who meet the minimum qualifications. Psi Chi is a member of the Association of College Honor Societies and is an affiliate of the American Psychological Association (APA) and the Association for Psychological Science (APS). Psi Chi's sister honor society is Psi Beta, the national honor society in psychology for community and junior colleges. Membership in Psi Chi is open to qualified candidates of any age, sex, sexual orientation, race, handicap or disability, color, religion, and national and ethnic origin. You may apply at the Psychology Office in Jabara Hall fourth floor, or on the Psi Chi National website. President: Hannah Piros Vice President: Kristy Lowrey Secretary/Treasurer: Divya Natesan Historian: Faculty Advisor: Dr. Rhonda Lewis 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©