Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Student Affairs About News Events Calendar SMU Research Bush Center Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Undergraduate Admission Apply Visit Financial Aid Menu Search Undergraduate Admission Campus Life FAQs | Student Life FAQs | Student Life Campus Life SMU and Dallas Residence Life Dining Health and Safety Spirit and Traditions Diversity At SMU Activities and Organizations Fitness and Recreation Sports Spiritual Life En Español FAQs | Living on Campus FAQs | Student Life How many students attend SMU? On average, SMU enrolls approximately 6,350 undergraduate and 4,500 graduate and professional students. The first-year class is between 1525-1550 students. What is the percentage of minority students? SMU's undergraduate minority enrollment averages approximately 29%, with an additional 9% from international countries, meaning that more than one in every three students on campus comes from a diverse background. SMU thrives on the dialogue and understanding created by this global community. What is the male-to-female ratio? The SMU undergraduate population is nearly 50/50 male and female. On average, the graduate population is slightly higher in the number of males. What percentage of first-year students return in their second year? SMU students continue to return for their second year an average of 89-90%. What kinds of student organizations are on campus? There are approximately 230 student organizations in which students can explore new interests or expand upon old ones. Students have many opportunities to serve and lead, and the freedom to experiment and follow. For more information on campus organizations, visit the Student Activities website. What kinds of activities take place on the weekends? Weekend activities on campus include sports, social events, academic lectures, fine arts productions, and more! What types of athletics does SMU offer? SMU offers 17 NCAA Division I-A teams in basketball, cross-country/track and field, swimming and diving, golf, soccer, tennis, volleyball (women only), equestrian (women only), crew (women only), and football. SMU also offers several special interest sports clubs and an extensive intramural sports program. For more information on SMU athletics, visit smumustangs.com. For more information on SMU recreational sports, visit smu.edu/recsports. How many students participate in the Greek system, and when is recruitment? Approximately 48% of female undergraduates participate in sororities, and about 32% of male undergraduates participate in fraternities. Greeks are a positive force on campus: involved, service oriented, and academically competitive. SMU has deferred recruitment, meaning that recruitment week is the last week of the winter break. How important is community service to SMU students? Building a sense of social responsibility through community service is central to SMU's mission. SMU offers service-learning courses, fall and spring Community Service Days, an Inter-Community Experience (ICE) program, SMU Service House residence, an Alternative Spring Break program, as well as many other service opportunities through various campus organizations. What type of career services are provided? The Hegi Family Career Development Center offers advising, testing, internships, job postings, interviews, etc. For more information, visit smu.edu/career. What types of student support services are provided? SMU provides students with several different types of services, such as Counseling Services, the Testing Center, the Altshuler Learning Enhancement Center (A-LEC), the Career Center, the Advising Center, as well as services for students with disabilities. Apply NowVisit Us Back to top Academics Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Science Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education & Human Development SMU CAPE SMU Libraries The Guildhall Audience Links Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Media Parents Quick Links SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Bush Center SMU Store Academic Calendar Events Calendar Employment Giving to SMU Virtual Tour Get in Touch Contact Us Maps Directions Compliance Legal Disclosures Report Sexual Harassment Reporting a BIAS Incident HEERF Reporting Emergency Preparedness Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Apply First-Year Domestic Student* Application First-Year International Student* Application Transfer Forms and Applications Readmission to SMU Graduate Studies FAQs | Undergraduate Temporary Test-Optional Policy Visit Virtual Campus Experience In-Person Visit Virtual Tour Admission Events Maps and Directions Residential Commons Tour Where to Stay Academics Majors and Minors Schools Faculty Virtual Connections Support and Resources Honors and Scholars Tips SMU Abroad SMU-in-Taos FAQs | Academics Campus Life SMU and Dallas Residence Life Dining Health and Safety Spirit and Traditions Diversity At SMU Activities and Organizations Fitness and Recreation Sports Spiritual Life En Espanol FAQs | Living on Campus FAQs | Student Life Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Types of Aid Access SMU Financial Aid Process Payment Plan Options SMU Net Price Calculator Mustang Scholars Robert H. Dedman Scholarship for North Dallas High School En Español Contact Us Deadlines FAQs FAQs | Financial Aid FAQs | Tuition, Fees, and Deadlines Scholarships and Assistance Connect Meet Your Admission Counselor School Contacts Request Information High School Counselor Information Parent Information Social Media and Zoom Backgrounds Frequently Asked Questions Publications Student Ambassadors Coronavirus (COVID-19) Updates Incoming and Current Students Prospective Student Publications Wallpapers International How to Apply Visit SMU Life in Dallas Living at SMU International Student Events Intercultural Engagement Athletics at SMU Spirit and Traditions Immigration Information Obtaining an I-20 Transfer Benefits of an SMU Education Transfer Scholarships Transfer Admission Application Process Transfer Dates and Deadlines Transfer Pathway Guides Transfer Equivalency Tool Meadows Auditions and Portfolios Transfer Forms and Applications International Transfer Students FAQs Congratulations on your admission to SMU! How Credits Transfer Partnership Programs Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Apply Academics Campus Life Majors and Minors Visit Financial Aid Did you know? SMU's main campus is located in the nation's fourth largest metropolitan area, Dallas-Fort Worth, with 7.4 million people and more than 20 Fortune 500 headquarters.Learn More Menu Search