Skip navigation Find: A to Z Index People Directory Learn More: About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Biology Undergraduate Education Site Navigation Home Concentrations Biology AB Biology ScB Health & Human Biology AB Applied Mathematics-Biology ScB Biochemistry & Molecular Biology ScB Biophysics ScB Computational Biology ScB & AB Neuroscience ScB Biomedical Engineering ScB Geology-Biology ScB & AB Biology for First-Years Courses BIOL 0200 Replacement | AP/IB Transfer Credit Writing Requirement Research Maria L. Caleel '87 Memorial Undergraduate Biology Research Fellowship Honors Diversity and Inclusion Peer Advising Curricular Resources Senior Prizes After Brown Employment Opportunities News & Facebook Print this Page Share this Page Arnold Laboratory Brown University Box GA-124 91 Waterman St Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3133 Fax 401-863-7411 Stay Connected with Biology Undergraduate Education Brown About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory m.Brown.edu News Events Visit Campus Life Map Directory Brown Apps Safety About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Biology Undergraduate Education Concentrations Health & Human Biology AB Health & Human Biology AB Health & Human Biology AB (14 courses) Promoting health and well-being in the 21st century requires depth of expertise in the life sciences as well as breadth of knowledge in the social sciences and humanities. Brown's concentration in Health & Human Biology (HHB) is designed to offer students the chance to examine human health issues from a multidisciplinary perspective. HHB provides students with a strong foundation in biology, chemistry, quantitative methods, genetics, structure & function and organismal biology. Students delve more deeply into biology through advanced electives and add breadth of understanding through theme-based coursework intentionally based outside of the biological sciences. Scroll down to see the course and capstone requirements of the Health & Human Biology concentration. The flexibility of the HHB concentration allows students with diverse interests to achieve their academic goals at Brown and prepare for subsequent career choices. Nearly half of HHB graduates pursue advanced degrees in health related fields. Approximately 20% go on to Master's and PhD programs in the life sciences. HHB students who identify as pre-med, or who intend to pursue graduate school, have the opportunity to further engage in STEM coursework and independent research in the senior year. Students aiming to pursue graduate school in the social sciences or humanities, or who intend to work in non-academic sectors, have the freedom to add more breadth to their thematic studies or pursue other interests such as a foreign language and sometimes a second concentration. HHB themes are built upon Brown's faculty strengths in the brain, environmental, global health and social sciences. The opportunity to creatively construct a theme that encompasses the student’s specific interests within these general categories is the hallmark of the Health & Human Biology concentration. Concentrators should begin the process by considering courses in all Brown departments as possibilities. The list of Sample Theme courses may spark ideas, but planning should not be constrained by these examples. With advisor assistance, students work to identify four appropriate theme courses and to choose the theme category that aligns best with their focus. Students select a cohesive group of courses in one of several thematic areas: 1) Brain Health and Behavior, 2) Environmental Health, 3) Global/International Health, or 4) Social Context of Health and Disease The Brain Health and Behavior theme provides a framework for understanding how brain activity drives behavioral actions that in turn influence health and well-being. Brain function can be examined from a neuroanatomical, neurodevelopmental, neurochemical and/or a neurophysiological perspective. Students pursuing the Brain Health and Behavior theme have interests ranging from traumatic brain injury to nervous system disorders. They draw on courses from many departments including CLPS, Education, and Sociology and often pursue research with faculty in Brown's Institute for Brain Science. Environmental Health is concerned with the biological, chemical and physical factors that reduce the quality and length of life for humans. Environmental factors that influence health and well-being are diverse, far reaching, and often intertwined with sociocultural factors. Students pursuing the Environmental Health theme are interested in the health implications of toxicants in natural systems and the built environment, natural disaster, climate change, the loss of biological diversity and ecosystem function, and more. Many students simultaneously explore the social dimensions of environmental health from sustainable and equitable development perspectives. HHB Environmental Health concentrators often take courses with faculty associated with the new Institute at Brown for Environment and Society. Global/International Health is the study, research and application of practices that prioritize health equity for all people worldwide. Global Health draws on many disciplines within and beyond the health sciences including sociology, anthropology, international relations, and economics. A thematic focus in Global Health allows students to address emerging diseases, vaccine development and delivery, and the economic factors that impact the diagnosis, prevention, surveillance and treatment of disease. Students studying Global/International Health enroll in a number of courses offered by the School of Public Health and learn from faculty involved in Brown's Global Health Initiative. The Social Context of Health and Disease theme allows students to study the myriad social, cultural, and historical factors that shape our health and how we prevent and treat disease. Students with interests in topics such as health inequality, the history of medicine, health communication, and the diverse methods of healing benefit from the breadth of opportunities in this theme. Part A. Background Courses Course Options MATH 0090 - AP/IB may substitute - MATH 0050/0060, 0100 or 0170 may substitute BIOL 0200 - AP/IB may substitute CHEM 0330 - IB may substitute Statistics or Methods Course - e.g., APMA 0650, BIOL 0495, CLPS 0090, EDUC 1100, PHP 1510, SOC 1100; others with approval Part B. Core Courses Course Options Genetics (1) - Satisfied via: Option 1 - BIOL 0470 OR Option 2 - BIOL 0480 plus ONE of the following: BIOL 0500, BIOL 0510, or BIOL 0280 - When option 2 is chosen, BIOL 0480 simultaneously satisfies the Organismal/Population Biology requirement Structure/Function/ Development (1) - Choose one: BIOL 0400, 0800, 1310, 1800, 1880, 1885; NEUR 0010 Organismal/Population Biology (1) Required ONLY if using Genetics Option 1 - Choose one: BIOL 0380, 0390, 0410, 0415, 0420, 0480; 1470, 1555, 1880; NEUR 1940; ENVS 0490 Biology Electives (2) - 2 BIOL/NEUR Electives; At least one course advanced (> 1000) - BIOL 1950/1960 may not be used here - Note that courses used to fulfill other requirements cannot also be used as an elective credit Part C. Theme Courses Theme Courses (4) - Students choose from one of four theme options: 1) Brain Health and Behavior, 2) Environmental Health, 3) Global/International Health, or 4) Social Context of Health and Disease - Advisor-approved cluster of 4 cohesively grouped courses from non-BIOL non-NEUR offerings - Approved courses must be above the introductory level and at least one must be 1000+ - No more than TWO courses from a given department may be included in the theme portion - See PDF attachment below for examples of courses students have used in each theme. Part D. Senior Capstone Senior Capstone HHB concentrators pursue a capstone experience in the final year. The purpose is to provide students with an opportunity to draw on the depth and breadth of knowledge gained in the concentration to complete a project or engage at a high level in an appropriate advanced seminar. Details of the options for completing the Senior Capstone are included in the Capstone Option Descriptions section below. Upon completion, all capstone options require the formal submission of a final project in ASK using the Add File feature within the corresponding capstone course. Capstone Option Descriptions 1. Independent research/study - Students may develop an independent research or independent study experience with a Brown faculty member. The project may take place over one or two semesters and should build on the student’s biological and/or thematic interests in the concentration. Students should register for BIOL 1950/1960 if working with a BioMed faculty member. Students pursuing independent course work with a faculty member outside of Biology will register for the appropriate independent study course in that faculty member’s department. Students writing a senior thesis may use this to satisfy the capstone experience if the project is related to the concentration pursuits. At the time of declaration, concentrators enter either BIOL 1950 or BIOL 1960 as a placeholder for this option in ASK. The entry can be edited as necessary (i.e. if independent study is selected in a different department) once a specific project has been developed. 2. Advanced Seminar - Seminars that fulfill the capstone requirement are senior/graduate level, capped to a size that facilitates advanced discussion (max 15 students) and include assignments that offer a clear opportunity to demonstrate critical and independent thinking in the concentration (i.e. final papers and projects). A list of pre-approved seminar courses can be found in the PDF document below. Not all of these courses are offered every year so students should consult [email protected] for the most up to date schedule. Seminars that are not included on this list but do meet the requirements listed above may be substituted with advisor approval. At the time of declaration, concentrators enter the course code for the chosen seminar as a placeholder for this option in ASK. 3. Off campus experience coupled with independent study - Students may couple an off campus experience related to the concentration with a semester of independent study mentored by a Brown faculty member. For example a student may spend time over the summer prior to the senior year, or during the academic year, volunteering at a human health related organization, working on off campus research (perhaps in the hospitals or at RI Department of Health), or pursuing a similar in depth experience. Such experiences should culminate in a formal faculty-mentored independent study (i.e. BIOL 1950/1960) where the work is fully developed and presented based on a set of goals agreed upon by the student and mentor. Capstones such as these embrace many possibilities. Students should work with a faculty sponsor and the concentration advisor to determine what best suits their personal learning goals. At the time of declaration, concentrators enter either BIOL 1950 or BIOL 1960 as a placeholder for this option in ASK. *The HHB Concentration Worksheet may be a useful tool for course planning and can be found as an attachment below. Related Files Health & Human Biology Pre-Planning Worksheet.pdf Potential HHB Capstones.pdf HHB Sample Theme Courses.pdf Also in Biology Undergraduate Education Site Navigation Home Concentrations Biology AB Biology ScB Health & Human Biology AB Applied Mathematics-Biology ScB Biochemistry & Molecular Biology ScB Biophysics ScB Computational Biology ScB & AB Neuroscience ScB Biomedical Engineering ScB Geology-Biology ScB & AB Biology for First-Years Courses BIOL 0200 Replacement | AP/IB Transfer Credit Writing Requirement Research Maria L. Caleel '87 Memorial Undergraduate Biology Research Fellowship Honors Diversity and Inclusion Peer Advising Curricular Resources Senior Prizes After Brown Employment Opportunities News & Facebook Print this Page Share this Page Arnold Laboratory Brown University Box GA-124 91 Waterman St Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3133 Fax 401-863-7411 Stay Connected with Biology Undergraduate Education Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn RSS Futurity