Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Student Affairs About News Events Calendar SMU Research Bush Center Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Undergraduate Admission Apply Visit Financial Aid Menu Search Apply Transfer Transfer Admission Transfer Admission Transfer Benefits of an SMU Education Transfer Scholarships Transfer Admission Application Process Transfer Dates and Deadlines Transfer Pathway Guides Transfer Equivalency Tool Meadows Auditions and Portfolios Transfer Forms and Applications International Transfer Students FAQs Congratulations on your admission to SMU! How Credits Transfer Partnership Programs Please select what type of transfer student you will be: Traditional Transfer Students First-Year Transfer Students International Transfer Students Visiting (Non-Degree seeking) Students Former SMU Students (Readmission to SMU) Please note additional requirements for transfer students interested in the following areas: Performing and Visual Arts Business Majors Economics Majors Academic forgiveness: SMU allows you to dismiss course work taken 10 or more years prior to the term of admission from consideration in your application process as well as from inclusion in your transferable GPA and hours earned for transfer to SMU. × Traditional Transfer Students Traditional Transfer students are those students who will transfer in 30 or more transferable hours to SMU. The Admission Committee will focus on your college coursework and transferable GPA for admission. The Committee finds that students with a 2.70 transferable GPA or higher are the most competitive for admission. In the admission process for transfer students, we evaluate both the rigor of the college courses you've taken and the readiness for your intended major. We recommend taking all or some of the prerequisite courses for your intended major before transferring to SMU. All transfer students are required to complete college algebra or a college-level math course before transferring to SMU. If algebra I, geometry and algebra II were taken in high school and graduation was less than three years ago, this requirement is waived. We recommend that all transfer students complete an English composition course, a lab science course, a math course beyond college algebra and at least one course in your intended major before transferring. Close × First-Year Transfer Students First-year transfer students are those students who have fewer than 30 transferable hours or who have graduated from high school within the last calendar year. If three or more years have passed since your high school graduation, we highly recommend that you acquire 30 or more transferable hours before you transfer. All first-year transfer students will be automatically considered for first year academic-based scholarshipsbased on your high school academic performance, including high school GPA, curriculum, and SAT or ACT test score. In order to qualify for transfer scholarships you must complete at least half of the 50-hour requirement after your high school graduation. In addition to evaluating your college course work and transferable GPA, the Admission Committee will also review your high school curriculum, high school GPA and standardized test scores. Your official test scores will need to be submitted directly from College Board or the ACT unless they are reported on your official high school transcript. The Admission Committee can begin review of your application after receiving all official college transcripts, but may not be able to make a final admission decision until your high school transcript and test scores have been received. All transfer students are required to complete college algebra or a college-level math course before transferring to SMU. If algebra I, geometry and algebra II were taken in high school and graduation was less than three years ago, this requirement is waived. Close × International Transfer Students Description of International Transfer Students here. Close × Performing and Visual Arts All transfer students who intend to major in dance, music, theatre, studio art or film (BFA) must complete an audition or portfolio. Applicants will be considered on both academic standards and on the results of their audition or portfolio. Dance and theatre majors are only admitted for the fall term. Close × Economics Majors To enter SMU as an economics major, transfer students must have 30 or more hours of transfer credit and a minimum all-college cumulative GPA of 2.700. Additionally, students must have a 2.700 GPA on a subset of courses equivalent to SMU’s DISC 1312, (Introduction to Academic Discourse); ECO 1311 (Principles of Microeconomics); ECO 1312 (Principles of Macroeconomics); MATH 1309 (Introduction to Calculus for Business and Social Sciences) or MATH 1337 (Calculus I); and STAT 2301 (Statistics for Modern Business Decisions) or STAT 2331 (Introduction to Statistical Methods). Close × Business Majors Students who plan to major in business can be admitted to SMU as pre-business majors, or they can be admitted directly to the Cox School of Business. To be admitted as a business major, students must be admissible to SMU and must also meet the specific admission requirements for the Cox School of Business. Cox admission requires: 1. A minimum 39 transferable credit hours, and 2. A minimum 3.50 all-college cumulative GPA, and 3. Successful completion of the required subset of courses: Discernment & Discourse 1312 Discernment & Discourse 1313* Economics 1311 Economics 1312 Math 1309/1337 Statistics 2301/2331 (or approved alternative course) Accounting 2301 Close Apply NowVisit Us Back to top Academics Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Science Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education & Human Development SMU CAPE SMU Libraries The Guildhall Audience Links Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Media Parents Quick Links SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Bush Center SMU Store Academic Calendar Events Calendar Employment Giving to SMU Virtual Tour Get in Touch Contact Us Maps Directions Compliance Legal Disclosures Report Sexual Harassment Reporting a BIAS Incident HEERF Reporting Emergency Preparedness Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Apply First-Year Domestic Student* Application First-Year International Student* Application Transfer Forms and Applications Readmission to SMU Graduate Studies FAQs | Undergraduate Temporary Test-Optional Policy Visit Virtual Campus Experience In-Person Visit Virtual Tour Admission Events Maps and Directions Residential Commons Tour Where to Stay Academics Majors and Minors Schools Faculty Virtual Connections Support and Resources Honors and Scholars Tips SMU Abroad SMU-in-Taos FAQs | Academics Campus Life SMU and Dallas Residence Life Dining Health and Safety Spirit and Traditions Diversity At SMU Activities and Organizations Fitness and Recreation Sports Spiritual Life En Espanol FAQs | Living on Campus FAQs | Student Life Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Types of Aid Access SMU Financial Aid Process Payment Plan Options SMU Net Price Calculator Mustang Scholars Robert H. Dedman Scholarship for North Dallas High School En Español Contact Us Deadlines FAQs FAQs | Financial Aid FAQs | Tuition, Fees, and Deadlines Scholarships and Assistance Connect Meet Your Admission Counselor School Contacts Request Information High School Counselor Information Parent Information Social Media and Zoom Backgrounds Frequently Asked Questions Publications Student Ambassadors Coronavirus (COVID-19) Updates Incoming and Current Students Prospective Student Publications Wallpapers International How to Apply Visit SMU Life in Dallas Living at SMU International Student Events Intercultural Engagement Athletics at SMU Spirit and Traditions Immigration Information Obtaining an I-20 Transfer Benefits of an SMU Education Transfer Scholarships Transfer Admission Application Process Transfer Dates and Deadlines Transfer Pathway Guides Transfer Equivalency Tool Meadows Auditions and Portfolios Transfer Forms and Applications International Transfer Students FAQs Congratulations on your admission to SMU! How Credits Transfer Partnership Programs Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Apply Academics Campus Life Majors and Minors Visit Financial Aid Did you know? SMU's main campus is located in the nation's fourth largest metropolitan area, Dallas-Fort Worth, with 7.4 million people and more than 20 Fortune 500 headquarters.Learn More Menu Search