Skip to main content A-Z Directory UPENN HOME Contact Us Mailing List Signup Office of the provost Search CURF Center for Undergraduate Research & Fellowships Home For Faculty Research Fellowships Prizes University Scholars BFS CURF Events News Make your own path with CURF Find upcoming events! Undergraduate Research Start thinking about Fellowships Learn more about President's Prizes To make appointments with CURF staff, please visit the contact page. Per the current instructions from the Provost, undergraduate research and fieldwork may resume. Travel, in-person meetings and use of general spaces will be based upon University and government guidance, as will appropriate social distancing, use of personal protection equipment (PPE), population density and cleaning protocols. Access to labs will require participation in PennOpen Pass and strict adherence to safety protocols as outlined in the Student Coronavirus Resources. Hub@Penn is a tool to help Penn students find and connect with university support resources. Through Hub@Penn’s easy-to-use platform, you can find information about financial wellness, academic support, healthcare, career and fellowship applications, and much more. The Center for Undergraduate Research and Fellowships helps all Penn students deepen their academic experience through participating in research, applying for nationally competitive fellowships, or engaging intellectually within a cohort of scholars. Undergraduate Research Assist a faculty member or develop your own project, no matter your experience level or field of interest. Discover CURF's many options for securing research positions with faculty and grants to support your own research. Nationally Competitive Fellowships Take your leadership, academic, professional, and community engagement expertise even further with opportunities both in the U.S. and abroad. Fellowships are available from your first year through graduate school, and beyond. Benjamin Franklin Scholars Join a residential program of students from across all four undergraduate schools who share a passion for broad academic exploration. BFS Seminars are small, enabling close engagement with student peers as well as with faculty. Courses feature a diverse array of challenging topics which reward curiosity, stimulate research, and cultivate intellectual agility and independent thinking. University Scholars Connect with a community of intellectually-dynamic and research-curious students from across all four undergraduate schools. The UScholars program promotes long-term, in-depth, original, independent undergraduate research (defined broadly) while facilitating innovation, conversation, and collaboration among faculty and students across academic disciplines. Presidential Prizes Create tomorrow's solutions to today's challenges through civic engagement and innovation. CURF's Mission: The Center for Undergraduate Research and Fellowships (CURF) supports all students as they pursue transformative experiences through fellowships, scholars programs, and undergraduate research. CURF promotes connections between faculty and students, encourages mentorship, and educates the Penn community about opportunities for all students and alumni. Recent News Penn junior Ha-Nam Yoon named a Udall Scholar May 17, 2022 The University of Pennsylvania’s Ha-Nam Yoon, a junior in the College of Arts and Sciences, has been named a 2022 Udall Scholar by the Udall Foundation. Penn Fulbrighters for 2022-23 May 13, 2022 The Center for Undergraduate Research and Fellowships (CURF) wishes to heartily congratulate Penn students and alums who have been offered Fulbright grants for the 2022-2023 academic year. The awards are announced on a rolling basis, determined by the host country. Two Penn affiliates named 2022 Soros Fellows April 14, 2022 Rishi Goel, a second-year student in the Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania, and Kingson Lin, who graduated with his bachelor’s and master’s degrees from the School of Arts & Sciences in 2017, have each received a Paul & Daisy Soros Fellowship for New Americans, which provides graduate school funding for immigrants and children of immigrants to the United States. Goel and Lin are among the 30 chosen as 2022 Soros Fellows from more than 1,800 applicants. Each Fellow receives as much as $90,000 over two years. Five Penn Juniors named Goldwater Scholars March 25, 2022 Five University of Pennsylvania undergraduates have received 2022 Goldwater Scholarships, awarded to sophomores or juniors planning research careers in mathematics, the natural sciences, or engineering. Penn’s 2022 Goldwater Scholars are juniors Joshua Chen from Palo Alto, California; Allison Chou from Taipei, Taiwan; Shriya Karam from Nolensville, Tennessee; Laila Barakat Norford from Wayne, Pennsylvania; and Andrew Sontag from Elkridge, Maryland. Penn announces nine 2022 Thouron Scholars March 4, 2022 Five University of Pennsylvania seniors and four recent alumni have each received a 2022 Thouron Award to pursue graduate studies in the United Kingdom. Each scholarship recipient receives tuition for as long as two years, as well as travel and living stipends, to earn a graduate degree there. Upcoming Deadlines Obama-Chesky Voyager Scholarship for Public Service Application Deadline: June 14, 2022 NASA Internships and Fellowships Application Deadline: July 8, 2022 Rhodes Scholarship Application Deadline: August 1, 2022 Mitchell Scholarship Application Deadline: August 1, 2022 Marshall Scholarship Application Deadline: August 1, 2022 Fulbright U.S. Student Program Application Deadline: August 22, 2022 Google PhD Fellowship (Tentative Deadline) Application Deadline: September 16, 2022 Schwarzman Scholarship Application Deadline: September 20, 2022 Pickering Graduate Fellowship (Tentative Deadline) Application Deadline: September 21, 2022 Rangel International Affairs Graduate Fellowship (Tentative Deadline) Application Deadline: September 28, 2022 CURF Calendar of Events Drop-In Hour: Fulbright U.S. Student Program Jun 02 What does it mean to be an ethically responsible researcher? Jun 07 Introduction to the Fulbright U.S. Student Program Jun 08 Drop-In Hour: Fulbright U.S. Student Program Jun 16 Introduction to the Fulbright U.S. Student Program Jun 22 See all events Office of the Provost Center for Undergraduate Research and Fellowships CURF, University of Pennsylvania The ARCH, 3601 Locust Walk, Philadelphia, PA 19104-6224 Phone: 215-746-6488 Email: curf@upenn.edu A-Z Directory UPENN HOME Contact Us Mailing List Signup Office of the provost © 2022 The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania Report Copyright Infringement Disclaimer Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Emergency Services