Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Social Science Research Certificate (Undergraduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Social Science Research Certificate (Undergraduate) Apply Request More Info Social Science Research Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Undergraduate Certificate in Social Science Research Build a variety of social science skills and gain specific expertise in a variety of research methodologies with the Undergraduate Certificate in Social Science Research in Temple University’s College of Liberal Arts. This 15-credit certificate program is designed for students interested in public policy and who want to take a data-driven approach to understanding society. The Social Science Research Certificate (Undergraduate) program helps students develop advanced research skills and technical training. Learn to gather, analyze and interpret data using both qualitative and quantitative methodologies and apply them to complex questions. The study of data analysis, statistics and research design helps strengthen the critical thinking skills vital for complex decision-making. Students design their own interdisciplinary curriculum to meet their research objectives. Students select five courses from a broad range of disciplines including anthropology, criminal justice, environmental studies, geography and urban studies, history, political science, psychology, and sociology. Classes & Curriculum Certificates are awarded only at the time of completion of the bachelor's degree and cannot be awarded either as a stand-alone program of study or after completion of the first bachelor's degree. Social Science Research Undergraduate Certificate coursework is self-designed to meet the personal interests and professional goals of students. Examples of the diverse and interdisciplinary courses include the following. Criminal Justice Statistics Economic Theory of Networks Fieldwork in Ethnography Population Studies Research Design in Geography and Urban Studies Urban Policy Analysis Learn more about Social Science Research Certificate (Undergraduate) courses. Related Graduate Degrees Applied Sociology PSM Sociology MA Sociology PhD Public Policy MPP Careers The skills gained from a liberal arts degree are highly relevant in today’s rapidly evolving world. Apply the experience and knowledge acquired in the Social Science Research Certificate (Undergraduate) program to your professional pursuits across many organizations and industries, including academics, cultural institutions, government agencies or the social sciences. The versatility of this program’s curriculum helps you graduate with valuable skill sets sought by many employers. Students who earn this certificate are prepared to pursue graduate studies and to enter careers in the following fields. Business Community organizing Data science Education Governmental organizations Law Policy analysis Tuition & Fees The tuition for this Certificate Program is based on school or college of your major, program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Academic Advisors Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development Dedicated advisors at the Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development in the College of Liberal Arts are available to guide students through their academic careers and with their career paths beyond Temple. They can help you choose a major, navigate your curriculum, identify internship opportunities, explore career opportunities and determine your post-graduation plans. Learn more about the center. Program Contact For questions regarding the Social Science Research Certificate (Undergraduate), contact the following staff member. Kimberly Goyette is the chair of the Department of Sociology. Phone: 215-204-7979 Email: kgoyette@temple.edu Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-SSR-CERT Additional Program Information Visit College Site Go back to AcademicsMore in Social Science Research Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info