COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Student Success Section Menu Student Success Home Contact Us Student Success Workshop Request Faculty Referral Faculty Toolbox Peer Success Coach Application Shocker Secrets to Success Specialized Advising SSC Navigate Schedule an Advising Appointment Success Academy First-Year Seminar National Transfer Student Week Launch Week Meet your Success Coach! Connect Here Students define success differently. The mission of Student Success is to help all students maximize their potential and reach their personal goals through a range of support and services, from orientation to graduation. Shocker Learning Center First-Year Programs Student Money Management Your success is our success. Our goal is to help students develop skills and plans to graduate in a timely manner while engaging with our community of learners. We are excited to return to a better normal, and we hope you continue to work hard to be successful. Our services are offered primarily in person but we are able to accomodate remote appointments, depending on the circumstance. Our location in Neff Hall is open Monday through Friday, from 8 a.m. - 5 p.m. Contact us if you need our assistance outside of those hours. We are here for you. We serve students in all academic majors, regardless of class or academic standing, through a coordinated network of many campus partners. We know navigating the university can be overwhelming, and we are eager to help you reach your goals. Success Coach appointments: Find out how a Success Coach can help by connecting here. You can call or email your coach to schedule an appointment, or request an appointment directly from our Success Coach page. Tutoring and Supplemental Instruction (SI): If you want to improve your academic performance in your classes, visit the Shocker Learning Center. If your class has SI, connect with your SI leader in Blackboard. You may request a tutor from myWSU and work independently with your tutor to coordinate sessions. Student money management (OSMM): Do you have financial concerns or need strategies to make your money last longer? Schedule an appointment with a Peer Financial Coach by calling 316-978-3254 or email osmm@wichita.edu. If you need help transitioning to Wichita State as a new student, connect with First-Year Programs for information and peer support from a Transition Mentor. Study skills and strategies can be found here, including information about time management. For assistance with your online instruction experience, visit the remote student website. If you need help managing anxiety or support for your mental health, please visit our partners in Counseling and Prevention Services. If you are concerned about yourself or another member of our Shocker Community, please submit a concern with our Care Team. Shocker Secrets to Success Ever wonder how the other students seem to have it all together? Most likely, they have learned to succeed and survive the hard way. We've collected a number of resources right here to help you understand the secrets to success and help navigate the "hidden curriculum" - the things we assume you already know. Connecting with Your Professors Plus/Minus Grading Scale Shocker Secrets to Success Series Blackboard Help Videos Remote Student Steps Study Tips Tutoring Supplemental Instruction Success Plans My College Money Plan Academic Advising Parents and Families Request a Workshop 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©