Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home All Services Psychiatric Medication Psychiatric Medication Psychiatrists at Counseling and Psychological Services are available to help evaluate problems, advise whether medication may be useful, and, when clinically indicated, prescribe medication. Our psychiatrists work closely with our psychologists, social workers, and postdoctoral fellows to provide the best possible treatment. Our psychiatrists will work with students and our psychologists to help determine the best treatment option, but the final decision whether to try medication is up to the individual student. Many who meet with our psychiatrists don’t end up taking medication. The psychiatrist may decide that medication is not the treatment of choice, or the student may decide not to take medication. Call 212-854-2878. Prior to the First Visit A student will usually meet with a counselor who will spend time inquiring about symptoms, personal history, and present circumstances. Having this background in advance enables our psychiatrists to provide the best-informed, most efficient care. To accommodate all students who need counseling services, psychiatrists do not conduct psychotherapy, but instead focus on medication consultation and management. We have a large staff of psychologists and social workers for students seeking psychotherapy. During the First Visit Typically, a psychiatrist will already have a student’s background information and be able to focus on the aspects of the student’s health and health care needs. The psychiatrist will conduct a thorough assessment of symptoms and review the following: Personal medical history Family medical history Basic medical information, such as blood pressure or lab results The initial visit may range from 30 minutes to one hour. Our psychiatrist will discuss the advantages and disadvantages of medication as a treatment choice, so that an informed decision about whether to try medication can be made. In some instances, our psychiatrist may conclude that medication is not appropriate. Initiation and Monitoring Use of Medications Students who elect to start medication will meet with a psychiatrist to monitor its therapeutic efficacy and any possible side effects. The psychiatrist may find it necessary to adjust the dosage of medication from time to time or, if indicated, may recommend changing or adding medications. We encourage students to schedule appointments well in advance of the need for a medication refill, ideally at your current psychiatric appointment. It is important that students do not abruptly discontinue psychoactive medications. Many use our services and there may be a wait before a refill appointment is available. Some students find medication so helpful, they take it for an extended period. In these instances, one of our psychiatrists will make a referral to an outside provider or facility, who can follow you for as long as necessary or useful. Counseling and Psychological Services psychiatrists do not ordinarily continue to treat students beyond the initial consultation and stabilization period, which is typically no more than several months, but may vary from person to person. This is consistent with our aim to make resources readily accessible to the entire Columbia community. Continuing on Medications Begun at Home or Elsewhere If a psychiatrist outside of Counseling and Psychological Services has already prescribed medication, considerations for quality care dictate that a student still have a thorough assessment before our clinicians prescribe that medication for you. It is important to obtain enough medication from your current psychiatrist to last until you are able to schedule an appointment with us. Even if the prescription you were given a few months ago was right for you then, it may not be right for you now. Our psychiatrists need to assess the therapeutic efficacy of your medication and the potential side effects before continuing the prescription. They will also periodically meet with and monitor students for whom they have prescribed medications. Need help with weekend or late night distress? Check out our Coping Tools page for various digital services, mobile apps, and online resources outside our regular hours of operation. Our limited podcast series, Invisible and On Stage, provides an open conversation around racism-related stress, identity, and community, and the way they impact mental health. Listen now! The entire Columbia Health team, photographed in Lerner Hall. Click the image to see a larger version. Columbia Health Alice! Health Promotion Disability Services Counseling and Psychological Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Immunization Compliance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response All Columbia Health offices are closed on University Holidays. Annual Report Columbia Health Annual Report Stay Connected Receive important news and event info from Columbia Health Columbia Health Events Join us for workshops, panel discussions, skill-building opportunities, and other events! Accessibility Accommodations Columbia Health makes every effort to accommodate individuals with disabilities. If you require disability accommodations to attend an event sponsored by Columbia Health, or by the University, contact Disability Services at 212-854-2388 at least 10 days in advance of the event. 212-854-2284 [email protected] Health Unit Counseling and Psychological Services Clinical Specialty Counseling Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close