Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Home About Overview Leadership What is population health? Hans Rosling Center Evaluation Contact us Strategic areas Interdisciplinary collaboration Climate change and its human impacts Humanitarian assistance and disaster relief Violence and injury prevention Social innovation and entrepreneurship COVID-19 COVID-19 Education Undergraduate courses Let’s Talk Pop Health Graduate Certificate in Humanitarian Response Applied Research Fellowship Social Entrepreneurship Fellowship Pop Health Moments Other education and training Resources Population health research at the UW Collaboration support Grant application support Climate change experts Disaster and humanitarian experts Other experts Mobile and digital population health Social innovation and entrepreneurship Funding and awards News Latest news and updates Subscribe Journal articles Media coverage Get involved Give Partner Volunteer Events Population Health Menu Home About Overview Leadership What is population health? Hans Rosling Center Evaluation Contact us Strategic areas Interdisciplinary collaboration Climate change and its human impacts Humanitarian assistance and disaster relief Violence and injury prevention Social innovation and entrepreneurship COVID-19 COVID-19 Education Undergraduate courses Let’s Talk Pop Health Graduate Certificate in Humanitarian Response Applied Research Fellowship Social Entrepreneurship Fellowship Pop Health Moments Other education and training Resources Population health research at the UW Collaboration support Grant application support Climate change experts Disaster and humanitarian experts Other experts Mobile and digital population health Social innovation and entrepreneurship Funding and awards News Latest news and updates Subscribe Journal articles Media coverage Get involved Give Partner Volunteer Events Home Population Health About What is population health? What is population health? Close Menu Home About An overview of the Population Health Initiative Leadership Emeritus council members What is population health? Evaluation Contact us We see population health as a broad concept encompassing not only the elimination of diseases and injuries, but also the intersecting and overlapping factors that influence health. These influencing factors include the environment, education, mobility, policy and governance, poverty, racism, infrastructure, access to technology, urban planning and many more. Together, these issues revolve around three major pillars — human health, environmental resilience and social and economic equity — that affect the lives of billions of people around the world. Three major pillars affecting billions of lives Human health Environmental resilience Social and economic equity What is the difference between population health and public health? Population health embraces public health, with public health playing a critical role in improving a population’s health and well-being. However, some major determinants of health, such as education and income, fall outside of the traditional public health scope of responsibility. Population health thus takes a more holistic approach, bringing together the requisite knowledge from many disciplines (e.g., the health sciences, social sciences, public policy, law, business, education, and so forth) to address all of the factors that influence health. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention also offers its own definition of the difference between population health and public health. Home About An overview of the Population Health Initiative Leadership Emeritus council members What is population health? Evaluation Contact us Population Health Twitter Tweets by UW_PHI Please enable JavaScript to view this widget. President Cauce’s speech on population health Watch President Ana Mari Cauce's May 2016 speech about the development of the initiative. Read the transcript University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA