Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Information Technology Auditing and Cyber Security MS You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Information Technology Auditing and Cyber Security MS Apply Events Request More Info Information Technology Auditing and Cyber Security MS Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Science in Information Technology Auditing and Cyber Security Develop the skills to identify, assess and control cyber security risks with the Master of Science in Information Technology Auditing and Cyber Security in the Fox School of Business at Temple University. Promote information system security and regulation compliance within organizations, and mitigate risks of breaches to the confidentiality, integrity and availability of organizational information. Prepare to play an indispensable role within accounting and consulting firms, banks and financial companies, computer software and hardware companies, government agencies, information and data service providers, and other organizations within the critical infrastructure sectors. This master’s degree program provides hands-on coursework delivered by a faculty of industry-level experts. A comprehensive curriculum teaches you to assess and design internal processes that foster information assurance. Learn to assess and assure information system security to position your company to prosper in the global economy, and gain the skills to implement cyber security safeguards that protect your company against threats. Career opportunities in the fields of information technology auditing and cyber security are rapidly growing, with the Bureau of Labor Statistics estimating a 32 percent increase in related jobs by 2028, amounting to roughly 35,500 new jobs. Information Session Learn about the Information Technology Auditing and Cyber Security MS program, curriculum and more at an information session. Register Request Information Learn more about the Information Technology Auditing and Cyber Security MS program. Apply Now Ready to apply? Submit your graduate application. Learn More Explore all of the specialized master's programs at Fox. Request Information Apply Learn More Path to Professional Certification The Information Technology Auditing and Cyber Security MS supports career development by including a capstone course that prepares students for the Certified Information Systems Auditor (CISA) or Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) one of the following professional certification exams. The CISA certification demonstrates experience among information systems control, assurance and security professionals. The CISSP certification demonstrates competency around identifying, analyzing and addressing cyber security risks. Concentrations Students are admitted to one of two areas of specialization. Each concentration amounts to 30 credits, including four common core courses, two electives and a capstone. Qualified students with the necessary prerequisites may take courses from both concentrations, which are as follows. Cybersecurity Learn to identify, analyze and address risks; detect intrusions; harden information systems and networks to protect data confidentiality and integrity; maintain IT availability; and mitigate losses. Prepare for the Certified Information Systems Security Professional certification exams. View Concentration Details Information Technology Auditing Learn to identify, analyze and address risks; assess information system security controls; and ensure alignment with strategic organizational goals and regulatory requirements. Gain expertise and skills while learning the tools and procedures for conducting external and internal IT auditing processes. View Concentration Details Janet Mai Senior Consultant, Risk and Financial Advisory, Deloitte "As soon as I was in my first class, I felt like I was exactly where I was meant to be." Classes & Curriculum This 30-credit master’s program may be completed on a full- or part-time basis, with multiple entry points offered during the academic year. The program is offered in-person on Temple University’s Main Campus as well as online. Its location in Philadelphia provides students with access to the benefits of city life and connections to leading organizations. The common core requirements comprise the following four courses. Business Skills for ITACS Professionals IT Governance Protection of Information Assets Security Architecture Other courses vary based on your chosen concentration. Learn more about courses for each concentration of the Information Technology Auditing and Cyber Security MS. Related Graduate Certificates Information Technology Auditing and Cyber Security Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Science offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,142.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,142.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. See additional fees and costs associated with the Information Technology Auditing and Cyber Security MS program. Our Advisors Advisors offer support and assist with a variety of administrative tasks, such as selecting your class schedule. David Lanter is the advisor and academic director of the Information Technology Auditing and Cyber Security MS. Phone: 215-204-3077 Email: david.lanter@temple.edu Program Contact For more information about the Information Technology Auditing and Cyber Security MS degree program, contact the following faculty member. Miljenka Sakic is the assistant director of graduate enrollment. Phone: 215-204-3581 Email: msakic@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Joining student clubs and organizations is a great way to meet like-minded students; connect with local, national and international businesses; and enhance the skills you use in your professional career. Fox offers more than 30 student professional organizations. Supplement your academic experience by participating in a club related to your major or interests. The following clubs and organizations are available to students in Fox. The Fox Graduate Student Association connects students and alumni with the greater Fox community, providing professional development, networking and volunteer opportunities for graduate students. The mission of Net Impact is to grow and strengthen a network of leaders who use the power of business to make a positive economic, environmental and social impact. It brings together students seeking to network and to use the power of business to create a better world. The International Business Association brings together students from all over the world to learn about foreign business and the global economy, and offers an array of professional development opportunities. Fox Professional Speakers invites students to practice their communication, presentation and leadership skills in a supportive and positive environment. Those with dreams of starting their own business may be interested in the Entrepreneurial Students Association, which aims to support, inspire and encourage students to pursue their entrepreneurial goals. The association is open to students of all majors. See a full list of student clubs and organizations. Global Immersions Fox graduate students can participate in Global Immersions. They are destination-focused learning experiences that allow graduate students to engage with a different country's culture, language and business practices. Global Immersions expose students to comparative business environments, global business in emerging markets, global companies working to solve crucial problems, intensive and diverse learning experiences, and international innovation and entrepreneurship. Previous destinations include China, India, Latin America and South Africa. Recent participating companies include Black and Decker, BMW, Deloitte, Microsoft and SanDisk. Learn more about Global Immersion Programs. Temple also offers interested students a variety of options for pursuing internship, teaching and volunteer opportunities abroad through the Center for International Business and Research. Learn more about your options for studying or working abroad. Accreditation The Fox School of Business is accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB). The school has maintained AACSB accreditation since 1934. BU-ITAC-MS Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Information Technology Auditing and Cyber Security MS Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Events Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Events Request More Info