Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Graduate School Future Students Current Students Degrees News & Events Resources Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Degree Programs Master's Programs Doctoral Programs Law School Site Graduate Certificate Programs Accelerated Bachelors/Master's Procedures Combination Senior Program Guidelines Non-Degree Seeking National Rankings Take Action Apply Now! Degree Programs Calendar Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitter Home Graduate School Programs Graduate School Graduate Certificate Programs Graduate Certificate Programs Take the next step in your career. Earn a grad certificate in just four courses. A comprehensive list of certificate programs are listed alphabetically below. For more information about a program or obtaining a certificate, contact: graduateadmissions@memphis.edu View fee information > Apply Now > = offered online African American Literature As we enter the opening decades of the twenty-first century, interest in African American literary studies continues to flourish. By preparing students to teach African American Literature and giving official recognition of preparation, the certificate program helps graduates qualify for jobs both within the United States and abroad. Learn more > Analytical Chemistry This graduate certificate in Analytical Chemistry will provide students, who have a Bachelor's in Chemistry or closely related field, a graduate level curriculum on the foundations and cutting edge of analytical chemistry and instrumentation. The subject material is relevant to industry and K12 education and includes topics such as: separations (chromatography and others), atomic and molecular spectroscopy, nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy, infrared spectroscropy, mass spectrometry, electroanalytical chemistry, and surface analysis techniques. The certificate is offered by the Department of Chemistry and requires 12 hours of graduate coursework. All credit hours for the graduate certificate in Analytical Chemistry can be applied towards a Master's of Science in Chemistry. View the Course Catalog > Applied Economics Analytics This certificate will help managers translate data into models to make forecasts and to support decision making in a wide variety of fields, ranging from macroeconomics to finance and marketing. It will provide tools to be a “tech” economist, using econometrics and big data to analyze business problems. Applied Lean Leadership This graduate certificate provides students with competitive knowledge and skills for jobs in which Lean is practiced, and a cost-effective way to upgrade technical skills in Lean techniques. The certificate is intended for the student who has a bachelor's degree and who is currently working full-time in a production or service industry, and is specifically interested in learning about Lean principles and practices. Based on the Society of Manufacturing Engineers' "Lean Certification Body of Knowledge," a student who completes the certificate program will be expected to be able to pass the SME/AME/Shingo prize, Lean Certification Exam at the Bronze level. Learn more about the online program > | View the Course Catalog > Arts Entrepreneurship This graduate certificate in arts entrepreneurship situates the College of Communication and Fine Arts at the intersection of creativity, artistic expression, and business acumen to usher in the next stage of big thinkers, dreamers, and doers in the city of Memphis. The certificate aims to support the development and articulation of arts startups, incubators, and other forms of entrepreneurship in order to build a creative community Artist Diploma in Music The Scheidt School of Music offers a graduate-level Artist Diploma in instrumental performance, vocal performance, keyboard performance, and conducting. It is a one-year program for very advanced performers seeking a highly specialized training for a professional career. Admission for the Artist Diploma is highly competitive and limited to applicants who have demonstrated exceptional skills in performance or conducting by audition. Learn more > Athletic Administration This graduate certificate will focus on the administration of athletics across multiple competitive levels (e.g., high school, college, etc.). Students must take 12 hours in order to complete the program. A unique feature of this graduate certificate program is that it has a flexible option whereby students can select from seven (7) classes to complete the degree requirements. View the Course Catalog > Augmentative and Alternative Communication (AAC) Graduate Certificate The purpose of the "Augmentative and Alternative Communication (AAC)" certificate is to provide training to practicing speech-language pathologists (SLPs) and teachers on supporting the language development of children with significant language disabilities. The certificate requires a firm background in typical language development as well as language disorders and then moves on to applying this knowledge to the specialized area of AAC. Once these prerequisites are complete, the certificate allows for an elective in a related field. Autism Studies The purpose of the Graduate Certificate in Autism Studies is to provide practical educational training to individuals who are presently working within healthcare, adult disability and/or educational settings. Individuals completing this post baccalaureate certificate program will be able to provide evidence-based decisions specific to the treatment and education of people with ASD, design and implement highly specialized evidence based instructional programs for people with ASD, and design and implement common behavior management strategies shown to be effective for people with ASD. Learn more about the certificate program > | Learn more about the online version > Aviation Human Factors Aviation Human Factors is used to optimize the fit between people and the systems in which they work in order to improve aviation safety and performance. Knowledge gained in this certificate can also be applied to safety investigation activities. Learn more > Business Economics The courses in this graduate certificate will provide tools in microeconomics and macroeconomics that will help managers make better business decisions. Also, this certificate will provide training needed for students planning to take the Certified Business Economist (CBE) exam offered by the National Association of Business Economists (NABE). Business Information Assurance The primary purpose of this certificate program is to prepare participants to be able to make effective decisions regarding information assurance strategies. Students will become familiar with various methodologies for maintaining business continuity in case of an attack or disaster and will become knowledgeable about policy development, implementation techniques, employee awareness and training, assessment of effectiveness of security programs, as well as various other factors that result in long-term managerial effectiveness. Learn more > Business Project Management This certificate satisfies a demand for business project management professionals in our region without requiring addition resources. It also creates untapped research opportunities and collaborations for our faculty with the project management community. Learn more > College and Career Counseling The certificate in College and Career Counseling is an online and field based post-degree program designed to address contemporary issues related to career and college counseling in schools. The certificate focuses on developing technical skills and expertise to effectively prepare students to transition from high school to college or from high school to vocational programs. The program is committed to addressing contemporary issues influencing the field, by building awareness of social justice issues in the college going process and utilizing student achievement data as a lever to design programs that strategically target the achievement gap. View the Course Catalog > Clinical Mental Health Counseling The University of Memphis' Certificate in Clinical Mental Health Counseling is intended for individuals who are currently pursuing a Masters degree in school counseling at The University of Memphis, or have obtained a Masters degree in school counseling, rehabilitation counseling, or college counseling. The certificate will allow students to complete Tennessee's Licensed Professional Counselor (LPC) educational requirements as well as the State's Mental Health Service Provider (MHSP) educational requirements. Learn more > Clinical Social Work The Graduate Certificate in Clinical Social Work is designed for MSW or DSW students who want to deepen their clinical skills. The graduate certificate will provide an in-depth clinical curriculum in advanced skills and cutting-edge innovations necessary for students who want to pursue licensure in clinical social work and work in clinical practice settings. View the course catalog > Cognitive Science The primary objective of this certificate is to supply graduate students interested in Cognitive Science with interdisciplinary training in the major fields of Cognitive Science, Cognitive Psychology, Artificial Intelligence and Linguistics. The main focus is to develop core competencies to support research in cognitive science as well as applications in human-computer interaction, information systems, advertising and marketing, and design. View the course catalog > Cyber Security and Information Assurance This certificate program highlights important aspects of information security and assurance technologies. The University of Memphis is designated by DHS and NSA as a National Center of Academic Excellence in Information Assurance, and its IA courses are accredited by the Committee for National Security Systems for Computer Security standards 4011, 4012, and 4013. These security standards specify the minimum knowledge, skills, and abilities required to fulfill the duties, respectively, of an Information Systems Security Professional, Senior System Manager, and System Administrator. Learn more > Data Analytics for Management The field of data analytics is exploding. Tools and techniques of data mining, text mining, web mining, and artificial intelligence, combined with the use of "big data" are driving marketing, finance, economics, and virtually all other aspects of business to new heights. People with the right skills in these areas are in high demand. Targeted towards a broad audience like Business Analysts and Managers who need to learn the language and fundamentals of mathematical modeling and data visualization techniques, this certificate will allow the student to successfully lead analytics teams and projects. Learn what AI (Artificial Intelligence) can and cannot do for you using business use cases. Use engagement metrics from popular social media sites for effectiveness measurement and evaluate data patterns detected from structured and unstructured data to determine a successful business strategy. Learn more > Data Analytics for Technology The business analytics discipline has become very important in information systems and industry, due to increased access to big data, unstructured and structured data, and strategic business decision making. These increasingly complex decision making capabilities lead directly to competitive advantage and increased profits. Thus, trained business analysts with skills in addressing data management and business intelligence and analytics are in high demand. The certificate program requires completion of 12 semester credit hours. Learn more > Data Science The goal of the Data Science certificate is to help train a workforce of future data scientists able to tackle the challenges and reap the promising benefits of the vast quantities of data available today in all parts of the economy, society, and government. At the end of the program, students will exhibit a deep understanding of how to manage large volumes of data, discover patterns and make inferences from the data, use models to make predictions about potential solutions, and quantify the reliability and effectiveness of the outcomes. Learn more > Disabilities Studies This certificate program provides training for professionals who have, or plan to have, the opportunity to work with person who have disabilities. It will also provide students with a comprehensive background on the physical, psychosocial, vocation and legal issues that face persons with disabilities. View the Course Catalog > Entrepreneurial Journalism The Entrepreneurial Journalism Certificate program prepares students to start their own media-related businesses or bring innovation to legacy media organizations as "intrapreneurs." The program emphasizes knowledge of business fundamentals, marketing, advertising and public relations strategies for new businesses, and creating digital, multimedia content for media products or promotions. Learn more about the online program > | View information for on-grounds > Family Nurse Practitioner The Family Nurse Practitioner (FNP) Certificate program provides a formal program of study for students who already have the Master of Science in Nursing degree and are interested in taking the national certification exam to practice as a Family Nurse Practitioner without requiring them to complete a second masters degree. View the course catalog > Financial Analysis and Planning This graduate certificate program is designed for students interested in acquiring the theoretical and practical financial knowledge and skills consistent with 21st century organizational needs and financial industry careers. Freight Transportation The transportation profession is facing a significant decline in its workforce due to the increasing number of workers eligible for retirement. Studies indicate as much as 50% of the public sector transportation workforce is now eligible for retirement. According to US DOT "employers will need to hire 4.6 million new workers with 417,000 of these positions created as a direct result to increased demand on our transportation systems". In addition, the number of students pursuing degrees in the transportation engineering area (primarily through civil engineering) continues to decline, and the production of graduates is not keeping pace with the demand for skilled workers in this area. The Graduate Certificate in Freight Transportation will enable individuals with science or engineering bachelor's degrees to expand their analytical, practical, and problem-solving skills in the area of freight transportation (e.g., supply chain and logistics, maritime transportation, rail transportation). The certificate will also enable them to transition and pursue advanced degrees (Master's or Ph.D.). View the Course Catalog > General Business This graduate certificate provides students with general knowledge about business disciplines and concepts. Students learn the basics for understanding the relationships among the different components of a business, how they interact with each other, and how business in a global context, with an emphasis on supply chain operations and business analytics. View the course catalog > Geographic Information Systems The GIS Certificate Program is for those with a Bachelor's degree in a relevant field, and with an interest in using GIS as a problem-solving tool. The GIS Certificate gives students an interdisciplinary perspective that allows them to integrate GIS skills into their knowledge acquired in other disciplines; competitive skills and training for jobs in which GIS skills are essential. Learn more > Graphic Design This program will provide a Graphic Design curriculum that focuses on context/connections, communication/methodology, collaboration/process, and technology/interaction. This provides a demonstrable skill set that will stabilize and enhance opportunities for students. View the course catalog > Health Analytics The Certificate in Health Analytics is designed to provide students with core training in health analytics, including skills in biostatistics, predictive modeling, text mining, and advanced programming/data skills demanded by community and health care institutions today. Offered by the School of Public Health, this Certificate requires 5 courses (15 hours) of graduate coursework. Students completing this certificate program will be competitive for a wide number of positions in the health care field. Learn more > Health Communication This certificate is designed for professionals in healthcare or graduate students in communication, healthcare, or related disciplines. The health communication certificate program equips students with the foundational concepts and theories associated with communication in a wide variety of healthcare contexts, including patient/provider interactions, public health, health systems, and health advocacy. This series of courses will provide students with the knowledge and skills to navigate communication in a challenging healthcare environment, as well as prepare them for further graduate work if they desire. View the course catalog > Health Systems Leadership The Health Systems Leadership graduate certificate, offered by the School of Public Health, provides students with training in areas critical to 21st century healthcare, public health, and community health leadership. Learn the skills you need to lead the way forward in your organization, your city, and your world. The innovative curriculum includes four courses and may be completed part-time and online over the course of one calendar year. Case-based and team-driven learning help you apply what you are learning to the real-world problems you encounter every day. Learn to lead change and drive improvements and transformations across health systems. Learn more > Higher Education Instruction This graduate certificate program provides classes centered on quality higher education course instruction for individuals employed in higher education institution as instructors/faculty. The graduate certificate program courses focuses on quality course instruction, course design and management, student centered learning practices, improved online course delivery, practical learning theories, and real-world opportunities for engagement. Hospitality Management Specialist The Hospitality Specialist Graduate Certificate is designed to addresses the increasing complexity of operating in globalized hotel, food service or travel industries. Student enrolled in this program will gain advanced knowledge and skills that will enhance their professional qualifications in the discipline. By providing advanced knowledge and skills in hospitality management to professional in the industry, practitioners will gain the expertise in the use of tools that have the potential to increase revenues and profits in the industry. Course material focuses on the core functional areas necessary to work in the hotel industry, including operations, marketing, finance, human resources, and strategic planning. View the Course Catalog > Imaging and Signal Processing (Electrical and Computer Engineering) The graduate certificate program in Imaging and Signal Processing is intended to provide students and practicing professionals the graduate background material to further their careers in this important area. The subject area is important to many application areas, but biomedical, sensing and signaling for commercial and defense, and information technology applications are of particular interest. The program combines traditional signal processing topics with optics and imaging, as well as computer vision, pattern recognition, and multimedia processing. Computer programming simulation and analysis are emphasized. In addition, the courses in the program are core courses for the Masters degree in Electrical and Computer Engineering, and thus, the certificate is also a portal to that degree. Learn more > Interprofesional Substance Abuse The purpose of the Interprofessional Graduate Certificate in Substance Abuse is to train student to work with populations impacted by substance use disorders (SUD) in the Memphis and greater Midsouth region. View the course catalog > Instructional Design and Technology Computers are essential in today's classrooms. Teachers who know how to operate them are in the highest demand. Graduates completing this certificate learn to make the most effective use of technology in classrooms, K-12, as well as serve as consultants to faculty members and school administrators. Learn more > K-12 Educational Leadership This certificate program provides graduate classes to individuals already possessing a master’s degree in an education field but are interested in engaging in graduate-level courses and practitioner experiences in order to attain assistant principle/school principle state licensure. Courses focus on K-12 school legal and financial issues, leadership strategies, problems of practice, and provide opportunities for significant field experiences. Liberal Studies The graduate certificate in Liberal Studies is intended to present graduate background material for those seeking personal enrichment provided by liberal learning and the development of those intellectual skills necessary to lifelong learning--critical reading, scholarly writing, and the art of interpersonal communication. The certificate requires 15 hours of graduate coursework. Learn more > Literacy Leadership and Coaching The goals of this certificate program are: 1) to offer literacy teachers education beyond the state certified reading endorsement to prepare them to address the leadership needs across the region and beyond, 2) to provide an accelerated cohort-driven program of study that will enable students to receive a Certificate in Literacy Leadership and Coaching in a timely and meaningful fashion, and 3) to give official recognition of an expertise in literacy leadership to help students qualify for jobs both within and outside the United States. Learn more > Local Government Management The objectives of the certificate program are: (1) Help working professionals upgrade their knowledge and skills of local government and theory. (2) Empower graduates of the program to succeed as effective and ethical leaders in local government administration. (3) Enhance the analytical and management capabilities of individuals who are responsible for the provision of varied services directly to citizens. Learn more > Multimedia Storytelling Update skills in multimedia with a focus on telling stories through various platforms including photography, audio, video and data visualization. Learn more about the online program > | View information for on-grounds > Multi-Tier Systems of Support To address the mounting instructional challenges and concerns confronting general and special educators, multi-tiered systems of support (MTSS) were developed. MTSS use evidence-based techniques that provide varying levels of intensity in order to increase the achievement of all students. Prospective teachers will have the opportunity to take courses under the certificate as an elective working toward licensure within a Masters of Art and Teaching program, a Special Education Endorsement, Special Education Master's Degree or a concentration within a Doctoral Program. The principal goal of the Graduate Multi-Tier Systems of Support Certificate is to provide practical training to individuals who are presently teaching or are interested in working with students learning and behavioral disorders in K-12 and alternative settings for school age children. Learn more > Museum Studies Museums are a vibrant sector of our communities, with new and innovative ones opening every year. The Interdisciplinary Graduate Certificate Program in Museum Studies is designed to give scholars enrolled in graduate study in art, anthropology, history, public administration, business, and education, or who hold graduate degrees in such disciplines, the skills to enter museum professions. Learn more > Nursing Education The Nursing Education Certificate program provides a formal program of study for gradute degree prepared nurses interested in obtaining a credential allowing them to teach in Schools of Nursing. The program provides them with the content necessary to teach nursing students in a specific area of nursing. Once students complete the certificate, they are eligible to sit for the national certification exam in this area. This certificate is the optimal way for those already holding a masters degree and desiring this specialization to gain marketability without having to complete an entire second master's degree. View course catalog > Nursing Executive Leadership The Post Master’s Certificate in Nursing Executive Leadership provides a formal program of study for students who hold a Master of Science in Nursing degree in another specialty. The program prepares nurses for management and executive nursing roles in various healthcare settings. Organic Chemistry This graduate certificate in Organic Chemistry will provide students, who have a Bachelor's in Chemistry or closely related field, a graduate level curriculum on the foundations and cutting edge of organic chemistry. The subject material is relevant to industry and K12 education and includes topics such as: theory of electronic structure and relationships with reactivity of organic compounds, mechanisms and reactions, reactive intermediates, aromaticity, pericyclic reactions, the principles and philosophy of synthesis, nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy, infrared spectroscopy mass spectrometry. The certificate is offered by the Department of Chemistry and requires 12 hours of graduate coursework. All credit hours for the graduate certificate in Analytical Chemistry can be applied towards a Master's of Science in Chemistry. View Course Catalog > Philanthropy and Nonprofit Leadership Every employee and volunteer in a nonprofit organization plays a role in meeting the philanthropic goals and charitable purposes of the organization. The Certificate in Philanthropy and Nonprofit Leadership is designed to meet the needs of these employees and volunteers looking for advanced study in the theory and practice of nonprofit administration. Ideal for nonprofit professionals, community volunteer leaders and active philanthropists, the Certificate is offered by the Division of Public and Nonprofit Administration. The Certificate requires 15 hours of graduate coursework, all available in both on-campus and online formats. Learn more > Population Health This graduate Certificate in Population Health provides core competency in biostatistics, epidemiology, environmental health, health policy, and social/behavioral sciences necessary to improve health on a large scale. With the Affordable Care Act, hospitals are incentivized to improve community health so as not to incur repeat hospitalizations, and this certificate is particularly relevant for those in the fields of health care and public health. The Certificate, offered by the School of Public Health, requires 5 courses (15 hours) of graduate coursework, all available in both on-campus and online formats and may be completed in 2 semesters. All 5 courses will apply to the Master of Public Health (MPH) degree should students wish to pursue a graduate degree. Learn more > Population Hearing Health - Beginning summer 2022 The purpose of the “Population Hearing Health” certificate is to provide training to practicing audiologists (AuDs), audiology students, and other hearing healthcare professionals on the frameworks of public health and how they can be applied to hearing health initiatives, thus improving hearing health on a population level. The certificate requires a firm foundation in public health concepts to apply this knowledge to the specialized area of population hearing healthcare. The certificate allows for required coursework and electives in related fields. Qualitative Studies in Education The Graduate Certificate in Qualitative Studies in Educational Research is intended to prepare students enrolled in any Doctoral program in the College of Education and throughout the University to design, conduct, publish, and teach rigorous qualitative research. The current academic climate has seen a paradigm shift from a strict focus on objectivist quantitative research to a broader focus on constructionist/subjectivist qualitative research methodologies. Recognizing this shift, our program offers students the appropriate coursework and mentorship to advance their knowledge and application of qualitative research traditions/methodologies such as ethnography, case study, narrative inquiry, post-structural approaches, and creative analytic practices. Learn more > Quantitative Studies in Educational Research The certificate program is designed to provide students with formalized training in quantitative methods, including research design, univariate and multivariate statistical analysis, and advanced training in statistical software and programming. Learn more > School Counseling The University of Memphis's certificate in school counseling is intended for those individuals who are currently pursuing or have obtained a Graduate degree in clinical mental health counseling, rehabilitation counseling, clinical rehabilitation counseling, or college counseling to obtain Tennessee Licensure as a School Counselor. Learn more > School Library Information Specialist The purpose of the Graduate Certificate for School Library Information Specialists is to provide preparation and practical training to individuals who are presently teaching or are interested in obtaining teacher licensure with a specialization/endorsement as a School Library Information Specialist (TN DOE endorsement for Library Information Specialist PreK-12 - 473). Learn more > School Social Work The purpose of the graduate certificate in School Social Work is to allow Master of Social Work (MSW) students or MSW graduates to complete a specialized course of study in school social work. School social work is a specialization in the field of social work with a focus on providing behavioral health services in the school setting. As an academic program, school social work trains students to collaborate with children/youth, families, teachers, and communities to provide supports that contribute to academic success. School social work licensure requires an accredited degree in social work at the undergraduate or graduate level. Licensure boards will not recognize the certificate coursework unless it accompanies a degree in social work. View Course Catalog > Social Media Analysis and Strategy Learn tools in audience analysis and segmentation, analytics and evaluation and community engagement to build and maintain a social media presence for brands and organizations. Earn certifications in various analytic software and programs. Learn more about the online program > | View information for on-grounds > Software Testing Software testing is a critical discipline as organizations increasingly rely on information systems that are becoming increasingly more complex. This certificate prepares students to both manage and participate in testing at all stages of the software development process. The topics and techniques are applicable to testing all types of software. Learn more > Sport Nutrition and Dietary Supplementation The topics of sport nutrition and dietary supplementation continue to gain momentum in both the research world, as well as in clinical practice. Multiple peer-reviewed scientific journals are now dedicated to presenting literature specific to the area of sport nutrition. The same is true for the study of dietary supplementation. The certificate is particularly useful for registered dietitians, strength and conditioning coaches, personal trainers, and healthcare providers (e.g., nurses, pharmacists) who may receive questions from athletes and/or patients specific to the topics of sport nutrition and dietary supplementation. Consisting of 12 credit hours, students complete three required courses, with an option for the completion of the final three credit hours. All courses are delivered online and can be completed in any sequence. Learn more > Special Education - Comprehensive The Special Education Comprehensive Certificate is designed for individuals seeking certification in Comprehensive Special Education or wanting to enhance their knowledge of Low Incidence Disabilities. The program provides advanced coursework directed at evidenced-based instructional practices for K-12 students with low incidence disabilities (e.g., intellectual disorders, ASD, multiple disabilities). View the course catalog > STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics) Teacher Leadership The goal of the certificate program in STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics) Teacher Leadership is to develop the knowledge and skills of secondary mathematics, science, and engineering teachers who are currently teaching in local area schools. The coursework is designed to promote in-depth understanding of current standards and instructional practices with a particular focus on building teacher leaders in STEM education. Learn more > Strategic Leadership The Graduate Certificate in Strategic Leadership is a 12-hour program (four courses) designed to provide theoretical and practical knowledge to enhance leadership skills. The program is specifically designed for the working professional. Learn more > Supply Chain Management The focus of this graduate certificate is to provide students with a foundation in the concepts, tools, and practices of Supply Chain Management. Taxation The focus of this graduate certificate is to provide students with both a practical and theoretical foundation and applied hands-on skills. The graduate certificate is dedicated exclusively to the study of taxation.  It is designed for students who are interested in studying taxation for their own professional practice, for a family business, or as a career-builder by developing tax skills and broad business thinking while working for small or large corporations. Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL) We live in a global community, where different languages and cultures interact on a daily basis. The TESOL Certificate trains students how to teach English to speakers of different languages. And such training also helps students qualify for jobs within and outside the United States. Learn more > | View the course catalog > Teaching of Mathematics Program objective is to provide content knowledge training required for teaching lower division college mathematics courses. This training will help high school teachers meet the content knowledge requirements for the teaching of dual enrollment courses, and help satisfy the demand created by the Tennessee Promise program, for individuals qualified to teach mathematics in community colleges. View Course Catalog > Urban Education The 12 credit-hour Graduate Certificate in Urban Education offers an advanced program of study in the expansive and distinct historical and contemporary knowledge, scholarship, and practical issues related to instruction and curriculum leadership in an urban educational context that has a diverse population, is geographically bounded, and is unique in its political, economic and cultural history, relationships, and interactions. The program of study includes a 3 credit-hour workshop that allows the student to explore an issue individually through independent study, online engagement, and engaged scholarship. Learn more > Women's and Gender Studies Women's roles have changed remarkably over the past 50 years. The Certificate of Women's and Gender Studies gives students competitive skills and training for jobs in which the analysis of gender and race is essential, as well as education needed for entrance in selected PhD programs. View course catalog > Apply Now > Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/17/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.