Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Office of the Registrar Menu Baylor>Registrar>Academic Services>Undergraduate Course Repeat Policy>FAQ's - Undergraduate Course Repeat and Academic Forgiveness Policy FAQ's - Undergraduate Course Repeat and Academic Forgiveness Policy Undergraduate Course Repeat and Academic Forgiveness Policy 1. What is the Undergraduate Course Repeat and Academic Forgiveness Policy? 2. When did the current undergraduate course repeat and academic forgiveness policy take effect? 3. Will the changes to the undergraduate course repeat policy in 2017 impact grades that have already been excluded from my gpa due to a repeat. 4. How will students identify which class/grade that they want excluded from the calculation of their gpa under the course repeat policy? 5. If a student has received a W notation as the result of dropping a class prior to Fall 2017, will he or she be able to take that class at another institution and transfer it to Baylor University? 6. The policy indicates that a student will only have a maximum of three attempts at any one course. What counts as an attempt? 7. What if a student has already attempted a course three times prior to Fall 2017? Are those previous attempts grandfathered? 8. If a student has already had three or more class grades excluded from his or her gpa under the former repeat policy, will he or she be eligible to have additional repeated grades excluded from his or her gpa under the new Academic Forgiveness Policy, which began in Fall 2017? 9. If a student takes the same class three times and the resulting grades in order are F, D, and A, which grade or grades may be excluded under the Academic Forgiveness policy? 10. If a student takes the same class three times and the resulting grades/notations in order are W, D, and A, which grade or grades may be excluded under the Academic Forgiveness policy? 11. Is there an opportunity for Academic Forgiveness to be applied to a grade received prior to Fall 2017? 12. May I request Academic Forgiveness for a course that was previously taken and has since changed numbers or been discontinued? 13. May a student request Academic Forgiveness after their undergraduate degree has been conferred? Undergraduate Course Repeat and Academic Forgiveness Policy 1. What is the Undergraduate Course Repeat and Academic Forgiveness Policy? There are two parts to the policy: Course Repetition and Academic Forgiveness Course Repetition A student may repeat a course for which his or her highest earned grade is a C- or below. A student may also repeat a course, when approved by the appropriate academic dean, for which he or she needs to earn a higher grade in order to fulfill a prerequisite or a course requirement for a degree, major, or minor (see specific degree/major/minor requirements for policies governing minimum grades needed in those areas). A student will have a maximum of three attempts at any one course, where a class with a grade or a W notation counts as an attempt. Courses attempted at Baylor University, which includes courses for which a student received a W notation, may not be repeated at another institution for transfer to Baylor University. All grades earned at Baylor University will be calculated in the term and cumulative grade point averages (see Academic Forgiveness for exceptions). Academic Forgiveness A student may request to have the first grade earned (not a W notation) from a repeated course excluded from the calculation of the grade point average (GPA) for a maximum of three courses during one's undergraduate career, where the original grade earned was a C- or below. If a student attempts a course a third time and Academic Forgiveness is applied, then all grades except the first will be used to calculate the GPA. Once applied to a particular course, Academic Forgiveness cannot be cancelled or removed (this rule may not be appealed). 2. When did the current undergraduate course repeat and academic forgiveness policy take effect? The undergraduate course repeat and academic forgiveness policy was effective with the Fall 2017 term. 3. Will the changes to the undergraduate course repeat policy in 2017 impact grades that have already been excluded from my gpa due to a repeat. No. Grades that were excluded from gpa calculations under the previous course repeat policy will remain excluded. 4. How will students identify which class/grade that they want excluded from the calculation of their gpa under the course repeat policy? Once the repeat of the course is completed, Bearweb will allow students to request for a grade to be excluded from calculation of their gpa and will enforce the rules defined in the Academic Forgiveness policy. Special provision will be made for students completing a repeated course in the semester they are graduating. 5. If a student has received a W notation as the result of dropping a class prior to Fall 2017, will he or she be able to take that class at another institution and transfer it to Baylor University? No. Beginning in Fall 2017, if a student has received a grade or a W notation for a course taken at Baylor University, that student may not take the course elsewhere with the expectation that it may be transferred to Baylor. 6. The policy indicates that a student will only have a maximum of three attempts at any one course. What counts as an attempt? For purposes of this policy, an attempt includes registration for any course that results in either a grade or a W notation on a student's record. 7. What if a student has already attempted a course three times prior to Fall 2017? Are those previous attempts grandfathered? No. The limit of three attempts for any one course will include all attempts whether they occurred before the Fall 2017 effective date of the policy or not. Thus, if you have attempted a course three or more times before Fall 2017, you would no longer be eligible to register for that course beginning with Fall 2017. 8. If a student has already had three or more class grades excluded from his or her gpa under the former repeat policy, will he or she be eligible to have additional repeated grades excluded from his or her gpa under the new Academic Forgiveness Policy, which began in Fall 2017? Yes. Each undergraduate student will have the opportunity to have three class grades excluded from the calculation of his or her gpa beyond those excluded prior to Fall 2017. Thus, the additional three would result from repeated classes occurring Fall 2017 or later. 9. If a student takes the same class three times and the resulting grades in order are F, D, and A, which grade or grades may be excluded under the Academic Forgiveness policy? Assuming that a student has not already used his or her three grade exclusions available beginning Fall 2017 through the Academic Forgiveness policy, then the original earned grade of F may be excluded from calculation of the gpa upon the student's request. The grades of D and A would be included in the calculation of the gpa. 10. If a student takes the same class three times and the resulting grades/notations in order are W, D, and A, which grade or grades may be excluded under the Academic Forgiveness policy? Assuming that a student has not already used his or her three grade exclusions available beginning Fall 2017 through the Academic Forgiveness policy, then the original earned grade of D may be excluded from calculation of the gpa. 11. Is there an opportunity for Academic Forgiveness to be applied to a grade received prior to Fall 2017? Yes. A student may use Academic Forgiveness to exclude a grade received prior to Fall 2017 if the second grade received for the course is for Fall 2017 or later. 12. May I request Academic Forgiveness for a course that was previously taken and has since changed numbers or been discontinued? Maybe. If you complete a new course that is set as an equivalent course to one you previously completed, then the original completion would be eligible for academic forgiveness within the other standard parameters. For example, if you previously earned a grade that was eligible for forgiveness in "PSC 2302", and retook the course under "PSC 1387", the original grade in PSC 2302 would be eligible for academic forgiveness. However, some courses that are discontinued do not have a new equivalent replacement course. In those circumstances, previous courses will not be eligible for academic forgiveness. For further information, please consult with your academic advisor, academic dean's office, and/or the Office of the Registrar. 13. May a student request Academic Forgiveness after their undergraduate degree has been conferred? Academic Forgiveness may not be requested once a degree to which the course applied has been conferred. BACK TO TOP Registrar Dates and Deadlines Registering for Classes Steps for Registration Registration + Planning Instructional Videos View Class Schedule in BearWeb Summer/Fall 2022 BearWeb Early Registration Schedule Waitlist Information Waitlist FAQs Returning Student Reactivation Returning Student Reactivation FAQs Wintermester Academic Services Transcript Information Additional Information Current Student Online Ordering Former Student Online Ordering Name and Address Change Enrollment/Degree Certification Commencement Information Non-certified Commencement Participation Policy Diploma Information Diploma Distribution for Current Graduates Duplicate Diploma Orders for Alumni Duplicate Diploma Order Form Dean's Academic Honor List Degree Audits GPA Slip/Final Grades Enrollment Status Undergraduate Course Repeat Policy FAQ's - Undergraduate Course Repeat and Academic Forgiveness Policy U.Achieve Instructional Videos Schedule of Classes & Catalogs Schedule of Classes University Catalogs Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Law School Catalog Seminary Catalog Final Exam Schedule Spring 2022 Fall 2022 Transfer Credit Transfer Credit Policies Equivalent Course Tool (ECT) Search by Outside Institution Search by Baylor Course Equivalent Course Request (ECR) Transfer Credit FAQs Abroad Equivalent Course Approval VA Education Benefits Announcements Apply for VA Educational Benefits Meet our VA Benefits Team VA Benefits Contact Information Military Scholarships VA Chapter Benefits Chapter 33 John Fry Scholarship Chapter 35 Chapter 31 Chapter 30, 1606 VA Forms / Resources FAQs Ineligible Programs The Effects of Schedule Changes (Debt Info) Terminology VA COE Submission Yellow Ribbon Program Room Scheduling Faculty/Staff Resources Class Scheduling Schedule Build Timeline Development Grading Resources Class Roster Verification Electronic Catalog Implementation FERPA FERPA Policy Faculty/Staff Quick Guide Student Annual Notification FERPA Consent Form FAQs Office Information Mission Statement Staff Directory Activities and Responsibilities Organizational Chart Search the Site Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Dates and Deadlines Registering for Classes Steps for Registration Registration + Planning Instructional Videos View Class Schedule in BearWeb Summer/Fall 2022 BearWeb Early Registration Schedule Waitlist Information Waitlist FAQs Returning Student Reactivation Returning Student Reactivation FAQs Wintermester Academic Services Transcript Information Additional Information Current Student Online Ordering Former Student Online Ordering Name and Address Change Enrollment/Degree Certification Commencement Information Non-certified Commencement Participation Policy Diploma Information Diploma Distribution for Current Graduates Duplicate Diploma Orders for Alumni Duplicate Diploma Order Form Dean's Academic Honor List Degree Audits GPA Slip/Final Grades Enrollment Status Undergraduate Course Repeat Policy FAQ's - Undergraduate Course Repeat and Academic Forgiveness Policy U.Achieve Instructional Videos Schedule of Classes & Catalogs Schedule of Classes University Catalogs Undergraduate Catalog Previous Undergraduate Catalogs Graduate Catalog Law School Catalog Seminary Catalog Final Exam Schedule Spring 2022 Fall 2022 Transfer Credit Transfer Credit Policies Equivalent Course Tool (ECT) Search by Outside Institution Search by Baylor Course Equivalent Course Request (ECR) Transfer Credit FAQs Abroad Equivalent Course Approval VA Education Benefits Announcements Apply for VA Educational Benefits Meet our VA Benefits Team VA Benefits Contact Information VA Benefits Appointment Scheduling Military Scholarships VA Chapter Benefits Chapter 33 Chapter 33 Application Process - Veterans or Active Duty Chapter 33 Application Process - Spouses or Dependents Chapter 33 - Private School Tuition & Fee Cap Timeline of VA Chapter 33 Certification Procedure VA CH 33 Refund Procedure Example Email John Fry Scholarship Chapter 35 Chapter 31 VA CH 31 Refund Procedure Chapter 30, 1606 VA Forms / Resources FAQs Ineligible Programs The Effects of Schedule Changes (Debt Info) Terminology VA COE Submission Yellow Ribbon Program Room Scheduling Faculty/Staff Resources Class Scheduling Schedule Build Timeline Development Grading Resources Class Roster Verification Electronic Catalog Implementation FERPA FERPA Policy Faculty/Staff Quick Guide Student Annual Notification FERPA Consent Form FAQs Office Information Mission Statement Staff Directory Activities and Responsibilities Organizational Chart Search the Site