Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Mission & Ministry Mission & Ministry Information For: Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Campus Ministry Menu Main Nav Campus Ministry Racial Justice Back Back Close About Overview Meet the Staff Racial Justice Pastoral Counseling Axios Center Pregnancy Resources Together Graduate Programming Connections Religious Vocations Becoming a Jesuit Support Campus Ministry Alumni Resources Liturgy & Sacraments Overview Mass Schedule Liturgical and Music Ministries Sacraments University Chapels Rise and Reflect Related Links BC Jesuit, Catholic Maps Retreats Service Immersion Overview 4Boston 4Boston Community Partners Appa Arrupe International Immersion Global Public Health–Honduras Habitat for Humanity Ignatian Family Teach-In Faith Communities Overview Catholic Christian Life Community Gratia Plena Ignatian Society Knights of Columbus St. Thomas More Society Sons of St. Patrick Una Voce Multi-Faith Student Faith Groups Off-Campus Worship Multi-Faith Chapel Related Links BC Jesuit, Catholic Maps Racial Justice Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Mission & Ministry Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Liturgy & Sacraments Home Liturgy & Sacraments Liturgy & Sacraments Mass Schedule Liturgical and Music Ministries Sacraments University Chapels Rise and Reflect Campus Ministry’s programming includes Sunday and weekday Masses, sacramental preparation for those who want to become Catholic or for Catholics seeking Confirmation, and many opportunities to come together in prayer. Liturgy Mass is offered daily at Boston College and, in partnership with the Jesuit communities of St. Mary’s and St. Ignatius Church, there are 12 Sunday liturgies scheduled across the day each week. Our Mass schedule includes days, times, and locations for these services. Sacramental Preparation If you're interested in becoming Catholic or are a Catholic seeking Confirmation, Campus Ministry can help. Our RCIA program introduces participants to the teachings and sacraments of the Catholic Church, culminating in full membership in the Church through the Sacraments of initiation: Baptism, Communion, and Confirmation. Our Confirmation program provides Catholic students who have received the other sacraments of initiation the opportunity to be Confirmed. Visit the sacraments page Participate in the Mass Liturgy at Boston College is an experience of true community. Our Masses are opportunities to come together as one and recognize the God that is with us and within us. The liturgies are enhanced by the talents and gifts of many people—including the students who welcome us, who lead us in song, and who join us in prayer. Learn about the ways you can participate in the Mass, including as a lector, eucharistic minister, or liturgical musician. Other Liturgical and Sacramental Programs Campus Ministry is intentional about helping members of the Boston College community develop robust faith lives. Opportunities for Reconciliation, Eucharistic Adoration, and couples’ preparation for Marriage can all be found on our website. Our staff is also available for pastoral counseling and spiritual direction. You are more than welcome to contact us or just stop by to talk with any of our Campus Ministers. Related Links BC Jesuit, Catholic Maps Back To Top Back To Top Campus Ministry McElroy 233 Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-3475 About Racial Justice Liturgy & Sacraments Service Immersion Retreats Faith Communities Support Campus Ministry Division of Mission & Ministry Mission and Ministry Campus Ministry Center for Ignatian Spirituality Center for Student Formation First Year Experience Intersections Montserrat Pastoral Support The Volunteer and Service Learning Center University of Mission and Ministry Service Center Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College