COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Ethnic Studies, Major MajorEthnic Studies All Programs Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences A field major/Bachelor of General Studies (BGS) in ethnic studies from Wichita State will expose you to the diversity of experience of many racial and ethnic groups. You'll be able to tailor the degree to your interests—preparing you for advanced study as well as diverse careers in areas such as journalism, social work, criminal justice, history and many others. Learn how ethnic studies is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted into the Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU's admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Curriculum The field major required 18 credit hours of ethnic-studies coursework. In addition, you'll work with academic and faculty advisors to select additional courses that demonstrate interests within a liberal-arts-based education. View the curriculum Careers A degree in ethnic studies from Wichita State will equip you with skills and knowledge you can apply in many different fields—and serves as a good base for graduate study leading to careers in the private, public and nonprofit sectors. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Ethnic Studies (Minor) Anthropology History 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©