Skip to main content Columbia University Home Search form Search Our Services Adult Programs Current Adult Learners & Teachers ESOL High School Equivalency (TASC) CUNY Assessment Test Preparation College Road Job Road CAFE Prep Student Pre-Registration Form Volunteer Registration Form Youth Programs Emergency Services Health Student Executive Board Our Supporters Support Community Impact Giving Tuesday CI Endowment Campaign Community Impact Alumni Organization (CIAO) Sharing Our Stories Benefit About Us Mission History Leadership Our Impact News & Events Contact Our Opportunities Work Study Job Opportunities Van Amson Service Fellowship Volunteering Donate Home About Us Leadership Staff Staff About Us Mission History Leadership Board of Directors Staff Student Executives Our Impact News & Events Contact Support CI Today! Your support allows us to bring high-quality services to the Morningside Heights and Washington Heights communities. Learn More Olger C. Twyner, III, Executive Director Phone: 212-854-1472 | Email: [email protected] Olger C. Twyner, III, is currently the Executive Director of Community Impact at Columbia University. He graduated summa cum laude from Jackson State University and holds a J.D. and M.B.A. from The Ohio State University College of Law and Columbia Business School, respectively. Twyner was the first African American to serve as a federal judicial clerk in Mississippi. In the field of public interest law, he practiced law with Southeast Mississippi Legal Services, served as coordinator of the NYU Public Interest Law Center, and worked as Development Director for the Mississippi Center for Justice. Additionally, he has held executive roles at Xavier University of Louisiana and Row New York. Twyner is uniquely positioned to strengthen collaboration between Columbia and the surrounding communities, as he is a Columbia alumnus, was the founding director of the Columbia Business School Community Collaboration, and is former Executive Director and President of Double Discovery Center (DDC). He is an active member of the Jackson State University National Alumni Association, an avid New York Yankees fan, and enjoys cooking and international travel. Sandy Helling, Senior Associate Director Phone: 212-854-9621 | Email: [email protected] Sandy Helling has key responsibilities in the over-all operation of Community Impact in the areas of fundraising, program development and management, special events, and community partners. She has directed emergency service and adult education programs at Community Impact since 1989. She developed Community Impact’s Jobs and Education Empowerment Project (J.E.E.P.), a network of adult education and workforce development programs. Prior to joining Community Impact, Sandy was the Director of the Welfare Grant Increase Coalition, and a Client Apprentice Coordinator for the Community Council of Greater New York. She holds a Bachelor of Arts from New College, a Masters of Education and a Masters of Arts in Philosophy and Social Sciences from Teachers College, Columbia University. Satrina White Boyce, Assistant Director of Development Phone: 212-854-5959 | Email: [email protected] Ricardo Bustamante, Senior Program Coordinator Phone: 212-854-6310 | Email: [email protected] Nicole Conrad, Development Assistant Phone: 212-854-2611 | Email: [email protected] Cait Hughes, Program Manager: Youth and Other Projects Phone: 212-854-2610 | Email: [email protected] Kent Katner, ESOL Program Manager Phone: 212-854-2612 | Email: [email protected] Adam Nathanson, Adult Education Program Coordinator Phone: 212-854-1492 | Email: [email protected] Clayuri Parrilla, Program and Evaluations Manager Phone: 212-854-9622 | Email: [email protected] Sharon Rios, TASC Program Manager Phone: 212-854-0732 | Email: [email protected] Christina Telesca, Administrative Assistant to the Executive Director Phone: 212-854-0734 | Email: [email protected] Jeffrey Zeiler, Education for Success Program Coordinator Phone: 212-854-9615 | Email: [email protected] 105 Earl Hall, 2980 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 212-854-1492 | [email protected] Our Services Adult Programs Current Adult Learners & Teachers ESOL High School Equivalency (TASC) CUNY Assessment Test Preparation College Road Job Road CAFE Prep Student Pre-Registration Form Volunteer Registration Form Youth Programs Emergency Services Health Student Executive Board Our Supporters Support Community Impact Giving Tuesday CI Endowment Campaign Community Impact Alumni Organization (CIAO) Sharing Our Stories Benefit About Us Mission History Leadership Board of Directors Staff Student Executives Our Impact News & Events Contact Our Opportunities Work Study Job Opportunities Van Amson Service Fellowship Volunteering Donate Follow us Facebook Twitter Copyright © Copyright Community Impact at Columbia University Site by Site by Bureau for Good