Navigate MD Admissions Home Innovations Dynamic Learning Environment Dual Degrees & Areas of Concentration Special Study & Research Curriculum Module 1 Modules 2 & 3 Module 4 Modules 5 & 6 Evaluation and Degree Requirements The Penn Med Experience Teaching Facilities Entering Class Profile Post-Graduate Outcomes Admissions COVID-19 Policies Admissions Competencies Application Procedure Application Timeline Inclusion, Diversity, and Equity Special Programs Technical Standards Prospective Student Resources FAQs Financial Aid Overview Tuition & Fees AAMC/FIRST How To Apply For Aid Student Resources Innovations Dynamic Learning Environment Dual Degrees & Areas of Concentration Special Study & Research Curriculum Module 1 Modules 2 & 3 Module 4 Modules 5 & 6 Evaluation and Degree Requirements The Penn Med Experience Teaching Facilities Entering Class Profile Post-Graduate Outcomes Admissions COVID-19 Policies Admissions Competencies Application Procedure Application Timeline Inclusion, Diversity, and Equity Special Programs Technical Standards Prospective Student Resources FAQs Financial Aid Overview Tuition & Fees AAMC/FIRST How To Apply For Aid Student Resources MD Admissions Dear prospective applicants, thank you for your interest in the Perelman School of Medicine. Your decision to commit to a career in healthcare is an incredibly important one, and we welcome the opportunity to be part of your medical training. Caring for patients is a privilege, and aspiring physicians like you represent tremendous hope and inspiration for the future. There has never been a more exciting time to practice medicine, with novel discoveries and innovative breakthroughs improving our care. PSOM is at the heart of these medical advances, and our students represent the leaders in clinical medicine, research and education. Dr. Neha Vapiwala, Associate Dean of Admissions, Perelman School of Medicine Applicant Calendar 2022 Applicants All accepted applicants holding an accepted place in the class have a deadline of July 1 to Commit to Enroll through the AMCAS Choose Your Medical School tool. 2023 Applicants and Prospective Applicants For individuals who would like to know more about applying to our program, we will hold two Virtual Information Sessions: Monday, May 23 - 12:00pm - 2:00pm ET Monday, July 25 - 12:00pm - 2:00pm ET Registration for July will be posted the first week of June. Campus Information Perelman School of Medicine:Vision — Nerve — Heart Campus Map Life at Penn Virtual Tour Like us on Facebook! Perelman School of Medicine Penn Health System Dean Larry Jameson, MD, PhD Quick Links AAMC FIRST Liberal and Professional Studies — Post Bac Program Global Health Program for Diversity and Inclusion Penn Health System Student Blog Learning for Life Learning for Life The Perelman School of Medicine enjoys an international reputation for innovation in areas ranging from leadership training to global health. Our groundbreaking curriculum set a new standard for medical education nationwide. The six-module MD curriculum integrates basic sciences and clinical experience from day one. It teaches students self-directed lifelong learning skills, interdisciplinary teamwork and technological proficiency in the practice of evidence-based medicine and patient-centered care. Integrated Integration of basic and clinical sciences are taught by outstanding faculty committed to teaching throughout all years of medical education. Innovative Educational program designed to learn and work in teams throughout medical school. One University campus provides availability and opportunities for educational enrichment. Dynamically evolving curriculum with the changing paradigm of health care locally, nationally, and globally. Individualized Diverse opportunities allow customization of medical education so that your specific interests and career goals can be attained. A Unique Opportunity in Medical Education Medical students can customize their education to suit their interests. More than 50 percent of each class remains at Penn beyond four years to take advantage of resources for dual degrees, certificates, global health experiences, and research. Admissions Vision Statement Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania will select students who will become future physician leaders in health care, advancing science and discovery and furthering the clinical, educational, research, health policy and medical entrepreneurial missions for our society. Graduates of the Perelman School of Medicine will be leading advocates for these endeavors within their local environment as well as for the health of national and international communities. We strive to recruit a diverse and inclusive class that reflects these goals. Principles of Selection at PSOM: Selection is based on a holistic review because different ancestry, gender, cultures, ethnicities, religions, sexual orientation, perspectives, educational backgrounds and accomplishments, socioeconomic levels and life experiences enrich our educational community and team-centered curriculum. Successful candidates demonstrate academic excellence, commitment to community service, scholarly/research achievement and leadership ability. MD Admissions News Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania New Mental Health Platform Provides Support for Healthcare Workers Thursday, May 28, 2020 While mental health in the workplace is a longstanding and undertreated issue, it has been amplified… Gene Therapy Program at Penn Medicine Joins AAVCOVID Vaccine Project Thursday, May 28, 2020 The internationally-renowned Gene Therapy Program at the University of Pennsylvania is joining the AAVCOVID… Follow-up Treatments After Opioid Overdose Rare Among Insured Patients Wednesday, May 27, 2020 The majority of commercially insured patients who visited the emergency department (ED) for an opioid… Subscribe Our Mission To advance knowledge and improve health through research, patient care, and the education of trainees in an inclusive culture that embraces diversity, fosters innovation, stimulates critical thinking, supports lifelong learning, and sustains our legacy of excellence. Perelman School of Medicine University of Pennsylvania Diversity & Community Search this Site Connect With Us on Facebook Penn Medicine MD Admissions Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania Jordan Medical Education Center, 6th Floor 3400 Civic Center Blvd. Building 421 Philadelphia, PA 19104-5162 215-898-8001 admiss@pennmedicine.upenn.edu Campus Map © The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania | Site best viewed in a supported browser. | Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help | Privacy Policy | Site Design: DART Web Team.