Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu College of Professional & Liberal Studies Areas of Study Online Resources Community Engagement Connect Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Take Action Find the program that's right for you Become a part of CPLS Advising Appointments Contact Us Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Home College of Professional & Liberal Studies Resources Advising Academic Advising for CPLS Students Academic advising is a critical component of the undergraduate experience. It is the process of developing a meaningful educational plan that is compatible with the student's abilities, values, interests and career goals. In achieving an academic degree, both the student and the advisor must share in the responsibilities. Academic advisors help students clarify their values, interests and goals and provide accurate information about educational options, requirements, policies and procedures Advising Appointment Preparation It is University of Memphis policy that every student be advised before each registration period unless a student qualifies to be cleared for more than one semester by their advisor. Academic Advising is available in-person, by phone and web conference. Appointments can be set through the Navigate Student mobile app, online through Navigate, or call 901-678-2716. Students can prepare for their advising session by reviewing their course plan or approved baccalaureate contract as well as check the course schedule for the upcoming semester. To ensure successful advising, students are encouraged to read and keep all forms, contracts and materials provided by their advisor, complete all required forms and contracts by the designated deadlines, and monitor academic progress through various resources like UMdegree. Open Advising Sessions Due to high volume academic advising inquiries we will be hosting open advising dates to assist students with fall 2022 semester preparation. These sessions are limited to 10-15 minutes. Monday, August 15th – Thursday, August 18th 9:00am - 12:00pm; 1:00pm - 3:00pm Send an email to cpls@memphis.edu or call the main office at 901 678-2716 to be added to the open advising list. Please provide you U-number in your request. Please understand that open advising is available on a first come first serve basis. Once on the list, you will be contacted by the appropriate advisor. If you are changing your major (never been advised in our college) and/or have been readmitted, you will need to complete our Declaration of Major form so that you can be coded to the appropriate advisor in our college. Find your College of Professional & Liberal Studies Advisor Debbie Wyatt Child Development & Family Studies Child Life Specialist Early Care and Learning Early Intervention Specialist Pre School & Childcare Administration Non Profit Development & Administration Asian Studies & International Trade Alcohol & Drug Abuse Services Judaic Studies Disability Studies & Rehabilitation Services Religious Studies Urban Studies Legal Studies Emergency Management Technology Management Services Manufacturing Technology Management Professional/Liberal Studies - Baccalaureate Contract Program (campus students A-G) Dr. Danesha Winfrey Health Services Human Services Organizational Leadership (UofM Global online, campus students H-Z) Organizational Leadership (Fed Ex LiFE) Professional/Liberal Studies (Baccalaureate Contract Program, campus students H-Q) Mary Ewart Information Technology Organizational Leadership (TN eCampus online, campus students A-G) Interdisciplinary Studies (Baccalaureate Contract Program, TN eCampus students online) Professional/Liberal Studies (Baccalaureate Contract Program, campus students R-Z) Captain Warren Travis Commercial Aviation Dr. Dorothy Hale - Graduate Degrees Master of Professional Studies in Strategic Leadership Master of Professional Studies in Human Resources Leadership Master of Professional Studies in Training and Development Master of Arts in Liberal Studies Graduate Certificate in Aviation Human Factors Graduate Certificate in Liberal Studies Graduate Certificate in Strategic Leadership Dr. Colin Chapell - Graduate Degrees Doctor of Liberal Studies Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/12/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.