Skip to Main Content apply now ☰ Students Parents Alumni People WyoWeb Virtual Tour Give Events A-Z Directory Admissions UW Admissions First Year Transfer International Graduate Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Scholarships Academics Explore Colleges Academic Affairs Catalog/Schedules Degree Plans Graduate Education Honors College Majors/Degrees UW at a Distance Art Museum UW Libraries Athletics NCAA Athletics Athletics Traditions Cowboy Joe Club Athletics Tickets Campus Recreation Club Sports Rodeo Intramural Sports NOLS Research Research & Econ Dev Wyoming INBRE Neuroscience Ctr Tech Business Ctr Nat Parks Service Research Prod Ctr Supercomputing Water Research WY EPSCoR/IDeA Amer Heritage Ctr UW Life Campus Safety Campus Maps Transit & Parking Res Life & Dining Diversity Student Orgs Cultural Prgms Fine Arts Campus Activities University Store UW Pride About UW Points of Pride Alumni Association Geological Museum Foundation Cowboy Parents UWyo Mag Brand Center Visit Campus Download Viewbook Give to UW UW Home Campus Recreation Intramural Sports Campus Recreation Home Menu Current Operations Virtual Recreation and Wellness Facility Hours and Information Aquatics Club Sports Fitness Intramural Sports Overall Campus Champions Rules Fall Sports Winter Sports Spring Sports Outdoor Program Wellness Center Contact Us Campus Recreation Recreational Sports Office Half Acre Gym, Rm. 223 1000 E. University Ave. Laramie, WY 82071 Phone: (307) 766-4175 Fax: (307) 766-6720 Email: imsports@uwyo.edu Intramural Sports The Intramural Sports Program offers University of Wyoming students, faculty, staff, and spouses the opportunity to participate in a wide variety of individual, dual, team, and meet sports at various levels of competition. Intramural Sports strives to provide structured and organized programs while assisting in the fulfillment of such basic human needs as relaxation, socialization, achievement, and physical wellness while promoting teamwork and mutual respect. It is the goal of the Intramural Sports Program to provide the University of Wyoming community the opportunity to participate in the sport of their choice in a fun, friendly, and safe environment. All Intramural Sports Participants are encouraged to read the Intramural Sports Handbook. Scroll to the event that you are interested in playing. When you pick one of the leagues below, you'll be taken directly to that IMLeagues page. Contact Us Campus Recreation Recreational Sports Office Half Acre Gym, Rm. 223 1000 E. University Ave. Laramie, WY 82071 Phone: (307) 766-4175 Fax: (307) 766-6720 Email: imsports@uwyo.edu 1000 E. University Ave. Laramie, WY 82071 UW Operators (307) 766-1121 | Contact Us | Download Adobe Reader Accreditation | Virtual Tour | Emergency Preparedness | Employment at UW | Privacy Policy | Harassment & Discrimination | Accessibility