COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Latin American and Latinx Studies, Undergraduate Certificate Undergraduate CertificateLatin American and Latinx Studies All Programs Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Modern and Classical Languages and Literatures The undergraduate certificate in Latin American and Latinx Studies combines coursework from an array of disciplines to expand your understanding of regional culture, history, geography, language, communication, and the international issues of Latin America and the Latinx community in the United States. Learn how Latin American and Latinx studies is the right fit for you. Contact Coordinator Curriculum A basic knowledge of Spanish or Portuguese is a key component of the certificate. The 12-credit-hour certificate consists of significant Latin American or Latinx content. Students choose four courses from an array of disciplines, such as anthropology, art, geography, history, music performance, philosophy, political science, sociology and Spanish. Courses can often be applied to your general education requirements. No more than two courses should be taken in one department, to ensure an interdisciplinary academic experience. A maximum of six hours transfer credit is allowed, for example, from a study abroad program. View the curriculum How to enroll To add this certificate to your plan of study: Log into the myWSU portal, find the Student Tools box (center of the page) and click "Change my Major/Minor." Click continue (this will show your current major and minor). Click continue, then click on "Add a certificate" and choose your certificate program. Click continue and submit request. Go to the myWSU portal 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©