Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni COVID-19 Ongoing Operations Forward Arrow Ongoing Operations Living and Learning on Campus Working on Campus Visiting Campus Prospective and Admitted Students COVID-19 Research Back Arrow Back Medical Guidance Forward Arrow Medical Guidance If You're Sick If You Test Positive If You're Exposed Back Arrow Back Vaccine Information COVID-19 Testing Forward Arrow COVID-19 Testing COVID-19 Dashboard Wastewater Dashboard Testing Data For Research Back Arrow Back FAQs Current Updates Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close COVID-19 Ongoing Operations show submenu for Ongoing Operations Living and Learning on Campus Working on Campus Visiting Campus Prospective and Admitted Students COVID-19 Research Medical Guidance show submenu for Medical Guidance If You're Sick If You Test Positive If You're Exposed Vaccine Information COVID-19 Testing show submenu for COVID-19 Testing COVID-19 Dashboard Wastewater Dashboard Testing Data For Research FAQs Current Updates Clemson Home COVID-19 Current: Vaccine Information Vaccine Information The University strongly encourages anyone who wants and is able to receive a COVID-19 vaccine to do so. You can read more about the safety and effectiveness of COVID-19 vaccines from the CDC and DHEC. COVID-19 Voluntary Vaccine Upload Tool Vaccine Availability Clemson University is offering both initial and booster COVID-19 vaccines through Vax Clinic at Littlejohn Coliseum. Students, faculty, staff and family members who are six months past their second dose of Moderna or Pfizer, or two months past a single dose of Johnson & Johnson, are eligible to receive booster shots through the clinic. While walk-ins are accepted registering in advance is encouraged to avoid long lines. View the registration link here. NOTE: The best way to find updated hours of operation for the clinic is through the registration tool. Select ‘Book this Service’ on the bottom right of the page to set up your free vaccination. In addition, the following opportunities for vaccination are available to students: Redfern Health Center is offering the Moderna vaccine by appointment only; booster shots (third doses) are also available to immunocompromised students who have completed an eligibility questionnaire and are 28 or more days removed from their second dose of Moderna. Visit DHEC’s Vax Locator or Vaccine.gov to find a nearby site in the local community and throughout the state of South Carolina. The following opportunities for vaccination are available to faculty and staff: Visit DHEC’s Vax Locator or Vaccine.gov to find a nearby site in the local community and throughout the state of South Carolina. Clemson's Compliance With Federal Vaccine Requirements On Tuesday, Dec. 7, 2021, the United States District Court for the Southern District of Georgia, issued an injunction pausing the implementation of Executive Order 14042, which required COVID-19 vaccination, or medical or religious accommodation for certain (covered) employees.In light of this court order, and in continuation of Clemson’s ongoing compliance with all applicable federal and state laws and regulations, we have paused our compliance efforts for this requirement. The University continues to encourage vaccination for all who are able. We expect further action from the courts, and Clemson will communicate with any adjustments or updates as they become available. Historical Information On September 9, President Biden issued Executive Order 14042, “Ensuring Adequate COVID-19 Safety Protocols for Federal Contractors,” requiring federal contractors to comply with directives from the Safer Federal Workforce Task Force. On September 24, the Task Force issued guidance requiring covered employees involved in (or in contact with others involved in) federal contracts to be fully vaccinated, with limited legal exemptions. On November 1, the Federal Task Force issued updated guidance that requires employers to make a good faith effort to have covered employees vaccinated by December 8. On Nov. 4, the administration announced details for other vaccination policies, and moved the required compliance date to Jan. 4. Clemson University has been working to review all notifications to assess implications and provide guidance to employees. To comply with the executive order, Clemson University is requiring those individuals who are designated as covered employees under the mandate to be vaccinated by January 4 or to apply for medical or religious exemptions by December 8. Covered employees are those employees working on applicable federal contracts, those who perform support work (such as finance, human resources and legal) for such contracts, and those who work in the same locations as the first two groups. Employees who have already been vaccinated may submit or review previously submitted proof of vaccination information and their current vaccination status according to University records via the COVID-19 Vaccine Tool. If an employee has not yet been vaccinated, free vaccinations are available. The University has begun notifying affected groups of covered employees. Notifications include more detail about how to file an accommodation request. As we continue to monitor affected employees and locations to meet the federal requirements, we will update the Clemson community. General Federal Mandate Information Currently, there are 3 federal vaccine mandates applicable to various employers: Executive Order 14042 Applies to Clemson University and requires covered employees involved in (or in contact with others involved in) federal contracts to be fully vaccinated. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) Requirements Requirement that health care workers at facilities participating in Medicare and Medicaid are fully vaccinated This mandate may impact certain healthcare units within the University and is under review. OSHA Guidance Requirement for employers with 100 or more employees to ensure each of their workers is fully vaccinated or tests for COVID-19 on at least a weekly basis. This mandate will not impact Clemson until and unless adopted by South Carolina OSHA. All 3 mandates are directed at the workforce. At this time, financial aid and routine procurement contracts have not been part of the mandate. We continue to monitor contracts for the requirement and will provide updates if this changes. Additional Items for Awareness The original deadline for compliance for federal contractors moved from Dec. 8 to Jan. 4 to coincide with the updated deadlines for the OSHA and CMS requirements. South Carolina Governor Henry McMaster issued an executive order on Nov. 4 largely applicable to cabinet-level agencies. Clemson is not a cabinet-level agency and until directed to do so by a court of law, must comply with federal requirements, including the federal contractor mandate. The United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit issued a stay on Nov. 5 related to the OSHA requirements for private businesses. This ruling does not impact the federal contractor requirements. The U.S. District Court for the Western District of Louisiana has granted a preliminary injunction enjoining the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid (CMS) from enforcing its COVID-19 vaccine mandate nationwide. Louisiana et al. v. Becerra et al., No. 3:12-CV-03970 (W.D. La. Nov. 30, 2021). Religious or medical accommodation requests can be submitted online, and the link will be available in the coming days. Other frequently asked questions “ “There is substantial evidence COVID-19 vaccines are both safe and provide very strong protection against infection. The Clemson community has done a fantastic job on this front, with 87% of faculty and over 60% of students and staff uploading proof of vaccination. While these numbers are currently beating national averages, there is always room for improvement. I highly encourage all individuals who are able to utilize the free vaccination clinics offered by the University through Vax Clinic – the process is super quick and easy!” Dr. Lior Rennert Clemson’s lead public health strategist and a biostatistician Department of Public Health Sciences Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson