Georgetown University Open Search Form Who We Are The Whole Person Our Catholic & Jesuit Heritage Our History Student Stories Faculty Stories Alumni Stories Campus & City Living in DC Opportunities Getting Around Service & Action Campus Life Housing On-Campus Dining Clubs & Organizations Arts & Culture Community & Diversity Student Life Blog Wellness & Safety Sports & Fitness Health Center Safety & Emergency Preparedness Athletics External Link Academic Life Restless Inquiry Our Schools Areas of Study Study Abroad Research Centers and Programs Global Initiatives External Link Library System Admissions & Aid Undergraduate Admissions External Link Graduate Admissions Financial Aid External Link Commitment to Access News Events Giving Alumni Info For Students Faculty Staff/AAP Alumni Parents Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Content Skip to Footer News Events Giving Alumni Info For Students Faculty Staff/AAP Alumni Parents Georgetown University Who We Are The Whole Person Our Catholic & Jesuit Heritage Our History Student Stories Faculty Stories Alumni Stories Campus & City Living in DC Opportunities Getting Around Service & Action Campus Life Housing On-Campus Dining Clubs & Organizations Arts & Culture Community & Diversity Student Life Blog Wellness & Safety Sports & Fitness Health Center Safety & Emergency Preparedness Athletics External Link Academic Life Restless Inquiry Our Schools Areas of Study Study Abroad Research Centers and Programs Global Initiatives External Link Library System Admissions & Aid Undergraduate Admissions External Link Graduate Admissions Financial Aid External Link Commitment to Access Open Search Form Georgetown University Home Media Resources Media Resources Our media relations team is ready to connect reporters with faculty experts, provide additional background information to support media reporting on Georgetown and assist news crews with filming on campus and covering open-press events. For general inquiries, email media@georgetown.edu or reach an on-call media representative at (202) 687-4328. On-Campus Media Policy Georgetown’s campus is private property and written permission from the Office of Strategic Communications is required before external filming or photography can take place in exterior or interior spaces on-campus. The Office of Strategic Communications is available to assist news media with shooting stills, video and film on campus, including setting up locations and gaining access to restricted areas after permission has been granted. Generally, filming is not allowed in classrooms or student residences. The Office of Strategic Communications may be able to provide b-roll of iconic campus areas, such as Healy Hall and lawn, upon request. For news outlets seeking permission to shoot on university property, or to request access to University B-roll, please contact the Office of Strategic Communications at (202) 687-4328 or media@georgetown.edu. Georgetown encourages the use of Skype, Zoom or other remote video capture, for interviews with Georgetown experts. Additionally, the University has a self-service VideoLink studio on-campus available for use by faculty members. On-campus interviews and b-roll may be allowed for members of the University Community, following public health protocols and in coordination with the Office of Strategic Communications. To learn more about non-press filming on campus, please review our Georgetown Filming Policy and request form. All campus guests will be required to follow current Georgetown Public Health requirements. 9 Schools With locations in Washington, DC and Doha, Qatar 19K Students Across undergraduate, graduate and professional programs 246+ Majors and minors From Global Health to Theology, Business, Music and more Media Contacts Members of the media can direct inquiries to the Office of Strategic Communications or one of the staff members below. A media representative from the Office of Strategic Communications is on-call 24/7/365 and can be reached at media@georgetown.edu or (202) 687-4328. Georgetown University Office of Strategic Communications Meghan Dubyak, associate vice president for strategic communications (official spokesperson) Ruth McBain, senior director for strategic communications (official spokesperson) Jason Shevrin, media relations manager McDonough School of Business Samantha Krause, director of marketing and communications Georgetown College Lynn Delles, director of communications School of Foreign Service Ara Friedman, director of communications McCourt School of Public Policy Jason Shevrin, (university) media relations manager School of Continuing Studies Frances Bajet, senior director of communications and events Graduate School of Arts & Sciences Jessica Marr, communications and marketing manager Athletics Barbara Barnes, director, sports information Georgetown University Law Center mediarelations@law.georgetown.edu Georgetown University Medical Center | School of Medicine | School of Nursing & Health Studies Karen Teber, director of media relations Georgetown University in Qatar Moamer Qazafi, director of communications Tel: +974 4457-8392 Waleed Khan, marketing and media manager Tel: +974 4457-8522 Quick Links Press Advisories/Releases Key Facts Broadcast Studio The Marineau Media Center 1 of 1 Next Slide Prvious Slide 1 of 1 Next Slide Previous Slide The Marineau Media Center VideoLink and Comrex Our on-campus studio is available for live or pre-taped TV and radio interviews and is equipped with the VideoLink ReadyCam™ system and the Comrex BRIC-Link II. Book a Studio Interview Complete our booking form or call (202) 687-4328 to arrange an interview with a faculty expert in the studio. Marineau Media Center Book Now Previous Slide Next Slide 1 of 1 Previous Slide Next Slide Photo Gallery Looking for images of Georgetown’s historic campus, major events, classrooms or research outposts? Our photo database is searchable to help you find the perfect shot. Follow us on Instagram to see more from the Georgetown community. Explore Georgetown in Photos Contact Us Directory Visit Maps About Academic Calendar Careers Media Resources FacebookFacebook TwitterTwitter InstagramInstagram LinkedInLinkedIn YouTubeYouTube Georgetown University 37th and O Streets, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20057 P. 202-687-0100 Georgetown University Privacy Policy Copyright Web Accessibility Notice of Non-Discrimination © 2022 Georgetown University Search Georgetown Search Close the Search Dialog