Skip to main content Restrict my search to Police Department Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search University of Houston Police Department About UHPD General Information History of UHPD UHPD Strategic Vision Become a Police Officer Clery Campus Security Authority Am I a CSA? My Responsibility Get More Info Make a Report FAQs APPLY ONLINE Records & Reports Report a Crime Daily Crime Log Annual Security and Fire Safety Report File a Complaint Give a Compliment Hazard Report Safety & Security Staying Safe Crime Prevention Crime Prevention Services How You Can Prevent Crime Crime Prevention Tips Operation ID Vehicle Accidents Duty to Give Info and Render Aid Crash Involving Damage to a Vehicle Striking an Unattended Vehicle Striking a Fixture or Landscaping Immediate Reporting Police Investigation Resources Sensitive Crimes Violent Incidents Sexual Assault Sex Offender Registry Domestic Violence Hate Crimes Harassment Identity Theft Active Shooter Active Shooter Defined Avoid Lockdown & Deny Alert & Notify Defend & Counter Police Intervention Resources Bomb Threats Explosions Shelter In Place Office Security Community Services Security Escort Blue Light Emergency Phones Camera Network Lost and Found Bike Registration Special Events Money Transfers Policies & Training Campus Carry Policy FAQs Secure Storage Process Senate Bill 4 Racial Profiling Police In-Service Training Civil Protests Contact UHPD UH Home Police Department Safety & Security Staying Safe Police Department About UHPD Records and Reports Safety & Security Security Alerts Staying Safe Crime Prevention Vehicle Accidents Sensitive Crimes Active Shooter Bomb Threats Explosions Shelter in Place Office Security Community Services Policies & Training Contact UHPD Contact UHPD 4051 Wheeler Ave. Houston, TX 77204-6191 (713) 743-3333 or 911 from a campus phone non-emergency email police@uh.edu Your Role in Staying Safe While UHPD does everything we can to ensure that the campus is safe and secure, it is you who plays the most important role in your own safety. Below are a few tips that will help you to take ownership of your personal safety. If you have any questions on topics that you do not see covered here, or you would like to schedule a crime prevention presentation for your office or group, please contact our crime prevention officer. PERSONAL SAFETY—BE PREPARED By taking a few simple precautions, you can reduce the risk to yourself and also discourage those who commit crimes. Always be alert and aware of the people around you. Educate yourself concerning prevention tactics. Be aware and avoid of locations and situations which would make you appear vulnerable to crime. Learn the locations of the blue light phones in the areas you frequent. These phones are directly linked to UHPD. Never do anything or go anywhere where you do not feel safe! You intuition is your best guide of what may cause you harm. Listen to it. Walk on well-lit paths. Take the most traveled route to and from classes. Walk with others if possible, especially at night, or take advantage of our Security Escort Program. Go easy on the alcohol. Approximately 1700 students die from alcohol-related injuries each year. Alcohol often plays a role in acquaintance and date rape. Drinking too much may impair your judgment and make you less aware of your surroundings. STREET PRECAUTIONS Be alert to your surroundings and the people around you—especially if you are alone or it is dark. Whenever possible, travel with a friend. Stay in well-lighted areas as much as possible. Walk close to the curb. Avoid doorways, bushes and alleys where someone could hide. Walk confidently at a steady pace. Make eye contact with people when walking. Do not respond to conversation from strangers on the street—continue walking. If you carry a purse, bag or otter items of value, hold it close to your body; if a wallet, keep it in a front pocket. Don't hold your phone in your hand while you walk, put in a pocket or bag where it isn't visible. Do not use or wear anything that will impede your vision or hearing (i.e. earbuds). CAR SAFETY Always lock your car doors after entering or leaving your vehicle. Park in well-lighted areas. Have your car keys in your hand so you don't have to linger before entering your car. Check the interior of your vehicle for intruders before entering your car. If you think you are being followed, drive to a public place or a police station. If your car breaks down, open the hood and call for roadside assistance. If someone stops to help, stay in your locked car and ask them to call the police or a tow truck service. Don't stop to aid motorists by the side of the road. Make a phone call requesting help for them. WHILE WAITING FOR A BUS Be alert to your surroundings and the people around you. Try to avoid isolated bus stops. Keep your possessions on your lap at bus stops, or hidden from sight. Don't open your purse or wallet while boarding the bus—have your pass or money already in your hand. Keep jewelry out of sight; don't flash jewelry; turn rings around so the stones don't show. ON BOARD BUSES During off hours, ride as near to the bus operator as possible. If someone bothers you or makes you feel uncomfortable, change seats. Inform the driver of the situation. Carry your wallet inside your coat, or in a front pocket. Keep your belongings in front of you and hold close to your body with both hands. Be alert to pickpocketers on crowded buses; check your purse or wallet if someone is jostling, crowding or pushing you. OFFICE SECURITY Never leave your purse or wallet in plain view or in common accessible areas. Don't leave cash or valuables at the office. If you work alone or after business hours, keep the office door locked. If you work late, try to find another worker to walk out with you, or use the Security Escort Program. Be alert for pickpocketers on crowded elevators. Report all suspicious persons and activities to the proper authorities. Be aware of escape routes for emergencies and post the police and fire department numbers near telephones. UHPD recommends that all students, faculty, and staff members take a moment and enter emergency contact information in their cell phone address book/contacts under the acronym ICE (In Case of Emergency). This would assist public safety officials in contacting the person to be called in the event of an emergency if you are ever discovered unconscious or incapacitated and unable to communicate. You should enter at least two ICE contacts with first name and relationship in your address book/contacts list. For example, your ICE entries could be: ICE - Sondra (mom) and ICE - John (brother). These entries could also be used to assist in returning your cell phone in the event that it is lost or stolen. Entering these contacts into your cell phone should not replace the carrying of other photo identification (UH ID or license) at all times. You should also affix emergency contact information to these forms of identification. 4051 Wheeler Ave. Houston, TX 77204-6191 UH Emergency Information Call UHPD: 713-743-3333 Campus Map For Emergencies Dial 911 from a campus phone Non-Emergency email: police@uh.edu Security Escorts Lost and Found Bicycle Registration ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies