Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Theater-Acting MFA You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Theater-Acting MFA Apply Request More Info Theater-Acting MFA Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Productions & Facilities Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Fine Arts in Acting Refine your on-screen and stage approach with the Master of Fine Arts in Acting in Temple’s School of Theater, Film and Media Arts. This 60-credit, full-time master’s degree is specifically tailored for professional theater actors who aspire to develop and enhance their artistic growth. If you intend to pursue a career in education, you’ll learn to effectively articulate the creative process to your future students. The intimate program provides classical training based on the conservatory model. Many graduates of the Acting MFA have pursued careers in film and television, as well as on and off Broadway. You’ll learn from faculty members who are committed to your personal development as an actor and the evolution of American theater and film. Classes & Curriculum Some of the core courses will be Acting for the Camera, Alexander, Dance for the Actor, Feldenkrais, Le Coq, Michael Chekhov Technique, Shakespeare, Speech for the Actor, Teaching Higher Education and Vocal Production. Learn about about courses for the MFA in Theater-Acting. Related Graduate Degrees Musical Theater Collaboration MFA Musical Theater Studies MA Theater-Design MFA Theater-Directing MFA Theater-Playwriting MFA Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Fine Arts offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,078.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,441.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors Students in the Theater Department’s graduate program are advised by their area head. All students are reviewed each semester by their mentors to discuss progress and registrations. The department administrators register all graduate students for their courses. Program Contact Lynne Innerst, associate professor in the Theater Department, is the advisor and program contact for the Theater-Acting MFA program. Phone: 215-204-8418 Email: lynne.innerst@temple.edu Accreditation The Theater Department is accredited by the National Association of Schools of Theatre as well as a member of the University Resident Theatre Association. Concentrations You can focus on Theater-Acting or you can take one of the following concentrations. Acting CA-THAC-MFA Additional Program Information Visit School Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Theater-Acting MFA Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Productions & Facilities Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info