Menu Close Menu Skip to content Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters A to Z index Search for: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Email People Departments Calendar Careers my.harvard Giving About Faculty & Research Admissions & Aid Academics Executive/Continuing Ed News News > News > In the News > 2022 > Using patient safety as tool to improve health inequalities News Menu Search for: News Home Press Releases 2020 Releases 2019 Releases 2018 Releases 2017 Releases 2016 Releases 2015 Releases 2014 Releases 2013 Releases 2012 Releases 2011 Releases Search the press releases archive Features In the News Multimedia 2021 Multimedia 2020 Multimedia 2019 Multimedia 2018 Multimedia 2017 Multimedia 2016 Multimedia 2015 Multimedia 2014 Multimedia 2013 Multimedia 2012 Multimedia HPH Magazine Faculty Stories Faculty News, Notes, and Accolades Student Stories Student News, Notes, and Accolades Alumni Stories Explore Research by Topic Office of Communications Make a Gift Using patient safety as tool to improve health inequalities Viewing health inequalities through the lens of patient safety could help health care professionals and organizations define concrete steps to improve the care and outcomes of people in marginalized ethnic populations, according to an analysis co-authored by Cian Wade, an MPH candidate at Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health. Patient safety is the science and practice of minimizing harm and error experienced by patients. Patient safety incidents are potentially extremely harmful and preventable events, and include postoperative complications, like infections or deep vein thrombosis; adverse events related to medications, such as administering a medication to the wrong patient or the failure to check allergy status; and “never events,” like performing surgery on the wrong site or leaving a foreign object in a patient after a procedure. In the analysis, published March 29, 2022 in the BMJ, Wade and his co-authors focused on the outcomes of patients from black, Hispanic, and Asian ethnic backgrounds in high-income countries with a majority white population. They noted that these groups more frequently experience some types of patient safety incidents, and that these populations are more likely to be harmed during their interactions with health care systems because of “interpersonal and structural factors,” including ineffective communication during clinical care, implicit biases among health care providers, and medical educational and clinical treatment approaches designed around white patient populations. The authors wrote, “Framing worsened health inequalities as a product of lapses in patient safety identifies lines of responsibility and enables health care providers to tap into lessons from decades of improvement in patient safety to highlight tangible actions to mitigate them.” Read the BMJ analysis: Action on patient safety can reduce health inequalities Share this:FacebookTwitterLinkedInReddit Subscribe The COVID-19 Update Our researchers are on the front lines of the global response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Sign up here to receive our weekly newsletter highlighting their efforts. Join mailing list Additional newsletters and mailing lists Related Articles health disparities health systems surgery Racism, sexism, social class, and health—30 years ago and today Tackling disparities and stigma around obesity and mental health care for minority populations Shock to the system More on this topic Student’s journey to U.S. to save daughter sparks a career in public health Getting to know … Brandon Alexander Anthony, MPH ’22 Both rich and poor countries saw essential health services decline during COVID More on this topic Mental health benefits associated with gender-affirming surgery WHO’s life-saving surgical checklist poorly adopted in low-income countries Was Neil Armstrong’s death due to a medical error? More on this topic Explore HSPH research by topic Harvard Chan School News on Twitter In the wake of a May 24 mass shooting at a Uvalde, Texas, elementary school that left 19 students and two teachers… https://t.co/x8GHo0fMZS RT @dengdiit: This week,I had the honor and responsibility of receiving a master’s degree in public health with concentration in health pol… RT @Harvard: “Don’t let your generation be defined by the pandemic. Let it be defined by public service,” said Attorney General Merrick Gar… RT @HarvardCCHANGE: Looking for ways to take action on #climate? The Climate Health Organizing Fellowship trains health professionals to u… RT @HarvardCCHANGE: Creativity is turning coal mines, landfills, and toxic waters into opportunities for #CleanEnergy. Your lights yearn to… RT @HarvardCenterHH: What is the relationship between #technology and #happiness? This @Forbes article offers potential considerations, wit… Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters About Key Facts Renaming the School Office of the Dean Location and Facilities Administrative Offices Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty and Researcher Directory Academic Departments, Divisions and Centers International Research Postdoctoral Research Fellows Office of Faculty Affairs Faculty Searches Office of Diversity and Inclusion Admissions & Aid Why Harvard Chan Degree Programs Non-Degree Programs Financial Aid Student Experience Career Advancement Apply Academics Academic Departments Divisions Research Centers Flagship Initiatives International Research Research Administration and Support Degree Programs Fellowships and Residencies Summer Programs Continuing Professional Education Interdisciplinary Concentrations Academic Calendar Harvard Chan Viewbook Executive/Continuing Ed Program Offerings Custom Programs Request Information News and Resources About ECPE Contact News Featured News Press Releases Student Stories In the News Newsletters HPH Magazine Why Public Health? Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College