Prospective StudentsJSG CommunityAlumni & GivingRecruiters & Companies Facebook Twitter YouTube RSS News Feed About Mission & Vision Leadership Departments & Research Units Holland Family Student Center Offices Career Services Business Services Office Development and Alumni Relations Office of Communications Information Technology Services Office of Broader Impacts of Geoscience Research (BIGR) Contacts Directions & Maps Diversity and Inclusion Quick Facts History Faculty Through Time, In Memoriam Hall of Distinction JSG Workplace Issues Research Research Themes Climate & the Environment Energy Geosciences Marine Geosciences Planetary Sciences & Geobiology Solid Earth & Tectonic Processes Surface & Hydrologic Processes Research Disciplines Programs & Centers Laboratories & Facilities Industry Collaborations Find an Expert Education Undergraduate Advising Admissions Internal Transfers Degrees Offered Jackson Scholars Program Honors Program Financial Support Courses & Catalogs Field Experiences Why Geosciences? TNT 2021 Graduate Advising Admissions Degrees Offered EER Graduate Program Find a Supervisor Financial Support Courses & Catalogs External Grants & Scholarships Graduate Studies Committee Advising & Program Coordination Rankings Student Research Opportunities Student Organizations Writer-in-Residence Services Career Center Geology Library Holland Family Student Center People Distinguished Postdoctoral Fellows Program Find an Expert Scientist Profiles Employment Opportunities Visiting Assistant Professors of Practice in Chemical or Physical Hydrogeology Visiting Assistant Professors of Practice in Structural Geology/Tectonics JSG Community Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Faculty & Research Scientists Postdocs Staff Tuition Rebates for Undergraduates Faculty Through Time, In Memoriam Outreach For K-12 Students For K-12 Teachers For Everyone People News Media Releases Dean’s Desk Blogs Texas Geosciences Science Y’all In the News Scientist Profiles Newsletter 2015 Newsletter 2014 Newsletter PDF Archive Media Contacts Events DeFord Lecture Series Master’s Saturday Heads/Chairs on the Future of Undergraduate Geoscience Education Workshop Summit Materials, PowerPoints and Webcast Archive Background Reading Agenda Graduation Distinguished Lectures Association Meetings GSA 2014 SEG 2012 GSA 2012 2011 Meetings DGS Vehicle Reservation Calendar Submit an Event Skip to main content Close Search Bar Prospective StudentsJSG CommunityAlumni & GivingRecruiters & Companies SearchMake a Gift About Mission & Vision Leadership Departments & Units Offices Contacts Diversity and Inclusion JSG Workplace Issues Research Research Themes Programs & Centers Laboratories & Facilities Industry Collaborations Find an Expert Education Undergraduate Graduate Advising Rankings Student Research Opportunities Student Organizations Writer-in-Residence Services People JSG Directory Find an Expert Scientist Profiles Distinguished Postdoctoral Fellows Program Employment Opportunities Outreach For K-12 Students For K-12 Teachers For Everyone People News Media Releases Dean’s Office Blogs In the News Newsletter Media Contacts Events Events Calendar Lectures & Seminars Association Meetings Summits JSG Graduation Menu Home Outreach For Everyone For Everyone Public Events & Activities Videos/Virtual Expeditions Resources GeoEd Research & Symposia Hot Science – Cool Talks Hot Science – Cool Talks provides front row seats to world class science by bringing leading science, technology, engineering and math professionals and their research to the community! Non-vertebrate Paleontology Exhibits Many of the Non-vertebrate Paleontology Lab specimens are on public exhibit at the Jackson School of Geosciences, Texas Memorial Museum, The Witte Museum in San Antonio, the Corpus Christi Museum and many other special exhibits. Texas Earth Science Week Earth Science Week (ESW) is a nationwide program designed to promote understanding and appreciation of the value of Earth Science research and its applications and relevance to our daily lives. It is an annual celebration sponsored by the American Geosciences Institute. In support of ESW, the Bureau of Economic Geology supports statewide ESW efforts and hosts an annual Earth Science Week Career Day in Austin. Switch Energy Alliance SEA’s global video- and web-based approach engages students and general viewers in a positive conversation to work collaboratively on energy challenges. SEA reaches millions of people of all ages where they live and learn: online, in classrooms, in professional training, and in museums. Virtual Cave Expeditions There is a wealth of extensive knowledge about central Texas caves, karst, and the Edwards Aquifer! Download ESI’s powerpoint virtual tours of Inner Space Cavern and Natural Bridge Caverns here! Hot Science – Cool Talks Videos The Environmental Science Institute has published videos to highlight its outreach programs. All About Water The Bureau of Economic Geology provides resources to assist teachers and students in understanding our essential water resources, including groundwater/surface water interactions and the impact of human activity on water systems. Tour of an ICECAP survey aircraft at Concordia Station Dr. Duncan Young and Gregory Ng provide a 360˚ tour of the ICECAP survey aircraft to Dr. Catherine Ritz and an Italian scientist at Concordia Station, while Dr. Carly Tozer (University of Tasmania) and Enrica Quartini take reference gravity measurements behind the aircraft. BEG Bookstore We sell books, maps, digital media, and reports of research conducted by Bureau staff from 1915 to the present, in book or digital format. We also sell rock kits, cross sections, and posters, plus selected Gulf Coast Association of Geological Societies (GCAGS) and GCS-SEPM products. The Type and Figured Collection Type specimens form the basis for the published type description of a new species. They display the characteristics that are regarded as different enough from closely related species to justify the creation of a new species. They must be available for reference and study by other scientists. No scientist should describe a new type species without first verifying that the new material is distinct from closely related species. This collection is the most important in the Non-vertebrate Paleontology Lab (NPL) and numbers about 22,000 specimens. Virtual Rock Kit View the Bureau’s rock kit online—and purchase it through the Bureau Store. Each kit includes eight specimens that are approximately ½ inch in diameter. A card with a description of each rock or mineral is also included in the kit. Sketchfab NPL Collections View and manipulate 3D scans from the Non-vertebrate Paleontology Lab. The Search for Devil’s Eye Non-vertebrate Paleontology Lab has created a resource to follow a historic field trip online and also available as a mobile app. Fossil Roulette Interactive Modules A project by the Non-vertebrate Paleontology Lab, brings fossil samples from the collections into the mobile electronic world. Each image is served with explanatory text. Now available on the tumblr microblogging platform. Caves: A Window into the Aquifer The Edwards Aquifer of central Texas is a critical resource that provides drinking water and recreation for residents. Local caves in the aquifer are a common fieldtrip destination for K-12 classes. We augment teaching materials and add creative, inquiry-based activities by utilizing the UT faculty’s long-term cave and karst research projects. There is a wealth of extensive knowledge about central Texas caves, karst, and the Edwards Aquifer! Specimen Identifications Non-vertebrate Paleontology Lab provides specimen identification at several events during the year, both on and off the UT campus, and answer email queries from anywhere. Contact NPL for more information. Switch Energy Alliance SEA’s global video- and web-based approach engages students and general viewers in a positive conversation to work collaboratively on energy challenges. SEA reaches millions of people of all ages where they live and learn: online, in classrooms, in professional training, and in museums. Tour of an ICECAP survey aircraft at Concordia Station Dr. Duncan Young and Gregory Ng provide a 360˚ tour of the ICECAP survey aircraft to Dr. Catherine Ritz and an Italian scientist at Concordia Station, while Dr. Carly Tozer (University of Tasmania) and Enrica Quartini take reference gravity measurements behind the aircraft. Future of Undergraduate Geoscience Education Summit Professor Sharon Mosher, the school’s former dean, is leading the NSF-sponsored effort to reshape geosciences education across the country. EarthConnections (NSF) An NSF INCLUDES project that is creating pathways in three regional pilots—Atlanta, GA; San Bernardino, CA; and Oklahoma—to catalyze systemic change in geoscience and geoscience education. Our EarthConnections National Alliance has created a 3-minute video presentation outlining our project, including the Oklahoma Tribal Nations Regional Alliance. This video was presented, along with other projects supported by NSF INCLUDES funding at the 2017 NSF INCLUDES: Envisioning Impact Video Showcase (March 20th-27th) at http://includes2017.videohall.com. The Oklahoma Alliance focuses on the unprecedented increase in earthquakes in the state. Understanding the relationship of these earthquakes to energy industry practices, and the resulting implications for energy production and energy-related jobs in Oklahoma, is an important issue for all Oklahoma residents, but especially American Indians in the region, given their close association with the land and their sovereign control of natural resources and land use within their reservation boundaries. We invite you to view our video and contact Kathy Ellins (kellins@jsg.utexas.edu) to: Suggest how your work, expertise and experience might intersect with the goals of the Oklahoma Tribal Nations Regional Alliance; Provide your questions, comments and constructive feedback; and join the conversation about the latest research in broadening participation in STEM education. CARIUSA 2017 (U.S. Dept. of State) Brings together Jamaican and U.S. participants to build strategic partnerships to promote scholarly exchange between Jamaica and U.S. academic institutions and geoscience organizations to train scientists and engineers. The Green Tech High School Academy: A Model Program of Combined Geoscience Field Learning, Classroom Instruction and Career preparation The NSF GeoPaths-IMPACT Green Tech Geoscience Project examines the interplay between field learning, rigorous academic preparation and career development activities in order to establish the template for an effective high school to college bridging program. The project includes a training program for pre-service teachers to prepare them to integrate geoscience field trips into their teaching. Project partners are the Jackson School of Geosciences (JSG) at UT Austin, Michigan State University, North Carolina State University, Akins High School, and DrillingInfo. At the end of the three-year project we hope to leave in place systemic and sustainable approaches that can increase access to geoscience education and research opportunities and open doors to education and geoscience career pathways that we hope will be a model for other schools. Outreach For K-12 Students For K-12 Teachers For Everyone People Events SEP 01 DeFord Lecture | TBD 4:00 PM - 5:00 PM TBD Mailing Address Jackson School of Geosciences 2305 Speedway Stop C1160 Austin, TX 78712-1692 Phone (512) 471-6048 Support JSG Departments & Units Department of Geological Sciences Bureau of Economic Geology Institute for Geophysics Administration & Offices College Leadership Career Services Business Services Development and Alumni Relations Office of Communications Information Technology Office Helpful Links UT Austin UT Direct Emergency Information IT Help JSG Directory JSG Profiles Contact Us Facebook Twitter YouTube RSS News Feed © 2022 Jackson School of Geosciences, The University of Texas at Austin Web Privacy | Web Accessibility Policy | Adobe Reader