Skip to main content Harvard University 1 site notification Latest COVID Information Search Search Quick Links Find a Person A to Z Index Menu Academics Academics Explore all programs Browse all of our undergraduate concentrations, graduate degrees, and professional certificates. Harvard Schools Academics Visit each School for information on admissions and financial aid. Explore more Harvard College Harvard Business School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Harvard Divinity School Harvard Faculty of Arts and Sciences Harvard Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Harvard Graduate School of Design Harvard Graduate School of Education Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences Harvard Kennedy School Harvard Law School Harvard Medical School Harvard Radcliffe Institute Harvard School of Dental Medicine Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Professional and lifelong learning Free online courses More about academics at Harvard Campus Campus Harvard's Campus Get tickets to our next game, hours and locations for our libraries and museums, and information about your next career move. Libraries Campus Explore our libraries Arnold Arboretum Horticultural Library Baker Library and Special Collections Biblioteca Berenson Botany Libraries Cabot Science Library Countway Library Dumbarton Oaks Research Library Ernst Mayr Library Fine Arts Library Frances Loeb Library Fung Library Gutman Library Harvard Divinity School Library Harvard Film Archive Harvard Law School Library Harvard Map Collection Harvard University Archives Harvard-Yenching Library HKS Library and Knowledge Services Houghton Library Lamont Library Loeb Music Library Robbins Library of Philosophy Schlesinger Library on the History of Women in America Tozzer Library Widener Library Wolbach Library Woodberry Poetry Room Museums Campus Explore our museums The Arnold Arboretum Carpenter Center for the Visual Arts Collection of Historical Scientific Instruments Graduate School of Design Exhibitions Harvard Art Museums Harvard Forest Harvard Museum of Natural History The Harvard Museum of the Ancient Near East Harvard Museums of Science and Culture Harvard University Herbaria Mineralogical and Geological Museum Museum of Comparative Zoology The Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology Warren Anatomical Museum Athletics Work at Harvard Events Commencement Campus Harvard Commencement for the Class of 2022 Harvard Commencement for the Classes of 2020 & 2021 In Focus In Focus Explore and understand the world with Harvard In Focus is a curated examination of Harvard's research, scholarly work, and community. Recent topics include: Commencement 2022 In Focus Celebrating the Graduates Highlighting the accomplishments and celebrating the bright futures of Harvard’s most recent grads Meet this year's graduates What's inside? The Harvard Gazette's coverage of this year's Commencement Explore each School's events Mental Health In Focus Mental Health Awareness Month To commemorate Mental Health Awareness Month, the Harvard community is exploring how we cope with, manage, and understand mental health and how it impacts our lives. View the feature What's inside? Is a mobile app as good as a therapist? Bipolar breakthrough Climate Solutions In Focus Climate Solutions Faculty and students from across the Harvard community are working on ways to address climate change and its effects. Explore these adaptations What's inside? Zero-waste architecture Better batteries inspired by a BLT Explore the In Focus archives Visit Visit Visit Harvard Ideas and assistance for your trip to our campus. Tours Maps and Directions About About About Harvard Information on how Harvard is structured, explore our long history, and discover our extended community. History of Harvard About History of Harvard Harvard is perhaps best-known because of its enduring history of innovation in education. But even die-hard Harvard buffs are not likely to know all of these Harvard firsts and historical snippets. Learn more History timeline Nobel Laureates Honorary Degrees Harvard Shields Leadership and Governance About Learn about our Leadership Officers and Deans Harvard Corporation Board of Overseers University Professorships Diversity and Inclusion Endowment Harvard in the Community Harvard in the World News News The Harvard Gazette Official news from Harvard University about science, medicine, art, campus life, University issues, and broader national and global concerns. Trending News Stories News Read more news Jacinda Ardern’s forceful reminder: Democracies can die New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern delivers warning on erosion of trust in her Commencement address, urging social media reforms and calling on individuals to reject tribalism. Harvard awards seven honorary degrees During today’s Commencement ceremony in Tercentenary Theatre, Harvard will recognize seven with an honorary degree. Humans hot, sweaty, natural-born runners Hairless, clawless, and largely weaponless, ancient humans used the unlikely combination of sweatiness and relentlessness to gain the upper hand over their faster, stronger, generally more dangerous animal prey, Harvard Anthropology Professor Daniel Lieberman said Thursday (April 12). Pursuit of joy starts with truth, Wu tells graduates Class Day speaker Michelle Wu ’07, J.D. ’12, urged the class of 2022 to hold fast to Harvard’s founding motto “veritas,” or truth. Sign up for the Daily Gazette Navigation Quick Links A to Z Index Find a Person Events Media Relations Alumni Give Now Harvard University Close Climate Solutions In Focus Climate Solutions Climate Solutions Mental Health Celebrating the Class of ’22 Climate Solutions Faculty and students from across the Harvard community are working on ways to address climate change and its effects. Teaching the next generation How can we empower young children in the face of climate change? Learn more from the Harvard Graduate School of Education Solutions from the past Explore the Graduate School of Design’s overview of the first-ever compendium of Indigenous technologies, which could provide a powerful toolkit for climate-resilient design. Learn more about Indigenous technologies Solutions on the brink Harvard researchers are applying biological principles and their expertise across a range of disciplines to reduce pollution, water contamination, waste, and greenhouse gas emissions. Explore some of the Wyss Institute’s projects Solutions for the future Explore the work of Harvard Business School alumni who are working to make tomorrow’s cities more sustainable across five key areas: mobility, power, construction, water, and waste. Learn more about the future of cities Better air conditioners A new technology uses up to 75% less energy than traditional air conditioners, and relies on water rather than environment-damaging refrigerants. Learn how cool the green future will be Food from cyanobacteria Read more about Wyss Institute researcher Max Schubert’s work Biodegradable products from microbes Read more about the Wyss Institute’s Circe team Artificial reefs fight climate change and food insecurity Read more from the Harvard Public Health magazine Want to keep up on climate research? Sign up for the Harvard Chan’s School’s “Climate Optimist” newsletter Explore Harvard Environmental Economics Program’s “Environmental Insights” podcast Browse Harvard Chan C-CHANGE and Pique Action’s curated list of 16 climate creators to watch in 2022 Dive into Harvard Business School’s Climate Stories Visit the Harvard Museum of Natural History’s Climate Change exhibit Carbon capture Researchers at Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences outline an affordable approach for taking excess carbon dioxide out of the atmosphere to help reduce the rising temperatures of climate change. Read more on The Harvard Gazette Zero-waste architecture Built for a park with very little shade, CloudHouse’s design was informed by one central constraint: avoiding material waste. Read more from the School of Design Respite from the heat and rain Inexpensive, recyclable plastic Easy to fabricate, transport, and assemble The BLT battery will revolutionize electric cars Long-lasting, quick-charging batteries are essential to the electric vehicle market, but today’s lithium-ion batteries fall short of what’s needed—they’re too heavy, too expensive, and take too long to charge. Enter the BLT battery. Learn more about this battery A planetary health diet Harvard Chan School’s Walter Willett and the EAT-Lancet Commission on Food, Planet, Health developed the world’s first scientific targets for a planetary health diet. The plant-forward diet emphasizes whole grains and plant-based proteins. Learn more about this diet Why we’re adapting Rising temperatures “Every year since 2013 has been warmer than it was in 2013 and every year prior in a record that dates back to 1880," says Peter Huybers of the Harvard John. A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences. Read more on The Harvard Gazette Rising health concerns When climate shocks occur, frontline health clinics are a safety net to people whose health is most at risk. Our work puts these clinics—and their patients—at the center of climate resilience. Read more about the clinics Rising security risks “In my judgment, climate change is the biggest non-state-actor threat there is, and we have a lot of planning to do,” says former U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry, now the special presidential envoy for climate change. Read more on The Harvard Gazette Rising tides “Any intelligent coastal city has to be thinking about how are we going to protect ourselves against what we know is baked in at this point," says Elizabeth Kolbert, a New Yorker staff writer and Pulitzer Prize-winning author. Read more on The Harvard Gazette Rising inequality Indigenous communities have a long history of living with and learning from the environment, but the extraction and transportation of fossil fuels near their communities, along with unjust policies, have put their health and the climate at risk and impacted tribal sovereignty. Learn more in this talk from C-Change Rising carbon dioxide "In 2020, about 80% of the energy used by civilization worldwide still comes from these fossil fuels. It will take decades to free ourselves from them," says Professor of Environmental Policy John P. Holdren. Read more on The Harvard Gazette Rising wildfires "What we can say is that the increase in fire activity in the West over the last 30 years is very likely tied to warmer temperatures under climate change, which has led to drier fuel," says Loretta Mickley, senior research fellow in chemistry-climate interactions at the Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences. Read more on The Harvard Gazette Solutions from our campus 2.5 megawatts of onsite solar energy installations 18 vegetated green roofs across campus 30% of Harvard’s bus fleet is electric Building a sustainable future Our new Science and Engineering Complex (SEC) has been certified by two international building certification programs as one of the healthiest, most sustainable, and energy-efficient laboratories in the world. Learn more about this revolutionary building Climate Change Solutions Fund Established in 2014, this Harvard fund encourages multidisciplinary research around climate change. Learn more from the Office of the Vice Provost for Research Solid-state batteries, climate prediction models, and linear urban forests Explore all the 2021 winners Removing atmospheric CO2, data science for climate change, and thermoelectric materials Explore all the 2020 winners Solar-driven biofertilization, decentralized renewable energy, and thermal energy storage Explore all the 2019 winners Novel CO2 capture, climate adaptation trust fund, and a web-based tool to identify vulnerable populations Explore all the 2018 winners A bionic leaf, sustainable diets, policy for deep decarbonization Explore all the 2017 winners Cheaper solar cells, solar geoengineering, effects of new hydroelectric sites Explore all the 2016 winners Adaptations for extreme heat, reducing food waste, solar-to-fuels conversion Explore all the 2015 winners Security & Brand Report Copyright Infringement Report Security Issue Trademark Notice Website Accessibility Digital Accessibility Privacy Statement Get In Touch Contact Harvard Maps & Directions Jobs © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube 0:00 0:00