Skip to Main Content Brown University Military-Affiliated Students Secondary Navigation Navigation Events News Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Contact Staff Mission & History ROTC & Commissioning Programs Air Force ROTC Army ROTC Navy ROTC Student Veterans New Students Academics & Life at Brown Financial Aid Peer Advisors Brown University Student Veterans Society Brown Veterans Network Alumni Veterans Resources for Faculty Search Military-Affiliated Students Office of Military-Affiliated Students Brown is committed to building a community that actively supports veterans who are beginning, returning to, or advancing their pursuit of higher education. Office of Military-Affiliated Students Brown is committed to building a community that actively supports veterans who are beginning, returning to, or advancing their pursuit of higher education. The Office of Military-Affiliated Students (OMAS) assists student veterans, ROTC cadets, and other military-affiliated students in making successful transitions into and out of the Brown community. Considering Applying to Brown? Although the transition from the military to college life can be daunting and challenging, Brown is committed to building a community that actively supports veterans who are beginning, returning to, or advancing their pursuit of higher education. Prospective students should contact our Office for more information. Undergraduate College Admission Graduate School Admission Warren Alpert Medical School Admission School of Professional Studies, Admission ROTC & Commissioning Programs There are several paths students can take to earn a military commission while at Brown, some of which also provide scholarships and financial assistance. Navy ROTC Join the Navy while attending college through the Naval Reserve Officer Training Corps (NROTC) Scholarship program. Visit Page Open details for Navy ROTC Army ROTC Army ROTC is one of the best leadership programs in the country and is part of your college curriculum. Visit Page Open details for Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Air Force ROTC develops the leaders of tomorrow by preparing students to become officers in the U.S. Air and Space Forces while earning a college degree. Visit Page Open details for Air Force ROTC Information For... Student Veterans Information for new and current student veterans. Visit Page Open details for Student Veterans Alumni Veterans Stay connected once you leave Brown. Visit Page Open details for Alumni Veterans Faculty teaching veterans Resources to help you support student veterans in your class. Visit Page Open details for Faculty teaching veterans Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Contact Staff Mission & History ROTC & Commissioning Programs Air Force ROTC Army ROTC Navy ROTC Student Veterans New Students Academics & Life at Brown Financial Aid Peer Advisors Brown University Student Veterans Society Brown Veterans Network Alumni Veterans Resources for Faculty Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Events News This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Office of Military-Affiliated Students Open details for Office of Military-Affiliated Students Bookmark this Page