COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Strategic Engagement & Planning (SEP) Section Menu Strategic Engagement and Planning Meet SEP #WichitaStateEngaged SEP Centers and Programs Why #WichitaStateEngaged How #WichitaStateEngaged Works SEP Initiatives & Partnerships WSU SEP Engagement Activities Shocker Neighborhood University Village University Village Development WSU and University Maps and Properties Office of Engagement Events University Village Feedback UV Frequently Asked Questions Strategic Engagement and Planning (SEP) was formed to work, in a collaborative fashion to increase capacity, improve sustainability, and foster conditions necessary for economic prosperity for the university and the communities we serve. Our unique combination of offices and initiatives increases the university's impact and strengthen partnerships to make progress on some of society’s most pressing issues. Assessment & Accreditation Strategic Planning SEP Centers & Programs #Engaged Leadership Areas Community Engagement Wichita State honors its history as a municipal university in our efforts to engage the community in ways that support our neighborhood, city, region, state and beyond. We are a front door for community members and agencies who wish to access the resources and assets within the university that can be used to bolster economic prosperity and community. We strive to promote the mission of the university to be an essential educational, cultural, and economic driver for Kansas and the greater public good. Learn more Strategic Planning Alignment of university activities to support a set of identified goals is key to ensuring a successful enterprise, a relevant education for students, and a reliable and collaborative partner for community stakeholders. We facilitate the advancement and implementation of the university's Strategic Plan and all subordinate action and unit-level plans. We provide meaningful cross-campus conversations on strategic topics to demonstrate progress on the university's Strategic Plan and recommend initiatives and areas for improvement of university efforts. All these activities work to ensure that the university plan supports the overall goals of the Kansas Board of Regents (KBOR). Learn more Assessment and Accreditation To fulfill its mission, the University believes that the faculty, staff, administration and students, should have the fundamental role in creating and maintaining a systematic assessment of student learning, student engagement and overall student outcomes. SEP oversees the implementation, analysis, reporting and dissemination of all major university assessments. At Wichita State University all academic departments and units within the Division's of both Academic Affairs and Student Affairs are responsible for systematic assessment for their areas. Learn more A coalition of economic drivers While Strategic Engagement and Planning (SEP) is a driver of engagement and economic prosperity work at Wichita State University, it is not the only driver. It is truly an “all hands-on deck” philosophy. Many offices and university personnel work to leverage the assets of the university in the broader community. SEP collaborates with other university offices, colleges, and community stakeholders to create the conditions necessary for economic prosperity. Strategic Engagement and Planning (SEP) This is part of a larger university effort to drive economics, education, and culture. The other components of the university engagement strategy include but are not limited to: The Office of Innovation and New Ventures The Office of Industry Engagement and Applied Learning The Office of Governmental Relations and Strategy 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©