Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary SCHOOL OF DENTISTRY RESTORATIVE DENTISTRY PROSTHODONTICS Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 PROS 560 Complete and Immediate Dentures (2) Lecture/seminar devoted to the diagnosis and treatment of the completely edentulous patient and the immediate denture patient, with emphasis on management of patients with difficulties in treatment. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: PROS 560 PROS 563 Maxillofacial Prosthetics I (1) Introductory lecture/seminar series with emphasis on diagnosis and prosthodontic rehabilitative treatment of patients who have experienced trauma or have congenital or acquired defects in the oral region. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: PROS 563 PROS 564 Maxillofacial Prosthetics II (1) Introductory lecture series focusing on the prosthodontic rehabilitation of patients with loss and compromise of facial anatomy, i.e., ocular, orbital, nasal, auricular, combination intraoral/extraoral, and other related facial deformities. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: PROS 564 PROS 571 Review of Literature Seminar (1, max. 12) Weekly seminar devoted to the review of prosthodontic and related literature. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: PROS 571 PROS 572 Special Topics Related to Prosthodontics (1, max. 2) Lecture-seminar series focusing on relating principles of basic science to clinical application in prosthodontics. A wide and varied range of topics including surgery, psychology, speech, pharmacology, practice management, physiology, temporomandibular/myofascial joint dysfunction. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: PROS 572 PROS 600 Independent Study or Research (*-) Prerequisite: permission of Graduate Program Adviser. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PROS 600 PROS 651 Intra-Oral Maxillofacial Prosthodontics - Selective (1) This course's focus is oral rehabilitation of oral compromise resulting from congenital anomalies/head and neck syndromes, oral cancer, or trauma. The student is presented with material on oral compromise resulting from radiotherapy, chemotherapy. Implant supported or retained prostheses along with surgical innovations related to micro-vascular graft reconstructions are also presented. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: PROS 651 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022