Skip to the main content United States Air Force Academy Go to home page image/svg+xml Page 1 Go to home page Link to home page Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Menu Search the Site Academics A rigorous academic program that balances STEM with the arts and humanities. Academics Core Curriculum Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Registrar Faculty and Staff Directory Academic Success Center Request a Transcript Investigator or Verifications Admissions News Research Learn more about cutting-edge research that supports the Air Force and our global society. Research Office of Research Research Centers Cadet Summer Research STEM Outreach Future Conflict Cadet Life Take a peek into the life of a United States Air Force Academy cadet. Cadet Life Dormitories & Dining Cadet Clubs Cadet Support Services Day in the Life Frequently Asked Questions Military With a focus on innovation and adaptation to the changing world of warfare, we’re setting higher expectations for what it means to serve. Military Basic Cadet Training Squadrons Airmanship Military Careers Wings of Blue Athletics About There’s no limit to what you will achieve here. Academics. Athletics. Military training. We deliver the future leaders of modern warfare. About Leadership Character Development History Awards Traditions Educational Innovation More Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Back To Facilities Visitor Center Planetarium Cadet Chapel Polaris Hall Arnold Hall Fairchild Hall Library Mitchell Hall Sijan Hall Vandenberg Hall Davis Airfield Jacks Valley The Terrazzo Awe Inspiring Architecture Cadet Chapel The Cadet Chapel is closed for necessary repairs with an estimated completion date of 2027. Read about the meticulous renovation project. The Cadet Chapel is the most recognizable building at the United States Air Force Academy and the most visited man-made tourist attraction in Colorado. This aluminum, glass, and steel structure features 17 spires that shoot 150 feet into the sky. It is considered among the most beautiful examples of modern American academic architecture. Take a look at the Cadet Chapel prior to the start of the restoration project. It serves as an all-faith center of worship for cadets and includes Protestant, Catholic, Jewish and Buddhist chapels, an All-Faiths Room, and a Falcon Circle, each with its own entrance. The Chapel is capable of holding services in all rooms at one time. In addition to the main office in Sijan Hall, chaplains and Religious Affairs Airmen are also assigned to each of the four cadet groups. Chaplain offices are provided in both halls. Chaplains provide all cadets with daily opportunities for worship, regular visitation within the cadet-training areas, and are available to provide confidential counseling and mentorship. Take a 360-degree virtual tour Special Programs in Religious Education Home to a variety of faith communities, the Cadet Chapel also hosts Special Programs in Religious Education (SPIRE), the largest religious education program within the Air Force. Currently SPIRE hosts 14 groups from seven distinct faith backgrounds. Led by qualified and gifted instructors, SPIRE groups meet weekly in a casual environment to focus on spiritual formation and character development. These groups also offer times of worship, community building activities, spiritual retreats and mentorship. Cadet Inter-Religious Council The Cadet Inter-Religious Council (CIRC) is comprised of cadet representatives from different faith backgrounds who focus on religious education and discussion across the Cadet Wing. Their mission is to build trust, respect and community through cadets of different faiths and beliefs to ensure the religious needs of Academy cadets are accommodated to the fullest extent possible. Currently, the CIRC is made up of 16 cadets from nine religions, who provide interfaith opportunities and help educate and model religious respect. Weddings The following persons are eligible to be married in the U.S. Air Force Academy Cadet Chapel: Graduates of the U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Military Academy, U.S. Naval Academy, U.S. Coast Guard Academy and U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. Active duty personnel currently assigned to the U.S. Air Force Academy and active duty Air Force personnel stationed in the local area to include Buckley Air Force Base, Colo. Dependents of active duty personnel currently assigned to the USAFA who hold a valid military dependent ID card on the day of the wedding. Purple Heart recipients and Silver Star recipients and above. ID card holding dependents of service members killed in action. For more information and questions, please contact Pete Peterson at: cadet.chapel@usafa.edu or 719 333-4515. Donations Online donations to the US Air Force Academy Cadet Chapel and the various Cadet Faith Group Programs/Services can be made via the Chapel Tithes & Offerings Fund Electronic Donations Page. Choose USAF Academy at the bottom and select AFA Cadet Chapel. Use the drop down arrow to make your selection. Your donations support the Cadet Chapel Corps provision for the free exercise of religion and spiritual care for cadets. Cadet Faith Communities United States Air Force Academy cadets are truly a diverse group of future leaders – young men and women from different family backgrounds, states and countries, ethnic groups and a variety of religious faiths and beliefs. Supported by the Air Force Chaplain Corps, cadets come to thrive in this setting and live out the enduring values of respect, magnanimity and human dignity for all. Whether exercising their own freedom of religion or learning to ensure the same freedoms for those they will lead in the Air Force, cadets have a robust group of faith communities to help them grow. All service times are subject to change, please contact (719) 333-4515 or (719) 333-2636 or visit our Facebook page to verify service times for your visit. Buddhist Details and Service Times The U.S. Air Force Academy Buddhist community is led by a Sensei in the Zen tradition and welcomes all forms of Buddhism as well as those interested in learning more about Buddhist meditation and teachings. In addition to weekly meditation, cadets may participate in: Special observances Retreats Visits to Buddhist centers The Academy’s Buddhist community also offers Special Programs in Religious Education (SPIRE) every Monday. Chapel Service Times: Type of Service Day Time Location Meditation Thursday 6:20 pm – 7:50 pm Sijan Hall, Oasis 3, Room 409 Earth Centered Details Our Earth-Centered Spirituality (ECS) community provides cadet support and spiritual education. Through introduction to the larger ECS community, U.S. Air Force Academy cadets also have opportunities to connect with others who share their spiritual pursuits. They may participate in: Community retreats Celebrations Sacred observances Cadets are also often called to create and lead sacred rituals, fostering an environment of collaboration and leadership. For more information, please contact Chaplain Wright at (719) 333-2636. Hindu Details For U.S. Air Force Academy cadets of Hindu faiths, opportunities to worship are available in the local Colorado Springs area. A Hindu point of contact exists for cadets to connect with for spiritual growth. For more information, please contact Chaplain Wright at (719) 333-2636. Muslim Details and Service Times The Muslim community at the U.S. Air Force Academy provides cadets the opportunity to worship as well as receive religious education and spiritual support. Cadets may participate in daily prayers, religious education and weekly congregational services. We also offer: Quran and Hadith study Ramadan services Eid celebrations Retreats Counseling An environment to foster partnership, character and leadership Chapel Service Times: Type of Service Day Time Location Muslim Halaal Communal Meal Friday 11:30 am-12:30 pm Sijan Hall, Oasis 3, Room 403 and 409 If you’re not a cadet, please bring your own meal Muslim Congregational Prayer Friday 12:30 pm-1:30 pm Sijan Hall, Oasis 3, Room 403 and 409 Jewish Details and Service Times At the U.S. Air Force Academy, we offer cadets a unique experience that attempts to connect with community and encounter the holy through the prism and practice of the Jewish religion. The Jewish community provides regular opportunities for access to the soulful and communal aspects of life by nourishing the heart, mind, body and spirit. Our initiatives include, but are not limited to: Weekly study of sacred texts Festive meals accompanying the celebration of Sabbath and Jewish holidays Retreats Weekend programs with other service academies Rabbinical counseling Service Times: Type of Service Day Time Location Jewish Shabbat Worship Service Friday 6:00 pm Sijan Hall, Oasis 3, Room 409 Jewish Shabbat Dinner Friday 7:00 pm Sijan Hall, Oasis 3, Room 409 Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints (CJCLDS) Details The U.S. Air Force Academy’s Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints community is an active and growing organization. Led by CJCLDS Elder Mark and Sister Connie Melville, cadets have the opportunity to participate in Sunday services in their local wards and attend retreats. In addition, cadets can join the Latter-day Saint choir and religious education through Special Programs in Religious Education (SPIRE) which is offered every Monday evening during the school year. Service Times: Type of Service Day Time Location Sacrament Service (only when restricted) Sunday 10:00-11:00 am Sijan 4D46 (HC Conference Room) For more information, please contact Elder Melville at (509) 842-2364. Orthodox Christian Details For U.S. Air Force Academy cadets of Orthodox faiths, opportunities to worship are available at an Orthodox church in the local Colorado Springs area. During Basic Cadet Training (BCT), an Orthodox priest is present to lead services for cadets and provide religious education. The Academy’s Orthodox community also offers Special Programs in Religious Education (SPIRE) every Monday. Service Times: Type of Service Day Time Location Orthodox Divine Liturgy Sunday 9:00 am Sijan Hall, Oasis 3, Room 403 Protestant Details and Service Times The Protestant community at the U.S. Air Force Academy is home to a vibrant group of cadets that offers worship services (traditional and contemporary), community building, retreats, pastoral care and religious education. Protestant chaplains are always available to provide prayer, counseling and encouragement to cadets. Inspired by uplifting messages, cadet-led worship and small group activities, our cadets grow in faith and commitment as they prepare to be future leaders in our Air Force and the nation. They can also assist with planning some of our retreats, and may serve as: Worship leaders (choir and praise team) Ushers Readers Members of a leadership council Service Times: Type of Service Day Time Location Liturgical Service Thursday 6:30 pm Vandenberg OASIS Contemporary Service Sunday 11:00-12:00 am Arnold Hall Ballroom Gospel Service 1st/3rd Sundays 5:00 pm Arnold Hall Ballroom Roman Catholic Details and Service Times In addition to daily and weekend worship services, the Catholic community at the U.S. Air Force Academy offers retreats, pastoral care, religious education and sacramental preparation. Cadets have the opportunity to practice both faith and leadership development in several areas. During worship services, cadets serve as: Members of the choir Members of the praise team Ushers Lectors Alter servers Eucharistic Ministers Organizational and leadership skills are sharpened outside of worship through planning and executing two annual retreats and leading the Cadet Catholic Parish Advisory Council. The Catholic Chaplains are always available for spiritual direction, confessions, prayer, counsel, support and encouragement. Service Times: Type of Service Day Time Location Catholic Sacrament of confession Sundays 8:00-8:50 am Fairchild Hall, F-1 Mon., Tues., Weds., and Thurs. 5:15-5:40 pm Sijan Hall, 4D45 (Blessed Sacrament Chapel) Sunday Mass Sunday 9:00-10:00 am Fairchild Hall, F-1 Eucharistic adoration Wednesday 4:45-5:40 pm Sijan Hall, Room 4D46 (HC Conference Room) Daily Mass Monday-Thursday 5:45-6:15 pm Sijan Hall, Room 4D46 (HC Conference Room) Sikh Details For U.S. Air Force Academy cadets of Sikh faith, opportunities to worship are available in the local Colorado Springs area. A Sikh point of contact exists for cadets to connect with for spiritual growth. For more information, please contact Chaplain Wright at (719) 333-2636. Other Faiths Cadets are always encouraged to explore their own religious traditions. For other faith groups at the United States Air Force Academy that do not have a chaplain representative or Distinctive Religious Group Leader to lead their program, such as Hinduism and Sikhism, cadets are connected with local worshiping communities of that faith. For more information, please contact Chaplain Wright at (719) 333-2636. rock circle prayer room cadet in prayer cadet chapel service chapel from terrazzo chapel spires Catholic service Buddhist meditation room Contact Us CADET CHAPEL 2306 Sijan Drive U.S. Air Force Academy, CO 80840 (719) 333-2636 Explore More Cadet Spiritual Life Visitor's Center Community Center Chapel ACADEMICS Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Research Centers Faculty and Staff Directory CAMPUS Events Employment Emergency Weather Helping Agencies Apps COMMUNITY AF CyberWorx USAFA Band Force Support Wings of Blue VISIT Visitors Campus Map Facilities Cadet Chapel Planetarium Base Access Contact Us Social Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Flickr © 2022 United States Air Force Academy, All Rights Reserved The appearance of hyperlinks does not constitute endorsement by the Department of the Air Force or the information, products, or services contained therein. For other than authorized activities such as military exchanges and morale, welfare and recreation sites, the Department of the Air Force does not exercise any editorial control over the information you may find at these locations. Such links provided are consistent with the stated purpose of this DOD Web site.