Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America Home About Events News Programs + Initiatives How Structural Racism Works Project CSREA Fellows Program Faculty Research + Teaching Development Faculty Grants Course Innovation Grant Humanities Lab The Mass Incarceration Lab @ CSREA Manuscript Workshops Opportunities For Graduate Students Event Recordings Give to CSREA Race & Series Site Navigation Home About History Staff Advisors Postdoctoral, Faculty, and Graduate Fellows Visiting Faculty Practitioner Fellows Message from the Director Location & Contact Information Annual Reports CSREA Q&A with Tricia Rose Events Past Events Co-sponsorship Requests Featured Events Around Campus Signature Series Underlying Conditions The Third Rail Series Writing for a Broken World What I Am Thinking About Now "First Works" Series Race at the Center of the Humanities New Book Talks STEM Conversation Series Dr. Jean Shim Yun Lecture Series Graduate Professionalization Workshop Series Critical Conversations Summer Reading Series News Programs + Initiatives How Structural Racism Works Project CSREA Fellows Program Brown Faculty Fellows Visiting Faculty Fellows Postdoctoral Fellows Brown Practitioner Fellows Practitioner Fellows Frequently Asked Questions Graduate Student Fellows Faculty Research + Teaching Development Faculty Grants Course Innovation Grant Humanities Lab The Mass Incarceration Lab @ CSREA Manuscript Workshops Opportunities For Graduate Students Event Recordings Give to CSREA Race & Series Humanities Lab Application deadline: Thursday, March 31st, 2022, for academic year 2022-23 labs. CSREA invites tenured and other long-term faculty whose scholarship focuses on race, ethnicity, and/or indigeneity in the United States and work that connects the U.S. to related transnational contexts, to participate in the Humanities Lab Program. THE PROGRAM: The Humanities Lab is an open and experimental humanistic inquiry-based initiative designed to facilitate unexpected connections and “what if” based explorations of central and complex issues and topics related to race, ethnicity, and/or indigeneity, that potentially generates new ideas and perspectives. Humanities Labs are intended to reconsider how humanities research is put into practice, how students are trained to approach research topics, and should ideally augment and/or be connected to Brown University courses centered on a theme, keyword, or social issue. Labs are led by a Brown faculty member with up to one or two faculty co-instructors. Labs may be focused on a single important issue – such as reparations, migrations, borders and boundaries, debt, literacy, language etc., or they may also take up an examination of particular historical moments, figures or events, or an existing archive or expressive practice. Labs will be expected to produce accessible and innovative outcomes with a public-facing dimension in the form of a presentation including websites, infographics, blogs, short films, essays, poetry, podcasts, graphic novels, etc. A final report on the lab is required. Depending on the scope of the proposal, we have the capacity to offer a range of $2,000 - $3,500 in stipend, up to $2,500 for visiting speakers, up to $3,500 for books and other learning supplies, and up to $1,165 in modest travel funds (where applicable and in accordance with university guidelines). All requested expenditures are subject to approval by CSREA and must be aligned with university spending guidelines. eligibility For all members of the Brown University faculty interested in working on issues of race, ethnicity, and/or indigeneity in the U.S. and work that connects the U.S. to related transnational contexts. APPLICATION PROCESS: Applicants must complete this application form to be fully considered. In addition to this form, applicants should attach a projected budget and timeline and indicate whether or not the project is being funded by other sources. Applications will be reviewed by the CSREA Faculty Advisory Board (FAB). Other relevant faculty within or external to Brown may be consulted at the discretion of the FAB. Be advised that awarded projects may be approved/awarded to grantees for a smaller budget or an otherwise modified version of the proposed humanities lab. We cannot guarantee awarded funds to be available beyond the fiscal year for which they were awarded. DEADLINES: Applications for AY 2022-23 labs are due by Thursday, March 31st, 2022. Awardees will be notified in May 2022. Questions? Please contact CSREA Program Coordinator, Maggie Murphy. Application form Programs + Initiatives How Structural Racism Works Project CSREA Fellows Program Faculty Research + Teaching Development Faculty Grants Course Innovation Grant Humanities Lab The Mass Incarceration Lab @ CSREA Manuscript Workshops Opportunities For Graduate Students Stay Connected Subscribe to our newsletter Visit Our YouTube Channel The Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America (CSREA) The Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America (CSREA) Brown University Box 2032 96 Waterman Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-5775 Fax: 401-863-5784 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top