Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Facilities Management University Event and Conference Services Show/Hide Services Event Management Virtual Events For Brown Departments For Other Organizations & Individuals Event Support Fees & Labor Rates Related Services Events Toolkit Virtual Events Planning Guide Step by Step Planning Guide Facilities Fees & Labor Rates Visiting Guest and Dignitaries Campus Event Venues Campus Partners Commencement Departmental Ceremonies Events Policies Postering and Publicity About Us Staff See What We Do Virtual Event Gallery Volunteer with us Contact Us Presidential Host Program Planon Planning Resources Please navigate through the links on this page to learn about Event Planning resources on the Brown University campus. Event Management Major University events typically require the assistance of an Event Manager. To inquire about working with UECS Event Management to plan your event, please fill out the Event Management Inquiry form. Virtual Event Planning Events at Brown play a significant role in developing a sense of community both on campus and beyond. While we cannot physically meet on campus during this time, we remain committed to connecting through virtual community engagement. We've put together some resources to help you start planning virtual events and our team is available to offer assistance and guidance. Step by Step Guide to Planning Events at Brown This helpful tool will walk you through the self-planning process of holding an event on campus. The Events team is also available for consultation. If you have additional questions that are not answered by this guide, simply call or email us at [email protected]. Visiting Guests and Dignitaries Have you invited a distinguished guest or speaker to attend or present at your event? You will need to fill out this dignitary form to ensure that the proper departments on campus are aware of the invitation. Event Policies and Guidelines There are a number of policies that govern events on the Brown campus. These policies ensure the proper use of space, provide for our guest's safety and accessibility and protect Brown's image as it is portrayed to the world beyond our campus. Links to Our Partners on Campus UECS is just the first stop in your planning process. If you are planning your event yourself, please be sure to reach out to our partners across campus to ensure a seamless event. Event Support Request Event Management Inquiry Virtual Events Planning Guide Step by Step Planning Guide Facilities Fees & Labor Rates Visiting Guest and Dignitaries Campus Event Venues Campus Partners Commencement Departmental Ceremonies Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Office of University Event & Conference Services Brown University 295 Lloyd Ave., Box 1941 Providence, RI 02912 Conferences & Event Support: Phone: (401) 863-3100 Fax: (401) 863-1943 Office Hours: 8:30AM-5:00PM FM Home Maps Feedback Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat