Skip to main content Skip to main navigation George W. Truett Theological Seminary Menu About Greetings from the Dean Who We Are History What We Believe Accreditations & Affiliations Campuses Houston San Antonio Faculty Jared E. Alcántara, Ph.D. Andrew Arterbury, Ph.D. Dustin D. Benac, Th.D. Kimlyn J. Bender, Ph.D. Stephanie Boddie, PhD Brian C. Brewer, Ph.D. R. Robert Creech, Ph.D. David E. Garland, Ph.D. Scott M. Gibson, D.Phil. Angela Gorrell, Ph.D. Joel C. Gregory, Ph.D. Rebecca Poe Hays, Ph.D. Grear Howard, D.Min. Angela Reed, Ph.D. Stephen B. Reid, Ph.D. Todd D. Still, Ph.D. Michael W. Stroope, Ph.D. W. Dennis Tucker, Jr. Ph.D. Preben Vang, Ph.D. Joel Weaver, Ph.D John B. White, Ph.D. David Wilhite, Ph.D. Gaynor Yancey, DSW Terry York, D.M.A. Books by Truett Faculty Staff Denisha Akpan Arbra Bailey Maxcey Blaylock Jack Bodenhamer Bridgette Boggess Keith Bruce, D.Min. John K. Burk, Ph.D. Julie Covington Jackie Diaz Nancy Floyd Malcolm Foley, Ph.D. Rusty Freeman, D.Min. Brian Gamel, Ph.D. Karen Green Matt Homeyer, D.Min. Grear Howard, D.Min. Jennifer Howell, Ph.D. Melissa Lambeth Jenn Martinez-Ayala Nancy Plotts Paul Putz, Ph.D. Jo Ann Sharkey Reinowski Ben Simpson Jon Sisk Evan Taddia J. David Tate Cindy White Audrey Yadon News The Cord Magazine Board of Advocates Contact Us Need More Info About Truett? Map & Parking Departmental Directory Academics Degree Programs Master of Divinity (M.Div.) Master of Arts in Christian Ministry (M.A.C.M.) Master of Theological Studies (M.T.S.) Master of Arts (M.A.) in Theology, Ecology, and Food Justice Master of Arts (M.A.) in Theology and Sports Studies Master of Arts (M.A.) in Contextual Witness and Innovation Doctor of Ministry (D.Min.) Ph.D. in Preaching M.Div./Juris Doctor (J.D.) M.Div./Master of Business Administration (M.B.A.) M.Div./Master of Education (M.Ed.) M.Div./Master of Music (M.M.) M.Div./Master of Social Work (M.S.W.) M.T.S./Master of Social Work (M.S.W.) Academic Catalog Faculty Advanced Standing Admissions Apply Master's Degrees Doctor of Ministry PhD in Preaching Request More Information Why Truett? Culture & Community Affordability Academics Baylor University Visit Truett Truett Preview Personal Visit Virtual Visit Group Visit Truett on the Road Map & Parking Recruitment Team Tuition & Financing Scholarships Baylor Students Transfer Students Incoming Students New Student Orientation Advanced Standing Programs & Centers Black Church Studies Program Program Pillars Leadership Faith & Sports Institute About the Faith & Sports Institute Graduate Degree Programs Online Certificate Program High School Retreat Research & Resources Kyle Lake Center for Effective Preaching National Preaching Conference African American Preaching Conference Boomers & Beyond Conference Additional Resources 12 Most Effective Preachers Survey Office of Ministry Connections About the OMC Staff Ministry Positions Post a Ministry Position Additional Resources Ministry Position Administrative Tools Online Certificate Program Program Overview Enrollment Online Courses Seminar Courses Current Students Staff Testimonials FAQ Request More Info Program for the Future Church Who We Are What We Do Our Team Support Us Connect with Us Spiritual Formation Program Spiritual Formation Courses Spiritual Direction Training Program Personal Counseling Spiritual Direction for Baylor Students Spiritual Direction for the Truett Community Plan a Personal Retreat Theology, Ecology, and Food Justice Program About Degree Program Partnerships News Truett Church Network Center for Ministry Effectiveness Ministry Resident Program Truett Pastors Conference Wesley House of Studies Students Academic Services Registration Advising Degree Planning Substitutions & Waivers Graduation Transfer Students Advanced Standing Look Up Classes Academic Complaints Scholarship Services Mentoring Program How Do I Begin Currently Mentoring Financial Wellness Resources Online Tools Final Exam Schedule Lifelong Formation Truett Student Employment Code of Conduct Student Organizations Campus Resources Events & Resources Conferences & Lectures Dobbs Lecture Drumwright Lectures Parchman Lectures TB Maston Lecture Willson-Addis Lecture E.K. Bailey Preaching Celebration Science & Christian Ministry Conference African American Preaching Conference National Preaching Conference Summer Intensive with N.T. Wright Texas Baptist Women in Ministry Conference Athletics, Race, and Christianity (ARC) Talks Women's World Day of Prayer Racism in the White Church Truett Chapel Events Friends of Truett Dinner 20th Anniversary Campus Celebration Building Reservations Room Reservations Wedding Reservations Truett Faculty & Staff Resources Technology Support Media Library Truett Chapel African American Preaching Conference Dobbs Lectures Media Library E.K. Bailey Memorial Preaching Event Fall Preaching Convocation Parchman Lectures Preacher's Workshop Media Page Willson-Addis Media Library Archives Other Recordings Lenten Devotional Guide 2022 Continuing Education Course Catalog Alumni Continuing Education Tools & Benefits Employment Events Calendar Student Recruitment Giving to Truett Make a Gift Baylor>George W. Truett Seminary>About>Who We Are>History History "There is one thing I know about George W. Truett, wherever he speaks, the people do what he asks." The words of Rev. R.F. Jenkins, pastor of the First Baptist Church of Whitewright, Texas, accurately characterized the lifestyle of a young man who would eventually serve as pastor of the largest Baptist church in the world and whose name would become a household name among Christians who believed in and espoused personal religious liberty and the separation of church and state. Shortly after enrolling at Baylor in 1893, Truett was called to become the pastor of East Waco Baptist Church. The church was the answer to the financial assistance that Truett sought, and he remained with the church during his four years at Baylor. East Waco was the first of only two congregations which Truett would lead, for shortly after graduating from Baylor in 1897, he was called as minister of the First Baptist Church of Dallas. It was from this pulpit that he fulfilled God's plan for his life until his death nearly five decades later. The words of Rev. Jenkins about the young George Washington Truett were truly prophetic, for throughout his 50-yearministry, people clamored to hear him preach and did their best to follow his suggestions and emulate his example of Christian living. Though rewarded during his lifetime with many accolades and named to numerous responsible positions, including the presidency of the Southern Baptist Convention and the Baptist World Alliance, George Truett never sought to be anything other than God's messenger doing God's will, as God directed. The words "thou good and faithful servant" surely rang in Truett's ears as he fell on that last sleep on July 7, 1944. On July 24, 1990, the Board of Trustees officially reserved with the Secretary of State of Texas the name "George W. Truett Theological Seminary," in the event the board decided sometime in the future to create a seminary. On March 2, 1991, the George W. Truett Theological Seminary was chartered and a fifteen-member Board of Trustees was named by the University's Board of Regents to investigate the feasibility of operating a seminary. (On September 21, 1990, the University Trustees changed Baylor's charter in order to have greater freedom in the selection of the University's governing board. By this action the University Trustees became Regents). An organizational meeting of Seminary Trustees was held on July 18, 1991, at which time officers were elected and a statement of purpose was developed. A joint meeting with the Seminary Trustees and Board of Regents was held on January 17, 1992, and further investigation and discussion was authorized. On May 21, 1993, the Board of Regents approved the opening of George W. Truett Theological Seminary with the beginning of the 1994-95 academic year. At the same meeting the Regents voted to accept the gracious offer of First Baptist Church, Waco, to house the Seminary on the second floor of the church's B.H. Carroll Education Building for the first years of its operation. Space was designated for the exclusive use of Truett Seminary for administrative and faculty offices. Classrooms and other areas were specified for the joint use of the Seminary and First Baptist Church. Reminiscent of earlier years of theological education at Baylor, when classes for ministers were held by Rev. B.H. Carroll, then pastor of First Baptist Church, in his study, Truett Seminary opened offices in the Carroll Education Building on August 1, 1993. Faculty offices were added in July 1994. The opening convocation service was held on August 28, 1994, with 51 students registered. The Truett Seminary inaugural class graduated from Baylor University in May 1997. About Greetings from the Dean Who We Are History What We Believe Vision for Life Together Statement of Common Faith Women in Ministry Accreditations & Affiliations Statement of Educational Effectiveness (2021) Campuses Houston Tuition & Financing Campus Visits Meet Our Students & Alumni Mahcoe Mikel Alyssa Carter Meet Our Director Connect with Truett Continuing Education San Antonio Tuition & Financing Meet Our Director Faculty Jared E. Alcántara, Ph.D. Andrew Arterbury, Ph.D. Dustin D. Benac, Th.D. Kimlyn J. Bender, Ph.D. Stephanie Boddie, PhD Brian C. Brewer, Ph.D. R. Robert Creech, Ph.D. David E. Garland, Ph.D. Scott M. Gibson, D.Phil. Angela Gorrell, Ph.D. Joel C. Gregory, Ph.D. Rebecca Poe Hays, Ph.D. Grear Howard, D.Min. Angela Reed, Ph.D. Stephen B. Reid, Ph.D. Todd D. Still, Ph.D. Michael W. Stroope, Ph.D. W. Dennis Tucker, Jr. Ph.D. Preben Vang, Ph.D. Joel Weaver, Ph.D John B. White, Ph.D. David Wilhite, Ph.D. Gaynor Yancey, DSW Terry York, D.M.A. Books by Truett Faculty Staff Denisha Akpan Arbra Bailey Maxcey Blaylock Jack Bodenhamer Bridgette Boggess Keith Bruce, D.Min. John K. Burk, Ph.D. Julie Covington Jackie Diaz Nancy Floyd Malcolm Foley, Ph.D. Rusty Freeman, D.Min. Brian Gamel, Ph.D. Karen Green Matt Homeyer, D.Min. Grear Howard, D.Min. Jennifer Howell, Ph.D. Melissa Lambeth Jenn Martinez-Ayala Nancy Plotts Paul Putz, Ph.D. Jo Ann Sharkey Reinowski Ben Simpson Jon Sisk Evan Taddia J. David Tate Cindy White Audrey Yadon News The Cord Magazine Board of Advocates Contact Us Need More Info About Truett? Map & Parking Departmental Directory George W. Truett Theological Seminary 1100 South 3rd Street Waco, TX 76706 254.710.3755 Apply Visit Request Information Why Truett? Give General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Greetings from the Dean Who We Are History What We Believe Accreditations & Affiliations Campuses Houston San Antonio Faculty Jared E. Alcántara, Ph.D. Andrew Arterbury, Ph.D. Dustin D. Benac, Th.D. Kimlyn J. Bender, Ph.D. Stephanie Boddie, PhD Brian C. Brewer, Ph.D. R. Robert Creech, Ph.D. David E. Garland, Ph.D. Scott M. Gibson, D.Phil. Angela Gorrell, Ph.D. Joel C. Gregory, Ph.D. Rebecca Poe Hays, Ph.D. Grear Howard, D.Min. Angela Reed, Ph.D. Stephen B. Reid, Ph.D. Todd D. Still, Ph.D. Michael W. Stroope, Ph.D. W. Dennis Tucker, Jr. Ph.D. Preben Vang, Ph.D. Joel Weaver, Ph.D John B. White, Ph.D. David Wilhite, Ph.D. Gaynor Yancey, DSW Terry York, D.M.A. Books by Truett Faculty Staff Denisha Akpan Arbra Bailey Maxcey Blaylock Jack Bodenhamer Bridgette Boggess Keith Bruce, D.Min. John K. Burk, Ph.D. Julie Covington Jackie Diaz Nancy Floyd Malcolm Foley, Ph.D. Rusty Freeman, D.Min. Brian Gamel, Ph.D. Karen Green Matt Homeyer, D.Min. Grear Howard, D.Min. Jennifer Howell, Ph.D. Melissa Lambeth Jenn Martinez-Ayala Nancy Plotts Paul Putz, Ph.D. Jo Ann Sharkey Reinowski Ben Simpson Jon Sisk Evan Taddia J. David Tate Cindy White Audrey Yadon News The Cord Magazine Board of Advocates Contact Us Need More Info About Truett? Map & Parking Departmental Directory Academics Degree Programs Master of Divinity (M.Div.) Master of Arts in Christian Ministry (M.A.C.M.) Master of Theological Studies (M.T.S.) Master of Arts (M.A.) in Theology, Ecology, and Food Justice Master of Arts (M.A.) in Theology and Sports Studies Master of Arts (M.A.) in Contextual Witness and Innovation Doctor of Ministry (D.Min.) Ph.D. in Preaching M.Div./Juris Doctor (J.D.) M.Div./Master of Business Administration (M.B.A.) M.Div./Master of Education (M.Ed.) M.Div./Master of Music (M.M.) M.Div./Master of Social Work (M.S.W.) M.T.S./Master of Social Work (M.S.W.) Academic Catalog Faculty Advanced Standing Admissions Apply Master's Degrees Doctor of Ministry PhD in Preaching Request More Information Why Truett? Culture & Community Affordability Academics Baylor University Visit Truett Truett Preview Personal Visit Virtual Visit Group Visit Truett on the Road Map & Parking Recruitment Team Tuition & Financing Scholarships Baylor Students Transfer Students Incoming Students New Student Orientation Advanced Standing Programs & Centers Black Church Studies Program Program Pillars Leadership Faith & Sports Institute About the Faith & Sports Institute Graduate Degree Programs Online Certificate Program High School Retreat Research & Resources Kyle Lake Center for Effective Preaching National Preaching Conference African American Preaching Conference Boomers & Beyond Conference Additional Resources 12 Most Effective Preachers Survey Office of Ministry Connections About the OMC Staff Ministry Positions Post a Ministry Position Additional Resources Ministry Position Administrative Tools Online Certificate Program Program Overview Enrollment Online Courses Seminar Courses Current Students Staff Testimonials FAQ Request More Info Program for the Future Church Who We Are What We Do Our Team Support Us Connect with Us Spiritual Formation Program Spiritual Formation Courses Spiritual Direction Training Program Personal Counseling Spiritual Direction for Baylor Students Spiritual Direction for the Truett Community Plan a Personal Retreat Theology, Ecology, and Food Justice Program About Degree Program Partnerships News Truett Church Network Center for Ministry Effectiveness Ministry Resident Program Truett Pastors Conference Wesley House of Studies Students Academic Services Registration Advising Degree Planning Substitutions & Waivers Graduation Transfer Students Advanced Standing Look Up Classes Academic Complaints Scholarship Services Mentoring Program How Do I Begin Currently Mentoring Financial Wellness Resources Online Tools Final Exam Schedule Lifelong Formation Truett Student Employment Code of Conduct Student Organizations Campus Resources Events & Resources Conferences & Lectures Dobbs Lecture Drumwright Lectures Parchman Lectures TB Maston Lecture Willson-Addis Lecture E.K. Bailey Preaching Celebration Science & Christian Ministry Conference African American Preaching Conference National Preaching Conference Summer Intensive with N.T. Wright Texas Baptist Women in Ministry Conference Athletics, Race, and Christianity (ARC) Talks Women's World Day of Prayer Racism in the White Church Truett Chapel Events Friends of Truett Dinner 20th Anniversary Campus Celebration Building Reservations Room Reservations Wedding Reservations Truett Faculty & Staff Resources Technology Support Media Library Truett Chapel African American Preaching Conference Dobbs Lectures Media Library E.K. Bailey Memorial Preaching Event Fall Preaching Convocation Parchman Lectures Preacher's Workshop Media Page Willson-Addis Media Library Archives Other Recordings Lenten Devotional Guide 2022 Continuing Education Course Catalog Alumni Continuing Education Tools & Benefits Employment Events Calendar Student Recruitment Giving to Truett Make a Gift