Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events News For You Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Parents & Families Give Now School of Engineering Brown University School of Engineering Brown University Site Navigation Undergraduate ABET Accreditation Admissions Concentrations Contacts and Resources Courses Internships, Jobs, and Grad School New Student Information Student Organizations Undergraduate Awards Undergraduate Research Graduate Admissions Courses Programs and Deadlines Programs Guide Graduate Student Organizations Student Awards Entrepreneurship People Faculty Staff Advisory Boards Graduate Students Research Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Hibbitt Fellows Hope Street Fellows Industry Engagement Laboratories NIST PREP Research Interests Undergraduate Research Get Involved Alumni and Friends - Ways to Connect Contact Us Employment Make a Gift Prospective Employers Social Media Visit Us Search Search Menu Why Brown Engineering? Brown Engineering is a unique place, which emphasizes the power of interdisciplinary thought and recognizes that engineering is intertwined with every aspect of our lives Learn About Brown Engineering Pause/Play this video 41% of undergraduate students are women 56 full-time, tenure-track faculty members $21.7 million in externally supported research awards 3 members of the National Academy of Engineering 26 fellows of major professional societies 20 National Science Foundation Career Awards 3 Guggenheim fellows May 24, 2022 News From Engineering Celebrating the classes of 2020 and 2022 Read Article Open details for Celebrating the classes of 2020 and 2022 News from Brown Eavesdroppers can hack 6G wireless frequency with DIY metasurface, research team demonstrates May 19, 2022 Scholars from Rice and Brown universities say that next-generation wireless networks that use the technology could be designed with built-in defenses against the ‘metasurface-in-the-middle’ attack. Read Article Open details for Eavesdroppers can hack 6G wireless frequency with DIY metasurface, research team demonstrates News From Engineering CNR and Brown University School of Engineering announce the launch of a satellite May 16, 2022 Read Article Open details for CNR and Brown University School of Engineering announce the launch of a satellite News From Engineering Külaots, Gray named Dean’s Awards Winners for Excellence in Engineering Teaching, Mentoring May 3, 2022 Read Article Open details for Külaots, Gray named Dean’s Awards Winners for Excellence in Engineering Teaching, Mentoring Featured News Accomplished biomedical engineer, academic leader named Brown School of Enginee… Karniadakis, Kwon elected to National Academy of Engineering Brown launches master's program in data-enabled computational engineering and s… Hochberg, pioneer in brain-computer technology, receives 2022 VA Magnuson Award All News Announcements Commencement 2022 Please join us in celebrating the 2022 School of Engineering graduates. The University Commencement and the School of Engineering undergraduate diploma ceremony will be held on Sunday, May 29. Here are some answers to frequently asked questions for graduating seniors and families and master's and doctoral students and families who will be in Providence for the weekend. Learn More Office Hours with a Dean Join Senior Associate Dean Kimani Toussaint on Mondays, beginning Jan. 31, 2022, for open office hours via Zoom from 12-1 p.m. ET. This is an opportunity to discuss any concerns or suggestions about any aspect of the School of Engineering. To make an appointment, send an email to kimani_toussaint@brown.edu, briefly indicating to what the matter pertains. Programs Degree Programs Doctor of Philosophy Master's Programs Undergraduate Degree Programs Doctor of Philosophy Master's Programs Undergraduate Degree Programs An engineering degree program at Brown will provide you with a broad knowledge of all fields of engineering, as well as specialized training in your discipline. By collaborating with faculty and students in research and design projects both within and alongside the formal curriculum, you will learn how to put theory into practice. Combining your study of engineering with Brown's renowned 'open' curriculum in the liberal arts will help you to put your engineering skills to the best possible use. Undergraduate Programs Students may choose from several Sc.B. degree programs, which are intended to prepare graduates for professional practice or graduate school in engineering and science. Alternatively, they may elect to pursue an A.B. program, which is designed to allow graduates to combine their engineering studies with other interests. Learn about Undergraduate Programs Open details for Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Brown University offers six master's in engineering, as well as master's degree programs in entrepreneurship and technology leadership. Learn about Graduate Programs Open details for Graduate Programs Doctor of Philosophy Ph.D. degree The Ph.D. degree is achieved through an intensive program of coursework and independent research in any one of the following areas: Biomedical Engineering, Chemical and Environmental Engineering, Electrical and Computer Engineering, Fluids and Thermal Sciences, Materials Science, or Mechanics of Solids and Structures. Learn about Doctor of Philosophy Open details for Ph.D. degree Master's Programs Master of Science Brown’s School of Engineering offers several options for the Master of Science (Sc.M.) degree, whether your goal is future academic pursuit or improving employment potential. Options may be chosen and programs tailored toward your individual needs. Learn about Master of Science Open details for Master of Science 5th Year Master's Undergraduates in engineering with high academic standing may enter an integrated program leading to the award of a master of science degree at the end of the academic year following receipt of the bachelor of science degree. Learn about 5th Year Master's Open details for 5th Year Master's Master’s in Data-Enabled Computational Engineering and Science The Master’s in Data-Enabled Computational Engineering and Science is an eight-course program designed for recent graduates and working professionals pursuing careers that involve advanced modeling and simulation in engineering and the physical sciences. Learn about the Master’s in Data-Enabled Computational Engineering and Science Open details for Master’s in Data-Enabled Computational Engineering and Science Master of Arts in Design Engineering The Master of Arts in Design Engineering (MADE) is an eleven-month, joint degree program, awarded by RISD and Brown, and utilizes the assets of both institutions. The program focuses on collaboration between technical and design disciplines. Learn about Master of Arts in Design Engineering Open details for Master of Arts in Design Engineering Master's in Innovation Management and Entrepreneurship Program in Innovation Management and Entrepreneurship (PRIME) students experience the process of creating value from technology, learn how to develop embryonic ideas, and execute how to bring them to market. Core business skills in finance, strategy, marketing decision making, globalization and management are provided to assure venture success. Learn about PRIME Open details for Master's in Innovation Management and Entrepreneurship Master's in Technology Leadership To perform effectively in an interconnected world that is constantly evolving, science and technology leaders need to complement their technical expertise with communication, leadership, and relational skills. Brown’s Master's in Technology Leadership program trains students to approach problems with an interdisciplinary mindset and gives them the tools that will propel them to the next stage in their career. Learn about Master's in Technology Leadership Open details for Master's in Technology Leadership Undergraduate Bachelor of Arts The Engineering A.B. degree is offered by the School of Engineering to enable students to combine a rigorous and interdisciplinary foundation in engineering with the diverse opportunities offered by Brown's liberal arts curriculum. With only ten required courses, it has the greatest flexibility of all the School's degree programs. Learn about Bachelor of Arts Open details for Bachelor of Arts Bachelor of Science Students may choose from several Sc.B. degree programs, which are intended to prepare graduates for professional practice or graduate school in engineering and science. The Sc.B. programs in Biomedical Engineering, Chemical Engineering, Computer Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Materials Engineering, and Mechanical Engineering are accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET http://www.abet.org/ Learn about Bachelor of Science Open details for Bachelor of Science Focus on Engineering Brown Engineering is a unique place, which emphasizes the power of interdisciplinary thought and our model is focused on making unique connections between the various engineering disciplines without the traditional departments or boundaries found at most schools. New Engineering Research Center The Engineering Research Center (ERC) is an 80,000 square foot shared facility open to the entire University community and external collaborators. It connects three engineering buildings and increased the School of Engineering's research lab space by 22 percent. Read About the Facility Faculty Spotlight As the newest member of the Fluids and Thermal Sciences faculty, Mauro Rodriguez brings to Brown Engineering his own realization, reaffirmation, and reclamation as mentor and educator. Meet our New Faculty Our Community Exposure to a broad range of perspectives, views and outlooks is key to fostering both breadth and depth in intellectual discovery and furthering research. Diversity & Inclusion Straight From the Source Graduate and undergraduate students share their experiences and thoughts about being an engineer at Brown. What advice do you have for new PhD students? Matteo Di Luca Close What advice do you have for new PhD students? Why Brown Engineering? Elizabeth Austin Close Why Brown Engineering? What is the strength of the Open Curriculum? Joshua Daniels Close What is the strength of the Open Curriculum? Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map Footer Navigation Reservations Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Flickr Instagram LinkedIn Twitter YouTube © Brown University School of Engineering Brown University For You Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Parents & Families Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Undergraduate ABET Accreditation Admissions Concentrations Contacts and Resources Courses Internships, Jobs, and Grad School New Student Information Student Organizations Undergraduate Awards Undergraduate Research Graduate Admissions Courses Programs and Deadlines Programs Guide Graduate Student Organizations Student Awards Entrepreneurship People Faculty Staff Advisory Boards Graduate Students Research Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Hibbitt Fellows Hope Street Fellows Industry Engagement Laboratories NIST PREP Research Interests Undergraduate Research Get Involved Alumni and Friends - Ways to Connect Contact Us Employment Make a Gift Prospective Employers Social Media Visit Us Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events News For You Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search homepage Open details for homepage Bookmark this Page