retweet bullhorn reply info flickr tumblr vimeo reddit podcast angle-down angle-left angle-right angle-up ban hamburger book bookmark bug caret-down caret-left caret-right caret-up chain check check-circle chevron-down chevron-left chevron-right chevron-up circle circle-o clone close download-cloud code download ellipsis envelope warning external-link eye eye-slash facebook github google-plus heart heart-o home info-circle instagram linkedin lock medium minus-circle send pause-circle play-circle plus-circle question-circle quote-left quote-right rss-square search share-alt slack snapchat ticket twitter wheelchair youtube Skip to main content MENU TwitterFind us on Twitter Search Search About Compliance & Ethics at UT UCS Staff Hotline Policy Training Training Library Training FAQs Ethics University Compliance Services University Compliance Services utexas.edu/hotline | compliance@austin.utexas.edu English 877-507-7321 | Español 800-216-1288 Report Online Our Mission Enhancing a Commitment to Integrity: University Compliance Services (UCS) is responsible for the strategic design and implementation of the Compliance & Ethics Program (CEP), providing education and training for faculty/staff to help develop strategies to avoid compliance and ethics failures. UCS is here to assist you in conducting business in a culture of integrity, fairness and mutual respect. Protected Expression on Campus The University of Texas at Austin is committed to protecting the expressive rights of persons guaranteed by the constitutions of the United States and of this State by affirming the freedoms of speech, expression, and assembly are fundamental rights of all persons; recognizing these freedoms are central to the mission of the University; and ensuring that all persons may assemble peaceably on its campus for expressive activities, including to listen to or observe the expressive activities of others. Learn more about Texas Senate Bill 18 Protected Expression on Campus A Commitment to Ethics Honor Texas will engage the UT community in a variety of ways so that we can talk about ethics in a meaningful way, build an understanding of holding ourselves accountable, and considering ethics in everything we do. Learn more about Honor Texas Report Illegal and Unethical Behavior We believe every person at every level within our organization has an obligation to perform his or her duties with the highest degree of honesty and integrity. If you suspect someone is behaving illegally or unethically, please speak up and report your concerns. Reporting Options Compliance Training has Moved! Employee training is transitioning to UTLearn, the University’s new employee training management system. Because this is a phased approach, employee compliance training may be found in different locations. Please check your "reminder email" for a link to the correct location. Learn More about Training Programs Department of Investigation and Adjudication The University of Texas at Austin is committed to advancing a diverse, equitable, and supportive campus culture. The Department of Investigation and Adjudication (DIA) investigates allegations of discrimination, harassment, and other prohibited conduct. Learn More Title IX The Title IX Office supports the University’s commitment to maintain an environment free from sex and gender discrimination, sexual harassment, sexual assault, sexual misconduct, interpersonal violence (including domestic violence and dating violence), and stalking. Learn More Clery Act This office handles the collection of crime statistics and fire statistics for the university and publishes the Annual Security Report in accordance with the Jeanne Clery Act. We work hand-in-hand with UTPD and other offices on campus to make sure we give timely warnings of crimes that represent a threat to the safety of students or employees. Learn More Meet the Team University Compliance Services has a team of people ready to help you. Contact one of us today! About us 1616 Guadalupe St. UTA 2.206 Austin, Texas 78701-1204 Phone: 512-232-7055 Fax: 512-232-3722 Email: compliance@austin.utexas.edu TwitterFind us on Twitter Footer menu Behavior Concerns and COVID-19 Advice Line (BCCAL) University Police (UTPD) Legal Affairs Human Resources Protect Texas Together - Information and resources related to Covid-19 UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022