COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Psychology, Minor MinorPsychology All Programs Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Psychology A minor in psychology from Wichita State will give you a basic understanding of how humans think, feel, act—and interact. The minor is a great addition to many majors, from pre-law and social work to business and sociology, and is useful in a diverse range of careers. Learn how psychology is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To take courses in the Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU's admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Students help create device that could detect driver drowsiness, make roads safer Psychology students can gain real-life industry experience before graduation. Drowsy driving injures and kills thousands of people in the United States each year. Alongside students in his Human Automation Interaction Lab, psychology professor Jibo He has taken on the task of helping change that. Students are learning real-life industry skills as they work with He to develop a device that could alert drowsy drivers and avoid potential accidents. The hope is that this device will make the roads safer. Curriculum To complete the psychology minor, you'll take 15 credit hours of psychology courses selected in consultation with your advisor. View the curriculum Careers A degree in psychology from Wichita State is excellent preparation for graduate study and for careers in diverse settings—from health care to human resources. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Psychology Human Resource Management Elementary Education Health Management Social Work Sociology 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©