Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Student Affairs Office of Financial Aid Main Navigation Undergraduate Show Extended Applying FAFSA Dream Act Cost of Attendance Disbursement Parent FAQs Maintaining Eligibility SAP Repeated Coursework R2T4 | Withdrawing Unit Cap Type of Awards Pell Grant FSEOG TEACH Grant Cal Grant California Dream Act Service Incentive Grant California Emergency Grant Chafee Grant SUG EOP Grant MCS Subsidized & Unsubsidized Parent Plus Dream Loan Federal Work Study Scholarships Credential Show Extended Applying FAFSA Dream Act Cost of Attendance Disbursement Parent FAQs Maintaining Eligibility SAP Repeated Coursework R2T4 | Withdrawing Unit Cap Type of Awards Pell Grant TEACH Grant Cal Grant California Emergency Grant Federal Work Study SUG Golden State Teacher Grant Subsidized & Unsubsidized Parent Plus Scholarships Dream Loan Graduate Show Extended Applying FAFSA Dream Act Cost of Attendance Disbursement FAQs Maintaining Eligibility SAP Repeated Coursework R2T4 | Withdrawing Unit Cap Type of Awards Golden State Teacher Grant TEACH Grant SUG Unsubsidized Graduate Plus Federal Work Study Scholarships Dream Loan Special Groups Show Extended Study Abroad Year Round Students Summer Forms & Appeals Contact Us Parent FAQs Consumer Information Disbursement FA Terms & Conditions FAFSA Dream Act Freshmen Guide Transfer Guide CSUF Net Price Calculator COVID-19 and CSUF Financial Aid Dear Titans, in these unprecedented and challenging times, our strength shines through in how we care for each other. As a result of the (continued COVID-19) concerns, along with caring for the safety of our staff and students, the Office of Financial Aid is serving students virtually, with full service availability to meet all of your financial aid needs. Our Financial Aid Staff are available to you by phone at (657) 278-3125 during our phone hours: Monday, Tuesday, Thursdays from 8AM to 4:30PM, or by using our Financial Aid Questions inquiry ticketing system on our Contact Us page. Our Financial Aid Counselors are also available for in-depth Financial Aid counseling via zoom or phone. The Office of Financial Aid thanks you for your understanding and patience during this time, and we look forward to hearing from you Titans. And as always, remember, Titans Reach Higher! HEERF III GRANTS (a part of the American Rescue Plan Act) CSUF received $59,579,150 from the Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund (HEERF III) for direct aid to students. Eligible students must have been enrolled for Spring 2021. Email communications to eligible students will start the week of June 28th Grant amounts will automatically be provided to eligible students beginning on July 6, 2021 and proceeding through the month of July. Eligible students will be awarded one block grant depending on their Expected Family Contribution (EFC). Students without a FAFSA or CDA application on file will receive a Block 3 Grant. HEERF III Block 1 Grant: Eligible EFC: $0 - $5,711 Eligible award: $1,750.00 HEERF III Block 2 Grant: Eligible EFC: Greater than $5,711 Eligible award: $750.00 HEERF III Block 3 Grant: No finanical aid application on file* Eligible award: $500.00 *This population of students includes international students, undocumented students without AB540 status, and students who did not fill out a 2020-21 financial aid application* Payments begin July 6, 2021 On March 2, 2022, after assessing remaining funds from unprocessed or stale-dated HEERF III/ARP checks, additional awards were made to students enrolled as first-time first-year students or transfer students in the fall ’21 term, not receiving a tuition waiver, with this criteria. No separate application was required. HEERF III Block 1 Grant: Eligible EFC: $0 - $5,711 Eligible award: $1,991 HEERF III Block 2 Grant: Eligible EFC: Greater than $5,711 Eligible award: $510- $750.00 HEERF III Block 3 Grant: No financial aid application on file** Eligible award: $500.00 **This population of students includes international students, undocumented students without AB540 status, and students who did not fill out a 2021-22 financial aid application* Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund Quarterly Reports My income has changed, what can I do? If your financial aid circumstances have changed as a result of COVID-19, please contact the Office of Financial Aid for a potential Income Appeal. An Income Appeal through the Office of Financial Aid can potentially adjust your FAFSA and Expected Family Contribution (EFC) for the 2020-2021 aid year, resulting in possible additional aid. If applicable, you will be asked to submit the necessary documentation to process such an appeal. Financial Aid Services Offered: Answer general questions Provide in-depth financial aid counseling Consider additional financial aid counseling Consider additional aid options Re-instate loans that were previously canceled. Contact the Office of Financial Aid to update your 2020-2021 FAFSA/CDA if needed. Contact Us! New! Financial Aid Questions Phone: 657-278-3125 Zoom counseling appointments Secure Electronic Document Submission Fax: 657-278-3125 Instagram: CSUF_OfficeofFinancialAid Follow us for weekly updates! Have more questions? Check out CSUF's TITANS RETURN: COVID-19 RECOVER SITE! Titans Return: COVID-19 Recovery site Questions about Emergency Loans? Emergency loans are available through the Office of Student Business Services HEERF iNFORMATION HEERF III Grants will be paid as direct cash to students, not to student accounts. Make sure direct deposit is set up, or update current mailing address. Grant awards provided via American Rescue Plan (ARP) dollars will not be restricted by cost of attendance ceilings and will not be counted against a student’s future financial aid award. Grants will be disbursed electronically to student banking accounts (up to 48 hours) or via check (please allow two weeks). Even if students have current financial holds or owe the campus fees or fines, they are still eligible for HEERF III Funds and the funds will be paid directly to the student. What is HEERF III? The Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund III (HEERF III) is authorized by the American Rescue Plan (ARP), Public Law 117-2, signed into law on March 11, 2021, providing $39.6 billion in support to institutions of higher education to serve students and ensure learning continues during the COVID-19 pandemic. ARP funds are in addition to funds authorized by the Coronavirus Response and Relief Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2021 (CRRSAA), Public Law 116-260 and the Coronavirus Aid, Recovery, and Economic Security (CARES) Act, Public Law 116-136. Emergency funds available to institutions and their students under all emergency funds total $76.2 billion. CSUF has received $59,579,150, to provide directly to students as emergency grant aid for food, housing, course materials, technology, health care, and childcare. CSUF is committed to distributing these emergency grants based on three shared CSU principles: • Student Success • Equity • Timeliness and Administrative Simplicity Who is eligible? All students currently enrolled at California State University, Fullerton in undergraduate, graduate, professional and extended education programs in the spring 2021 term (students benefiting from the faculty/staff tuition waiver or the dependent of faculty/staff tuition waiver are not eligible for this emergency grant aid). What can the grants fund? The CSU HEERF III emergency grants are designed to support student expenses related to the COVID-19 pandemic. These expenses might include food, housing, course materials, technology, health care and child-care expenses. What are the grant amounts? Grant amounts will vary based on student need. How will grant amounts be determined by California State Univeristy, Fullerton? Grant amounts will automatically be provided to eligible students. No application is required. Eligible students will receive an email regarding their eligibility for the grant, and payment of the grant will commence shortly after. Grant amounts are determined by Expected Family Contribution (EFC) from the FAFSA or CDA application. Students without an aid application on file will automatically receive a Block 3 Grant: Block 1 Grant (EFC between $0-$5,711): $1,750 Block 2 Grant (EFC greater than $5,711): $750 Block 3 Grant (No Aid Application for determination of need*): $500 *This population of students includes international students, undocumented students without AB540 status, and students who did not fill out a 2020-21 financial aid application. When will I receive funds? California State University, Fullerton, will begin awarding HEERF III emergency grants in July, 2021. How will I receive funds? Eligible students may receive HEERF III emergency grant funds via: Direct Deposit- students must have already been enrolled in direct deposit in order to receive funds via direct deposit. Checks- Eligible students without direct deposit information on record, will be mailed a check to the mailing address that is on file through the student center. If students do not have direct deposit set up, please ensure that mailing address is correct on the student portal. Would a graduating senior be eligible for this grant? All eligible students enrolled in the spring 2021 term (see criteria in the “Who Is Eligible?” question) will be automatically awarded. What if I don't currently have a FAFSA on file? A FAFSA or CDA application is not required to receive a HEERF III grant. However, we will use the Expected Family Contribution (EFC) for those students with a current FAFSA or CDA on file to determine the grant amount. Students with no aid application on file will automatically receive the Block 3 Grant. What if I owe a balance on my student account, will the HEERF III funds be applied to the balance first? 100% of the HERF III Emergency Grant funds will go directly to the student, and not pay any outstanding charges. Are there any other resources? Students who do not meet the above eligibility criteria, might be eligible for an emergency grant through Tuffy’s Basic Needs Services Center (TBNSC). To be considered for a TBNSC emergency grant, students should not have previously received an emergency grant in the past. Due to very high demand and the limited availability of emergency grant funds, not all HEERF ineligible students who seek financial assistance will receive an emergency grant. If you are ineligible for HEERF Act funds, and you have not previously received emergency grant funds through Tuffy’s Basic Needs Services Center since you have been enrolled at Cal State Fullerton, please visit this link: http://www.fullerton.edu/deanofstudents/secondary_tabs/cares_act/index.php. This site is maintained by Office of Financial Aid. Last Published 4/8/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact financialaid@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.