Skip navigation Information For: Future Students Current Students PLME Students Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Alumni Parents The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Search Brown Search AMS About Education Student Affairs Diversity Admission Financial Aid Med A to Z People Directory Department of Orthopaedics Fellowship Programs Orthopaedic Trauma Fellowship Orthopaedic Trauma Fellowship The final year of the Brown University Orthopaedic Residency Program ensures that our graduates become skillful, experienced surgeons before they leave Brown. After completing their Chief Resident year (PGY5), our trainees spend another year at Rhode Island Hospital as Orthopaedic Trauma Fellows. This year is divided between an extensive exposure to the evaluation and management of musculoskeletal injuries and allows time for clinical and laboratory research. The projects typically are expansions of projects begun during the residency years. This fellowship is not open to applicants from outside of Brown. Clinically, Brown's Trauma Fellows function as attending surgeons. They have independent surgical privileges, with commensurate responsibilities for patient care. Consultation and support from the senior faculty are readily available, since a senior faculty member is always on-call with the Trauma Fellow. The Trauma Fellowship is directed by Rhode Island Hospital's Surgeon-in-Charge of Orthopaedic Trauma, Roman Hayda MD. There are weekly trauma fellow meetings, trauma service patient review conference, and frequent ad hoc case discussions to address patient management, pre-operative planning and the weekly resident trauma teaching conferences all provide ample opportunity for our Trauma Fellows to learn as much as possible from their rich clinical experience. The Orthopaedic Trauma Fellowship is only available to Brown Orthopeadic Residency program graduates. Salary & benefits are competitive with the typical PG6 fellowships, with time off and generous support of travel for presentations, as well as relevant educational programs. Two weeks of vacation time is allotted during the fellowship year. Hear what our former fellows have to say about the PGY6 year. Why do a PGY-6 year? Faculty Roman Hayda, MD Professor of Orthopaedics Director, Orthopaedic Trauma, Rhode Island Hospital Dr. Hayda is devoted to providing state of the art orthopaedic trauma care. His areas of expertise include the evaluation and treatment of fractures and other injuries of the extremities and pelvis. Fractures around joints, particularly those of the knee, elbow, ankle, hip are of special interest. In addition to these acute injuries, he treats post traumatic conditions such as nonunion of fractures, infected fractures, malunions, and arthritis. When possible, minimally invasive techniques of fixation using plates, rods, or screws are used. He also has significant experience in using circular fixators and other techniques to regenerate bone. The goal is to restore the highest level of function possible for each patient. Dr. Hayda gained his extensive experience in the Army ultimately retiring as a Colonel after 24 years. He served as the Chief of Orthopaedic Trauma at Brooke Army Medical Center from 1998 to 2008 caring for wounded and injured servicemen and their families. In addition to reconstructing complex injuries, he was also integrally involved in developing protocols and techniques of amputation. He also directed a number of research projects directly aimed at improving the ability to protect, evaluate, and treat soldiers serving on the battlefield. While there, he additionally served as educator culminating as Orthopaedic Surgery Residency Program Director. Following completion of his undergraduate studies at the Johns Hopkins University, Dr. Hayda attended medical school at the Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences. He completed orthopaedic residency training at Walter Reed Army Medical Center and received fellowship training in Trauma at University of Pennsylvania. He has numerous published articles, chapters and instructional videos. He has lectured extensively nationally and internationally and directed multiple courses and symposia on trauma topics. Dr Hayda is a member of the American Association of Orthopaedic Surgery, Orthopaedic Trauma Association, American Orthopaedic Association, and the Society of Military Orthopaedic Surgeons. He serves on several committees of these professional organizations. Andrew Evans, MD Assistant Professor of Orthopaedics Dr. Evans specializes in the care of patients with fractures and other musculoskeletal injuries of the upper extremity, lower extremity, and pelvis. Dr. Evans completed an orthopedic surgical residency at SUNY Upstate Medical University and a fellowship in Orthopaedic Traumatology at the University of Washington’s Harborview Medical Center. Dr. Evans research interests include the treatment of complex traumatic injuries to the extremities and pelvis, particularly open fractures, as well as the basic science of fracture healing. Dr. Evans has served on the Steering Committee for the Major Extremity Trauma Research Consortium for the past three years. He has received research grants from the Orthopedic Trauma Association and various private foundations to lead ground breaking research projects and has co-authored many peer-reviewed journal articles. He is a fellow of the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons and the American College of Surgeons. He is a member of the Orthopaedic Trauma Association, and has lectured at numerous national meetings on a variety of topics. Christopher Born, MD Intrepid Heroes Professor of Orthopaedics Professor of Orthopaedics Dr. Born received his Bachelor of Arts from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill in 1970 and completed his premedical studies at Columbia University in New York City. After receiving his MD degree from Georgetown University in 1979, he went on to complete five years of orthopedic training at the University of Pennsylvania. From 1984 until 1996 he was the Assistant Division Head of Orthopedic Surgery at Cooper Hospital University Medical Center in Camden, New Jersey, and was an Associate Professor of Orthopedic Surgery at the University of Medicine and Dentistry/Robert Wood Johnson Medical School. In 1996, Dr. Born rejoined the faculty at the University of Pennsylvania as an Associate Professor of Orthopaedic Surgery, serving as the Co-Director of Orthopedic Trauma. Prior to joining the faculty at Brown University, he was a Professor of Orthopedic Surgery at Temple University and the Co-Director of Orthopedic Trauma there. Dr. Born is a Fellow of the American Academy of Orthopedic Surgeons where he serves on its Committee for Continuing Medical Education and is the current Chairman of its jointly sponsored Orthopaedic Trauma training course. He is a member of the Orthopedic Trauma Association where he currently serves as the Chairman of its Mass Casualty Response Committee and is the past Chairman of its Fellowship Committee. He is also a Fellow of the American College of Surgeons and for eight years served on its Committee on Traumas Education Committee and was the Section Chairman for Orthopaedic Surgery. He is currently an advisor to its Disaster Committee. Dr. Born is on the Board of Directors of the Foundation for Orthopedic Trauma and the Foundation of the Eastern Association for the Surgery of Trauma. He is also a former Board member of the latters parent organization. He writes and lectures extensively on issues of musculoskeletal trauma and disaster management both nationally and internationally. In 2004, he traveled to Iran with the International Medical Surgical Response Team of FEMA to given humanitarian aid to victims of a massive earthquake. This team was presented with the Secretary's Award by the Department of Homeland Security, of which Dr. Born is a founding member. Program Details Rhode Island Hospital is the Level I Trauma Center for Rhode Island and Southeastern Massachusetts, including Nantucket and Martha's Vineyard. Serving a regional population of 1.3 million, we receive about 2500 trauma patients per year, both directly from EMS, and as referrals from the region's other hospitals. We work closely with the General Surgery Trauma Service, with consultation and support from Plastic - Reconstructive Surgery, Neurosurgery, and other specialties as appropriate. There is ample exposure to routine fracture care, as well as, to complex orthopaedic trauma and post-traumatic reconstruction - articular fractures, multiple fractures, osteoporotic fractures, pelvic and acetabular injuries, as well as multiply-injured patients. Experience will also be gained with evaluating and treating non-unions, malunions, post-traumatic infections, and with rehabilitation issues. The Trauma Fellows have access to senior faculty in all subspecialties for consultation and assistance. As their experience broadens, they take on progressively more challenging cases with increasing independence, but with the knowledge and security that available support provides. The Trauma Fellows maintain a private practice office in which they provide continuing care for the patients they initially treat in the hospital. Faculty and staff assist them in learning the basic principles and practices of running a collaborative orthopaedic surgical practice. By the end of their fellowship, Brown's trauma fellows are comfortable and experienced in leading a surgical team on their own. Their established independent surgical expertise makes our graduates unique among the graduates of North American Orthopaedic training programs. Having learned to manage their own practice, they are familiar with the principles and practices of effective compliance with governmental and contractual requirements, as well as the skills required for successful practice in the medical marketplace. Case Logs On average, each trauma fellow will perform around 320 surgical cases (approximately 700 CPT codes) with the majority of those cases performed as the primary surgeon. There is a significant case variety from open long bone fractures to complex peri-articular fractures, acetabular cases, nonunion surgery and infection. Program Goals Brown's Orthopaedic Trauma Fellows will become expert in the management of patients with significant skeletal injuries, in isolation and in polytrauma situations. They will be able leaders of an orthopaedic trauma team, and in teaching their skills to residents and medical students. The Trauma Fellows will develop their surgical experience and skills to a level of expertise as fully independent surgeons. They will gain sufficient research experience in a trauma-related or other orthopaedic field so that they will be able to contribute to the development of knowledge in their chosen field, and will be attractive candidates for academic orthopaedic faculty appointments. Research By the time they become Trauma Fellows, Brown's Orthopaedic Residents will have become significantly involved with appropriate research opportunities within our Department. Clinical research, bench research, or an appropriate combination should be well underway. During the Trauma Fellowship year, this will be brought to a conclusion that is both a significant accomplishment and a starting point for further studies Current Trauma Fellows Shashank Dwivedi, M.D Hometown: Pullman, WA Undergraduate: Boston University Medical School: Boston University School of Medicine Why Brown? I valued the prospect of a built-in trauma fellowship and the academic rigor of the program. The residents are strong, work as a cohesive group, and enjoy spending time with each other outside of work. What do you like about Providence/Rhode Island? Providence is is an affordable college with with an amazing food scene, tons of excellent breweries around, and is close to bigger cities like Boston. What are your goals for the future? I hope to join an academic or hybrid academic/private practice as a hand surgeon after fellowship. I enjoy teaching residents and hope to make that a continued part of my career. Fellowship: University of Michigan - Orthopedic Hand Surgery Jimmy Levins, MD Hometown: Rutland, VT Undergraduate: Middlebury College Medical School: University of Vermont College of Medicine Why Brown? Brown had an unmatched balance of clnical volume, experience and research opportunities. It is a very well-rounded program that provides appropriate, graduated autonomy as you progress. A strong selling point was the fact that all rotations occur at the same site. The trauma fellowship year gives a unique opportunity to build your skills as a teacher of residents in the OR, demands responsibility for making independent decisions, and offers an unmatched preparation for fellowship and future practice. What do you like about Providence/Rhode Island? Providence is a very easy city to live in - there are many great restaurants and access to outdoor activities. It is very affordable and a great place to build or start a family. What are your goals for the future? My goal is to have a practice with a mix of trauma and elective shoulder and elbow surgery. Academics is something I enjoy and would like to continue to pursue and be involved. Fellowship: University of Washington - Shoulder and Elbow Surgery Ryan O'Donnell, M.D Hometown: Roxbury, NJ Undergraduate: Moravian University Medical School: Rutgers Robert Wood Johnson Medical School Why Brown? Excellent mix of solid academic and surgical experience, camaraderie amongst the residents, and trauma fellowship. What do you like about Providence/Rhode Island? Excellent place to live. Smaller city atmosphere with great food and summer activities. What are your goals for the future? Sports medicine physician, hopefully on the east coast. Fellowship: Duke University - Sports Medicine Devan Patel, M.D Hometown: Fremont, CA Undergraduate: University of California, Davis Medical School: University of Toledo, College of Medicine Why Brown? Brown had everything I wanted in an orthopedic training program. I was impressed by the clinical volume which led to great operative experience for residents and fellows. The program culture is what really sold me on the program. From the interview day, I felt the program was very inviting with a strong sense of camaraderie. What do you like about Providence/Rhode Island? Providence has an outstanding and diverse food scene. Newport, Cape Cod, and Nantucket are close and great for weekend trips. What are your goals for the future? A practice that allows me to treat patients with orthopedic trauma and upper extremity pathology. Fellowship: Stanford University - Hand & Upper Limb Fellowship Jeremy Raducha, M.D Hometown: Bristol, CT Undergraduate: Brown University Medical School: New York Medical College Why Brown? I rotated here as a medical student and wanted to stay mainly for the people who work here. There is great camaraderie amongst the residents and between the residents and attendings. The attendings are all interested in teaching and there is no shortage of cases, in every subspecialty, to go around. I also wanted a strong hand and trauma clinical experience, which is excellent here . What do you like about Providence/Rhode Island? After doing my undergraduate education at Brown, Providence feels like home to me. The restaurant scene is excellent and there is no shortage of activities, including some of the best breweries in the country, within easy driving distance in an and around Rhode Island. There are all the amenities of a larger city without all of the hassles. Summers are particularly great in the 'Ocean State'. What are your goals for the future? Academic hand surgery practice, likely in the northeast. Fellowship: Duke University - Hand and Upper Extremity Devin Walsh, M.D Hometown: Simsbury, CT Undergraduate: Bowdoin College Medical School: University of California, San Diego Why Brown? I wanted a residency program that offered unrivaled learning experiences across subspecialties, the ability to pursue any fellowship that interested me, and excellent trauma training. Brown exceeded my expectations across the board. What do you like about Providence/Rhode Island? Providence is a fun city in a great location. It has all of the cultural and experiential offerings of a large city in a smaller more affordable package. I am able to live 5 minutes from downtown, 15 minutes from the water, a short drive to all my clinical locations while having easy access to the rest of New England. What are your goals for the future? A practice that allows me to pursue my interests in foot and ankle as well as trauma surgery while being able to serve my local community. Fellowship: OrthoCarolina - Foot and Ankle Institute Home About Us News Faculty Residency Program Fellowship Programs Adult Reconstruction Foot and Ankle Hand Pediatrics Shoulder Elbow Spine Sports Medicine Trauma Research Laboratories Brown Medical Students MS4 Visiting Students Diversity and Inclusion Print this Page Share this Page The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Box G-A1, Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-3330 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: Facebook / LinkedIn / YouTube / Flickr / Twitter Resources Academic Departments Affiliated Hospitals Faculty Directory Make a Gift Quick Links University Orthopaedics