Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries American Studies Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs American Studies Major Apply Visit Request More Info American Studies Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Arts in American Studies Explore the major forces and ideas that have shaped the United States over centuries with the Bachelor of Arts in American Studies in the College of Liberal Arts at Temple University. American Studies focuses on an understanding of the evolving values and politics of U.S. culture through a variety of lenses. Examine the cultural impact of domestic and foreign wars, political movements, popular art, and technological advancements throughout American history. Learn to view—with a critical eye—the national myths and everyday realities that affect the lives and experiences of Americans. This 123-credit undergraduate degree program emphasizes reading, writing and analysis as it delves into themes and concepts central to American culture. These themes include architecture and city planning, class experience, gender paradigms, immigration and the immigrant experience, labor and mobility, media and popular culture, politics and political action, race and ethnicity, social change, technology, and war. You’ll analyze the patterns and connections of U.S. life inside and outside of the classroom, through established internships, as well as hands-on learning opportunities at various cultural institutions in the Greater Philadelphia region. American Studies majors often advance to graduate studies in the humanities and social sciences, law school or medical school. They pursue careers in business, library science, education, media, museums, nonprofit organizations and social services. Minor in American Studies The American Studies minor is particularly useful for students majoring in journalism, business, education and other fields served by creative thinking. To satisfy the requirements of the minor, students take six courses in American Studies. Learn more about the American Studies minor. Classes & Curriculum The American Studies Major can be completed over four years of full-time studies. Courses offered in this program include the following. American Military Culture American Place: Home, City, Region First Person America Literature and Political Change The American Woman: Visions and Revisions The Arts in America The Making of American Society: Melting Pot or Culture War? Technology and American Culture Students in their final year must satisfy a capstone requirement with the Senior Seminar in American Studies course. Learn more about American Studies Major courses. Related Graduate Degrees History MA Political Science MA Sociology MA Certificate Programs The College of Liberal Arts has 22 undergraduate certificate programs for you to expand your knowledge and diversify your Temple education. Certificates can complement bachelor's programs, allowing you to specialize in an area and highlight your exposure to disciplines outside of your major. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Arts offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $16,488.00 per year Out-of-state: $29,712.00 per year Our Academic Advisors Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development Dedicated advisors at the Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development in the College of Liberal Arts are available to guide students through their academic careers and with their career paths beyond Temple. They can help you choose a major, navigate your curriculum, identify internship opportunities, explore career opportunities and determine your post-graduation plans. Learn more about the center. Program Contact If you have questions regarding the American Studies Major, please contact the following staff members. Petra Goedde is the chair of the American Studies Department. Email: pgoedde@temple.edu The following staff members lead the American Studies Department. Peter Lavelle is the director of undergraduate studies in the College of Liberal Arts. Email: plavelle@temple.edu Vangeline Campbell is a coordinator in the American Studies Department. Phone: 215-204-7839 Email: vcampbel@temple.edu University Honors Program The College of Liberal Arts participates in Temple’s Honors Program. Learn more about the program and how to be admitted. Students who meet certain academic and extracurricular criteria may become members of the following honor societies. Alpha Lambda Delta is a national society that honors academic excellence during a student's first year at college. Golden Key is an international society that enables members to realize their potential through the advancement of academics, leadership and service. Phi Beta Kappa is open to juniors and seniors in the College of Liberal Arts. To qualify for Phi Beta Kappa, a student must maintain a high grade point average in a broad, rigorous program of study in the liberal arts, including mathematics and foreign languages. Learn more about Temple’s Honor Societies. Study Away College of Liberal Arts undergraduate students are encouraged to study away for an academic year, semester or summer. Learn more about your options for studying away. Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-AMST-BA Additional Program Information Available as a minor. Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in American Studies Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info