We use cookies to make your website experience better. To learn about how we keep your information safe, view our Privacy Policy. Accept Safer Return to Campus Masks Strongly Recommended. Notification of Potential Workplace Exposure. Skip To Main Content Popular Searches × Discover CLASS Departments Communication Economics English and Modern Languages Geography and Anthropology History Music Philosophy Political Science Psychology Sociology Theatre and New Dance Advising Centers & Programs California Center for Ethics and Policy Ahimsa Center Michi and Walter Weglyn Endowed Chair for Multicultural Studies Geographical Information Science Lab Science, Technology, and Society Southern California Shakespeare Festival Students News & Events News CLASS Bookshelf CLASS Connection Newsletter Events Submit News & Events Alumni College Giving Welcome to College of Letters, Arts, and Social Sciences Equity and Inclusion Cal Poly Pomona Inclusive Excellence is committed to the urgent and ongoing work of creating and sustaining an inclusive campus cllimate in which all are welcomed, respected and our diversity is valued. Read about the college commitment 
			Signature Experience Slides
		 1 2 CLASS Signature Experiences Please add a desctiption to this image CLASS Signature Experience CLASS Signature Experiences Please add a desctiption to this image CLASS Signature Experience Previous Next EVENTS Apr. 13 Fall 2022 General Registration May. 30 Campus Closed (Memorial Day) Jul. 05 Summer 2022 5-Week Session I Finals Aug. 08 Summer 2022 10-Week Session Finals Aug. 08 Summer 2022 5-Week Session II Finals Full event list NEWS Meet Your CLASS Valedictorian: Stephanie Martinez May 26, 2022 English scholar Stephanie Martinez was named this year's CLASS valedictorian and recipient of the Julian A. McPhee Honor Award.... Read more Theatre Professor Named Outstanding Faculty Advisor May 17, 2022 Sarah Krainin, assistant professor in the Department of Theatre and New Dance, was named this year’s Outstanding Faculty Advisor for CLASS at an... Read more English Professor Recognized for Community-Building During the Pandemic May 16, 2022 The Center for the Advancement of Faculty Excellence recognizes four faculty members every year from any college, department, or unit that effectively... Read more See full current news list College of Letters, Arts, And Social Sciences Building 5, Room 158 3801 W. Temple Avenue Pomona, CA 91768 (P) 909-869-3500 (E) class@cpp.edu Twitter Facebook Instagram 3801 West Temple Avenue, Pomona, CA 91768 ©2021 California State Polytechnic University, Pomona All Rights Reserved About Cal Poly Pomona Feedback Privacy Accessibility Document Readers