HOME Make a Gift Clemson Home Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift Toggle navigation FACILITIES Facilities Homepage Fike Recreation Center Featuring Swann Fitness Center Douthit Hills Fitness Center Snow Family Outdoor Fitness and Wellness Complex Policies and Procedures Facility Hours Facility Counts Floor Plan FITNESS AND WELLNESS Group Fitness F45 Small Group Training Fitness Assessments Personal Training Wellness Zone INTRAMURAL SPORTS CORE CORE Homepage Register for a Trip Rent Outdoor Equipment Develop Your Skills Request a Custom Trip Apply for a Job Explore Spring Break Trips Explore Winter Break Trips Explore Trips for Incoming Students Contact Us CLUB SPORTS Club Sports Homepage Club Officer Resources Visiting Team Resources Group Fitness F45 Fitness Assessments Personal Training Small Group Training Wellness Zone Online Registration Group Fitness The Group Fitness schedule linked below reflects our planned group fitness offerings, however due to the unforeseen circumstances surrounding COVID, we may modify or adjust these offerings as needed. Click the Sign up for a Class button below for the most up-to-date offerings and to reserve your spot in an in-person class. GROUP FITNESS SCHEDULE SCHEDULE A CUSTOM EXPERIENCE EVALUATE OUR INSTRUCTORS SIGN UP FOR A CLASS Become a Group Fitness Instructor ONLINE GROUP FITNESS REGISTRATION SYSTEM HOW TO REGISTER FOR A GROUP FITNESS CLASS: Visit clemsoncampusrec.com Login at the upper right-hand corner Sign in with your Clemson username and password (without the @clemson.edu) Click “Fike Group Fitness” Douthit Group Fitness” or “Virtual Fitness” depending on which class you’d like to register for. Find the class you are looking for and click "Register". Click "Checkout" twice Receive confirmation Registration for each in-person Group Fitness class will open 24 hours before the scheduled start time. Registration for virtual classes will open 48 hours before the scheduled start time. ONCE REGISTERED FOR AN IN-PERSON GROUP FITNESS CLASS: Arrive at least five minutes in advance of the scheduled start time for the Group Fitness class. Stand-by participants will take any unclaimed spots 5 minutes prior until the class has met capacity. Check in with the instructor. Enjoy the class! If you register for a class that you do not attend, your account will receive a strike. After 3 strikes, you will be unable to register for group fitness classes for a period of 7 days. ONCE REGISTERED FOR A VIRTUAL FITNESS CLASS: Plan to log in to the class 5-15 minutes prior to the scheduled start time Visit clemsoncampusrec.com Login at the upper right-hand corner Sign in with your Clemson username and password (without the @clemson.edu) Click your username in the upper right hand corner then click “Profile” Click “Programs” then “Registrations” You should be able to see the virtual class you have registered for. 15 minutes prior to the start of class, you will be able to click on the orange camera icon which should bring you directly into the Zoom class. Ensure that you have plenty of space to move safely and please follow proper Zoom etiquette. Enjoy the class! HOW TO DROP A GROUP FITNESS CLASS: Once logged in to clemsoncampusrec.com click username in the upper right-hand corner and select "Profile". On the left-hand side, select "Registrations". Find the class that you want to drop and click "Cancel". Click "Yes, Cancel Registration". Clemson Group Fitness strives to offer the most safe, effective, and innovative programs to students and members of all abilities. Our classes are taught by certified instructors, most of which are current students. We offer over 100 weekly classes during the Fall and Spring semesters. We offer a wide variety of classes that will help you reach your fitness and wellness goals whether they focus on cardiovascular training, strength training, or flexibility. See class listings below to sign up and read class descriptions. Click here for more information. Group Fitness Policies Group fitness classes (excluding F45) at Fike Recreation Center are FREE to all members of Clemson Campus Recreation - valid ID cards must be presented for entrance. Group fitness classes at Douthit Hills are FREE to students with an active membership. Late entry to classes is not permitted. Each class has a designated number of maximum participants based on space capacity and available equipment. Notify the instructor of any physical considerations you have before class begins. Wipe down all equipment before and after use. The schedule is subject to change. If the university closes due to inclement weather, all fitness classes will be canceled until the university re-opens. Please email cufitness@clemson.edu or call 864-656-2350 with questions. Participate in all classes at your own risk. How do I become a Certified Group Fitness Instructor? If you are a student interested in becoming a Group Fitness Instructor with Campus Recreation, please email cufitness@clemson.edu or call 864-656-2350. Click here for more information. CONTACT DIVISION OF STUDENT AFFAIRS 202 Sikes Hall, Clemson, SC Copyright 2020 Webmaster