Skip to main content Florida State University - COAPS Home - Center for Ocean-Atmospheric Prediction Studies (COAPS) Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Contact COAPS Search FSU Navigation Search Search by Author Search All Joomla! 1.5 Kris Suchdeve Megan Kane Michael McDonald Tracy Ippolito Search by Category Search All About Academics AOLI Applications Centers/Consortiums Computing Connectivity Contacts Data Events GCOOS Internal NPS Our Expertise Outreach People Products & Services Resources & Outreach Risk Assessment Scatterometry Search by Language Search All All English (en-GB) Search by Type Search All Articles Categories ABOUT US Our People Administration Scientists Students Visitor Information Partnerships & Sponsors Research Projects Support COAPS Overview Presentation (PDF) Internal Wiki In Memoriam - Jim O'Brien OUR EXPERTISE Academics Agriculture Alternative Energy Climate Studies Extreme Weather Events Marine Ecology and Fisheries Marine Meteorology Ocean Modeling Remote Sensing Risk Assessment CENTERS/CONSORTIA HYCOM Consortium Florida Climate Center Florida Climate Institute IOVWST Northern Gulf Institute Marine Data Center SE Climate Consortium RESOURCES & OUTREACH Data Products/Services Virtual Library (Publications) COAPS Newsletters COAPS In The News Public Education & Outreach CONTACT Our People Employment Connect With Us Skip to main content Center for Ocean-Atmospheric Prediction Studies About Us Our People Visitor Information Partnerships & Sponsors Research Projects Support COAPS Overview Presentation (PDF) Internal Wiki In Memoriam - Jim O'Brien Our People Administration Scientists Students Our Expertise Agriculture Alternative Energy Climate Studies Extreme Weather Events Marine Litter Marine Ecology and Fisheries Marine Meteorology Ocean Modeling Remote Sensing Risk Assessment Academics Undergraduate Graduate Student Projects Centers/Consortia CSOMIO Florida Climate Center Florida Climate Institute HYCOM Consortium IOVWST Marine Data Center SAMOS Initiative Resources & Outreach Data Products/Services Virtual Library (Publications) COAPS Newsletters COAPS In The News Public Education & Outreach Contact Our People Employment Connect With Us COAPS Student Awarded Prestigious Knaus Fellowship Graduate student researcher Renee Richardson has been selected as a finalist for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's 2021 John A. Knauss Marine Policy Fellowship Program.. Read more. Study: Rapid weather swings increase flu risk New research from COAPS scientists Dr. Zhaohua Wu and Dr. Jie Sun shows that rapid weather variability as a result of climate change could increase the risk of a flu epidemic in some highly populated regions in the late 21st century. The research was published in the journal Environmental Research Letters. READ the article on FSU NEWS. R2R Program Awarded NSF Grant The Marine Data Center (MDC) at FSU COAPS has received a five-year NSF award to continue the the Center's contributions to the Rolling Deck to Repository project (rvdata.us). The Rolling Deck to Repository (R2R) Program has been in operation since 2009 as a four-way partnership between geoinformatics groups at Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory (LDEO), Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, Scripps Institution of Oceanography, and FSU. Research at Sea Oceanography PhD students Thomas Kelly and Natalie Yingling spent time at sea conducting research aboard the RV Laurence M Gould. The research cruise focused on understanding long-term changes in the marine ecosystem off of the Western Antarctic Peninsula. Kelly and Yingling are affiliated with the FSU Zooplankton Ecology and Biogeochemistry Lab directed by Dr. Mike Stukel. COAPS takes interdisciplinary approach to scientific research about ocean-atmosphere interactions Source: "Across the Spectrum" Magazine The Earth’s climate is determined by the extremely complex interplay of land masses, waters and the atmosphere. Everything matters: water temperature, clouds, mountains, swamps, waves, wind and so much more. So it only makes sense that when trying to predict where our climate is headed long term — or whether it will rain on your wedding day — the chances of finding answers are much better when scientists who study all of those things work together. That’s the premise of FSU’s Center for Ocean-Atmospheric Prediction Studies — COAPS for short — which describes itself as a research center that "performs interdisciplinary research in ocean-atmosphere-land-ice interactions to increase our understanding of the physical, social and economic consequences of climate variability." Read more. The above image is generated by HYCOM, a multi-institution (academic, government, and industry) collaborative effort focused on the depiction of the three-dimensional ocean state in near-real time. The hybrid coordinate extends the geographic range of applicability of traditional isopycnic coordinate circulation models toward shallow coastal seas and unstratified parts of the world ocean. The vertical coordinate in HYCOM is isopycnal in the open, stratified ocean, but smoothly reverts to a terrain-following coordinate in shallow coastal regions, and to pressure coordinates in the mixed layer and/or unstratified seas. Upcoming Events MAY 4 Short Seminar Series COAPS Conference Room 11:00 AM - 12:00 PM JUNE 1 Short Seminar Series COAPS Conference Room 11:00 AM - 12:00 PM Recent Publications Distinct seasonal climate drivers revealed in a network of tree-ring records from Labrador, Canada (Source: Climate Dynamics) On the Generation and Salinity Impacts of Intraseasonal Westward Jets in the Equatorial Indian Ocean (Source: Journal of Geophysical Research: Oceans) Time to Flatten the Curves on COVID-19 and Climate Change. Marketing Can Help (Source: Journal of Public Policy & Marketing) View All Publications 2000 Levy Avenue Building A, Suite 292 Tallahassee, FL 32306-2741 Phone: (850) 644-4581 Fax: (850) 644-4841 contact@coaps.fsu.edu © 2022 Center for Ocean-Atmospheric Prediction Studies (COAPS), Florida State University Contact Us Visitor Information Support COAPS Disclaimer Sitemap © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright FSU Directory Assistance: 850-644-2525 Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media JavaScript is currently disabled.Please enable it for a better experience of Jumi.