Skip to main content Skip to main content DIVISION of ENROLLMENT SERVICES Skip to main content &nbsp;<b>Student Quicklinks</b> Student Quicklinks &nbsp;<b>Faculty/Staff Quicklinks</b> Faculty/Staff Quicklinks Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Financial Aid The Financial Aid Process The Financial Aid Process Texas Residency Rules for State Aid Dates & Deadlines Texas Application for State Financial Aid (TASFA) Financial Aid Status Disbursement of Aid Appeals Due to Special Circumstances Helpful hints for completing the FAFSA and CSS/Financial Aid PROFILE Verification Process Are you Dependent or Independent? How to Accept/Decline Financial Aid Refunds Costs Types of Aid Types of Aid Scholarships Loans Grants Student Employment Graduate Financial Aid Federal Government Funded Financial Aid Programs SMU Funded Financial Aid Programs Summer and May Inter-Term Financial Aid Options for Undergraduate Students Veteran Benefits How Enrollment Level Affects Aid Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) Process Forms Library Financial Aid Glossary Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us ☰ Financial Aid Types of Aid Federal Government Funded Financial Aid Programs Federal Government Funded Financial Aid Programs Required Actions Description Federal Pell Grant FAFSA required to determine eligibility including Verification and any other FAFSA related To-Do items in my.smu (Selective Service, Citizenship, SSN mismatches, etc.). Need-based grant for undergraduate students only. Eligibility determined by the Expected Family Contribution (EFC) on the FAFSA For 2018-2019, EFC (Expected Family Contribution) cannot be greater than $5486. For 2019-2020, EFC cannot be greater than $5576 Depending on EFC, awards vary between $652 - $6095 in 2019-2019, and $657 - $6195 in 2019-2020 Beginning July 1, 2012, students are limited to 6 years of Pell eligibility, or the full time equivalent of six years for those attending less than full time. Year-Round Pell Beginning with 2017-2018, students are no longer limited to 2 semesters worth of Pell. A student can receive up to one semester’s worth of additional Pell for Summer terms as long as they are enrolled at least 6 hours (“half-time”). For example, a Pell recipient who is enrolled Full-time in Fall and Full-time in Spring is eligible for additional Pell in Summer, as long as they are at least half time (additional eligibility extends up to Full Time enrollment in Summer. Fall ‘18 (Full-time) $3048 Spring ‘19 (Full-time) $3047 Summer ‘19 (Full-time) $3047 Summer I and Summer II enrollment can be combined, so for example: 3 hours in Summer I and 3 hours in Summer II counts as 6 hours for Summer. Additional Pell can be used for Study Abroad courses as long as student is enrolled in at least 6 hours. Please ask your financial aid advisor if you have any questions about eligibility. Federal Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant (SEOG) FAFSA required to determine eligibility. Need-based Must be Pell eligible Award may be up to $2,000 Limited funding Federal Work-Study FAFSA required to determine eligibility Need-based Award may be up to $4,000 Eligibility is not a guarantee of employment An opportunity for employment but not an obligation to work Funds do not disburse to student account but are paid directly to the student as earned wages upon employment Federal Direct Subsidized Loan FAFSA required to determine eligibility. Need-based Must be enrolled at least half-time in a degree or certificate program Students accepting a Direct Loan for the first time must complete Entrance Counseling and a Master Promissory Note before funds can disburse to the University. Fixed interest rate for the life of the loan. Interest rate set yearly on July 1st. Click here for additional information. up to $3,500 for students with less than 30 hours completed up to $4,500 for students with between 30 and 59 hours completed up to $5,500 for students with over 59 hours completed Federal Direct Unsubsidized Loan FAFSA required Must be enrolled at least half-time in a degree or certificate program Students accepting a Direct Loan for the first time must complete Entrance Counseling and a Master Promissory Note before funds can disburse to the University Fixed interest rate for the life of the loan. Interest rate set yearly on July 1st. Click here for additional information Federal Direct Parent Loan (PLUS) FAFSA required Parents are the borrowers of the Federal Parent PLUS loan - not the student Eligibility is based upon creditworthiness May apply for up to the Cost of Attendance minus any aid student is receiving Fixed interest rate for the life of the loan. Interest rate set yearly on July 1st. Click here for additional information If Federal Direct Plus Loan is denied click here for additional information on how to proceed Types of Aid Scholarships Loans Grants Student Employment Graduate Financial Aid Federal Government Funded Financial Aid Programs SMU Funded Financial Aid Programs Summer / May Terms Veteran Benefits How Enrollment Level Affects Aid Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) Process Student Services Quicklinks× Faculty/Staff Quicklinks× Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share