Your browser does not support iframes. Skip to main content Menu Scheller College of Business Request More Information Attend an Info Session Contact Us Directory Apply Now Search Why Scheller? Programs Executive Education Academics Centers & Initiatives News & Events Overview & History Dean's Message and Report Meet Ernest Scheller Jr. Advisory Board Accreditation Strategic Plan Business at Tech Graduates Get Hired Return on Investment Faculty and Advisors Global Perspective A Good Fit Corporate Engagement Trading Floor Georgia Tech Community Student Life Making Connections and Learning Opportunities Diversity Diversity News Career and Recruiter Services Career Services for Students Hire Our Students Giving to the College Meeting the Challenge Priorities and Needs Faculty Support Student Support Program Enrichment Unrestricted Endowment The Impact of Your Gift How to Make a Gift FAQs Scheller MBA Annual Fund Alumni Network Alumni News Alumni Resources Update Contact Information Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Full-time MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQsEvening MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Advancement Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQs Executive MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Student & Alumni Profiles FAQsMBA Programs Which Georgia Tech MBA is Right for Me? Commitment to Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Dual Degree Options Experiential Learning For Engineers For Military Community MD/MBA Option MBA Early Admission for Undergrads Rankings The Intersection Podcast Earn Your MBA in Atlanta Graduate Certificate Business Analytics Certificate Undergraduate Admissions Curriculum Career Services Student Services Student Life Scholarships & Awards Rankings & Stats Connect With Us The Intersection Podcast, Undergrad PhD Concentrations Program Milestones Faculty and Staff Funding Admissions FAQs Recruiting Events Student Bios Program News Request Program Information Interdisciplinary M.S. M.S. in Quantitative & Computational Finance (QCF) Master of Science in Analytics at Georgia Tech Lean Six Sigma Certification Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Certification Lean Six Sigma Black Belt Certification FAQs Custom Programs FAQs Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Engineering Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship International Management Management of Technology Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results Academic Speaker Series Guest Speakers in Accounting Guest Speakers in Finance Guest Speakers in Marketing Current Faculty Opportunities Business Analytics Center Engage with Us Executive Council News Research Education People Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics About Cecil B. Day The Cecil B. Day Prize Speakers and Events Faculty Support Net Impact Center for International Business Education and Research Projects Research Events Books People at CIBER Inside CIBER News and Events Archives International Management Certificate Sign Up for Future CIBER News Financial Analysis Lab Subscribe to Reports Institute for Leadership and Social Impact About Us Programs News Impact Speaker Series Leadership for Social Good Study Abroad Program Social Impact Fellows Ideas to Serve (I2S) Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Servant Leadership Programs Minor in Leadership Studies Excel Alumni Other ILSI Programs Partnerships Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business About Us Sustainable Business Insights Research Briefs Sustainable Business Events Sustainable Business News Blog Research & Thought Leadership Empowering Students Industry Engagement Newsletter Participating in the Drawdown Georgia Compact Drawdown Georgia Business Compact Meet the Team Alumni Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program Director's Message About Steven A. Denning T&M Curriculum Program Faculty & Staff Admissions T&M Corporate Affiliates Denning T&M Program News TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta Program Network TI:GER MBA & PhD FAQs News Apply Inquire Resources in Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business About Us Home » Centers & Initiatives » Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business » About Us Menu Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business About Us Sustainable Business Insights Research Briefs Sustainable Business Events Sustainable Business News Blog Research & Thought Leadership Empowering Students Industry Engagement Newsletter Participating in the Drawdown Georgia Compact Drawdown Georgia Business Compact Meet the Team Alumni We focus on educating tomorrow's business leaders, partnering with industry practitioners, and supporting high-impact research to accelerate the development of sustainable business practices. Our Vision Empowering the leaders of tomorrow to create sustainable businesses and communities. The Center will work toward this vision in a manner that is unique to the diverse strengths of our Scheller College faculty, staff, students, and partners, as well as the technological prowess of the Institute. Our Mission Our mission is to enable sustainability-driven innovation and sustainability integration in business and education. We create and share the knowledge that current and future leaders depend on to integrate sustainability into their organizations and beyond, and to drive innovation in business models, products, technologies, and governance. We lead by example with the educational content and experiences we develop for our students and partners. Finally, we catalyze and participate in multi-stakeholder networks to amplify our regional and national impact. Sustainability-Driven Innovation Leverage technologies, products, services, management practices, governance structures, and business models that advance economic growth and enhance human welfare. Sustainability Integration Facilitate enterprise-wide integration of sustainability to realize business value and to address the central environmental and social issues of our times. Our Themes The expertise of the Center’s affiliated faculty, our educational programming, and our focus on industry engagement help us to advance sustainable business through innovation and enterprise-wide integration of environmental and social topics. We conduct our work and partner with businesses across four major thematic areas: Carbon-Conscious Business We focus on developing strategies to mitigate carbon emissions throughout organizations and supply chains. Circular Economy We support a shift from a linear system (i.e., take resources from the earth > make products > dispose as waste) to a circular model that makes possible the indefinite lifespan of products—from design and production through refurbishment and reuse. Social Performance and Human Rights We incorporate social dimensions and related frameworks on topics such as diversity, equity, and inclusion as well as human rights to ensure positive business impacts and benefits for stakeholders. Environmental, Social, Governance (ESG) Leadership We build on investor and industry momentum that recognizes the importance of managing ESG issues, risks, and opportunities for people, the planet, and profit. Our History The Center (originally the Center for Business Strategies for Sustainability) launched at Scheller College in 2013 with support from the Ray C. Anderson Foundation, the Kendeda Fund, and Scheller College leadership. It was founded upon the desire to accelerate the development and adoption of sustainable business practices through educational programs, high-impact research, and industry engagement. In January 2015, after receiving a $5 million commitment from the Ray C. Anderson Foundation, the Center was named to honor sustainable business visionary and Georgia Tech alumnus Ray C. Anderson (IE ’56, Honorary PhD ’11). About Ray C. Anderson After graduating from Georgia Tech with a degree in industrial engineering, Ray C. Anderson started a career in textiles. In 1973, he founded his company, Interface. It eventually become the world’s largest manufacturer of modular floor coverings. By 1994, Interface was successful by every business metric. However, when asked what Interface was doing for the environment, Ray was unsatisfied with a response limited to regulation and compliance. He sought inspiration and guidance from the book, The Ecology of Commerce, where he encountered Paul Hawken’s assertion that industry is both the sector responsible for the greatest amount of environmental harm as well as the only sector with the necessary size and capital to turn things around. Hawken’s words led to a “spear in the chest” moment for Ray. From that moment, he committed the rest of his life to making Interface a breakthrough leader in corporate sustainability and to advocating for a paradigm shift in business thinking. Ray believed fundamentally that when done right, business can be a force for good in the world. We are honored to continue his legacy by educating “the Ray C. Andersons of tomorrow.” Our Team Get to know the members of the Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business team. Delivering on Our Objectives Empowering Students Leveraging Research Engaging Practitioners We are located in the Scheller College of Business in Suite 4426 (4th floor). 800 West Peachtree Street N.W., Suite 4426 Atlanta, Georgia 30308-1149 Phone: (404) 385-5221 Connect With Us Contact Form Support Our Work Donate Here LinkedIn Instagram Connect with us News & Events Newsletter Blog Jun 08 1:00 pm-2:00 pm Business Analytics Graduate Certificate Info Session Join us for an information session about the online Business Analytics Certificate at the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business. #4 Better World MBA (U.S.) Corporate Knights, 2021 12-10-2021 Alumnus Profile: Meet “Serial Starter” Dave Williams Read more Scheller College of Business Home Why Scheller? Overview & History Business at Tech Georgia Tech Community Career and Recruiter Services Giving to the College Alumni Network Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Programs MBA Undergraduate PhD Interdisciplinary M.S. Executive Education Lean Six Sigma Certification Custom Programs Academics Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Academic Speaker Series Current Faculty Opportunities Centers & Initiatives Business Analytics Center Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics Center for International Business Education and Research Financial Analysis Lab Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta News & Events Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller LinkedIn Instagram Facebook Twitter Youtube Flickr Georgia Institute of Technology Scheller College of Business 800 W. Peachtree St. NW Atlanta, GA 30308 404.894.2600 © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology Intranet Emergency Information Contact the College Privacy & Legal Notice Accountability Web Accessibility Resources for People with Disabilities Plugins Youtube Usage Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures