Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity (OIED) Show/Hide About Compliance and Oversight Action Plans Initiatives Resources Incident Reporting Events Mentoring and Professional Development Brown Center for Students of Color This program explores issues faced by minority students as they pursue their studies at Brown. The general aim of the program is to raise awareness of the many barriers that continue to challenge the ability of minority students to thrive in a diverse environment. Brown University–Tougaloo College Partnership The College has sponsored student and faculty exchanges with Tougaloo College, an historically black college in Mississippi since the 1960's. An early identification program also provides Tougaloo students with admission to Brown Medical School. The International Mentoring Program (IMP) IMP is a student-based program responsible for International Orientation for incoming freshman and peer mentorship. A dean from the Office of Student Life serves as an advisor to this program. Mellon Mays Minority Fellowship Program With the sponsorship of the Andrew Mellon Foundation, students from underrepresented groups and those interested in eradicating racism in the academy are provided with mentorship and support to encourage their enrollment in Ph.D. programs in selected academic disciplines. Leadership Alliance The Leadership Alliance is a consortium of 29 leading U.S. research and teaching academic institutions, including minority serving institutions, all dedicated to improving the participation of underrepresented students in graduate studies and Ph.D. programs and, ultimately, research professions in the academic, public and private sectors. Resources Training Resources Request Consultation/Training Resources for Anti-Racism Resources for Virtual Environments Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Contact Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity Brown University Box 1988 Horace Mann, Third Floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2216 Email [email protected] Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat