Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin Menu Header Helpful Links Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Families & Visitors Search Search Maps Directory UT Direct Give Apply Search Search About Academics Academic Experience Areas of Study Extended Campus Cockrell School of Engineering College of Education College of Fine Arts College of Liberal Arts College of Natural Sciences College of Pharmacy Dell Medical School Graduate School Jackson School of Geosciences LBJ School of Public Affairs McCombs School of Business Moody College of Communication School of Architecture School of Information School of Law School of Nursing Steve Hicks School of Social Work School of Undergraduate Studies Admissions & Aid Be a Longhorn What Starts Here Changes the World. It's more than a motto. It’s what we prove each and every day, as Texas and its Exes advance discovery and innovation on a global stage. Join us. Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions School of Law Admissions Dell Medical School Admissions Tuition & Costs Financial Aid Campus Visits Campus & Community Explore Your Passions Thousands of events, from concerts and film screenings to readings and lectures. More than 1,100 student organizations. Incredible facilities and special attractions. And it's all set in the heart of one of the world's greatest cities. Welcome home. Arts & Culture Campus Destinations Entrepreneurship & Innovation Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Austin Report Misconduct Safety & Security Student Involvement Longhorn Resources Research Change the World Longhorns are passionate about making the world a better place, united by the belief that creating and sharing knowledge can save lives and transform society. Come explore our vast research enterprise — or better yet, create, innovate and discover with us. Overview Student Research Units & Centers Off-Campus Research Sites Libraries Experts Guide Athletics News Home Family and Visitor Resources Family and Visitor Resources Quick Links Campus Visits Directory Assistance Texas Union Hospitality Center Want to see The University of Texas at Austin firsthand? Come visit our beautiful campus in the heart of downtown Austin and dive right into Longhorn life. Whether you're here for an admissions tour, a visit with a friend, a game, or just a campus stroll, we're here to help you find what you need. Getting to UT Austin's Main Campus Austin-Bergstrom International Airport Airport Shuttles and Taxis Capital Metro Greyhound Bus Lines Amtrak Getting Around on Campus Parking for Visitors UT Shuttle Bus Routes Capital Metro Bus Routes BikeUT Walking Tours Look Around Virtual Tour Admissions Info Sessions and Tours Landmarks Public Art Tours Tower Tours Explore Austin Life in Austin Austin Chamber of Commerce Austin Convention & Visitors Bureau Places to Stay Places to Eat Things to Do Parents and Families Parents and families are an essential, deeply valued part of our community. Whether you’re the parent or family member of a prospective student, an incoming freshman, or an existing undergraduate student, resources have been developed to help you navigate the Forty Acres. Resources for Parents and Families Safety Information for Families Texas Parents Association Family Orientation Family Weekend Connect with UT Austin Subscribe to our newsletter Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Starts With You Footer Helpful Links Access Course Syllabi and Instructor CVs Campus Carry Contact Counseling and Mental Health Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan Diversity, Equity, and Disability Resources ♿ Emergency Information Fraud, Waste, or Abuse Hazing Prevention and Response HEERF/CARES Act Compliance Jobs Online Institutional Resumes Public Forum On Campus Site Policies State of Texas Statewide Search Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Title IX Reporting (Sexual Misconduct) UT System Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy © The University of Texas at Austin 2022