Your browser does not support JavaScript! Your browser does not support JavaScript! Skip to main content Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Canvas | Webmail | Contact Us Request Info Apply Now eCourseware | Webmail | Contact Us Request Info Apply Now About UofM Global Learn More Rankings Accreditations Contact Us Degrees & Programs Undergraduate Graduate Certificates All Programs Complimentary Courses Admissions Apply Now Request Info Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Current Students Student Services & Support Register for Courses Graduation Home UofM Global Current Students Prior Learning Assessment Current Students Student Services and Support Learning SupportTutoringLibrariesDisability ResourcesAdult & Returning StudentsVeterans & Military StudentsCareer ServicesInternships Register for Courses Advising Course Search Deadlines Prior Learning Assessment Registration Student Success Online Course IntroSuccess StrategiesSmartStart Technology RequirementsResources Graduation Need Help? Call 844-302-3886 Email Us Prior Learning Assessment (PLA) Earn credit for prior skills, courses/transfer credits and professional experience. What is PLA? The University of Memphis recognizes that learning occurs in many places. Therefore, we allow students to earn credit for prior learning by demonstrating college-level knowledge they have gained outside the classroom using a variety of methods known as Prior Learning Assessment (PLA) outlined below. Credit By Exam Credit by examination is awarded based upon standardized examinations and upon examinations administered by departments of the University for specific courses and for placement. CLEP - The University of Memphis awards credit for standardized examinations of the College-Level Examination Program of the College Board. Credit awarded is based upon credit recommendations and minimum scores recommended by the American Council on Education. DSST -The University of Memphis awards credit for standardized examinations of the DANTES Subject Standardized Tests. Credit awarded is based upon credit recommendations and minimum scores recommended by the American Council on Education. See fees, testing dates and a list of exam options > Departmental Examinations - Almost all courses in the undergraduate curriculum with the exception of those with laboratory, research, or performance requirements, are available for credit by examination. For more information contact the appropriate college/department. Advanced Placement (AP) - The University of Memphis participates in the Advanced Placement Program of the College Board. Credit is awarded for scores of 3, 4 or 5. Learn more about AP credit > International Baccalaureate - The University of Memphis recognizes students' participation in the International Baccalaureate Program and awards college credit for completion of selected courses. Review information on credit awarded > Experiential Learning Credit/Credit By Portfolio Assessment We believe students achieve college-level learning through experiences outside of the classroom, including professional development training, earning licenses or certifications, completing military training and volunteering in the community. Our ELC Program allows you to demonstrate the academic merit of your experiences. Convert your previous work/life experience and transfer credits to Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) to save time and money. ELC credits are awarded at a reduced fee of only $75/credit hour. There is a limit to the number of ELC credits that can be placed toward different degree programs, so be sure to consult your advisor for more information. Students without pre-assessed learning experiences are able to seek academic credits by developing a portfolio. The portfolio serves as a reflective narrative of the student's previous learning experiences and includes supporting documentation. View additional information on portfolio assessment > Licenses & Certificates ELC Pre - Assessed - Certain professional and standardized training, licensure, and certification experiences whose content is equivalent to offerings from the UofM have been evaluated by faculty for credit hours. Examples of such education credit include Microsoft Certifications and Paramedics License. Review the current list of evaluated experiences > Military Training and Experience An official evaluation of armed services instruction is made after a student is admitted to the university. Credit awarded for completion of services schools will be governed by recommendations at the baccalaureate level from the current Guide to the Evaluation of Educational Experience in the Armed Services from the American Council on Education. Review the ACE Military Guide > About UofM Global Learn More Ranked Online Degrees Accreditations Contact Us Degrees and Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Certificates Corporate Partners Complimentary Courses Admissions Apply Now Request Info Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Contact Us Tuition Financial Aid Students Canvas Student Services & Support SmartStart Learning Support Technology Support Advising Register for Courses Experiential Learning Credit Graduation Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/11/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.