More information will be posted here when it becomes available. Emergency215-573-3333 A-Z Directories Calendar Maps Offices & Services Webmail Open menu Departments About Our Division Office of the Vice President Finance & Administration Fire & Emergency Services Penn Police Department PennComm & Emergency Communications Security Services Security Technology Special Services Emergency Preparedness PennReady UPennAlert Emergency Notification System Emergency Procedures Safety Initiatives HELP Line: 215-898-HELP Penn Guardian 24/7 Walking Escort Service DPS “Top 10 List” Penn Alternative Response Unit (AR-1) Operation Theft Awareness Self-Defense Courses Bicycle, Motor Vehicle, and Pedestrian Safety Information Clery Annual Security & Fire Safety Report Clery Crime Log CSA Crime Statistics Reporting Data Form Media Videos News and Events Photos Contact General Contact Information DPS Administration Directory Send Us Feedback Commend a Member of DPS Report a Crime Police Complaint Form Silent Witness Form Student Project Request Form Presentation Request Form Request a Special Property Check Menu Media Clery Contact Privacy Policy A-Z Directories Calendar Maps Offices & Services Webmail The UPennAlert Emergency Notification System enables the University to quickly notify the Penn and surrounding Philadelphia community of critical information during significant emergencies or dangerous situations involving an immediate threat to the health or safety of students or employees occurring on campus. This is accomplished through three (3) key methods: Personal Messaging; Siren and Public Address Systems; and Digital Displays. The University can send an alert to all Penn faculty, staff, and students via text messaging and email, as well as via siren and public address systems. When a UPennAlert is sent the Division of Public Safety uses their website to provide current and continuous updates acting as a central reference point for accurate information. This method is useful for those both on and off campus. The Penn Siren Outdoor System (PennSOS) is comprised of 27 speakers transmitting voice intelligible emergency messages and alert tones to the outdoor campus environment. PennSOS is not designed to penetrate buildings, but will be audible above normal street noise. UPennAlert is an additional layer of security and protection in emergency response, in conjunction with additional emergency communication methods, such as University-wide broadcast emails, online updates via the Penn homepage, coordinated use of public media outlets, and public address systems within all College Houses. Penn Siren Outdoor System (PennSOS) Types of Notifications FAQ’s Update Your Information Now! The effectiveness of the UPennAlert via personal electronic devices depends upon faculty, staff and student providing accurate and up-to-date personal contact information. We urge you to partner with the University in registering your cell phone number, as well as other emergency contact information, so that University officials can communicate with you wherever you happen to be. Simply click on the appropriate link below. Faculty & Staff Update Your Personal Emergency Contact Information Staff Directions Students Update Your Personal Emergency Contact Information Student Directions Providing current information is the best way to ensure that you will be reached in the event of an emergency. Faculty and Staff can update their information by going to the Penn Directory while Students can update their information by going to Path@Penn. Please take a few minutes now to register or update your contact information. All information is secure and confidential. UPHS Employees: If you would like to receive text messages, please take a few minutes to set up your preferred number through UPHS Phone Book: Click on the “Update Your Profile” button; Once you have logged in, click on the “Opt-in to receiving text alerts” checkbox in the blue UPennAlerts box; Enter up to five phone numbers to receive the text alerts The City of Philadelphia's ReadyPhiladelphia Program: If you would like to receive emergency alerts from the City of Philadelphia, sign up for ReadyPhiladelphia through the Office of Emergency Management at https://beta.phila.gov/departments/oem/ ReadyPhiladelphia sends emergency alerts, notifications and updates to registered subscribers. Quicklinks Emergency Preparedness 24/7 Walking Escort Theft Awareness RAD Self Defense Courses Penn Guardian UPennAlert Explore Departments Emergency Preparedness University of Pennsylvania Police Department (UPPD) Information and Statistics Safety Initiatives Report Accessibility Issues & Get Help Media Clery Contact Privacy Policy Connect with DPS Receive DPS Traffic Advisories Learn About Penn Guardian © 2016 The University of Pennsylvania. 4040 Chestnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104 215.898.7297 | Contact Us Rotate Your Phone to Portrait Mode Open toolbar Accessibility Tools Increase Text Decrease Text Grayscale High Contrast Negative Contrast Light Background Links Underline Readable Font Reset