Skip to content Texas A&M University | Webmail | Calendar FacebookTwitterInstagramYouTubeLinkedIn Home About Department Overview Diversity Facilities Biology Stockroom Health & Safety Biology Computing Help Online-Teaching Best Practices Strategic Plan Research Research Interests Undergraduate Research Seminars Student/Postdoc Research Conference Bioinformatics Symposium Faculty Instructional Faculty in Biology Research Faculty in Biology Undergraduate Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Advising & Resources Undergraduate Research Biology Honors Program BioFirst Science Peer Learning Center Lower Division Instruction Human Anatomy & Physiology Careers in Biology REU Programs in Biology Graduate BioGSA Doctoral Programs M.S. in Biology M.S. in Microbiology Graduate Student Scholarship Opportunities Awards Directory Full Directory Faculty Directory Staff Directory Graduate Student Directory Who to Contact Giving Biology Excellence Fund Timothy Hall Memorial Endowment Search for: Search for: Front PageMcKensie Daugherty2022-05-27T14:15:42+00:00 × The colleges of Geosciences, Liberal Arts, and Science are becoming the College of Arts and Sciences in Fall 2022. As the academic heart of Texas A&M, the College of Arts and Sciences will provide world-class teaching, research, service and resources. Get up-to-date information at artsci.tamu.edu. Doctoral Programs in Microbiology & BiologyLearn more about our graduate programs Understanding the genes, neurons, and circuits regulating circadian rhythms in behavior and physiology Research on the Cutting EdgeJones Lab Research NEXT LEVELTAKE YOUR DEGREETO THEHonors in BiologyMinor in Bioinformaticsundergraduate research Recent Publications Upcoming Events Research Areas Online-Teaching Best Practices IN THE NEWS Graduate Student Spotlight: Yufeng Wan Yufeng Wan is a Ph. D. Candidate in the Garcia Laboratory in the Department of Biology. His research project is on digitization of C. elegans male mating behavior through by visualizing muscle activity and posture changes during the behavior. Yufeng is the focus of our Graduate Student Spotlight this month, sharing his experiences and advice. Please take a moment to read more about Yufeng! Faculty Spotlight: Benjamin Neuman Dr. Ben Neuman is a Professor in the Department of Biology, investigating coronaviruses to better understand new diseases before they happen. His lab also uses bioinformatics and molecular biology approaches to discover new RNA viruses. Dr. Neuman is the focus of our Faculty Spotlight this month, sharing his experiences and advice. Please take a moment to read more about Dr. Neuman! Biology Major Annabel Perry Finds Place in World of Science Through Research Annabel Perry ’22 is a Texas A&M Biology Graduate who discovered a love of research during her undergraduate experience. Please take a moment to read about Annabel’s experience and research opportunities in the Department of Biology. Congratulations to Annabel and the graduating class of 2022! News & Newsletter Archive RESEARCH Basic biological research has evolved into a broad, fast-paced and dynamic profession that drives newly emerging industries and actively shapes many human endeavors. Both globally and locally, cutting-edge research at Texas A&M University strives to understand the fundamental processes driving life around us and to improve the ways people everywhere manage their health and the health of our planet. The Department of Biology is responsible for research and teaching within the vast disciplines of the biological sciences, from molecular cell biology to ecology and evolutionary biology. Our faculty perform cutting-edge research in a wide array of biological sciences in the laboratory and in the field. Learn More About Texas A&M Biology Research GRADUATE DEGREES Our Graduate Program in Biology offers a diverse range of integrative training opportunities for students seeking a Ph.D. degree in the biological sciences. We offer training in multiple disciplines within Biology, including Molecular, Cellular and Developmental Biology, Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Genetics, Genomics and Bioinformatics, Neurobiology and Behavior, Microbiology, Plant Biology, Biological Clocks, Mechanisms of Biological Resilience, and Physiology and Systems Biology. Our graduate students conduct creative, independent research and scholarship. Graduates of our programs prepare themselves for a wide range of career opportunities and gain positions in academic institutions, government agencies, and industry. Learn More about Biology Graduate Programs UNDERGRADUATE DEGREES The Department of Biology is responsible for introducing biological principles to students in every Texas A&M University major. We provide modern and comprehensive B.S. and B.A. curricula in Biology, Molecular and Cell Biology, Microbiology, Neuroscience, and Zoology for more than 1500 undergraduate biology majors. These degrees prepare students for various life science careers and are an excellent entrée to the health care professions. If you are interested in pursuing a major in one of our disciplines, or if you are currently a student and would like information on courses or the program, we have excellent undergraduate advisors who will be happy to help you. Learn More About Biology Undergraduate Programs College of Arts & Sciences Campus Contact Information CONTACT INFO 100 Butler Hall | 3258 TAMU College Station, TX 77843-3258 Phone: 979.845.7747 Fax: 979.845.2891 Contact the Webmaster Who to Contact RESOURCES Job Openings Biology Webmail Computing Help Business Services Health and Safety Office Site Policies POLICIES & ACCESIBILITY Dept. Policies | Forms University Rules & SAPS Accessibility Policy Nondiscrimination & Abuse Privacy & Security Open Records/Public Information Copyright 2021 Department of Biology |Texas A&M University | State of Texas | Statewide Search | Compact with Texans | Governor's Committee on Disabilities FacebookTwitterInstagramYouTubeLinkedIn Go to Top