Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Getting Started Student Insurance Eligibility for Columbia Student Health Insurance Plan Eligibility for Columbia Student Health Insurance Plan Eligibility is time-sensitive and based on a host of factors. If students are unsure about or have questions regarding eligibility, contact the Columbia Health Insurance Office at [email protected] or 212-854-3286. Students are responsible for knowing their options regarding eligibility and enrollment deadlines. Please read the information below carefully, as eligibility and enrollment opportunities are regulated by a variety of federal and state laws. Expand all Collapse all Eligibility Students eligible for coverage in The Columbia Plan include: all full-time and part-time Columbia students registered in a course load for credit and billed tuition at either the Morningside campus, the Medical Center campus, Jewish Theological Seminary, Teachers College, or Union Theological Seminary. This includes students registered for residence units, full-time matriculation and facilities, MFA research arts, maintenance of status, visiting, and exchange students. Activation of coverage is contingent on students being eligible, registered, charged tuition, and having requested enrollment in the Columbia University Student Health Insurance Plan. Coverage is activated within 14 business days of completion of the above. Students must enroll annually during the open enrollment period, starting with their first term at the University and each fall thereafter. The University is not responsible for students missing deadlines. Dependents In most cases, a spouse or domestic partner and dependent children can also be enrolled in the plan. Students with dependents are encouraged to learn more about dependent coverage when making an insurance decision. Ineligible Categories The following is a partial list of Morningside Campus categories/programs that are ineligible for enrollment in the Columbia Plan. Solely auditing course(s) OPT (Other Practical Training) CVN (Columbia Video Network) Visiting Scholars Summer High School Students Non-medical leave of absence withdrawals (personal, employment, etc.) Students who utilized the 2-semester maximum eligibility for Student Insurance enrollment while on approved medical leaves of absence (see Medical Leave of Absence section below) Non-registered students in all categories (includes graduating students after coverage termination and new incoming students seeking enrollment prior to plan effective dates) Medical Leave of Absence Students in good standing, who are approved for a medical leave of absence by their school are eligible to remain on The Columbia Plan for a cumulative maximum of two semesters during the course of the student’s entire enrollment within a particular school at Columbia, regardless of the length of program. The two semesters are cumulative but do not need to occur sequentially. Medical leaves must be approved by the student’s academic unit and reflected in the Student Information System. The time point in the semester when a registered student elects to take a medical leave with insurance is not considered when determining eligibility, and that semester shall count toward the two-term maximum. Upon written notification to the Columbia Student Health Insurance Office from the academic unit granting a student medical leave, the insurance office will contact the student via their Columbia email address to determine whether the student wishes to remain enrolled in the Columbia University Student Health Insurance Plan. Students who do not reply within 5 business days will be automatically terminated from the plan, effective at the end of the month in which the Columbia Health Insurance Office is notified or at the conclusion of the semester, whichever comes first. Non-Medical Leaves, Withdrawal or Dismissal from the University Students who withdraw from the University for a non-medical leave, or who are dismissed from the University, are categorically ineligible to remain on The Columbia Plan. When the Columbia Health Insurance Office receives notification from the University withdrawal system, the office will inform the student via their Columbia University email address and a mailed letter noting the loss of coverage. Students whose non-medical withdrawal or dismissal is transmitted to the Columbia Health Insurance Office—via the University withdrawal system during their open enrollment period—are considered as having never enrolled at the University for that term and are ineligible to be enrolled in the Columbia University Student Health Insurance Plan. Coverage for students who leave the plan during the semester will terminate at the end of the month in which the Columbia Health Insurance Office is notified by the University withdrawal system or 21 days after the office is notified by the University withdrawal system—whichever is later—and will receive a pro-rated refund of any remaining premium as a credit to their student account. Note: The Columbia Health and Related Services Fee, paid by all students enrolled in the Columbia Student Health Insurance Plan, is nonrefundable and is not pro-rated. Individuals who are no longer eligible for The Columbia Plan are encouraged to learn more about other coverage options. Related Links About the Columbia Student Health Insurance Plan Dental and Vision Benefits Eligibility for Columbia Student Health Insurance Plan Loss of Health Insurance Insurance for Families Health Care for International Students Referral Requirements Request a Waiver Contact Us Columbia Health Insurance Office John Jay Hall, 3rd Floor [email protected] 212-854-3286 Need help with weekend or late night distress? Check out our Coping Tools page for various digital services, mobile apps, and online resources outside our regular hours of operation. Our limited podcast series, Invisible and On Stage, provides an open conversation around racism-related stress, identity, and community, and the way they impact mental health. Listen now! The entire Columbia Health team, photographed in Lerner Hall. Click the image to see a larger version. Columbia Health Alice! Health Promotion Disability Services Counseling and Psychological Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Immunization Compliance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response All Columbia Health offices are closed on University Holidays. Annual Report Columbia Health Annual Report Stay Connected Receive important news and event info from Columbia Health Columbia Health Events Join us for workshops, panel discussions, skill-building opportunities, and other events! Accessibility Accommodations Columbia Health makes every effort to accommodate individuals with disabilities. If you require disability accommodations to attend an event sponsored by Columbia Health, or by the University, contact Disability Services at 212-854-2388 at least 10 days in advance of the event. 212-854-2284 [email protected] Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close