Office of the Provost - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Office of the Provost Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Office of the Provost About Provost Paula Myrick Short Initiatives Deans of Colleges and Libraries Provost's Cabinet: Vice and Associate Provosts Office of the Provost Staff Presentations by Provost Paula Myrick Short Faculty Current Faculty Faculty Resources Underrepresented Women of Color Coalition Faculty Engagement and Development Faculty Awards Cougar Chairs Leadership Academy Grants Faculty Grievance Non-Tenure Track Faculty New Faculty Prospective Faculty Presidential Frontiers Faculty Faculty/Staff Administrators Student Success Undergraduate Academic Advising Current Students Undergraduate Student Success Center Provost Prizes for Prose & Poetry New Coogs UHin4: Four Year Graduation Plan Cub Camp: Student-Run, Student Led Provost Summer Read Program Peer Assistants Global Students Learning Abroad International Students Graduate Students University Success SACSCOC University Accreditation UH Global Global Initiatives Global Citizens Credential Peace Corps Prep Program Center for ADVANCING UH Faculty Success Cougar Initiative to Engage (CITE) Houston Guided Pathways to Success About People Memorandum of Understanding Foundations of Excellence About Year 1: Foundational Dimensions Year 2: Themes Success Indicators Dashboard Postdoctoral Fellows at UH Academic Program Planning Committee on Academic Centers and Institutes Planning and Budgeting Policies and Resources Academic Honesty Policy Frequently Asked Questions Student Policies and Resources Student Resources Faculty Policies, Programs, and Resources Policies Programs Resources University Policies and Resources FERPA Resources Senate Bill 4 Frequently Asked Questions Honorary Degrees COVID-19 Updates and Resources News News Travels With Shasta Cougar Milestones UH Office of the Provost Marketing and Communications Office of the Provost × COVID-19 Updates and Resources The international public health crisis of COVID-19 has caused the University of Houston to make many substantial changes in the way our faculty teach, how our students learn, and how we support each other during this critical time. This website will be an online repository for the policy changes that affect students and faculty. COVID-19 Updates and Resources. Notable Faculty View Notable Faculty 16 National Academy of Engineering Members 4 National Academy of Sciences Members 19 National Academy of Inventors Members 1 National Academy of Education Members 21 American Law Institute Members 60 NSF Early CAREER Award Winners since 1960 27 Fulbright Scholars since 2011-2012 Student Success UH is committed to student success — our programs support first generation, transfer, and traditional college students. We empower you from the moment you are accepted to graduate in four years and stay connected to the history and traditions of the University. Begin with Cub Camp, where you develop strong bonds with classmates, learn the rich history of UH and begin your experience with confidence. Enroll in UH in 4 — by graduating in 4 years, families save time and money because students can enter the workforce or begin graduate studies as quickly as possible. Cub Camp Cub Camp creates a fun, laid-back environment where you will actively participate over a three-day stay developing strong academic and leadership skills making the transition to college life more comfortable. Learn More Provost Summer Read Program The Provost Summer Read Program is built around a common book that is read by all first year students. You’ll engage with faculty early and develop a sense of community with your peers. Learn More UHin4 The UHin4 program is a partnership between the University and students to support graduation within four years. The program provides a comprehensive plan to help students navigate their four-year college experience. Learn More Undergraduate Student Success Center The Undergraduate Student Success Center helps transition students to a good fit major, offers tutoring and learning skills workshops, pre-professional and career advising, and supports first-generation and transfer college students. Learn More Key Initiatives The Office of the Provost has a number of initiatives which support its strategic mission to be a globally recognized institution of higher learning through outstanding education, research and scholarship, service, and outreach. Learn more about initiatives for the Office of the Provost UH Preeminence: 50-in-5 is a new university-wide program focused on increasing our research and scholarly output 50 percent by 2023. This includes the doubling of our national centers from five to 10. Learn more about the 50-in-5 initiative The Cougar Initiative to Engage (CITE) will increase the number of high-impact co-curricular activities that provide direct real-world experience, preparing students for success in their lives and careers upon graduation. Faculty members may apply for grants to support new or expanded co-curricular learning programs. Learn more about CITE Houston GPS is an integrated system of cohesive, interdependent strategies that are designed to increase and accelerate student completion and smooth two-year to four-year college transfer while improving educational quality for Houston area students. Learn more about Houston GPS University of Houston Ezekiel W. Cullen Bldg., Room 203 Houston, TX 77204 832-842-0550 About the Office of the Provost Travels With Shasta Cougar Milestones Office of the Provost Staff Faculty Awards Student Success Undergraduate Academic Advising UHin4: Four Year Graduation Plan Provost Summer Read Program Cub Camp: Student-Run, Student Led University Success Policies and Resources SACSCOC University Accreditation ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies