Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home All Services Trauma Support Trauma Support The trauma support team consists of a group of 8-10 psychologists and one social worker who provide specialized trauma-focused care to students who seek services at Counseling & Psychological Services (CPS). Members of the team have training in understanding the unique ways in which trauma affects the mind and body and integrate this into ethical practices with our students. We provide consultation and assessment of student's symptoms and determine an appropriate treatment plan accordingly. Generally, students will receive one of the following services from our team: referrals to treatment on or off campus, social work consultation, individual psychotherapy, group psychotherapy, and referrals to psychiatric services at CPS or off campus. Please see below for a list of current Trauma Support Team members, with a brief description of who we are. Expand all Collapse all Andrew Colitz, Psychologist Andrew is interested in working with a variety of student concerns, including coping with traumatic experiences, anxiety & depression, identity development, complicated relational issues and family dynamics, major life changes and adjustment, as well as working with couples and students in group settings. Austin Eklund, Ph.D., Postdoctoral Fellow Austin has received formal training in the treatment of trauma- and stressor-related disorders at both the James J. Peters Veterans Affairs Medical Center (VAMC) and the Samuel S. Stratton VAMC, with emphasis on complex trauma, sexual violence, and military combat. He has worked extensively in communities of color and with queer-identifying populations and strives to be attuned to the compounding effects of minority stress on the lived experience of trauma survivors. His professional interests include the integration of evidence-based practices with relational approaches to trauma treatment. Motoni Fong-Hodges, Senior Psychologist Motoni's professional interests include the impact of marginalization and intergenerational trauma on our mental health, in particular with immigrants, people of color, and the LGBTQ community. Motoni is fluent in Japanese and Chinese. Michele Goldman, Psychologist Michele Goldman completed her graduate training with an emphasis in traumatic stress psychology. She has worked with survivors of sexual trauma, combat trauma, natural disasters, interpersonal violence, and emotional abuse/neglect. Michele has also worked with survivors of childhood trauma, as well as individuals with sexually problematic behaviors related to their traumas. Michele is particularly interested in re-enactment of traumatic patterns, risk of re-traumatization in survivors, and the long term interpersonal impact of trauma. Michele has been trained in several evidence based psychotherapies including Cognitive Processing Therapy (CPT), Prolonged Exposure (PE), Skills Training and Affective and Interpersonal Regulation (STAIR), Acceptance and Commitment Therapy (ACT), and Dialectical Behavior Therapy (DBT). Michele works to integrate psychoeducation and cognitive behavioral interventions while creating a safe and nonjudgmental space for students to process their experiences. Vincent Kiefner, Psychologist Vincent has worked with many individuals throughout his career who have experienced emotional, physical, and sexual trauma. His approach to treatment is sensitive, measured, and compassionate. He accepts an individual where they are at the beginning of treatment and then proceeds at a pace set by the individual. He feels it is important to empower the individual at each step of treatment because a sense of powerlessness often accompanies trauma. One of his foremost priorities is to avoid re-traumatization and he hopes to minimize this by establishing a safe and non-judgmental space for individuals. He draws upon his many years of experience and specialized training in trauma to help an individual, hopefully, achieve an improved sense of well-being. Sherina Persaud, Psychologist Sherina has experience and specialized training working with survivors of sexual assault, and in particular, survivors of childhood sexual and physical abuse. She is interested in the neurobiology of trauma and incorporates an understanding of both the emotional and physical manifestations of trauma into therapy. Using an array of grounding techniques according to individual needs, Sherina seeks to provide a space which integrates an understanding of the various ways in which survivors of trauma cope (e.g. substance use, maladaptive relationships, social isolation, anger, etc.). She is a member of the International Society for Traumatic Stress Studies. Sherina is fluent in Spanish. Marcia Stern, Senior Psychologist Marcia Stern has a longstanding interest in working with people who have been exposed to trauma. She trained at the Brooklyn VA Medical Center and has worked extensively with veterans who experienced combat trauma, sexual trauma, gender or sexual preference based discrimination and/or racism during military service. She has also worked with survivors of childhood sexual, physical and emotional abuse and community violence, with NYC Corrections Officers who were exposed to work-related trauma, and with children and adolescents affected by the events of 9/11. She is particularly interested in the impact of trauma on self-regulation and risk of re-traumatization. Marcia integrates psycho-education with psychodynamic and cognitive behavioral interventions as needed in group and individual modalities. Yushi Wang, Clinical Social Worker Yushi is a bilingual therapist who provides culturally sensitive, trauma-informed and integrated approaches to create a safe and nonjudgmental environment for her students. Professional interests include intergenerational trauma, racial trauma, grief, and loss. Yushi is fluent in Mandarin Chinese. Addette Williams, Senior Psychologist Addette’s professional interests and experience include the psychological effects of trauma, the mental health of people of color, the integration of psychodynamically informed therapy with mindfulness-based practices, and couples and gender issues. She has trained in mindfulness-based stress reduction. Support Groups When there is sufficient student interest, CPS also offers a variety of support groups that may be of help to trauma survivors, including a Women's Sexual Assault Support Group, a group for Women Healing from Sexual Abuse in Childhood or Adolescence, a Distress Tolerance group and a Mindfulness workshop among others. Learn more about the Quick Escape button. Health Unit Trauma Support Team Counseling and Psychological Services Sexual Violence Response Clinical Specialty Prevention Initiatives Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close