Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Housing Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Incoming Students Current Students Guide to Living Explore Residences Dates Other Services About First-Year Housing First-Year Application First-Year Check-In 3-2 Combined Plan Housing New Transfer and Exchange Housing Visiting Student Housing Summer Housing Options for Students Spring Check-Out Room Selection How It Works Eligibility Special Populations Registration Point Values, Lottery Numbers & Selection Appointments Selection Selecting as a Group Online Selection Step-by-Step If You Need Help Hartley Hospitality Desk Resident Advisers On Duty Columbia Public Safety Forms Residence Halls Directory with Map First-Year Area Carman Hall Furnald Hall Hartley Hall John Jay Hall Wallach Hall Upperclass Area 47 Claremont Avenue 600 West 113 Street Broadway Hall Carlton Arms East Campus Harmony Hall Hogan Hall McBain Hall Residential Brownstones River Hall Ruggles Hall Schapiro Hall SIC Residences Watt Hall Wien Hall Woodbridge Hall Fraternities and Sororities FSL Brownstones Residence Hall Amenities Bike Storage Locations Computer Labs & Print Stations Fitness Center Locations Residence Hall Lounges Rate Structure Fire Safety Resident Advisers On Duty Hartley Hospitality Desk Conference Housing Conference Housing Request Form Commencement Housing Our Team About Columbia Housing Staff Directory Resources News & Announcements Video Library Sustainability Our Sustainability Initiatives Green Sale Sustainable Columbia Website Other Campus Housing Columbia Housing You are here: Home Explore Residences First-Year Area John Jay Hall John Jay Hall One of Columbia's dedicated First-Year residence halls, John Jay Hall is conveniently located adjacent to Butler Library on the Morningside Campus. It is also the location of two Columbia Dining halls and the main offices of Columbia Health Medical Services, making John Jay Hall central to student life. Key Features: John Jay Dining Hall, JJ's Place, and Columbia Health Medical Services are located in the building Expansive views of Morningside Campus, the Hudson River, and the historic Harlem neighborhood Located in the heart of campus Easy access to the Columbia Housing Hospitality Desk Building Details: Housing Rate: First-Year Rates Entrance location: Inside campus near 114th Street and Amsterdam Avenue Number of residential floors: 11 Single/Double rooms within suites: 395 singles 36 doubles Elevators: 2 Flooring: Hardwood Building Amenities: Bathroom Style: Single-use, gender inclusive bathrooms on each floor Laundry: Free laundry facility in basement Lounge: A large building lounge is available on the main level A lounge equipped with cable TV service and a microwave is available on each floor Computer Lab & Print Station: Available on main level Kitchen Not available in this building, but residents have access to kitchens in Wallach Cleaning Responsibility & Schedule: Bathrooms: Daily, Monday - Friday, by Facilities Kitchen: Daily, Monday - Friday, by Facilities Trash & Recycling: Residents are responsible for taking their trash and recycling to designated building area. What Former Residents Say: “With over 40 First-Years from all over the world bringing their talents to my floor, there was never a shortage of activity—whether it was working on a problem set together, going to Times Square, checking out a museum exhibit, or finding a group to chow down with in the dining hall. I also loved being able to go to JJ's Place in my pajamas late at night!" "My first-year experience in John Jay shaped my Columbia experience. It seemed every door was open each night with eager, bright people ready to make the most of college and NYC. I have 11th floor pride." "Having a single as a first-year in an all first-year hall gave me the privacy I needed as well as the social element of residence hall life. People would leave their doors open and stop in to talk all the time. The floor camaraderie built throughout the year lasts all through your four years here and, as a senior, I can say that some of my closest friends were my floor mates. It's also great having the dining hall and JJ's [Place] right in your building!" Additional Photos: Image Carousel with 6 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1: A student's room in John Jay Hall Slide 2: A bronze bust of John Jay on a pedestal in John Jay Lounge. Slide 3: A view of seating and large screen television in John Jay Lounge. Slide 4: A view of the large wood and glass doors that open to John Jay Lounge. Slide 5: The fireplace in John Jay Lounge. Slide 6: Close up of seating at John Jay Lounge. A student's room in John Jay Hall Previous Next Columbia Housing Portal Submit a Service Request Housing Web Forms Contact Us: 212-854-2946 (Monday - Friday 9:00 - 5:00) 212-854-2779 (After hours and weekends) [email protected] Questions? Need Help? Contact the Hartley Hospitality Desk at 212-854-2779. About John Jay Hall Watch this video and review the Google map and other information below to learn more about John Jay Hall. Residence Hall Location: Floor Plans: John Jay 5th Floor John Jay 6th Floor John Jay 7th Floor John Jay 8th Floor John Jay 9th Floor John Jay 10th Floor John Jay 11th Floor John Jay 12th Floor John Jay 13th Floor John Jay 14th Floor John Jay 15th Floor Fire Safety John Jay Hall Fire Safety Plan Residence Halls by Typical Residents: A list of our residence halls, grouped by the groups of students who typically reside there. First-Year Students Only Carman Hall John Jay Hall First Year-Students & Sophomores Furnald Hall Hartley Hall Wallach Hall Mostly Sophomores 47 Claremont 600 West 113th Street Carlton Arms McBain Hall Mostly Sophomores & Juniors Harmony Hall Schapiro Hall Wien Hall Mostly Juniors Broadway Hall Ruggles Hall Watt Hall Mostly Juniors & Seniors Residential Brownstones Mostly Seniors East Campus Hogan Hall River Hall Woodbridge Hall Mix of Sophomores, Juniors & Seniors SIC Residences Fraternity & Sorority Fraternity & Sorority Life (FSL) Brownstones Residence Hall by Living Style: A list of our residence halls, grouped by whether each features corridor-style or suite-style rooming options. Corridor-Style 600 West 113th Street Broadway Hall Carlton Arms Carman Hall FSL Brownstones Furnald Hall Harmony Hall Hartley Hall John Jay Hall McBain Hall Residential Brownstones River Hall Schapiro Hall SIC Residences Wallach Hall Wien Hall Suite-Style 47 Claremont Avenue East Campus Hogan Hall Ruggles Hall Watt Hall Woodbridge Hall Amenities Available in Our Residence Halls Visit Computer Labs and Print Stations page for locations of shared computers and printers. Visit the Lounge Locations page for the locations of all residence hall lounges. Visit the Fitness Centers page for the locations of all Fitness Centers within the residence halls. Visit the Bicycle Storage page for the locations of all bike storage within the residence halls. Typical Residents First-Year Students Residential Community First-Year Area Housing Style Corridor-Style Phone Housing Main Office: 212-854-2946 (Monday - Friday, 9:00AM - 5:00PM) Hospitality Desk: 212-854-2779 (Available 24x7) Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close