Skip to content Enter search text All the UW Current site Search scope All the UW Current site MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Menu Home My Husky is a . . . Transfer student International student Out-of-state student First-generation student First-year student Sophomore/Junior Graduating student Resources Parent & Family Guide Student Life Academics Health & Safety Living & Dining Finances Transportation Move In Resources Talk with your Husky Husky Huddle-up podcast Forms, releases, and accounts Common Questions Events All events UW Family Weekend Connect Support Parents & Families Finances Investing in their future No matter who’s paying the bills, finances can be a tricky matter for UW families to navigate. At the UW, students fund their education through a variety of means: scholarships and financial aid, student loans, family support and on- or off-campus jobs. We’re here to help you figure out the approach that’s right for your family. Talk with your Husky Having a job on campus Setting a budget and managing a checking or savings account How credit and debit cards work Determining who pays bills (tuition, books, entertainment, etc.) Student loans, interest rates and how/when to repay them Explore more conversation topics One-Stop financial services Student Fiscal Services is a one-stop shop for helping your student navigate the ins and outs of paying for college. You’ll also find tax forms, due dates and deadlines, and student loan information. Tuition can be paid through your student’s MyUW account. They must submit an online Information Release Authorization to give family members or others access to tuition billing and reminders. Visit Fiscal Services Paying for housing and food UW housing and dining payments are made to Housing & Food Services (HFS) — by credit card on your Husky’s MyHFS homepage, by check (in person or by mail), or with Flywire for international students. Students living in residence halls can authorize family members to access their accounts and billing reminders through MyHFS. You can also deposit funds into your student’s Husky Card to pay for dining, vending machines, parking and more. About the Husky Card More to explore Financial Aid Assistance is available, including emergency aid for students and families affected by COVID-19. Find information about eligibility and application details by visiting the Student Financial Aid website. Student Financial Aid Student employment and internships Students can search for jobs (on campus or off) in Handshake, the UW’s online job and internship database. Offered through the Career & Internship Center, Handshake connects students with jobs and internships throughout the university and beyond. Sign up for Handshake Money management The Student Financial Aid office has tips on creating a budget, building credit, and saving money on everyday expenses. UW Money Management tool Campus contacts Student Fiscal Services (SFS) Tuition Payments 206-543-4694 sfshelp@uw.edu Office of Student Financial Aid Scholarships, loans, veteran benefits 206-543-6101 osfa@uw.edu Husky Card Services 206-543-7222 huskycrd@uw.edu Office of Merit Scholarships, Fellowships & Awards Scholarship search 206-543-2603 scholarq@uw.edu University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA