Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University GSAS Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded I am a... Degree Programs Student Guide Graduate Life Our Community Blog Prospective Student Current Student Faculty & Staff Alumna / Alumnus Admissions MA Programs PhD Programs Coronavirus Information for GSAS Students Financing Your Education New Student Guide Policy Handbook Research Teaching The Dissertation Career Development Convocation Diversity and Inclusion GSAS Writing Studio Graduate Student Center Student Life & Well-Being Alumni Network Dean’s Welcome GSAS at a Glance History Publications Staff Contact Us GSAS You are here: Home Graduate Life Graduate Student Center Graduate Student Center Located in 301 Philosophy Hall, the Graduate Student Center offers a bright and comfortable community space where graduate students, postdoctoral researchers, and faculty across disciplines and schools may socialize and study. Its features include seating and tables for up to seventy-four people, wireless internet, an acoustic design to reduce background noise, and a video screen displaying Graduate School news and events. You may access the Graduate Student Center using your Columbia ID card. Nous Espresso Bar The Center’s café, Nous Espresso Bar, offers food and beverages for purchase, including Blue Bottle Coffee, Rishi Tea, pastries, sandwiches, and more. Visit the Nous Espresso Bar website to view the full menu. Graduate Seminar Room The Graduate Seminar Room, in 302 Philosophy Hall, may be reserved by GSAS student groups and for GSAS student initiatives. The space seats up to twenty-three people, and is equipped with a media screen. Requests to reserve the Seminar Room must be submitted at least twenty-four hours in advance through our online reservation system. Please note that the Seminar Room may not be reserved by any group for more than three hours at a time. Hours of Operation Graduate Student Center 8:00 a.m. to midnight daily Nous Espresso Bar Summer Hours Monday through Friday: 8:30 a.m. - 3:00 p.m. Graduate School of Arts and Sciences109 Low Memorial Library, MC 4306, 535 West 116th Street · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-8903 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close