Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information Pediatrics Topics Campus News Research Medical School Public Health Cancer Mental Health Infectious Diseases Neurology Neuroscience Education Heart Health Pediatrics View All Topics Search All News Keywords News Top Stories Hepatitis Outbreak Among Kids: What Parents Should Know Health authorities around the world are investigating rare cases of children with severe hepatitis of unknown cause. Mercedes Martinez, MD, explains. Topic Campus News What to do while waiting for COVID vaccines for kids under 5 It’s still important to protect your children and the people around them to prevent hospitalization and COVID’s worst outcomes. Topic Public Health How Parents Can Manage the Baby Formula Shortage Columbia pediatrician Lauren Levine shares her insights on resources to try, ways to plan, and what never to do. How to teach a child to swallow a pill The advanced form of drinking required to swallow a pill is a skill to acquire like any other. Topic General Medicine Latest News Children Are Highly Vulnerable to Health Risks of a Changing Climate August 9, 2018 Children and adolescents are more vulnerable than adults to floods, droughts, heat waves, and other events related to climate change, Columbia researchers say. Topic Public Health Pregnancy Drug DES Linked to ADHD in Users' Grandchildren May 25, 2018 Mailman researchers have found that the grandchildren of women who used DES during pregnancy were 36 percent more likely to have ADHD. Topic Public Health Teen Depression: New Guidelines Promote Universal Screening April 27, 2018 Columbia psychiatrist Rachel Zuckerbrot, MD, talks about new screening guidelines she co-authored to help pediatricians detect and treat depression in adolescents. Topic Psychiatry What Parents Should Know About Kids and Fatty Liver Disease April 4, 2018 Pediatric gastroenterologist Jennifer Woo Baidal explains that obesity may increase the risk of a serious liver disease at a much younger age than once thought. Topic Diabetes Working Group on Global Health Security and Diplomacy Launched March 6, 2018 The working group will help Columbia scientists and physicians make their expertise available to policymakers involved in global health security. Topic Public Health Kids from Low-Income Areas Fare Worse after Heart Surgery, Finds Study February 23, 2018 Among children with congenital heart disease, those from low-income neighborhoods have higher mortality than kids from high-income areas, even when treated at the same hospitals. Topic Heart Health Study IDs Potential Treatment For Children with Relapsed Leukemia January 24, 2018 A mutation that leads to relapse in many leukemia patients also causes a weakness that could be exploited to kill the cancer cells, Columbia researchers have reported. Topic Cancer Jordan Scott Orange, MD, PhD, Named Chair of Pediatrics at Columbia November 9, 2017 A physician-scientist at Baylor University has been named to lead pediatrics at the College of Physicians & Surgeons and Morgan Stanley Children's Hospital at CUMC. Topic Campus News New NYP Infant Cardiac Unit Is First of Its Kind in United States October 13, 2017 The Vivian and Seymour Milstein Family Infant Cardiac Unit is a state-of-the-art, 17-bed unit staffed by a multidisciplinary team of specialists in neonatal cardiac intensive care. Topic Heart Health Losing A Father Takes A Biological Toll on Children, Study Finds July 21, 2017 A study showed that children who had lost their father had significantly shorter telomeres—a protective cap on chromosomes—than children who had not. Topic Medical School Pages first previous … 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 … next last Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top