Skip to main content University of Missouri System Columbia Kansas City Rolla St. Louis About Who We Are Facts and Figures Statewide Reach History Strategic Planning Curators Overview Meeting information Members Officers Committees President About the Office About the President Programs Departments Academic Affairs Diversity, Equity and Inclusion eLearning Engagement and Outreach Ethics, Compliance and Audit Services Finance General Counsel Government Relations Human Resources Information Technology Research and Economic Development Strategic Communication News Highlights Features Releases Quick Links Bids Collected Rules and Regulations COVID-19 Updates Employee Benefits myHR NextGen Precision Health Policy Manuals Reporting Concerns Web Apps Webmail Full A-Z Index UM System This video element requires HTML 5 to play. Meet us at the intersection of excellence through innovation We are the University of Missouri System UNIVERSITIES The University of Missouri System supports more than 70,000 students across four universities, serves all 114 counties and generates billions of dollars of economic impact for the state of Missouri. Learn more about our statewide reach University of Missouri-Columbia University of Missouri-Kansas City Missouri University of Science and Technology University of Missouri- St. Louis OUR VISION Advancing the opportunities for success and well-being for Missouri, our nation and the world through transformative teaching, research, innovation, engagement and inclusion. Fulfilling our vision through investments in... Student Success Research and Creative Works Engagement and Outreach Inclusive Excellence Operations, Planning and Stewardship FEATURED STORIES | Campus Highlights - May 2021 Campus Highlights - April 2021 Campus Highlights - March 2021 Read more about highlights from the University of Missouri System for March 2021. Campus Highlights -February 2021 Campus Highlights - January 2021 LATEST UPDATES University of Missouri Board of Curators approves new tuition structure May 17, 2022 Public Meeting Notice: University of Missouri Board of Curators May 16, 2022 Public Meeting Notice: University of Missouri Board of Curators Apr 19, 2022 Public Meeting Notice: University of Missouri Board of Curators - Health Affairs Committee Apr 13, 2022 Public Meeting Notice: University of Missouri Board of Curators Mar 23, 2022 Public Meeting Notice: University of Missouri Board of Curators Mar 21, 2022 EMPLOYEES Resources Collected Rules and Regulations Employee Benefits Integrity and Accountability Hotline myHR Pay Information Policy Manuals Web Apps Webmail The University of Missouri System is one of the largest employers in the state of Missouri, with more than 5,000 faculty and 15,000 staff. Approximately $1.5B of employee salary and retirement income returns to the state. Interested in joining the team? Learn about who we are - OR - Find a position About Curators President Departments Who We Are Facts and Figures Statewide Reach History Strategic Planning Overview Meeting information Members Officers Committees About the Office About the President Programs Academic Affairs Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Engagement and Outreach Finance General Counsel Government Relations Human Resources Information Technology Research and Economic Development Strategic Communication Transformation Management Looking for something else? Search the full UM System site or Browse the A-Z Index UM System Copyright © 2003-2022. The Curators of the University of Missouri. All rights reserved. Copyright | Accessibility | Equal Opportunity | Careers and Employment | Emergency Notification | Contact Us | Website Help | Report a broken/incorrect link University of Missouri System About Curators President Departments News A-Z Index RSS Twitter Facebook Youtube Flickr Linkedin Slideshare