Office of Access and Services for Individuals with Disabilities Skip to content Skip to primary navigation Skip to search box Skip to admissions quick links Skip to secondary navigation Skip to breadcrumb TC Menu Search for people, news & websites Go Resource Links Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Columbia Library myTC Directory Apply Now Request Info Search Bar Primary Navigation About Academics Admission & Aid Faculty & Research News Give to TC Office of Access and Services For Individuals With Disabilities Schedule an Appointment Secondary Navigation Main Home About Us Event Accommodations Resources Links Maps TC Office of Access and Services for Individuals with Disabilities COVID-19 OASID Update OASID staff is available to meet virtually and in-person by appointment only. We will not be accepting walk-in appointments at this time. Email us at oasid@tc.edu or call 212-678-3689 for assistance. Announcements The OASID office will be closed on Monday, May 23rd from 9am-5pm due to TC's Convocation Ceremonies. Please email oasid@tc.edu with any inquiries and we will respond as soon as possible when the office reopens on May 24th. For those students who were approved for remote instruction during the Fall 2021 and/or Spring 2022 semesters due to medical conditions that put them at risk for COVID-19 complications, please note that this was a College-level approval that is not considered a disability-related accommodation. Students experiencing disability-related barriers they believe are preventing them from attending class in person and engaging in a meaningful learning experience during the Summer 2022 or Fall 2022 semester may contact OASID at oasid@tc.columbia.edu to discuss whether they may be eligible to receive disability-related accommodations. Welcome to the Office of Access and Services for Individuals with Disabilities Teachers College is committed to providing educational and professional opportunities for all individuals and assisting them in making their experience at Teachers College successful and positive. OASID works with all academic departments, faculty members, and administrative offices in an attempt to ensure that individuals with disabilities can participate fully and equally in the Teachers College community. Learn More About OASID Students Ensuring equal access to programs, activities, and services for students with disabilities. View More Student Resources Employees Providing effective workplace accommodations for individuals with disabilities. View More Employee Resources Resources Maps Grievance Procedures Contact Us Office of Access and Services For Individuals With Disabilities Address: Zankel 301 Teachers College, Columbia University 525 West 120th Street New York, NY 10027-6696 Box: 105 * Phone: (212) 678-3689 * Fax: (212) 678-3793 * Email: oasid@tc.columbia.edu Director: Marissa Sala Contact Us Teachers College, Columbia University 525 West 120th Street New York, NY 10027 Tel: +1 (212) 678-3000 Map & Directions Directory Ask a Question Resources Admission & Aid Student Life Courses Academic Calendar Office of the Registrar Office of Teacher Education TC NEXT Employment Legal Consumer Information / Student Right to Know Legal Notices Policy Library Non-Discrimination Title IX Compliance Ethics Reporting Public Safety GDPR Notice Make a Gift to TC Diversity Work at TC TC Facebook TC Twitter TC Instagram TC Youtube TC LinkedIn © 2022, Teachers College, Columbia University, New York, NY 10027. Back to skip to quick links