COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Shocker Bowling Section Menu Shocker Bowling Home Shocker Bowling Camps 2021-2022 Team Recruits Sponsors Program History Archives Tryout Statistics 12 Men's National Titles, 10 Women's National Titles, and over 50 years of excellence. Contact Shocker Bowling Recruits Shocker Bowling Camps 2021-2022 Season Schedule 2021-2022 Shocker Bowling Teams Learn About our Coaches, Women, and Men Meet the Team Shocker Bowling 2021 Men's and Women's National Champions Welcome to the official website of Wichita State University's Shocker Bowling Teams. Wichita State University is home to the most accomplished collegiate bowling program in the nation with a record 22 men's and women's national championships. Since 1975, 50 Shocker bowlers have competed for the U.S. National Team and there are a handful of alumni on the Professional Bowler's Association tour. Whether you're a prospective Shocker, a current Shocker, or an alumni, this webpage covers it all! » Learn more about the history of Shocker Bowling Wichita State Shocker Bowling Shocker Bowling Camps Our camps are a one-of-a-kind experience designed to give you a taste of what the life of a Shocker Bowler is all about. At our weekend camps you will live in the dorms, spend time working on the lanes and in the classroom with our coaches, learn about the mental aspect of bowling, get a custom video coaching session, and much more! 2021-2022 Team Learn about the current Shocker Bowling Teams, stats, schedules, and more. Info about the 2021-2022 team is coming soon! Recruits All the information prospective athletes need to be a part of the Shocker Bowling Program. Give to Shocker Bowling Learn how you can support student athletes in their pursuit of academic and athletic success. Tweets by ShockerBowling More Information Videos Sponsors Rhatigan Student Center Tryout Statistics 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©