Skip Navigation Texas A&M University at Galveston Find info for: Future Students Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Former Students Visitors Veterans University Catalog Phonebook Calendar A-Z List Search MENU Newsroom Search Topics For The Media Archives Contact Us Select Web or PeopleWebPeople Search Newsroom: Topics For The Media Archives Contact Us Newsroom DiGeorgio-Lutz Receives Prestigious Fulbright Award March 30, 2022 Share Tweet By Rebecca Watts, Director Texas A&M University at Galveston Liberal Studies Department Head, JoAnn DiGeorgio-Lutz, has received a prestigious Fulbright U.S. Scholar Program award to Cambodia to mentor graduate students and further her research on the Cambodian genocide. The award is DiGeorgio-Lutz’s third Fulbright award: she was a Fulbright Scholar to Jordan in 2008 and a Fulbright Specialist to Cambodia in 2011. “Fulbright is a reciprocal experience and will allow me to collaborate with new colleagues and make new connections with organizations and associations that will enrich my classes when I return,” DiGeorgio-Lutz said. “I am proud of the recognition this award brings to the Department of Liberal Studies here at the Galveston Campus and its acknowledgment of the importance of liberal arts.” Fulbright alumni include 61 Nobel Prize laureates, 89 Pulitzer Prize recipients, and 40 who have served as a head of state or government. DiGeorgio-Lutz begins her Scholar-in-Residence on May 15 at Paragon International University. She will provide tutorials and mentoring on graduate research projects and graduate theses for students majoring in International Relations while pursuing her research interests. “Being awarded a Fulbright Scholarship allows me to engage in more depth with the people and culture of Cambodia,” said DiGeorgio-Lutz. “Having been a Fulbright Specialist to the country several years ago and a frequent visitor to pursue my research, an extended stay will allow me to develop my Khmer language skills and explore areas of the country beyond the major tourist stops.” DiGeorgio-Lutz researches Khmer Rouge foreign policy to provide a new perspective and additional analysis of perpetrator behavior in understanding the Cambodian genocide. She also examines Cambodia’s genocide memorialization and transitional justice measures in the context of genocide museums and other public memorials. The Fulbright Program is the U.S. government’s flagship international educational exchange program and is supported by the people of the United States and partner countries around the world. The Fulbright Program is funded through an annual appropriation made by the U.S. Congress to the U.S. Department of State’s Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs. Participating governments and host institutions, corporations, and foundations around the world also provide direct and indirect support to the Program. Since 1946, the Fulbright Program has provided more than 400,000 participants from over 160 countries the opportunity to study, teach and conduct research, exchange ideas, and contribute to finding solutions to shared international concerns. The primary source of funding for the Fulbright program is an annual appropriation by the U.S. Congress to the U.S. Department of State’s Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs. Participating governments and host institutions, corporations and foundations in foreign countries and in the United States also provide direct and indirect support. For further information about the Fulbright Program or the U.S. Department of State, please visit http://eca.state.gov/fulbright or contact the Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs Press Office by telephone 202-632-6452 or e-mail ECA-Press@state.gov. ###Media contact: Rebecca Watts rwatts@tamug.edu More: Read more about Arts & Humanities Read more about Liberal Studies Read more about Texas A&M Maritime Academy Read more about Student Life COVID-19 Social Media Share Buttons Follow Us TAMUG FacebookTAMUG Twitter TAMUG Instagram TAMUG LinkedIn TAMUG Youtube Texas A&M University at Galveston is an ocean-oriented branch campus of Texas A&M University which educates nearly 2,300 undergraduate and graduate students in a unique blend of marine and maritime programs, including majors in science, business, engineering, liberal arts, and transportation. It is driving the development of the blue economy in the Gulf Coast Region and is a critical contributor to Texas A&M’s sea-grant portion of Texas A&M’s rare land-, sea-, space-grant mission with nearly $10 million in research expenditures. Texas A&M-Galveston is also home to the Texas A&M Maritime Academy, one of seven in the U.S. and the only academy integrated into a Tier 1 academic institution, which trains over 400 cadets annually for maritime service and employment around the world. Texas A&M-Galveston is ideally located in Galveston, Texas on the Gulf Coast where is it surrounded by the industry, environment and programs essential to fulfilling its special-purpose mission. Aggies are known for their deep commitment to the success of each other and their strong desire to serve. If you are interested in supporting this endeavor or research, please contact the Texas A&M University at Galveston Office of Development by email at GiveToSeaAggies@txamfoundation.com or by calling (409) 740-4481. © 2022 Texas A&M University at Galveston Mailing Address: P.O. Box 1675, Galveston, Texas 77553 Physical Address: 200 Seawolf Parkway, Galveston, TX 77554 Shipping Address: 1001 Texas Clipper Road, Galveston, TX 77554 Site Policies Back to top