Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home News The Ice Is Disappearing at Record Speed Climate The Ice Is Disappearing at Record Speed We’ve lost 28 trillion tons of ice globally in 24 years, from 1994 to 2017, and the implications for sea level rise could be significant. By Marco Tedesco February 01, 2021 Photo: Jelle Visser on Flickr A new study has found that the world lost 28 trillion tons of ice lost in 24 years, from 1994 to 2017. To give some idea of this amount, the lost ice would be enough to cover the entire state of Arizona with a polar cap 30 stories tall (or about 100 meters). One of the biggest concerns from this immense loss of ice is the rise in sea levels that comes with it. The perpetrators are the usual suspects: the ice of Greenland, of the minor glaciers and, recently, those of Antarctica. Currently, Greenland and minor glaciers play a dominant role in sea level rise, while the remaining contribution is due to the phenomenon of thermal expansion of the oceans. The more we warm the oceans, which absorb about 85% of the heat due to global warming, the more these “swell” (expand) a bit like the gas in a hot air balloon when it heats up, favoring the rising of the seas. Future estimates suggest that if we were to continue on today’s trajectory of greenhouse gas emissions and global warming, the role of glaciers in sea level rise will be less and less — in view of the fact that many will, alas, disappear — while Greenland and Antarctica will be responsible for most of the rising of the seas through the melting of their ice. The role of thermal expansion will diminish, not because the ocean will not continue to expand — rather, it will continue to do so faster and faster as it continues to warm up — but because the melting of polar ice will be exorbitant and far outweigh the effect of thermal expansion. Antarctica and Greenland were, in the past, complicit in similar “crimes,” flooding the land and favoring a sea level several meters higher than today, when temperatures and the CO2 concentration in the atmosphere were similar to today. However, in the past, the stimulus for change occurred for natural reasons (changes in Earth’s orbit, volcanic eruptions, etc.) and across thousands of years, causing Antarctica to wake up first from freezing numbness, followed by Greenland. In contrast, the stimulus we are imposing on our climate, unnatural and violent, has occurred within a few decades, with Greenland reacting quickly and Antarctica starting to respond. According to researchers from the University of Leeds, authors of the new study just published in The Cryosphere, half of all ice losses were caused by ice on land, including 6.1 trillion tons from mountain glaciers, 3.8 trillion tons from the Greenland ice sheet and 2.5 trillion tons from the Antarctic ice sheet. These leaks raised global sea level by 35 millimeters. Considering that it is estimated that for every centimeter of sea level rise, about one million people risk being displaced from the lowlands, it is plausible that the melting of the ice between 1994 and 2017 may have already affected the lives of more than 3 million people living along the coast. Unfortunately, a U-turn is unlikely in the coming decades without addressing the problem of reducing emissions and capturing CO2 in the atmosphere. Without such a reversal, the consequences on our planet, and on life along the coasts as we know it today, will be transfigured. Marco Tedesco is a research professor at Columbia University’s Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory. Tags ice sheets Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory melting glaciers sea level rise Viewpoints News May 31, 2022 Aurora Barone Looks for Equitable Ways to Cut Carbon Emissions May 27, 2022 Sylhet City, Geology, and Packing Up May 25, 2022 Community-Led Science Uncovers High Air Pollution From Fracking in Ohio County May 20, 2022 Start of the Mini-Field School May 17, 2022 Lazy Bears and Confused Birds: What a Warming Planet Means for Wildlife Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close