Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Search form Search Brown University Brown | RISD Dual Degree Program Search Brown University Home About History People Leadership BRDD Peer Advisors Student Demographics Visit Academics Advising BRDD Peer Advisors Five-Year Planning BRDD Canvas Page Current Student Degree Combinations Capstones New Courses 2021-2022 BRDD Calendar (PDF) Student Resources Five-Year Planning International Students BRDD Canvas Page 2021-2022 BRDD Academic Calendar Student Life Housing and Dining New Students Orientation Year 2 Orientation Admissions Tuition & Aid Apply FAQs Visit Alumni Alumni Newsletter News and Events Annual Exhibition Events and Programs Home About History People Student Demographics Visit Academics Student Resources Student Life Admissions Alumni News and Events Annual Exhibition Events and Programs Search Brown | RISD Dual Degree Program Events and Programs Brown|RISD Dual Degree students are able to fully access resources, programs, and events on both the Brown and RISD campuses. Additionally, the Dual Degree Program programs different events throughout the year. These are informed by student interest and need. Students, alumni, and faculty or staff working with Dual Degree students are encouraged to share ideas for new programming with the Assistant Director and Advisor of the Program. Below are examples of past BRDD events and Program traditions. Annual All Cohort Gathering at Tillinghast Place An annual BRDD Program tradition, this informal gathering early in September, is an opportunity for Dual Degree students to welcome in the new cohort and connect across all class years. This relaxed afternoon at RISD’s bay front beach property is a time for swimming, conversations, games, sketching, etc. Monthly Brunches BRDD Peer Advisors help coordinate monthly opportunities to gather. Monthly brunches are a tradition of coming together informally to talk about shared experiences, catch up with friends, and make new connections over a meal. A small group of students collaborate to prepare a home-cooked a brunch together and by 11am, the community comes together to eat! Night in the Museum In October, BRDD Fourth and Fifth Year students and their advisors and mentors from both Brown and RISD, come together in the RISD Museum to connect. The group gathers to bridge our institutions, bolster previous relationships, and form new ones. After a reception, RISD Museum Educators lead the group in a "close looking exercise" for a selected work of art. The diversity in our fields of study and perspectives and that the variation in our different backgrounds contribute to the richness of our discussions. BRDD Exhibition Interdisciplinary Critique and Conversation On an evening before the public reception of the annual BRDD exhibition, the community has private access to the Granoff Center for the Creative Arts. BRDD students along with some RISD and Brown faculty come together to dialogue around and critique works in the year's exhibition. Artists with works in the exhibition, share the motivation behind their work and have the opportunity to pose a a question to the group for feedback. The Critique and Conversation event allows BRDD students to connect around issues, ideas, and work without the barriers of department, field of study, or class year in the program. Joint Presentations Across Campus Offices BRDD students make use of campus offices and resources at both Brown and RISD. At times, our programming brings the corresponding Brown and RISD offices together to present together, highlighting the range of resources, opportunities, and choices. Examples of these cross-campus presentations have included those by our offices that address: Career Services Study Abroad Fellowship Opportunities Opportunities to Connect with BRDD Alumni In our eleventh year, the Brown|RISD Dual Degree Program now has more alumni than current students! Our alumni network is growing. Different events and social media help students and alumni to network. Alumni have been invited back to participate in the tenth year of the Program and in the exhibition and have gathered in small groups with students during alumni weekends. We have also begun to use video conferencing technology to host conversations and panels with alumni. Most recently, a group of five alumni pursuing advanced degrees, shared their experience with students and other alumni who tuned in. News and Events Annual Exhibition Events and Programs Brown | RISD Dual Degree Program Brown | RISD Dual Degree Program Box 1828 Stephen Robert '62 Campus Center, Suite 228 Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-9836 Fax: 401-863-1961 Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top