Skip to Main Content Brown University Graduate Programs Search Menu Graduate Programs Education: Master of Arts in Teaching MAT department Graduate School department Education Inquire All Graduate Programs Navigate This Page Navigate This Page About the Program Admission Information Financial Aid Completion Requirements Alumni Outcomes Leadership Contact and Location Brown's Master of Arts in Teaching program is a one–year program that aims to prepare critical, impactful and reflexive secondary teachers who demonstrate excellence in both their academic discipline and the multifaceted field of education. Both inside and outside the classroom, MAT students receive preparation for secondary-school teaching careers (grades 7-12) in English, mathematics, social studies, and science (biology, chemistry, or engineering/physics). Our program is a unique blend of outstanding university and residency-based teacher education that prepares students for urban contexts. MAT students learn within a particular school context while developing an understanding of the larger landscape of education -- including how to make positive change. It is not necessary for applicants to have prior teaching experience or coursework in education, although prior work with children or adolescents is expected. Once applicants have submitted an application, selected applicants will be invited to interview with the appropriate faculty. While in-person interviews are preferred, it is possible to arrange Skype or phone interviews. See below for specific program requirements. Prospective applicants with questions about their coursework or academic background are urged to contact the appropriate faculty member in their content area. Admission Information Inquire Applicants don’t need to have prior teaching experience or coursework in education, although prior work with children or adolescents is expected. Once applicants have applied, selected applicants will be invited to interview in-person, online, or over the phone with the appropriate faculty. See below for specific program requirements. Prospective applicants with questions about their coursework or academic background are urged to contact the appropriate faculty member in their content area: Laura Snyder for English, Indira Gil for math, Diane Silva Pimentel for science, and John Palella for social studies. If you have any questions regarding the application process for this program, please email masters_admissions@brown.edu. Admission Requirements GRE Subject: Not required GRE General: Not required TOEFL/IELTS: Required for any non-native English speaker who does not have a degree from an institution where English is the sole language of instruction or from a University in the following countries: Australia, Bahamas, Botswana, Cameroon, Canada (except Quebec), Ethiopia, Ghana, Ireland, Kenya, Lesotho, Liberia, Malawi, New Zealand, Nigeria, Zimbabwe, South Africa, Sierra Leone, Swaziland, Tanzania, Gambia, Uganda, United Kingdom (England, Scotland, Northern Ireland, Wales), West Indies, Zambia). The TOEFL iBT Special Home Edition and the IELTS Indicator exam are accepted. Students from mainland China may submit the TOEFL ITP Plus exam. Letters of Recommendations: Three (3) recommendations required Writing Sample: Applicants for the MAT in English must submit a writing sample, no more than 5 typewritten single-spaced pages, in addition to their personal statement. Personal Statement: 1000-1500 word personal statement that gives your reasons to pursue graduate work in the field of your study. The statement should include examples of your past work in your chosen field, your plans for study at Brown, issues and problems you'd like to address in your field and your professional goals. Resume/CV: Required Dates/Deadlines Admission Deadline January 19, 2022 Financial Aid Tuition: $7,618 per course; 8 courses in 1 year Scholarships: Available. More information can be found on the Department of Education website. International students are eligible for scholarships. Completion Requirements MAT Secondary Education (English, History/Social Studies, Math, Science): Includes graduate level coursework in teaching and pedagogy. The summer focuses on methods of teaching/curriculum development, and practicum experience in Brown Summer High School. The academic component of the year includes preparation in literacy and teaching English Language Learners, instructional design and assessment, and special education. Candidates will complete a course in the socio–cultural contexts of education and two electives, mutually determined by student and faculty advisor. The program also includes a full year practicum and student teaching placement. Requirements for Certification Upon completion of the program and the appropriate Praxis II test(s), students are eligible for Rhode Island certification in secondary education (grades 7-12). It is required of each teacher education program that receives funding from the federal government that it make public the results of the professional test taken by each completer. Brown University’s Teacher Education Program had a 97% pass rate in the year 2017. Rhode Island is a member of the National Association of State Directors of Teacher Education and Certification (NASDTEC) Interstate Agreement, allowing graduates reciprocal certification without transcript evaluation in most states. Alumni Careers Learn More Leadership Department Chair John Papay john_papay@brown.edu Director of Teacher Education Diane Silva Pimentel diane_silva_pimentel@brown.edu Contact and Location Department of Education Mailing Address Brown University Box 1938 education@brown.edu 401-863-2407 Visit the Department of Education Resources Education Dept. Faculty Program Handbook Graduate School Handbook Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Graduate School School of Engineering School of Professional Studies School of Public Health Warren Alpert Medical School This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Education: Master of Arts in Teaching Open details for Education: Master of Arts in Teaching Bookmark this Page