Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Email Print After Princeton graduation, ROTC students are commissioned as U.S. Army and Marine Corps officers Denise Valenti, Office of Communications May 25, 2022, 2:21 p.m. Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Gen. Mark Milley (center) administers the oath of office to Princeton’s ROTC Class of 2022. Photo by Sameer A. Khan/Fotobuddy Sixteen members of Princeton’s Class of 2022 became commissioned officers in the U.S. Army and Marine Corps on May 24 during a ceremony led by Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Gen. Mark Milley, a Class of 1980 graduate who himself was commissioned through Princeton’s ROTC program more than 40 years ago. The ROTC Commissioning was held in the Faculty Room of Nassau Hall a few hours after Princeton’s Commencement. Princeton’s ROTC Class of 2022 represents the largest commissioning class in recent years. Fifteen students were commissioned as second lieutenants in the U.S. Army and one was commissioned as a second lieutenant in the U.S. Marine Corps. The group represented a variety of concentrations, including English, history, mechanical and aerospace engineering, chemistry, and computer science, as well as activities such as varsity athletics, the Princeton University Glee Club, peer advising and Engineers Without Borders. At the ceremony, University President Christopher L. Eisgruber invoked the legacy of U.S. Supreme Court Justice John Paul Stevens, stating that two of the defining commitments in Stevens’ life were his service in the U.S. Navy and his legal work. Eisgruber underscored the link between military service and upholding the law. Photo by Sameer A. Khan/Fotobuddy At the ceremony, President Christopher L. Eisgruber invoked the legacy of U.S. Supreme Court Justice John Paul Stevens — for whom Eisgruber clerked from 1989 to 1990 — stating that two of the defining commitments in Stevens’ life were his service in the U.S. Navy and his life in the law. “I am confident that he viewed those commitments as profoundly linked to one another, conjoined by the oath of service to the Constitution that all of you will soon swear, and by what he saw as America’s grand collective quest to form a more perfect union, secure the blessings of liberty, and guarantee every person the equal protection of the laws,” Eisgruber said. He continued: “The Constitution now, and indeed always, urgently needs our active support. As the poet James Russell Lowell observed not long after the Civil War, Americans sometimes have a mistaken tendency to regard the Constitution as ‘a machine that would go of itself.’ It is not.” Princeton’s Army ROTC Tiger Battalion is the longest continuously running ROTC program in the United States, having been established in 1919. Princeton re-established its Navy ROTC program in 2014 after a 43-year absence from campus, and also reinstated a transfer program in 2018 aimed at admitting more veterans, community college and low-income students. In fall 2021, the University’s faculty voted to expand that program. In his remarks, Milley thanked Eisgruber for his leadership and support of ROTC at Princeton. Milley said he spent time with the soon-to-be officers prior to the ceremony, and he lauded them for their academic accomplishments. Milley reminded the graduates of their duty to serve others and of their allegiance to the U.S. Constitution. “You are entering not a job, you’re entering a calling,” he said. Photo by Sameer A. Khan/Fotobuddy “This is an incredibly talented group of people, exactly the kind of people we want to come into our Army, into our Marine Corps, into our service today,” Milley said. Milley laid out the landscape of military threats into which the graduates are entering, calling out Russia’s invasion of Ukraine as “a gross violation” of the principles of international relations put into place after World War II that could lead to further conflict if allowed to stand. “It’s incumbent upon you and I, those of us in uniform, to protect this group out here,” he said, referring to the guests in attendance. “And we will do that no matter what the cost to ourselves. You are entering not a job, you’re entering a calling.” Milley also reminded the new officers that the oath they were swearing was the same taken by the president of the United States and others in government, and that the oath was to the Constitution, which he said is, “more than a document — it’s an idea.” “You’re taking an oath to that idea, you’re not taking an oath to a person,” Milley said. “You’re never to take an oath to a president, a king, a queen. You’re not taking an oath to a dictator or wannabe dictator or tyrant. You’re taking an oath to an idea, the idea that is America. And you will do anything and everything — if necessary, sacrifice even your life — to preserve that idea, and pass it on unscathed to the next generation.” Katherine French (front center), was pinned by her mother, Kristin French (left), a retired brigadier general and deputy director of logistics operations at the Defense Logistics Agency, her father, Richard (right), a retired lieutenant colonel, and her brother, Ryan (rear center), a first lieutenant. Photo by Sameer A. Khan/Fotobuddy After taking the oath of office, the newly commissioned officers received their ranking pins and performed the traditional Silver Dollar Salute. The ceremony was attended by families and friends, University administrators and military representatives, including Gen. John Abizaid, who served as commander of U.S. Central Command from July 2003 to March 2007; Robert Maguire, former civilian aide to the Secretary of the Army for New Jersey; and Kristin French, a retired brigadier general and deputy director of logistics operations at the Defense Logistics Agency. Savannah Hampton chose to do her first Silver Dollar Salute — a time-honored tradition in which a brand new second lieutenant hands a silver dollar to the first officer who salutes them — with her grandfather, Air Force Master Sergeant Bob Stone. Photo by Sameer A. Khan/Fotobuddy The afternoon was especially meaningful for the graduates’ parents, who pinned ranks onto their children’s uniforms. French pinned her daughter, Katherine Kyler French, together with Katherine’s father, Richard, a retired lieutenant colonel, and her brother, Ryan, a first lieutenant. George Hurley, selected to serve as an armor office in the active component, received his ranks from his father, John Hurley, Class of 1986, a retired captain who also is an alumnus of the Tiger Batallion, and his mother, Kamilla. In concluding his address, Eisgruber said the University takes great pride in its ROTC graduates and all they have accomplished. “We are proud of your learning,” he said. “We are proud of your courage. We are proud of your commitment to our Constitution, to the United States Armed Forces, and to the enduring ideals for which they stand.” The newly commissioned officers, who hail from 11 states and represent concentrations including English, history, mechanical and aerospace engineering, chemistry, and computer science, celebrated their accomplishments with a reception and cake-cutting in the basement of Chancellor Green. Photo by Sameer A. Khan/Fotobuddy Commencement 2022 View All News Connect with #Princeton22 Instagram Facebook Twitter GIPHY YouTube LinkedIn 2022 Commencement website ‘The value of persistence’: Princeton Class of 2022 celebrates Commencement University News: Read more 2022 Commencement Salutatio by Frances Mangina (Latin and English) University News: Read more 2022 Valedictory remarks by Natalia Orlovsky University News: Read more Class of 2022 Commencement Address by President Eisgruber — 'The Value of Persistence' University News: Read more Four faculty members recognized for outstanding teaching Award: Read more Princeton awards five honorary degrees Award: Read more Four outstanding N.J. secondary school teachers honored at Princeton Commencement Award: Read more At Hooding, a ritual celebration of extraordinary scholarly accomplishment University News: Read more Dr. Fauci to Princeton seniors on Class Day: ‘It is our collective responsibility not to shrug our shoulders’ or to accept ‘the normalization of untruths’ University News: Read more Students honored for leadership and service at 2022 Class Day Award: Read more Princeton University Class of 2022 Class Day remarks by Dr. Anthony S. Fauci University News: Read more Baccalaurate speaker Wendy Kopp ’89: The path to happiness is to align our lives with our values University News: Read more 2022 Princeton Baccalaureate address by Wendy Kopp University News: Read more Reunited: Princeton alumni return to campus for the first in-person Reunions since the start of the pandemic University News: Read more Phi Beta Kappa chapter honors Alexander Davis, Casey Lew-Williams with teaching awards Award: Read more Watch: Princeton's Class of 2022 Commencement ceremony Tuesday, May 24 University News: Read more Alumni returning for Reunions 2022 this Thursday through Sunday Campus Life: Read more Graduate students honored for excellence in teaching Award: Read more Four faculty members honored for excellence in mentoring graduate students Award: Read more Commencement events for Class of 2022 and on-campus Commencement details for Class of 2020 University News: Read more Natalia Orlovsky named Princeton valedictorian, Frances Mangina selected as salutatorian Award: Read more Dr. Anthony Fauci will speak at Princeton’s 2022 Class Day University News: Read more Teach For All co-founder and CEO Wendy Kopp named Baccalaureate speaker University News: Read more Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice