Columbia University in the City of New York Office of the University Registrar Related Services for Students Student Service Center ID Center Student Financial Services CUMC Registration & Financial Services Finance CourseWorks Environmental Stewardship Dining Event Management Faculty House Health Housing Information Technology Lerner Hall Mail Print Transportation Profile: Annel Monserrat Becerra Rodriguez Law School Selects Annel Monserrat Becerra Rodriguez for Campbell Award Profile: Linda Fried School of Public Health Dean, Linda Fried, Awarded Kober Medal for Study of Healthy Aging Search form Search News Forms About Us Academic Calendar Master Course Schedule and Calendar Wait Lists Post-Change of Program Add/Drop Period Registration and Enrollment Registrar Classrooms Exams Grades Graduation and Diplomas Diploma Replacement Apostille: Certifying Columbia Documents for Use Internationally Transcripts and Certifications Faculty and Staff Personal Information Policies and Regulations Registrar Forms Text Resize -A +A Quick LinksAcademic CalendarMaster Course Schedule and CalendarWait ListsPost-Change of Program Add/Drop PeriodRegistration and Enrollment - Registration Dates - Registering for Classes and Appointment Times - Registration Information and Instructions for Faculty - Cross-Registration -- Cross-Registration: Columbia and Barnard College -- Cross-Registration: Columbia and Jewish Theological Seminary -- Cross-Registration: Columbia and Teachers College -- Cross-Registration: Columbia and Union Theological Seminary - Dropping Courses - Withdrawal -- Refund Rate for Withdrawals - Registration Holds - Advising - School Bulletins - Auditing ProgramsRegistrar Classrooms - Classroom Scheduling -- Classroom Descriptions - Registrar-Managed Classrooms - Building Codes - Protocol for Classroom RelocationExams - Final Exam SchedulesGrades - Grading System - Grade Options - Grade Point AverageGraduation and Diplomas - Diploma Replacement - Apostille: Certifying Columbia Documents for Use InternationallyTranscripts and Certifications - Transcripts - Certifications - Third Party Ordering - Release of Academic Information for Deceased Students - Information for ParentsFaculty and Staff - Class Rosters - Departmental Access - Academic Advising ResourcesPersonal Information - Name Changes -- Preferred Name FAQ - NameCoach - Withhold or Reverse Withholding... - Solomon AmendmentPolicies and Regulations - Privacy Rights (FERPA) -- Parents -- FERPA for Faculty & Staff - Central Administration of Academic Programs - Codes for Classification of Instructional Programs (CIP) - Retention of Student Education Records - Standard Transcript NotationsRegistrar Forms - Registration Adjustment Form (Add & Drop Classes) - Academic Certification Request - Application for Degree or Certificate - Request for Transcript - Application for Replacement of Diploma - Request to Withhold or Reverse Withholding of Directory Information - Name Change Affidavit Home > Graduation and Diplomas > Apostille: Certifying Columbia Documents for Use Internationally Apostille: Certifying Columbia Documents for Use Internationally Frequently, students and alumni need internationally certified copies of a diploma, transcript, academic certification or other official document. In order to certify these documents for official use internationally, Columbia and other institutions rely on the New York State Department of State. The Department of State issues a Certificate of Authentication in the name of the State of New York for any public document submitted to it. This is also known as the “Apostille” process, and several steps are involved. Your Columbia document must first be certified as genuine by an official in the Office of the University Registrar, 210 Kent Hall, and the signature of that official must be notarized by a notary in that office. There is no fee for this service but you must make an appointment by emailing [email protected] with the subject "Apostille". We will then provide further instructions for processing. Same-day service may not be aviailable. We encourage you to make an appointment via email. You may bring the document in person to 210 Kent, mail it to us, or scan and email documents to [email protected] to begin the process. We will mail it to an address you provide or will hold it for pick-up during our business hours. Next, bring your document to the New York County Clerk at 60 Centre St., Room 141B, where the notarial signature must be authenticated. The Clerk’s office charges a small fee for this service. For more information, please see: http://ww2.nycourts.gov/courts/1jd/supctmanh/OfficialVON.shtml. Next, arrange for the Department of State to complete the process. Make sure steps one and two are complete, or the Department will reject your document. Again, there is a small fee. You may either: Bring your document to the New York State Department of State at 123 William St. in lower Manhattan, or Mail it to the U.S. Department of State or the NYS Department of State in Albany. For general information on the process, please visit the NYS Department of State website at https://dos.ny.gov/apostille-or-certificate-authentication. Diploma Replacement Apostille: Certifying Columbia Documents for Use Internationally Registrar Highlights Academic Calendar 2020-2021 Directory of Classes Vergil FERPA and Personal Information Graduation and Diplomas Grades and Exams SSOL Office of the University Registrar | 210 Kent Hall, MC 9202, 1140 Amsterdam Avenue, New York, NY 10027 | [email protected]