Skip to Content Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Indiana University Bloomington Indiana University Bloomington IU Bloomington Menu About History Rankings & Campus Statistics Mission & Strategic Planning Leadership & Administration Safety & Emergency Information Visit Campus Transportation & Parking A-Z List Jobs at IU How to Hire IU Students Admissions How to Apply Cost & Finances Visit IU & Bloomington Academics The Academic Experience Degrees & Majors Business Health & Wellness Science, Engineering & Technology Public Service Arts & Culture Schools Academic Opportunities Study Abroad Online Classes & Programs Schedule of Classes & Academic Calendar Academic Advising & Support Libraries Research Hoosier Life Traditions & Spirit Student Organizations Recreational Sports Athletics Health, Wellness & Safety Housing & Dining Visiting Bloomington Attractions & Things to Do Diversity on Campus Career Prep Find Your Passion Get Experience Develop Your Career Use Your Network Alumni & Giving News & Events Indiana University Bloomington Home About Admissions Academics Research Hoosier Life Career Prep Alumni & Giving News & Events Home Hoosier Life Student Organizations Student Organizations Find your group (and yourself) When we say there’s a lot to do at IU, we’re not bragging. We have more than 750 student organizations, from IU Student Government to Union Board to groups for students and interests of all kinds. And that number is always growing. Explore our student organizations Help your community, or the world Service is everywhere at IU. We have hundreds of service-focused student organizations, service-learning courses, and community engagement programs focused on addressing local and global issues. Plus, many students embark on service trips around the globe during spring break and the summer months. All of these are considered IU Corps experiences. IU Corps is a starting point for all things related to volunteerism and service—including Volunteer Central, a database where you can match 200+ volunteer opportunities to your skills and interests.Learn more about IU Corps Make professional connections in an informal environment IU is home to hundreds of academic and professional organizations, ranging from 180 Degrees Consulting to Women in Cybersecurity. These groups enable you to connect with people who share your passions, get relevant experience, and create the beginnings of a network that will help you throughout your career. Join a sorority or fraternity Nearly 25 percent of IU undergraduates are members of Greek-letter organizations, and there are more than 65 to choose from. Joining a sorority or fraternity is a great way to get involved in the community, develop leadership skills, and make a difference through philanthropic efforts. Explore your artsy side Whether you’re an accomplished vocalist, a film buff, an artist, or a dancer, at IU you’ll find plenty of groups populated by people just like you. We take the arts seriously here—even when we’re playing around. Did you know that the a cappella group Straight No Chaser got its start at IU? It’s true. Join us and who knows? Someday we might be talking about you. Ready to get involved?Find the perfect student organization for you Traditions & Spirit Student Organizations Recreational Sports Athletics Health, Wellness & Safety Housing & Dining Visiting Bloomington Attractions & Things to Do Diversity on Campus Indiana University Bloomington social media channels Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn Contact, Address and Additional Links Services Canvas One.IU AskIU Find Directory A-Z List Courses Campus Map Required Disclosures Library IU Bloomington Libraries IUCAT OneSearch@IU Resources Knowledge Base IT Services Faculty & Staff Resources Diversity Non-Discrimination Notice Protect IU Email About Email at IU Outlook Web Access INDIANA UNIVERSITY BLOOMINGTON 107 S. Indiana Avenue Bloomington, IN 47405-7000 Phone: 812-855-4848 Accessibility | Privacy Notice | Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of Indiana University