Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information Mental Health Topics Campus News Research Medical School Public Health Cancer Mental Health Infectious Diseases Neurology Neuroscience Education Heart Health Pediatrics View All Topics Search All News Keywords News Subtopics: Depression Psychiatry Top Stories Mental Health Care in AAPI Communities: Overcoming Language, Stigma, and Other Barriers Language differences, stigma, and the "model minority" myth prevent many people in Asian American and Pacific Islander communities from getting mental health care. Topic Campus News Making the Most of Telehealth for Talk Therapy Most mental health problems can be addressed via telehealth, says Columbia psychiatrist Deborah Cabaniss, and there are things patients can do to make the most of their sessions. Topic Campus News CUIMC Initiative Receives Federal Community Project Funding The COVID-19 Northern Manhattan Community Mental Wellness Corps, a new initiative to address mental health disparities in Northern Manhattan and parts of the Bronx, has received federal funding. Topic Campus News New Study Identifies Gaps in Emergency Care for Youth in Crisis New survey reveals that pediatric emergency departments need more guidance to help children and adolescents with mental health crises. Topic Pediatrics Latest News Lyme Disease Heightens Risk of Mental Disorders, Suicidality August 11, 2021 A new study found that post-infection, Danish people diagnosed with Lyme disease had a 28% higher rate of mental disorders and were twice as likely to have attempted suicide. Topic Infectious Diseases Performance Anxiety and Burnout in Student Athletes: Q&A with Allison Winik, PhD August 2, 2021 With the Summer Olympics underway, attention is focused on the pressure young athletes face. Topic Campus News Gene Discovery May Hold Key to Better Therapies for OCD June 28, 2021 Columbia research finds that some cases of OCD are caused by damaging gene variants that, while rare, provide a needed starting point for the development of better therapeutics. Topic Precision Medicine Videos Motivate Health Workers to Seek Mental Health Care May 26, 2021 A Columbia study looked at a short and promising approach that could encourage more health workers to get the mental health care they need via a method centered on a three-minute video. Young Adults with Schizophrenia Have Highest Suicide Risk May 26, 2021 The study by Columbia psychiatrists also finds people with schizophrenia, overall, have a 4.5-fold increased risk of dying from suicide. Is Social Media Threatening Teens’ Mental Health and Well-being? May 20, 2021 Too much time spent on social media could increase depression, anxiety, and social isolation, especially among young people. What's Going On With Youth and Mental Illness May 19, 2021 An event from the Department of Psychiatry and School of Journalism explored the state of mental health in America’s children, adolescents, and young adults. Columbia Psychiatry Partners with New York Public Library to Support NYC Communities Hardest Hit by COVID-19 May 18, 2021 The post-COVID Community Mental Health Project aims to promote wellness and increase access to behavioral health services in underserved New York City neighborhoods. Topic Infectious Diseases Even Mild COVID-19 Impacts Mental Health May 7, 2021 A significant level of symptoms of depression, anxiety, and post-traumatic stress may follow COVID-19 independent of any previous psychiatric diagnoses, a new Mailman study finds. Topic COVID-19 Mother’s Day Advice about Mental Health from Doctor Mom May 6, 2021 Primary care physicians can help women deal with anxiety and depression, which are on the rise even as COVID cases decline, says Columbia physician Dr. Arthi Reddy. Topic Depression Pages first previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … next last Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top