More details Skip to main content Dartmouth Home Search Index Dartmouth College Office of the Registrar Enrollment Transcript Registration ORC/Catalog Calendars Faculty About Us Request a Transcript View Term Calendar Registration Schedule Final Exam Schedule Related Sites Timetable Change Link Change Link Office of the Registrar Dartmouth College Office of the Registrar 6014 McNutt Hall Hanover, NH 03755-3541 Phone: (603) 646-2246 Fax: (603) 646-2247 Email: registrar@Dartmouth.EDU Quicklinks DartHub Banner Forms Guides Course Assessment Timetable of Class Meetings Transfer Terms Glossary of Dartmouth Terminology Annual Report Fast Facts about Dartmouth Home > Resources for Faculty & Staff Advisor's Guide to Major/Minor Policies The ORC/Catalog includes several policies concerning majors/minors. This chart summarizes many of these policies for easy reference. Banner Banner is the system of record where you view official class rosters, enter final grades, propose new courses, and more. Chair's Guide A handbook for Department and Program Chairs. Course Assessment Information regarding Dartmouth College's course assessment system, including the assessment schedule for the academic year and information on how to interpret reports. Credits and Exemptions Definitions and guides to pre-matriculation credits and exemptions Curricular Guidelines Charts to provide assistance to departments and programs to initiate curricular changes. DCARS - Dartmouth Course Approval Routing System Online tool used both to propose new and update existing courses according to Dartmouth's governance structure. DartWorks Guides Information on using DartWorks degree audit, and online major/minor declaration and program planner. Faculty Balloting Access to the faculty balloting site when voting is live. FERPA Tutorial An quick online introduction to FERPA, the Federal student records law. Faculty Member's Guide A handbook for all faculty members. Faculty Quick Guide Organization of the Faculty of Dartmouth College (OFDC) The OFDC is made up of a set of councils and committees that provide forums for the deliberation of policies affecting the entire institution. A&S Faculty Committees and Title IX Council Descriptions and membership of the A&S Faculty Committees and Title IX Council. Final Grade and Transcripts Schedules 2019-2020 Guides for Faculty Course Election Online Grading Course Assessment ORC/Catalog Textbook Guide Committee on Instruction Policies Curricular Changes and Current Students Procedures for implementing changes to the curriculum and a framework for solving potential problems. Grading Practices Contact Us Top of page | Privacy | Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Last Updated: 12/13/21