Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University Robert J. & Nancy D.Carney Institute for Brain Science Search Brown University Home Research Research Projects Where Brain Science Happens BRAINSTORM Program Centers & Core Facilities Center for Alzheimer's Disease Research Center for Computational Brain Science COBRE Center for Neuromodulation Center for the Neurobiology of Cells and Circuits Center for Translational Neuroscience Center for Vision Research COBRE Center for Central Nervous System Function Research Projects Research Cores Behavior and Neuroimaging Core Design and Analysis Core MRI Research Facility Carney Human Testing Space The Bioluminescence Hub COVID-19 Resuming Research Plan Training Undergraduate Students Concentrations Graduate Study Postdocs Executive Committee Carney Summer Scholars Training Programs ICoN - Interdisciplinary Training Interdisciplinary Vision Training Program TPCP - Training Program People Institute Team Executive Committee Affiliated Faculty Community Spotlights Center Directors Scientific Advisory Board News & Events News Upcoming Events Past Events BrainExPo Seminar Series Carney Conversations Methods Meetups Resources Funding Opportunities Research Toolbox Brain Facts Education & Outreach Research & Educational Resources About Our Impact Affiliated Units Where Brain Science Happens FAQ Partner With Us Give To Carney Give To Carney Home Research Training Undergraduate Students Graduate Study Postdocs Carney Summer Scholars Training Programs ICoN - Interdisciplinary Training Interdisciplinary Vision Training Program TPCP - Training Program People News & Events Resources About Partner With Us Search Carney Institute for Brain Science Interdisciplinary Vision Training Program What is the Interdisciplinary Vision Training Program? The Interdisciplinary Vision Training Program at Brown University trains graduate students to become leaders in vision research. Trainees receive specialized training and experiences aimed at strengthening and broadening their understanding and abilities in vision research. The core of the vision program is the laboratory research training they receive. Research conducted in the preceptors' labs investigates a wide range of topics including retinal structure and function, development of the visual system, visual processing in the brain, visual perception and learning, computational models of vision, and visually-guided behavior. A key part of the program is a group of activities through which the students learn about visual diseases and disorders so that they can appreciate public health needs. These activities include attendance at Ophthalmology Grand Rounds, observations of vision surgeries and visual assessments, and interactions with ophthalmology residents. In these ways, students learn the vocabulary and procedures used by ophthalmologists and neuro-ophthalmologists. At all stages, students learn essential skills for a successful independent research career in vision research. These include critical thinking and reasoning, effective science writing and oral presentation, knowledge of the scientific review process, and training in ethics. Principal Investigator Michael Paradiso has been the principal investigator of Brown’s Interdisciplinary Vision Training Program since its inception in 2007. His lab uses physiological and psychophysical experiments, along with computational modeling, to understand visual processing in the brain. By the Numbers Students are generally admitted to the Vision Training Program in their second or third year of graduate school, with three graduate students participating at a time. Trainees are selected based on their potential for a successful and productive vision research career. The program lasts two to three years so that students have the experience of training in a cohort and they participate in the full range of training activities. The program includes 14 broad training faculty with productive track records and experience training graduate students. How do I apply? Nominations are accepted in the spring semester prior to appointments. For more information, contact Michael Paradiso. Training Programs ICoN - Interdisciplinary Training Interdisciplinary Vision Training Program TPCP - Training Program Robert J. & Nancy D. Carney Institute for Brain Science Robert J. & Nancy D. Carney Institute for Brain Science Brown University Box 1901 164 Angell St., 4th Floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-7421 Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top