Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Biotechnology Certificate (Graduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Biotechnology Certificate (Graduate) Apply Request More Info Biotechnology Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Biotechnology Graduate Certificate The Biotechnology Certificate (Graduate) program is designed for professionals in the biotechnology space who are seeking the academic credentials to advance their careers. This 12-credit certificate program can be completed in one or two semesters. The condensed time frame serves students who want increased knowledge and career mobility, but do not have the capacity to commit to a longer degree program. The Biotechnology Certificate (Graduate) program is designed to expand your technical knowledge, help you gain familiarity with up-to-date biotechnology compliance and regulation, and develop leadership and managerial abilities. Courses explore new technologies related to nucleic acid sequencing and sequence analysis, the manipulation of microbes to solve biotechnology problems, and issues surrounding advances in genetics and genomics. You’ll also examine ethical and policy issues related to rapidly evolving biotechnology product development and commercialization. Courses can be taken on a full-time or part-time basis and are taught in person on Temple’s Main Campus. Classes & Curriculum You will take a total of 12 credits to complete the Biotechnology Certificate (Graduate) program. Work with a student advisor to construct a path that makes sense given your specific interests. Course options include Analytical Biotechnology, Biotechnology Laboratory I & II, Environmental Biotechnology, Ethics Regulation and Policy in Biotechnology, Microbial Biotechnology, and Nucleic Acid Technologies. Learn more about required and elective courses for the Biotechnology Certificate (Graduate) program. Related Graduate Degrees Bioinformatics PSM Bioinnovation PSM Biology PhD Biotechnology PSM Related Graduate Certificates Information Science and Technology Scientific Writing Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Graduate Certificate offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,205.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,567.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors Faculty advisors can help you navigate your program and discuss research opportunities. Mark Feitelson is a professor and the program director for the Biotechnology PSM. Phone: 215-204-8434 Email: feitelso@temple.edu Seema Freer is an associate professor in the Biology Department and the assistant director of PSM programs. Phone: 215-204-8842 Email: sfreer@temple.edu Program Contact Seema Freer, associate professor in the Department of Biology, is the program contact for the Biotechnology Graduate Certificate. Phone: 215-204-8842 Email: sfreer@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations If you can find the time to participate while meeting the demands of your degree program, student clubs offer valuable opportunities to meet fellow graduate students, researchers and professionals from science- and technology-related industries. Clubs and organizations for students pursuing a Biology degree include the Alliance for Minority Participation in STEM, which works to increase opportunities for students and help them complete their undergraduate and graduate degrees in STEM. the Biology Graduate Student Society, an organization that develops professional and leadership skills in doctoral students as well as encourages them to participate in public outreach. Leadership, Education and Development in Science, an organization that empowers Philadelphia middle school students to form an interest in STEM through science experiments and mentors. the Temple University Forensics Association, which helps students form an interest in forensic science through field trips and professional networking opportunities. Explore the full list of College of Science and Technology student clubs and organizations. Study Away If the demands of your degree program allow it, consider spending a summer or semester overseas building international connections with researchers from other countries. Temple’s study abroad program offers College of Science and Technology students opportunities to spend a summer or semester studying in China, Germany, Italy, South Korea or Taiwan. Learn more about your study abroad options. Accreditation As a division within Temple University, the College of Science and Technology is accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. ST-BIOT-GRAD Additional Program Information Visit College Site Go back to AcademicsMore in Biotechnology Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info