Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Philosophy Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Philosophy Major Apply Visit Request More Info Philosophy Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Arts in Philosophy Think critically about the world and its complexities with the Bachelor of Arts in Philosophy in the College of Liberal Arts at Temple University. Students in the Philosophy degree program study how the greatest minds explored life's most difficult questions. This 123-credit undergraduate program imparts analytical reading comprehension, writing skills and critical reasoning skills, three competencies valuable for an array of career pursuits. Learn to use philosophical thought to examine knowledge, existence and values across multiple fields of study. Philosophy Major coursework covers contemporary philosophy, the history of philosophy, philosophy of race and gender, and pure and applied philosophy. Faculty members lead active research initiatives, and they are internationally acclaimed in the following key areas. Aesthetics Ancient philosophy Early modern philosophy Epistemology Ethics Feminism Kant/post-Kantian European philosophy Philosophy of language Philosophy of race Political philosophy Pragmatism and philosophy of science Philosophy Major with a Pre-law Emphasis Philosophy BA students can choose to tailor their curriculum with an emphasis in pre-law. The curriculum lays the foundation for law school, with relevant coursework to help prepare students for the LSAT test and admission to graduate programs. The Pre-law Emphasis curriculum includes the following courses. Philosophy of Law Pre-Law Internship Pre-Law Seminar Pre-Law Tutorial Undergraduate Certificate in Ethics Illustrate to employers your commitment to ethical leadership with the Certificate in Ethics. Undergraduate students from any academic degree or minor can learn the concepts, history and methodologies of ethical reasoning. Classes & Curriculum Some examples of Philosophy coursework include Critical Thinking, Introduction to Logic, and Metaethics. Learn more about Philosophy Major courses. Related Graduate Degrees Philosophy MA Philosophy PhD Urban Bioethics MD/MA* Philosophy MA/Urban Bioethics MA* Philosophy PhD/Urban Bioethics MA* *Lewis Katz School of Medicine Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Arts offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $16,488.00 per year Out-of-state: $29,712.00 per year Our Academic Advisors College of Liberal Arts academic advisors help you navigate your curriculum and potential career paths throughout your time at Temple. Paul Crowe is the undergraduate advisor in the Philosophy Department. Phone: 215-204-8591 Email: pcrowe@temple.edu Program Contact For questions regarding the Bachelor of Arts in Philosophy, contact the following staff member. TJ Cusack is the administrator in the Philosophy Department. Phone: 215-204-0472 Email: tjc@temple.edu The following staff members lead the Philosophy Department. Espen Hammer is the chair of the Philosophy Department. Phone: 215-204-1742 Email: ehammer@temple.edu Sonia Lawson is the coordinator in the Philosophy Department. Phone: 215-204-1742 Email: slawson@temple.edu University Honors Program The College of Liberal Arts participates in Temple’s Honors Program. Learn more about the program and how to be admitted. Students who meet certain academic and extracurricular criteria may become members of the following honor societies. Alpha Lambda Delta is a national society that honors academic excellence during a student's first year at college. Golden Key is an international society that enables members to realize their potential through the advancement of academics, leadership and service. Phi Beta Kappa is open to juniors and seniors in the College of Liberal Arts. To qualify for Phi Beta Kappa, a student must maintain a high grade point average in a broad, rigorous program of study in the liberal arts, including mathematics and foreign languages. Learn more about Temple’s Honor Societies. Student Clubs & Organizations Supplement your College of Liberal Arts coursework and enhance your undergraduate experience at Temple with more than 300 student clubs and organizations. You’ll have opportunities to meet and network with other students, get involved with the community, grow your interests, and develop résumé-boosting skills and experiences. The following student organizations may be of interest to students in the Philosophy BA program. Temple Undergraduate Philosophy Society (TUPS) is an organization committed to the free and open exchange of philosophical ideas and resources. TUPS meets once a week on Temple’s Main Campus. Fresh Philosophy is the Greater Philadelphia Philosophy Consortium’s undergraduate online journal. It invites submissions from undergraduates and applications from prospective editors. Part traditional journal and part blog, Fresh Philosophy publishes philosophical writing by undergraduates from around the world. Learn more about Temple’s student clubs and organizations. Study Away College of Liberal Arts undergraduate students are encouraged to study away for an academic year, semester or summer. Enrich your Temple experience by immersing yourself in new cultures, histories and perspectives in countries such as China, Germany, Ghana and Italy, as well as at Temple’s Rome and Tokyo campuses. Learn more about your options for studying away. Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-PHIL-BA Additional Program Information Available as a minor. Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Philosophy Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info