Skip to main content ISU Index Menu ISU News Store Contact Us Offices Video Search form Search Main menu Main Menu Home Impact Features Our Story Videos How To You are here Home Impact Features Ignite Innovation to Fight Food (In)Security Iowa high school students spent several weeks developing action plans to address food insecurity challenges in their communities. They presented their innovative solutions during Iowa State's IGNITE Innovation Showcase. Together for Tomorrow Extension professionals on campus, in the field, and in every county – along with extension councils, volunteers, and partners – work together to build a strong Iowa. We combine our strengths to help Iowans address the realities of today and prepare for the challenges of tomorrow. ¡Salir Adelante! Pathways for Our Future To reach your dreams, you have to persevere. For Latinx families in Iowa, that means “salir adelante.” ISU Extension and Outreach and partners deliver the ¡Salir Adelante! curriculum to help Latinx parents and their middle school youth pursue their educational and career goals. Taking Steps for a Strong Iowa Every day Iowa State University Extension and Outreach engages Iowans in research, education, and extension experiences to address current and emerging real-life challenges. We are taking steps to build a strong Iowa. Plant the Seeds of Conservation The Master Conservationist program is a comprehensive educational opportunity through Iowa State University Extension and Outreach. Participants dig deep into understanding our land and water and learn how to apply ecological principles to solve rural and urban landscape challenges. We Are Iowa's 99 County Campus How do you describe ISU Extension and Outreach? We are educators, researchers, volunteers, and partners in Ames and throughout the state. We serve Iowans with education and information based in research. We are Iowa’s 99 county campus and we are here for you. Goat Getters ... for Everyone With 4-H and FFA youth as mentors, participants with special needs as buddies, and a few local goats, Iowa State University Extension and Outreach in Buchanan County has launched a partnership for successful learning. Expanding Small Business: Mr. Burrito Mr. Burrito is a family owned and operated small business that wanted to expand. With guidance from ISU Extension and Outreach Community and Economic Development, these Latinx entrepreneurs planned their expansion step-by-step. Growing Together Iowa Growing Together Iowa combines extension expertise in horticulture, food safety, and nutrition education with Master Gardener volunteers to develop community donation gardens throughout the state. The goal is to make the healthy choice the easy choice for Iowans. Here for You. Now. Always. As Iowans, our strength grows when we empower one another. Iowa State University Extension and Outreach delivers education and information based in research – for your reality. We are focusing on six initiatives for recovery – to build a strong Iowa. Master Gardener Training Offered Online You can apply now for the 2021 Master Gardener training, which will be offered 100% online in the fall. Participants can work through the study materials at their own pace, on their own time and connect online to share ideas. Read Across Iowa! Read Across Iowa will launch March 1 and begin a month-long celebration. Our goal is to help Iowa communities be places where adults make time to read with children, and children get the message that reading is important. Real Connections, Caring Hearts 2020 has been a tough year. Iowa State University Extension and Outreach will continue to deliver research-based education and information and engage with Iowans on issues that will lead to recovery. Together, we will build a strong Iowa. Storm Damage? Other Stress? Call Iowa Concern Dealing with storm damage is tough, but the stress can be even harder to handle. Call Iowa Concern for help, 24/7. Connect with emotional support. Learn about your legal rights, discuss financial concerns and find other assistance. Talk to a person who cares. Here for You. Now. Always. For over 100 years, ISU Extension and Outreach has been serving Iowans. As our state recovers from COVID-19, we’ll continue to deliver research-based education and information. We’re here for you now. And for the next 100 years. Iowa Concern Can Help with Stress of COVID-19 Social distancing, self-isolation, quarantine: the changes from COVID-19 can be hard to handle. However, Iowa Concern can help. With a toll-free phone number, live chat and a website, Iowa Concern is available 24/7 at no charge. When Life Gets Tough, Iowa Concern Can Help Sometimes life gives you a lot to handle, but you don’t have to handle everything on your own. Iowa Concern is a free service connecting Iowans with information 24/7 to help them navigate through a variety of life circumstances. Finding a Path to College and Careers Iowa State University Extension and Outreach helps Latinx youth and their families gain information, skills, resources and networks so these young people can find a path to college and careers. What Iowans Value Clean water, safe food, sound rural economies and much more: Iowa State University Extension and Outreach provides research-based education to support what Iowans value. We’re working for a #STRONGIOWA. Searching for Accessibility: Lauren’s Story Iowa State University graduate Lauren Berglund, who is legally blind, talks about the importance of accessibility on campus. She’s encouraged by ISU Extension and Outreach’s initiative to make all extension educational materials accessible. Pages 1 2 3 4 5 6 next › last » Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. 2150 Beardshear Hall, Ames, IA 50011-2031 (800) 262-3804 Iowa State University | Policies State & National Extension Partners Site Index | Site Map Twitter Facebook Instagram Linked In YouTube Pinterest Blogs