Skip to content Enter search text All the UW Current site Search scope All the UW Current site MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Office of Federal Relations Contact Us Quick Links Menu Office of Federal Relations Office of Federal Relations News and Updates Congressional Meeting Resources Request a Congressional Meeting Federal Lobbying Disclosure Visiting Washington, DC 2022 Federal Agenda Contact Us Office of External Affairs OFFICE OF FEDERAL RELATIONS As one of the world’s leading research universities, the University of Washington is proud to be a long-term partner with the federal government on a host of programs and initiatives to improve society. Explore the 2022 Federal Agenda Located steps from the U.S. Capitol at the Hall of the States, the Office of Federal Relations represents the University of Washington to both the legislative and executive branches of the federal government, participating on behalf of UW in a variety of national forums and advocating for UW priorities. The office also serves as a portal for the federal government and national organizations to the UW and as an access point for UW leadership and staff to our nation’s capital. Through regular reports and visits with campus personnel, Federal Relations staff provide timely information about national trends, opportunities and policy developments. FY2023 Appropriations Tracker Stay up to date on federal priorities. Last updated 05/10/22. View the tracker Federal Lobbying Disclosure We ask UW employees to coordinate advocacy with our office so that we can be clear, consistent, and comply with federal reporting requirements. Learn more Congressional Meeting Resources Make the most of your time with congressional members and staff. Please note members of the UW community should defer official travel to Washington, DC for Hill meetings until further notice. Resources LATEST NEWS AND UPDATES ARPA-H Established Within NIH as Independent Entity May 25, 2022 Earlier today, Health and Human Services Secretary Xavier Becerra formally unveiled the Advanced Research Projects Agency for Health (ARPA) as an independent agency within the NIH. Along with that announced, Adam H. Russell was named as the Acting Deputy Director of the new organization. The creation of ARPA-H, modeled on its counterparts at the Department… Read more FY2023 NOAA Congressional Budget Justification Available April 12, 2022 Yesterday, NOAA made available its Congressional justification document for its FY2023 budget request. The document, available here, calls for: A total of $774.8 million for the Office of Oceanic and Atmospheric Research (OAR), the research office within NOAA. Within OAR, climate research programs would be funded at $256.6 million and climate cooperative institutes would be… Read more Ketanji Brown Jackson Confirmed to SCOTUS April 7, 2022 Earlier this afternoon, by a vote of 53 to 47, Ketanji Brown Jackson was confirmed to the U.S. Supreme Court, making her the first African-American woman to join the court. Read more about the historic vote here, here, and here. Read more CONTACT US Office of Federal Relations 444 North Capitol St. NW Suite 418 Washington, DC 20001 Sarah Castro Director 202-624-1426 smcastro@uw.edu Sang Han Deputy Director 202-624-1424 sanghan1@uw.edu Vacant Federal Relations Associate 202-624-1420 University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA