Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift CU SAFETY CU Safe Alerts and Warning Sirens CU Safe Alerts CU Safe Alerts will inform you of emergencies or disruptions to campus services, such as class cancelations. CU Safe Alerts are sent to all @clemson.edu email addresses. They also can be sent as text messages to your cell phone. To receive CU Safe Alerts on your cell phone: Visit https://www.getrave.com/login/clemson Enter your @clemson.edu email address as your username. If you have not logged in before and came to Clemson after August 2008, you should register using your @clemson.edu email address. If you don’t know your password, click on the “Forgot username or password” link. You’ll receive an email with information to complete your login. Click on the “My Account” tab to edit your Mobile Contacts and add your cell phone information. If you have questions about CU Safe alerts, send them to CUSafety-l@clemson.edu. Follow-up emergency information More details and all-clear messages will come via follow-up e-mails or will be posted on the CUSafety Web page when they become available. If you do not receive an email alert during an emergency, please check your spam or junk mail folder to be sure the message hasn't been directed there. Add clemson@GETRAVE.COM to your safe senders list. Warning sirens When the sirens sound, you should: Evaluate your surroundings and seek information about the nature of the warning Be prepared to take immediate self-protective action, which may include seeking appropriate shelter or remaining where you are There are two warning siren systems on the Clemson campus. Clemson University tone and voice sirens Sirens are located at Memorial Stadium, Byrnes Hall and the band practice field on Perimeter Road. These sirens are intended to warn people outside campus buildings of approaching severe weather and other emergencies. In an emergency the sirens will sound a tone and some will have a voice message announcing the nature of the emergency. Sirens may be sounded for a number of emergencies, including: Tornado warnings Lightning warnings Other natural disasters Gunman or other threat Oconee Nuclear Station warning sirens Sirens serve a 10-mile zone around the station north of Seneca. These sirens are located at various locations on campus and throughout the Clemson and Seneca communities. When they are activated do not attempt to immediately evacuate the area. Check the CU Safety Web page, local media or other information sources for details before taking action. For more information on what to do in a nuclear emergency, go to Duke Energy's emergency preparedness page. Warning siren and CU Safe Alert tests Both the campus and nuclear siren and CU Safe Alert systems are tested during the first month of each calendar quarter (January, April, July and October). Tests will be announced in advance at http://www.clemson.edu. Home Police Fire and EMS Emergency Management Crime Prevention Operations Building Access CCTV Use Drones Policy Compliance Emergency Phones Crime Reporting/Stats Requests/Forms Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram