Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Student Center and Activities Student Organizations Student Organizations Guidelines and Funding Options Student Organization Resources Hughes-Trigg Student Center Hughes-Trigg Student Center Welcome Desk HTSC Renovations Event Information Event Information HTSC Event Calendar Reservation Rates Room Features HTSC Procedures About Us ☰ Make friends. Build skills. Explore your interests. Student Affairs Student Center and Activities Student Organizations Applications for temporary charters will reopen in Fall 2022. Joining and leading a student organization is a key part of the Mustang experience. Some of the benefits of campus involvement include: building community and making friends; exploring interests and finding passions; developing professional skills and talents; preparing for a career and life after graduation. Explore and learn about more than 200 student organizations on Connect.SMU. Student Organizations Thinking about starting a student organization? Check out the info below. Begin by exploring existing organizations: Before forming a new student organization, we encourage you to browse the existing list of organizations. You may find a group with the same interests eager for new members. They want talent, ideas, enthusiasm, and commitment. If you still want to start an organization: • Read the Student Senate By-laws to understand the privileges and responsibilities of being a chartered student organization. • Read Starting an Organization 101 to understand the process of becoming a chartered student organization. • Applications for a new organization, which are reviewed by Student Senate Organizations Committee, will reopen in Fall 2022. If you have questions or need additional support, stop by the Student Involvement office or contact involvement@smu.edu. If you are an SMU department or program seeking a Connect page only: Complete the Registration for Departments and Programs. Explore Campus Events See What's Happening Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share