Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search within this section Search all sites School of Medicine Wichita About Dean Minns Campus Maps Departments News Contact Us Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Support the School 4-Wichita Healthy Hawks Support Services Events Calendar Simulation Center William J. Reals Gallery of Art George J. Farha Medical Library Living in Wichita Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors KU School of Medicine-Wichita Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for KU School of Medicine-Wichita Academics Academics M.D. Program-Wichita MPH Program Graduate Medical Education-Wichita Academic & Student Affairs-Wichita George J. Farha Medical Library Simulation Center JayDoc Community Clinic Research Research Office of Research-Wichita Center for Clinical Research-Wichita Center for Research for Infant Birth and Survival Human Research Protection Program-Wichita Patient Care Patient Care Medical Practice Association & Clinics Affiliate KU Wichita Clinics JayDoc Community Clinic School-Based Health Care Outreach Outreach Community Programs Student Life Student Life The BEAT Academic & Student Affairs Healthy Hawks About School of Medicine Wichita About About Dean Minns Campus Maps Departments News Contact Us Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Support the School 4-Wichita Healthy Hawks Support Services Events Calendar Simulation Center William J. Reals Gallery of Art George J. Farha Medical Library Living in Wichita About Dean Minns Dean Garold Minns, M.D., is a 1976 graduate of KU School of Medicine-Wichita and went on to complete his residency training in internal medicine here as well, followed by an infectious disease fellowship. He joined the faculty in 1980 and currently serves as a professor of Internal Medicine and the associate dean for Academic & Student Affairs in addition to his role as dean. Board certified in internal medicine and infectious disease, Dr. Minns is a fellow of the American College of Physicians, Governor for the Kansas Chapter of the ACP and a Kansas Board of Healing Arts member. Dr. Minns has multiple roles in student and resident medical education. He is a member of the Education Council, Faculty Council and Curriculum Transformation Committee for the university. Dean Minns has received numerous awards during his career at KU, including the 2010 Rainbow Award, W.T. Kemper Fellowship for Teaching Excellence Award and Thor Jager Award. He was also selected for Mastership in the ACP and was the recipient of the 2021 Health Care Heroes lifetime achievement honor from the Wichita Business Journal. Submit feedback or a question for the Dean. KU School of Medicine-Wichita 1010 North Kansas Wichita, KS 67214-3199 316-293-2635 Facebook Wichita Twitter Wichita Youtube Wichita LinkedIn Wichita Instagram Wichita Make a Gift 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.