Skip to site alert. Skip to content Columbia School of Nursing Students Alumni Faculty Contact Us Search Make a Gift About Us About Us Message From the Dean Leadership Faculty Our Culture News Events Facts and Figures Accreditation Make a Gift Contact Us Our Culture Diversity and Cultural Affairs Civility Statement Social Justice and Health Equity and Anti-Racism Commitment Sustainability Our History Jonas Partnership Join Our Team Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Learn about our commitment to social justice and health equality and anti-racism. View Our Progress Academics Academics A Columbia Nursing Education Admissions at a Glance Academic Programs Courses Financial Aid Continuing Nursing Education Helene Fuld Health Trust Simulation Center Academic Programs Doctor of Nursing Practice Doctor of Nursing Practice in Nurse Anesthesia Doctor of Philosophy Masters Direct Entry Program For Non-Nurses Masters in Advanced Clinical Management and Leadership Online Prerequisites for Entry to Nursing Transgender Non-Binary (Trans NB) Health Care for Advance Practice Nurses and PAs Palliative Care Throughout the Lifespan for Advanced Practice Registered Nurses (APRNs) Admissions at a Glance Learn more about Admissions at Columbia Nursing, including important dates and deadlines, and how to apply to all of our programs. Learn More About Admissions Research Research Research Faculty and Postdoctoral Fellows Research Areas of Focus Research Centers and Programs Training Programs Research Resources Research Centers and Programs Center for Health Policy Center for Improving Palliative Care for Vulnerable Adults with MCC Precision in Symptom Self-Management Center Center for Healthcare Delivery Research and Innovations Center for Research on People of Color Center for Sexual and Gender Minority Health Research Linking to Improve Nursing Knowledge Research Areas of Focus Explore the research areas of focus conducted by our faculty, postdocs, and students. View Our Focus Areas Patient Care Global Health Global Health Global Opportunities for Students Global Research International Visitors WHO Collaborating Center Contact Global Opportunities for Students Global opportunities for clinical practicum and research may be available for MDE and doctoral students at Columbia Nursing. Get More Information You are here Home > Academics > Courses A Columbia Nursing Education Admissions at a Glance Academic Programs Courses Financial Aid Continuing Nursing Education Helene Fuld Health Trust Simulation Center Courses Keywords Status - Any - Active Inactive Course ID Status Course Name Credits Description BIST6104P Active INTRO-BIOSTATISTICAL METHODS 3 BIST8100P Active APPLIED REGRESSION I 3 Prerequisite: Public Health P6103 or P6104. The study of linear statistical models. Regression and correlation with one independent variable. Partial and multiple correlation. Multiple and polynomial regression. Single factor analysis of variance. Simple logistic regression CMBS4010G Active RESP COND OF RES/REL PLCY ISSU 1 Explores a variety of ethical and political issues that arise during the conduct of basic and clinical scientific research. Course sessions include lectures, discussion periods, and analyses of case studies. NURS4030N Introduction to Alcohol and Substance Abuse: Theories of Causation 3 This course will provide a foundation for the understanding of substance abuse utilizing a variety of theories of causation. Evaluation and assessment skills will be taught. Theoretical models upon which to base clinical practice will be discussed. Students will analyze one theory of causation, the multigenerational process. By constructing a genogram in the context of a family meeting, the student will have an opportunity to see the influence of the multigenerational process and the role that the family plays in maintaining the addiction. Physiological, behavioral, emotional, and societal responses to alcohol and substance abuse are investigated. Implications for nursing research are considered. NURS4032N Contemporary Issues and Trends in Alcohol and Substance Abuse 3 This seminar will provide a forum for students to explore issues of prevention in alcohol and substance abuse. Protective factors, social costs, stigma, legalization of drugs, and pain management are among the issues which will be discussed and the role that institutions play in identifying and referring. The role of the advanced practice nurse in primary prevention will be explored. Students will be expected to develop a primary prevention program. NURS4034N Clinical Management of the Patient with Chemical Dependency: Intervention and Evaluation 3 This clinical practice course is designed for students to develop skills in working with chemically dependent patients and families. It consists of clinical practice and supervision totaling 12 hours per week. Students will work with chemically dependent clients and families in their advanced practice settings. The course is for students in both clinical specialist and nurse practitioner settings. NURS4050N Physical Assessment 3 This course is designed to introduce the ETP student to the knowledge and skills required to perform a systematic examination of a healthy individual and to record findings appropriately. Since skills are easily lost without continued practice and validation of skills, class lectures and discussions, supervised laboratory, and individual use of readings and audiovisual materials will be required for successful learning. NURS4051N Physical Assessment Laboratory 2 This course is designed to provide the ETP student the experience to apply the knowledge and skills required to perform a systematic examination of a healthy adult, and to record findings appropriately. Since skills are easily lost without continued practice and validation of skills, supervised laboratory and individual use of audiovisual materials will be required for successful learning. NURS4099N Active Independent Study in Nursing 0 – 8 Provides an opportunity for students to engage in independent study in an area of interest. A mentor is assigned. NURS4100N Pharmacology 3 This is a basic level pharmacology course, requiring no prerequisites except a working knowledge of the elementary sciences (biology, chemistry, microbiology, anatomy, and physiology). Principles of pharmacology will be discussed, including pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, and toxicities. Major pharmacologic agents used in treating more common disease states will be discussed with emphasis on relating the mechanism of action to the therapeutic use. NURS4104N Active Introduction to Human Nutrition 3 This undergraduate-level introductory course provides an overview of the science of nutrition and nutrition's relationship to health promotion and disease prevention. The primary focus is on the essential macronutrients and micronutrients, including their chemical structures, food sources, digestion and absorption, metabolism, storage, and excretion. Students develop the skills to evaluate dietary patterns and to estimate caloric requirements and nutrient needs using tools such as Dietary Guidelines for Americans, My Plate, Nutrition Facts Labels, and Dietary Reference Intakes. NURS4105N Active Human Anatomy & Physiology I 4 This undergraduate-level introductory course is the first of a two-course-series on human anatomy and physiology. Using a body systems approach, we will study the anatomical structure and physiological function of the human body. Foundational concepts from chemistry, cell biology, and histology are reviewed and built upon through the progression of topics. Each of the body systems will be studied for their structure, function, and mechanisms of regulation. The core concepts of levels of organization, interdependence of systems, and homeostasis will be emphasized throughout the course. This beginner level course will lay the foundation for further advanced study of physiology and pathophysiology within a nursing curriculum. NURS4106N Active Human Anatomy & Physiology II 4 This undergraduate-level introductory course is the second of a two-course series on human anatomy and physiology. Using a body systems approach, we will study the anatomical structure and physiological function of the human body. Foundational concepts from chemistry, cell biology, and histology are reviewed and built upon through the progression of topics. Each of the body systems will be studied for their structure, function, and mechanisms of regulation. The core concepts of levels of organization, interdependence of systems, and homeostasis will be emphasized throughout the course. This beginner level course will lay the foundation for further advanced study of physiology and pathophysiology within a nursing curriculum. NURS4107N Food and the Body 3 This course will use an evolutionary perspective to focus on what humans need to eat for survival and health. We will examine how and why sufficient and optimal diets can be obtained through a range of dietary patterns, and how those patterns were rooted in different geographic and cultural regions. We will also compare current patterns with those of humans from 200,000, 12,000 and 100 years ago, and where it is instructive, we will compare the food intake and food system of other animals. Throughout the course, the environmental impact of a given dietary pattern will be considered, and where possible, the economic determinants of individual food intake will be reviewed. We will incorporate a lifespan perspective throughout the course. NURS4108M Human Anatomy & Physiology I 3 This introductory course is the first of a two-course seriers on human anatomy and physiology. Using a body systems approach, we will study the anatomical structure and physiological function of the human body. Foundational concepts from chemistry, cell bioloby, and histology are reviewed and built upon through the progression of topics. Each of the body systems will be studied for their structure, function, and mechanisms of regulation. The core concepts of levels of organization, interdependence of systems, and homeostasis will be emphasized throughout the course. This beginner level course will lay the foundation for further advanced study of physiology and pathophysiology within a nursing curriculum. NURS4108M Human Anatomy & Physiology I 3 NURS4108M Human Anatomy & Physiology I 4 This introductory course is the first of a two-course-series on human anatomy and physiology. Using a body systems approach, we will study the anatomical structure and physiological function of the human body. Foundational concepts from chemistry, cell biology, and histology are reviewed and built upon through the progression of topics. Each of the body systems will be studied for their structure, function, and mechanisms of regulation. The core concepts of levels of organization, interdependence of systems, and homeostasis will be emphasized throughout the course. This beginner level course will lay the foundation for further advanced study of physiology and pathophysiology within a nursing curriculum. This is a four (4) credit course. NURS4109N Human Anatomy & Phys II 4 This introductory course is the second of a two-course series on human anatomy and physiology. Using a body systems approach, we will study the anatomical structure and physiological function of the human body. Foundational concepts from chemistry, cell biology, and histology are reviewed and built upon through the progression of topics. Each of the body systems will be studied for their structure, function, and mechanisms of regulation. The core concepts of levels of organization, interdependence of systems, and homeostasis will be emphasized throughout the course. This beginner level course will lay the foundation for further advanced study of physiology and pathophysiology within a nursing curriculum. NURS4110N Active Microbiology 4 This online undergraduate-level introductory course focuses on the core concepts and principles of microbiology. We will explore how microorganisms co-exist and interact with humans creating both beneficial and pathological results. We will survey the diversity of microorganisms, their classification, and the essential processes needed for survival; which will dictate the environments in which they can thrive. This exploration of microorganism diversity will include topics such as microbial nutrition and metabolism, genetics, and antimicrobial mechanisms employed by and against microorganisms. Special attention will be given to understanding the human immune system, mechanisms of infection by pathogenic microorganisms, and the role non-harmful microbiota serve in supporting immune function. The weekly lab component of this course will support and complement each learning module and familiarize students with basic microbiologic lab techniques. NURS4111N Active Introduction to Developmental Psychology: A Lifespan Perspective 3 This introductory course covers human development across the lifespan. The course will provide an overview of development and the complexity of human growth through physical, cognitive, emotional, and social capacities. A review of historical and modern-day developmental theories as well as more complex interpersonal constructs, such as cultural variations, will be discussed. Special emphasis is placed upon examining the dynamic interplay between biology and environment with relevant application to nursing practice. The role of social and cultural stressors such as racism and socioeconomics in shaping human development will be examined. This undergraduate-level course will lay the foundation for further advanced study of human development within a nursing curriculum. NURS4225N The Science of Health Promotion and Disease Prevention 3 Promoting an optimum level of wellness and decreasing disease/injury are significant contributions professional nursing can make to individuals and society. In addition, this is a collaborative effort between the consumer and the health care provider. Recognizing that wellness and health can be achieved even in the presence of certain conditions (birth defects, chronic conditions) is an important philosophical starting point for the advanced practice nurse. It is the goal of nursing to promote health and optimal functioning. This course identifies and explores the influence of biologic, environmental and societal factors on health and wellness of individuals NURS4227N SCI OF HLTH PROMO/DISEASE:LAB 0 NURS4500N CULTURES HLTH ILLNESS HLTH 2 NURS4500N COLUMBIA COMMONS SEMINAR 2 NURS4950N Active Beginner Medical Spanish 1 This class is designed for the beginner student to gain working level knowledge of basic Spanish vocabulary, verb conjugation, and medical terminology for use in a clinical setting. In addition to short lectures to facilitate grammar and usage patterns, class time will be used for intensive speaking practice to improve pronunciation, enhance comprehension, and build confidence in using Spanish through the use of hypothetical scenarios, student presentations, and small group discussions to improve Spanish language and Spanish language proficiency. NURS4955N Active Intermediate Medical Spanish 1 This class is designed for the intermediate student to gain a more advanced level knowledge of Spanish vocabulary, verb conjugation, and medical terminology for use in a clinical setting. In addition to short lectures to facilitate grammar and usage patterns, class time will be used for intensive speaking practice to improve pronunciation, enhance comprehension, and build confidence in using Spanish through the use of hypothetical scenarios, student presentations, and small group discussions to improve Spanish language and Spanish language proficiency. NURS4959N Active Medical Spanish: Practicum 1 This practicum offers the students an opportunity to implement their knowledge and facility in medical Spanish during their assigned curricular practicum. Students will gain experience practicing Spanish and interacting with patients in clinical and health-related settings in predominantly Spanish-speaking community clinics. NURS4960N Active Advanced Medical Spanish 1 This class is designed for the high intermediate student to gain advanced level knowledge of Spanish vocabulary and medical terminology in a clinical setting. In addition to short lectures to implement student knowledge, class time will be used for intensive immersion in Spanish to prepare for future clinical practice. Students will gain experience in speaking medical Spanish though role-plays in health-related settings and how to explain the most common diseases, procedures and treatment to a patient in Spanish. This course will focus on proficiency in comprehension and speaking Spanish. The course instructor will supervise the Spanish language experience. NURS4961N Active Global Medical Spanish 1 This course is designed for the nursing student interested in Spanish-language speaking communities who has an intermediate or advanced Spanish language proficiency to help improve their proficiency as an intercultural speaker. In addition to short lectures to facilitate grammar and usage patterns, class time will be used for intensive speaking practice to evaluate health challenges in Latinx- communities and Spanish-speaking countries. NURS5102N Science of Nursing Practice 3 This fundamental course introduces students to core concepts of nursing science including taxonomy, philosophies of caring, nursing process, and evidence-based care. Concepts from the biological, physical, epidemiological, and behavioral sciences will be utilized as students begin the study of adults experiencing major biophysical health problems. The course is an introduction to the role of the professional nurse in medical/surgical nursing care of the adult client in context of populations. NURS5104N Science of Nursing Practice: Practicum 1 This fundamental course provides the student with clinical experience to implement patient-centered care that reflects an understanding of the concepts of human growth and development, health promotion, nursing management of illness, and patient safety. Philosophies and scientific theories of nursing will serve as a foundation for the development of critical thinking and skill acquisition. Key elements of culture, spirituality, heredity, and ethics will be integrated into the planning and provision of nursing care to individuals and populations. NURS5105N Science of Nursing Practice: Skills Lab 1 Students will gain competency by practicing skills in a supportive and supervised environment in the simulation laboratory. This fundamental course provides the student with practical application of nursing skills and the scientific rationale for performing procedures correctly in order to provide patient-centered care that reflects an understanding of the concepts of human growth and development, health promotion, nursing management of illness, and patient safety. Philosophies and scientific theories of nursing will serve as a foundation for the development of critical thinking and skill acquisition. Key elements of culture, spirituality, heredity, and ethics will be integrated into the planning and provision of nursing care to simulated patients. NURS5110N Issues of Nursing Practice 2 This course is designed to provide the pre-licensure student with an overview of current issues confronting professional nursing. Emphasis will be placed on the history of nursing, interrelated theories, current trends, and policy issues that shape the profession and the health care delivery system. The role of the nurse as a patient advocate, designer, manager, and coordinator of care will be discussed. NURS5115N Case Management 2 Integration Seminar [Case Management] is designed to provide the baccalaureate student an academic environment in which to share their practicum experience and present case studies for discussion with their peers. In this scholarly forum, the students are expected to present selected cases from their integration practicum in an organized format. The students are expected to facilitate a class dialogue and offer appropriate references. NURS5200N Science of Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practice 3 This course focuses on the population of clients experiencing acute and chronic psychiatric disorders across the lifespan. Emphasis will be placed on the nurse/client relationship, psychopharmacology, and treatment modalities. Environmental stressors and the effects of mental health disorders on clients and their families will be discussed. NURS5202N Practice in Psychiatric Mental Health Nursing 2 This clinical course is designed to provide the student with experience to care for the client experiencing a major psychiatric and/or mental health disorder. Emphasis will be placed on the role of the professional nurse in various treatment settings as well as current treatment modalities. The client population includes children, adolescents, and adults along the health-illness continuum. NURS5270N Science of Nursing Practice with Childbearing Families 3 This didactic course focuses on the care of the family during the childbearing years. The processes of normal pregnancy and birth, high risk pregnancy, and the care of the healthy newborn are presented. Through integration of the sciences and evidence-based knowledge, concepts of family, environment, health, wellness, and culture will be emphasized. Issues related to women’s reproductive health and contraception will be covered. NURS5275N Nursing Practice with Childbearing Families 2 This clinical course is designed to provide the student with experience to utilize evidence-based knowledge and critical thinking skills in providing nursing care to childbearing families. Clinical assignments will include caring for families during the antepartum, intrapartum, postpartum, and newborn periods. Concepts of wellness, culture, infant growth and development, family integrity, and patient advocacy are used as a basis for the provision of care. NURS5280N Science of Nursing Practice with Children 3 This course focuses on nursing care of the child along the health-illness continuum. Core concepts of growth and development, well child care, family structure, environment, heredity, and psychosocial factors will serve as a basis for designing care. The child with acute, chronic, and life threatening illness will be covered as well as risk factors for morbidity and mortality. Nursing strategies to minimize stressors experienced by children and their families during illness will be presented. Key elements of spirituality, culture, socioeconomic status, and health beliefs will be examined. NURS5282N Nursing Practice with Children 2 This clinical course is designed to provide the student with the opportunity to utilize evidence-based knowledge and critical thinking skills in the planning and provision of comprehensive nursing care to children along the health-illness continuum. Clinical assignments will include caring for the well child as well as the child with acute and chronic illness. Concepts of growth and development, family integrity, wellness, risk reduction and disease prevention will be stressed. Key elements of culture, spirituality, heredity, and patient advocacy will be integrated into nursing care. NURS5284N Science of Nursing Practice with Adults 3 This course follows N5102 Science of Nursing Practice and builds upon the study of major biophysical health problems affecting the adult population. The course is designed to provide the student with a sound foundation in medical-surgical nursing care of the adult client. Through integration of knowledge from the biological, physical, epidemiological, and behavioral sciences, concepts of health, environment, risk reduction and disease prevention will be presented. Emphasis will be placed on older adults experiencing common geriatric syndromes. The role of the professional nurse in caring for the adult client continues to be a focus in the context of individual, family, and community. NURS5286N Nursing Practice with Adults 2 This course is designed to provide the student with clinical experience to implement patient-centered care that reflects an understanding of the concepts of human growth and development, pathophysiology, medical management, and nursing management along the health-illness continuum. Emphasis will be placed on nursing care of the adult with acute and chronic illness as well as common geriatric syndromes. Key elements of culture, spirituality, heredity, ethics, and health literacy will be integrated into the planning and provision of nursing care. NURS5290N Science of Nursing Practice in the Community 3 This course focuses on the role of the nurse in community health: caring for aggregate populations at risk and the community as a whole. Nursing science and epidemiology provide the base for examining the spectrum of community health. Tools for community assessment and diagnosis as well as concepts of health promotion, disease prevention, risk reduction and rehabilitation and evidence-based practice for the health of groups are presented. NURS5292N Nursing Practice in the Community 2 This course provides students with the opportunity for clinical application of content learned in the classroom about community health. Focus is on using assessment and evidence-based care planning skills to develop culturally sensitive and risk appropriate interventions for identified community groups. There is also emphasis on interdisciplinary collaborative care, not only with other health professionals, but also with extant community groups. NURS5300N Active Physical Assessment 3 This course will develop the knowledge and skills necessary for conducting comprehensive and focused health assessments for individuals with emphasis placed on interviewing skills, health histories, and physical and psychosocial findings in the well person. Communication and record keeping skills are developed. NURS5350N Active Physical Assessment: Lab 1 Students will utilize the knowledge and skills learned to perform a comprehensive or focused health assessment including history and physical examination in a supervised laboratory. Students will record findings in an approved manner and demonstrate utilization of holistic, region-cultural, and ethical approaches to individuals and families. NURS5375N Active Pharmacology 3 This is an introductory pharmacology course, and, since pharmacology is an applied science, it builds on several foundational concepts of biology, chemistry, microbiology, anatomy, and physiology in the context of nursing practice. Principles of pharmacology will be discussed, including pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, and toxicities. Major pharmacologic agents used in treating more common disease states will be discussed with emphasis on relating the mechanism of action to the therapeutic use. NURS5400N Active Science of Nursing Practice 3 This fundamental course introduces students to core concepts of nursing science including taxonomy, philosophies of caring, nursing process, and evidence-based care. Concepts from the biological, physical, epidemiological, and behavioral sciences will be utilized as students begin the study of adults experiencing major biophysical health problems. The course is an introduction to the role of the professional nurse in medical/surgical nursing care of the adult client in context of populations. NURS5450N Active Science of Nursing Practice: Practicum 1 This fundamental course provides the student with clinical experience to implement patient-centered care that reflects an understanding of the concepts of human growth and development, health promotion, nursing management of illness, and patient safety. Philosophies and scientific theories of nursing will serve as a foundation for the development of critical thinking and skill acquisition. Key elements of culture, spirituality, heredity, and ethics will be integrated into the planning and provision of nursing care to individuals and populations. NURS5451N Active Science of Nursing Practice: Skills Lab 1 Students will gain competency by practicing skills in a supportive and supervised environment in the simulation laboratory. This fundamental course provides the student with practical application of nursing skills and the scientific rationale for performing procedures correctly in order to provide patient-centered care that reflects an understanding of the concepts of human growth and development, health promotion, nursing management of illness, and patient safety. Philosophies and scientific theories of nursing will serve as a foundation for the development of critical thinking and skill acquisition. Key elements of culture, spirituality, heredity, and ethics will be integrated into the planning and provision of nursing care to simulated patients. Pages 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … next last Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Academics Research Patient Care Global Health Contact Us Students Alumni Intranet Careers Columbia University School of Nursing 560 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Back to top