Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University Environmental Health and Safety Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Contact Us About EH&S Services, Fees, and Billing Staff Directory Campus Safety AED / Defibrillators Building Information Department Emergency Plan Emergency Procedures Emergency Response Videos Medical Safety for Students, Employees and Visitors Stop the Bleed For Researchers Biological Laboratory Radiation Responsibilities Safety Committees Services Asbestos Environmental Fire and Life Safety Hazardous Materials Shipping Lead Occupational Health and Safety Waste and Recycling Training CPR / AED / First Aid Login to Learn@ISU Publications and Forms Canvas Safety Training Profile Videos Weather Flood Heat ISU Weatherstem Lightning Tornado Weather Radios Winter Influenza / Flu Iowa State University officials monitor the spread of contagious illnesses, including influenza or flu. The university encourages community members to take basic precautions to protect themselves against such illnesses. In the event of widespread outbreak, university administrators watch for developments across the country and around the world and are prepared to respond, should additional steps be necessary. The university will keep students, faculty, staff, and parents updated on major developments via the Iowa State homepage. Protect Yourself from the Flu Take these everyday actions to stay healthy: Cover your nose and mouth with a tissue when you cough or sneeze. Throw the tissue in the trash after use. Wash hands often with soap and water, especially after coughing or sneezing. Alcohol-based hand sanitizers are also effective. Avoid touching your eyes, nose and mouth to avoid spreading germs. Get enough rest -- eight hours is ideal. Exercise regularly. Eat healthy and regularly. Stay home -- don't go to work or classes if you are sick. Try to avoid close contact with sick people. Publications and Forms Did You Wash Your Hands? poster (PDF) Links Thielen Student Health Center Story County Public Health / HOMEWARD Iowa Department of Public Health Centers for Disease Control and Prevention World Health Organization EH&S Log in Environmental Health and Safety 2408 Wanda Daley Drive Ames, IA 50011-3602 ehsinfo@iastate.edu 515-294-5359 phone Facebook @IowaStateUEHS YouTube LinkedIn Copyright © 1995-2022 Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information