Your browser does not support iframes. Skip to main content Menu Scheller College of Business Request More Information Attend an Info Session Contact Us Directory Apply Now Search Why Scheller? Programs Executive Education Academics Centers & Initiatives News & Events Overview & History Dean's Message and Report Meet Ernest Scheller Jr. Advisory Board Accreditation Strategic Plan Business at Tech Graduates Get Hired Return on Investment Faculty and Advisors Global Perspective A Good Fit Corporate Engagement Trading Floor Georgia Tech Community Student Life Making Connections and Learning Opportunities Diversity Diversity News Career and Recruiter Services Career Services for Students Hire Our Students Giving to the College Meeting the Challenge Priorities and Needs Faculty Support Student Support Program Enrichment Unrestricted Endowment The Impact of Your Gift How to Make a Gift FAQs Scheller MBA Annual Fund Alumni Network Alumni News Alumni Resources Update Contact Information Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Full-time MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQsEvening MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Advancement Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQs Executive MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Student & Alumni Profiles FAQsMBA Programs Which Georgia Tech MBA is Right for Me? Commitment to Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Dual Degree Options Experiential Learning For Engineers For Military Community MD/MBA Option MBA Early Admission for Undergrads Rankings The Intersection Podcast Earn Your MBA in Atlanta Graduate Certificate Business Analytics Certificate Undergraduate Admissions Curriculum Career Services Student Services Student Life Scholarships & Awards Rankings & Stats Connect With Us The Intersection Podcast, Undergrad PhD Concentrations Program Milestones Faculty and Staff Funding Admissions FAQs Recruiting Events Student Bios Program News Request Program Information Interdisciplinary M.S. M.S. in Quantitative & Computational Finance (QCF) Master of Science in Analytics at Georgia Tech Lean Six Sigma Certification Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Certification Lean Six Sigma Black Belt Certification FAQs Custom Programs FAQs Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Engineering Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship International Management Management of Technology Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results Academic Speaker Series Guest Speakers in Accounting Guest Speakers in Finance Guest Speakers in Marketing Current Faculty Opportunities Business Analytics Center Engage with Us Executive Council News Research Education People Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics About Cecil B. Day The Cecil B. Day Prize Speakers and Events Faculty Support Net Impact Center for International Business Education and Research Projects Research Events Books People at CIBER Inside CIBER News and Events Archives International Management Certificate Sign Up for Future CIBER News Financial Analysis Lab Subscribe to Reports Institute for Leadership and Social Impact About Us Programs News Impact Speaker Series Leadership for Social Good Study Abroad Program Social Impact Fellows Ideas to Serve (I2S) Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Servant Leadership Programs Minor in Leadership Studies Excel Alumni Other ILSI Programs Partnerships Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business About Us Sustainable Business Insights Research Briefs Sustainable Business Events Sustainable Business News Blog Research & Thought Leadership Empowering Students Industry Engagement Newsletter Participating in the Drawdown Georgia Compact Drawdown Georgia Business Compact Meet the Team Alumni Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program Director's Message About Steven A. Denning T&M Curriculum Program Faculty & Staff Admissions T&M Corporate Affiliates Denning T&M Program News TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta Program Network TI:GER MBA & PhD FAQs News Apply Inquire Resources in Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Sustainable Business Blog Home » Centers & Initiatives » Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business » Blog » Sustainable Business Blog Menu Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Sustainable Business Blog About Us Sustainable Business Insights Research Briefs Sustainable Business Events Sustainable Business News Research & Thought Leadership Empowering Students Industry Engagement Newsletter Participating in the Drawdown Georgia Compact Drawdown Georgia Business Compact Latest Posts April 27, 2022 The Time Is Now: A Reflection on ClimateCAP 2022 Akihiro Manda and four other 2021-22 Scheller College Graduate Sustainability Fellows attended ClimateCAP, a global MBA summit on climate, capital, and business. Read how the experience improved his understanding of current challenges facing business leaders and helped him shape his future role in sustainable business. Read more December 13, 2021 Sustainability Champions’ Project Aids Understanding of Barriers to Recycling in Local Community In 2020-21, the Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business was proud to name Kate Allan and Seth Hildebrand as its inaugural “Sustainability Champions.” The two Executive MBA students volunteered to work on a special project with the nonprofit, Sustainable Newton. In the conversation that follows, Kate and Seth discuss how they collaborated to help a local community address recycling challenges. Read more May 20, 2021 Building Confidence through Camping: A Look Back on the Women in Business Retreat When the pandemic hit, Amanda Grupp took to the Appalachian Trail in Georgia. In Spring 2021, she shared her passion for hiking and camping with peers in the Women in Business student group. In this blog, discover how the outdoor retreat helped Amanda and her fellow MBA students develop leadership skills. Read more May 05, 2021 Reports from the Future: A Close-Up on Sustainability Course Infusion Sunny Gupta and Melissa Ting reflect on their award-winning project for Professor Eric Overby’s course, Analysis of Emerging Technologies. For their “Report from the Future,” they developed a scenario about the future of renewable energy in Austin. The project connects to UN Sustainable Development Goal #7: “affordable and clean energy.” Read more February 22, 2021 Striving for Diversity in Innovation and Business Amanda Grupp is a Full-time MBA Candidate in her last semester at Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business. Prior to the MBA program, she worked at Kapost, a content marketing startup, where she built a Voice of the Customer Program. Amanda is passionate about learning what motivates people and building business solutions that meet consumer needs. Read more September 29, 2020 Advocacy in Action: A Reflection on a Year of Serving as a YWCA Policy Advocate What does it take to lobby and advocate effectively during Georgia’s general assembly session? Kjersti Lukens, the Center’s program support coordinator, had the opportunity to find out when she served as a 2019-20 Fellow with the YWCA’s Georgia Women’s Policy Initiative. In a new blog, Lukens reflects on a year of service, which included advocacy to eliminate Georgia’s state tax on menstruation products. Read more February 14, 2020 From MBA Student to City of Atlanta Sustainability Ambassador: A Reflection from Jacquie Smyth (MBA ’18) MBA student, Jacquie Smyth, reflects on her journey to becoming a sustainability ambassador. Read more January 27, 2020 Building Social Equity Into the BeltLine: An MBA Student Reflects on a Year of AB67 Service MBA student, Stephen Spicher, reflects on his journey to joining AB67 and his year of service with them. Read more January 22, 2020 When Everything Clicks: An Undergraduate Reflection on Discovering Sustainability at Tech Undergraduate student, Almi Mansaray, looks back on the past year of her life and charts the course of her discovery of sustainability at Georgia Tech. Read more January 13, 2020 Consumption, Corporations, and the Supply Chain On November 18, Sustainability Consultant Jeff Foote gave a talk at the Scheller College of Business at which Sustainability Fellow Shrinka Roy was enlightened by statistics Foote gave about waste in America. Read more November 22, 2019 A Remediation Story Brings Insight to Broad Sustainability Themes On November 11, Kevin Sullivan, former director of environmental remediation for the Pacific Gas and Electric Company (PG&E), a large California utility company, gave a talk at the Scheller College of Business. Sullivan’s presentation focused on the Hinkley groundwater contamination disaster in the Southern California desert. Read more November 20, 2019 Working to Combat Energy Inequity in Atlanta: A Reflection on the 2019 Carbon Reduction Challenge Atlanta is an “energy inequitable city,” meaning that benefits and burdens of energy consumption and production are not equitably distributed. In particular, low income households have a high energy burden. This means they pay a disproportionately high percentage (about 10%) of their income towards their utility bills. Of these households, many residents are people of color. Read more November 06, 2019 A Millennial’s Search for a Meaningful Career: Reflections From the 2019 National Net Impact Conference This year, [Net Impact] offered me the chance to attend the national Net Impact conference in Detroit. The annual conference brings together educational and professional chapters, leaders and innovators in the sustainability space, and social entrepreneurs for workshops and presentations on how we can move the planet forward in a more sustainable way. Read more October 25, 2019 The Challenge of Incorporating Sustainability Into Corporate Strategy The topic of climate change has been particularly charged recently. To name just a few newsworthy items of late: the UN’s Climate Change Summit took place on September 23, students around the world have been organizing climate strikes, and over 170 news outlets signed on to the Covering Climate Now project. Read more October 01, 2019 Passion First, Influence Next: A Talk by John Lanier Strikes a Chord With First-Year Undergraduate An inspiring book talk by John Lanier reminds our undergraduate blogger, Ella Stewart, that we have to use our best efforts to spread the message of sustainability. She writes, “It’s not just what we say but how we say it.” Read more September 26, 2019 A Welcome Back Greeting From Our Faculty Director We started this year with a lot of momentum! One month into the semester, we have celebrated the Third Annual Carbon Reduction Challenge, hosted the RCE Greater Atlanta book club talk on Mid-Course Correction: Revisited, picked our new cohort of MBA Fellows and Undergraduate Ambassadors, announced the Certificate in Sustainable Business (open to all Georgia Tech majors), and supported the launch of the University Global Compact (UGC), a collective impact initiative for universities committed to achieving sustainable development goals, hosted by Georgia Tech President Ángel Cabrera in New York. Read more September 16, 2019 Don’t Just Sit There: Making a Plan to Tackle E-waste Read how Dayna Grigsby turned a life passion for sustainability and environmental science into an experience with the 2019 Carbon Reduction Challenge with the intentions on impacting e-waste. Read more May 22, 2019 To Be Sustainable or Not To Be Sustainable: That Is the Question Sustainability is one of the big buzzwords of today. Major corporations are constructing internal employee groups to help identify how they can make more sustainable decisions ... Read more April 09, 2019 Making a Difference in Atlanta: A Vlog Watch this spunky spin on Mailchimp Director of Corporate Citizenship Lain Shakespeare’s talk about corporate citizenship strategy. Kate Berg, Student Communications Assistant of the Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business at Scheller College of Business, interviews... Read more March 27, 2019 Losing Carbon to Win Big at Chick-fil-A The best sustainability solutions bring cost savings and environmental benefits together. A company’s first responsibility is to keep the lights on. Forward-thinking companies are philanthropic and environmentally conscious, but they can’t be those things effectively without first being a profitable business... Read more March 26, 2019 The Investor Perspective on Environmental Social Governance Chris’ discussion of EY’s research and her personal perspective was inspiring for all of us young sustainably-minded students in the audience. To hear that a “Big Four” accounting and consulting firm is working with these issues first hand ... Read more February 28, 2019 Working Together to Change the Way We Live I expected Meyers would speak about how recycling plays a critical part in the circular economy, and was therefore drawn to attend through my work as an Undergraduate Sustainability Ambassador. What I could never have predicted was how inspired I would be after his talk to help drive our community (and world) toward changing the way we live ... Read more January 15, 2019 Don’t Take My Word for It NI18 was an inspiring convergence of diverse students and professionals who are committed to working hard to improve business’s impact on the environment and to create a world where people are prioritized over profits. As a first-year MBA student who intends to build a career in sustainability, the opportunity to meet pioneers in the field and representatives from companies of all sizes was inspiring to say the least. Read more November 21, 2018 No Such Thing as “Away”: Remanufacturing Consumer Returns in the Circular Economy Companies around the world are placing an increased importance upon improving their reverse supply chain and returns management. The talk with David Hogan provided more insight on this growing platform. Read more November 06, 2018 Painting a Better Picture: A Recap of the Net Impact 2018 Annual Conference “Outside the Lines”–that was the framework through which Net Impact approached its annual conference (NI18), which was held this year from October 25th through 27th in Phoenix, Arizona. I don’t often give much weight to conference themes, but this year I found it meaningful in an untraditional way. Read more October 05, 2018 Sustainability from a Southern Perspective Like so many pre-digital-age Southern childhoods, mine was spent outside: playing cul-de-sac kickball, catching crickets, and tramping around the scraggly pine stand behind our house. When I returned home to Cobb County as a graduate student to conduct oral histories for my dissertation, I interviewed people—in their 30s through 70s—who were raised in Georgia. In those conversations, interviewees’ stories about coming of age in Cobb and its environs often included “playing by the creeks,” “riding bikes,” or “fishing in the Chattahoochee.” Read more September 27, 2018 A Blockchain Solution for Global Livestock Supply Chains As an employee in a consulting company that specializes in revenue cycle management (RCM) for hospitals and health systems, I am particularly interested in how blockchain can be leveraged in the medical field. Read more September 13, 2018 How Blockchain Technology Could Drive Renewable Energy Development The electrical energy value chain can be broken down into four main components: generation, trading, transmission and distribution, and retail. Given the high fixed costs needed to produce and transmit power, the electricity industry was a natural fit for a monopoly industry model. The United States recognized how a single firm could produce a desired level of output at a lower cost than two or more firms, and by the early twentieth century, 33 states had regulated the sale of electricity in this manner. Read more August 30, 2018 Blockchain, AI, and IoT Facilitate Sustainable Development Goals It’s common to hear of businesses in finance and manufacturing leveraging transformative technologies such as blockchain, artificial intelligence (AI) and the internet of things (IoT). Impact of businesses in these sectors is generally simple to quantify, with new technologies often improving the efficiency of the process and the accuracy of the results. Results for business impacts in social and environmental sustainability, however, are often more intangible. Read more August 16, 2018 Blockchain in the Healthcare Revenue Cycle As an employee in a consulting company that specializes in revenue cycle management (RCM) for hospitals and health systems, I am particularly interested in how blockchain can be leveraged in the medical field. Read more August 01, 2018 Green Marketing: What’s the Best Path Forward? For decades, academics have been performing studies, analyzing data, and conducting stakeholder interviews in regard to the successes and failures of green marketing campaigns. When I was presented with the opportunity to work with Dr. Omar Rodríguez-Vilá to assess the current state of research on the effects of sustainability investments on brand performance, I signed on for the ride since the topic deeply interested me Read more July 26, 2018 Is Coca-Cola’s Next Frontier Beyond the Bottle? On April 10th, the Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business at Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business hosted Bruce Karas for its Business, Environment, and Society Speaker Series. Karas, who is Vice President of Environment & Sustainability at Coca-Cola North America, spoke on the subject of “Coca-Cola’s Journey to a World Without Waste.” Read more July 05, 2018 Does Investing in Sustainability Create Financial Value for Firms? Are sustainable companies more valuable? Research on the topic of sustainability and its impact on the performance of businesses has become increasingly prominent over the last several decades, especially as corporations seek to improve their financial health through sustainability-oriented measures. Read more June 28, 2018 A Sustainable & Socially Responsible Career I stood in the sunny atrium of the Atlanta Hilton Hotel, taking in the sights and sounds of women networking with representatives from companies and organizations sponsoring the 2018 Forté MBA Women’s Leadership Conference. The conference, hosted by the Forté Foundation from June 15-16, 2018, was advertised as an event where women could “explore career paths, meet recruiters and mentors, and hear from today’s most influential businesswomen.” When the Scheller College of Business (in which I am a second-year student in the Evening MBA Program) offered me a ticket to the conference, I jumped at the opportunity to attend. Read more June 06, 2018 The Value of Green Building and its Spillover Effects The Georgia Institute of Technology has begun construction on one of the first “Living Buildings” in the Southeast that seeks to transform the local building and construction industry. Living Buildings (similar to other green building programs) achieve certification by accruing credits across a number of criteria. Living Buildings must produce more energy than they use, treat all water on-site, and be regenerative spaces that connect occupants to light, air, food, nature, and community. In this discussion, I summarize the motivations for organizations to build and certify green and why we might expect Georgia Tech’s demonstration project to begin market transformation in the building and construction industry. Read more June 04, 2018 U.S. Supreme Court’s Decision Will Continue the Debate Between Religious Freedom and LGBTQ+ Rights The past five years have been characterized by enormous strides toward full equality for the LGBTQ+ community in marriage, employment, and social acceptance. However, this progress has been accompanied by questions about religious freedom, never more notably than in the case of Masterpiece Cakeshop, Ltd. v. Colorado Civil Rights Commission. The Court’s decision to rule in favor of the cake shop fails to resolve these questions and leaves them open for future litigation. Read more April 20, 2018 Energy Burden – Combining Social and Environmental Lenses for Impact Michael Oxman, Managing Director of the Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business authored a guest blog for the Ray C. Anderson Foundation Eccocentricity Blog about the Energy Burden Project the Center is sponsoring. You can read about it here. Read more March 30, 2018 Sustainable Scheduling: Improving Lives, Boosting Productivity As a Georgia Tech student, I quickly learned that an established routine was the fastest way to success. However, as Dr. Saravanan Kesavan pointed out in a talk on February 12th, the privilege of a routine should not be taken for granted. Read more March 06, 2018 How Can Companies Take Ownership of Sustainability? On February 21st, Bhattacharya talked about his research interviewing employees about making their employers more sustainable as part of the Business, Environment, and Society Speaker Series Read more December 12, 2017 Bridging Surplus with Need: Improving Healthcare in the Developing World The onslaught of news about natural disasters has been inescapable of late. As we write this, we think of the inhabitants of Puerto Rico, many still without water or electricity weeks after devastation from Hurricane Maria in September. Read more December 11, 2017 No Pain, No Gain: Training for the Long Game in Sustainable Business On October 30th, David Rachelson, Vice President of Sustainability at Rubicon Global, spoke about how his company's "personal trainer model" to help customers reach zero waste. Read more November 07, 2017 2017 National Net Impact Conference: A First-Year MBA Student’s Path to Purpose First year MBA Student's Impressions attending the 2017 Net Impact Conference Read more October 16, 2017 All Together Now: Sustainability Gains Momentum in Hospitality Industry Throughout my education and career, I have continuously strived to feed the pro-social bent of my heart and mind. Read more September 26, 2017 Go Big or Go Home: Serving as a Sustainability Ambassador at a Fortune 500 Company Throughout my sustainability journey at Georgia Tech, which has included taking the sustainable systems and communities course and the sustainable consulting practicum, and starting Georgia Tech Solar Home (Solar Decathlon), I have found Professor Connell’s advice to valid. Most recently, I participated in the Summer 2017 Co-op and Internship Carbon Reduction Challenge and have once again found his advice valid. Read more September 20, 2017 Flying High with Purpose A number of recent experiences have deepened my appreciation for the environment and have made me more aware of the importance of being a steward for the environment. Read more September 14, 2017 Practical Ways to Reduce Our Carbon Footprint The Home Depot enhances its sustainability and corporate responsibility efforts each year by helping customers, suppliers, and business partners minimize their negative environmental impact. Read more September 07, 2017 Unlocking Sustainability Through Analytics at SunTrust This summer, the inaugural Co-op and Internship Carbon Reduction Challenge gave interns–holding a variety of positions within major corporations—the chance to learn what it takes to be a sustainability ambassador at their place of employment no matter what their job title might be. Read more August 28, 2017 Georgia Tech Interns Rise to the Carbon Reduction Challenge This summer, the inaugural Co-op and Internship Carbon Reduction Challenge gave interns–holding a variety of positions within major corporations—the chance to learn what it takes to be a sustainability ambassador at their place of employment no matter what their job title might be. Read more July 14, 2017 Why were Western retailers blamed for the building collapse in Bangladesh? Rana Plaza, an eight-story building in Bangladesh that housed garment factories employing approximately 5000 workers, collapsed on April 24, 2013. The resulting fatalities (over 1100) and injuries (over 2400) made it one of the worst industrial accidents in history. The scale of this tragedy and subsequent widespread press coverage put a spotlight on the risks and costs of sourcing from low-cost countries. Read more July 11, 2017 What I Learned from My Low-Car Diet A few months ago a report detailing transportation sustainability in the Atlanta metro area was published by the Partnership for Southern Equity. Called Opportunity Deferred: Race, Transportation, and the Future of Metropolitan Atlanta, it got me thinking about what I learned first-hand when I took part in Zipcar’s Low Car Diet Challenge in 2011. Read more June 26, 2017 Reflection: Fall 2016 Food-Energy-Water Systems (FEWS) Program My research has evolved into supply chain social and environmental responsibility. An overarching question that guides my work is: How can the buyer firms be sure their suppliers engage in socially and environmentally responsible practices? Read more June 19, 2017 Engaging Scheller College of Business in Creating Sustainable Communities Over the past year, the Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business (ACSB) collaborated with the Center for Serve-Learn-Sustain (SLS) to engage more educators in our overlapping missions: to weave environmental and social sustainability deep into the fabric of the Georgia Tech experience. Read more June 06, 2017 Georgia Tech Students Rise to the Carbon Challenge A new initiative taking place at Georgia Tech, the Carbon Reduction Challenge challenges students to formulate a plan with their employer to reduce carbon and create cost savings. Read more May 08, 2017 Location, Location, Location All of this to say, carbon is not some enemy. It is a misplaced resource. And the opportunity for the business community to value drawdown as an investment, rather than view carbon reduction as a cost, is upon us. Read more April 24, 2017 The Interesting History Surrounding Solar Advocacy and Law Presenter Stephen O'Day offered insights from his extensive background in solar advocacy on the current state of solar energy and government policy. Read more April 17, 2017 Solar Developer Business Model Emphasizes Local Community Engagement On Monday April 10th, Georgia Tech’s Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business (Scheller College of Business) and the GT Energy Club welcomed Luke Wilkinson, Director of Business Development at Silicon Ranch, a solar energy developer with a growing presence in Georgia and around the country. Read more March 17, 2017 Are We There Yet? The Long Journey Toward Climate Consensus In “Climate Policy from Paris to Peachtree and Beyond” by Dan Rochberg, Chief Strategy Officer of the Climate@Emory initiative at Emory University, Daniel Rochberg, laid out the evolution of international climate negotiations over the past thirty years. It was a reminder of how far we’ve come. It was also a sobering reminder of how far we have to go. Read more March 02, 2017 Economic Case for Energy Efficiency Marilyn Brown, a professor in the School of Public Policy at Georgia Tech, 2007 co-recipient of the Nobel Prize, and co-founder of the Southeast Energy Efficiency Alliance, made a strong case for the value of efficiency projects during her presentation “Selling Energy Efficiency in a Climate-Conscious World”. Her discussion highlighted the importance of educating consumers, businesses, and politicians about practical policy solutions that drive increased adoption of energy efficiency projects. Read more February 28, 2017 Sustainable Fashion: How Sustainability Claims Affect Consumer Attitudes towards Fashion Brands Coming to Tech as a PhD student, I wanted to continue to explore these types of issues. Corporate social responsibility/sustainability was just a natural fit. Read more February 14, 2017 Sustainability-Driven Innovation In the last two lectures in my Business Strategies for Sustainability MBA class, we played the Fishbanks simulation, originally developed by Professor Dennis Meadows, co-author of Limits to Growth (Chelsea Green, 1972). My students take the role of competing fishing companies seeking to maximize their net worth. Read more February 07, 2017 Climate Changing the Status Quo A primary reason I came to the Scheller College of Businesses was to widen my knowledge of the interaction between business and society. The Carbon-Conscious Business Speaker Series is one of many reasons that I am able to gain a deeper understanding of the business case for sustainability initiatives. Read more December 20, 2016 Reflections on Fall 2016 Sustainability Practicum It was exhilarating to finish out my first semester at Scheller co-teaching (with Jay Cranman) our MBA Sustainable Business Practicum! Read more November 23, 2016 Environmental Justice & Business-Community Engagement On November 14th, Michael Oxman and Chris Anderson presented to a group of about forty people interested in sustainability, including my Sustainable Systems class. They began this presentation by explaining that the number one cause of delays in extractives projects are stakeholder and community related issues. Read more October 27, 2016 Georgia Tech Students Generate Mobility Solutions in Toyota & Net Impact Competition Last week, Georgia Tech design, engineering and business students came together to participate in the Next Generation Mobility Challenge run by Toyota and the Toyota Mobility Foundation in partnership with Net Impact. Students were divided into inter-disciplinary teams to formulate a solution that would facilitate more sustainable transportation for elderly, disabled and low-income individuals facing unique transportation challenges. Read more September 15, 2016 Joining the Ray Anderson Center for Sustainable Business & Highlights from our Sustainability Practicum Since joining the Center late this summer, I have been focused on getting to know my amazing colleagues at the Center, within Scheller College, and supporters among the broader Georgia Tech community. I am excited to begin executing on the robust strategic plan that is in place and to drive new initiatives that will advance sustainability innovation and promote integration of the topic within both business education and practice. Read more August 21, 2016 Welcome to a New and Exciting Year! Today is the first day of the academic year. The campus is humming with the energy of new students and the optimism inherent in every new beginning! It’s a great time to take stock of where we are today and look to the future. Read more More Scheller College of Business Home Why Scheller? Overview & History Business at Tech Georgia Tech Community Career and Recruiter Services Giving to the College Alumni Network Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Programs MBA Undergraduate PhD Interdisciplinary M.S. Executive Education Lean Six Sigma Certification Custom Programs Academics Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Academic Speaker Series Current Faculty Opportunities Centers & Initiatives Business Analytics Center Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics Center for International Business Education and Research Financial Analysis Lab Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta News & Events Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller LinkedIn Instagram Facebook Twitter Youtube Flickr Georgia Institute of Technology Scheller College of Business 800 W. Peachtree St. NW Atlanta, GA 30308 404.894.2600 © 2021 Georgia Institute of Technology Intranet Emergency Information Contact the College Privacy & Legal Notice Accountability Web Accessibility Resources for People with Disabilities Plugins Youtube Usage Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures