Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Office of the Vice President for Student Affairs Leadership Leadership Vice President VP's Leadership Team Diversity Officer Student Advisory Board Student Reps to BOT Committees Programs Programs Special Funding Student Boulevard Guidelines Courageous Change Leader Award Hilltop Excellence Awards Resources Resources Student Event Guidelines Student Values Statement Off Campus Party Registration Alcohol Request Form Student Employment Employment Opportunities Strategic Direction Get Help ☰ Office of the Vice President for Student Affairs Vice President's Leadership Team Executive Director of Hegi Dr. Crystal L. Clayton (she/her/hers) Executive Director of the Hegi Family Career Development Center Dr. Clayton is responsible for managing the Hegi Family Career Development Center which houses the Offices of Career Development (CDT) and Employer Relations (ERT). These offices include nine professional staff, two graduate assistants, five peer mentors, three student assistants, a Career Development Ambassadors group, Board Fellows Organization, Student Advisory Board, and the Hegi Career Leaders premier professional development program. Education and Credentials Bachelors of Arts, English – Truman State University Masters of Arts, Educational Leadership & Policy Analysis – University of Missouri-Columbia Doctor of Education, Educational Leadership & Higher Education – University of Nebraska-Lincoln Hegicareercenter@smu.edu (214) 768-2266 About Dr. Clayton Crystal Clayton, a career-management professional with more than 20 years of experience working with graduate and undergraduate students, began her work as the executive director of the Hegi Family Career Development Center at Southern Methodist University in August 2017. As the executive director for the Hegi Family Career Development Center, Dr. Clayton provides leadership and oversight to the Offices of Career Development and Employer Relations in the Hegi Family Career Development Center. The Hegi Center includes nine professional staff, two graduate assistants, five student career consultants, three student assistants, a Career Development Ambassadors group, Board Fellows Organization, Student Advisory Board, and the Hegi Career Leaders premier professional development program. Since 2017, Dr. Clayton created the Hegi Career Leaders Professional Development Program which prepares student talent for full time work and career leadership, developed the Board Fellows Program allowing SMU students to serve as nonprofit board members in the DFW metropolitan area, and launched the Hegi Student Advisory Board. “Crystal has built a stellar reputation as a student mentor and a leader in professional development,” said K.C. Mmeje, SMU vice president for student affairs. “In addition, her deep connections in the Texas and Oklahoma business communities are a built-in regional advantage for current and future SMU students, especially as they plan internships and post-college careers.” SMU Trustee Fred Hegi '66, who in 2001 joined with his wife, Jan '66, along with their family in providing the lead gift for a $3 million endowment and expansion of SMU's career center, says Clayton is well prepared to help students. "Her experience, combined with her passion for helping students and graduates find their career paths, make her a tremendous asset for SMU. With her leadership, we will continue our path to be one of the nation's top five career centers." Clayton currently serves on the Board of Directors for the Plano Chamber of Commerce and is involved with the National Association of Colleges and Employers (NACE). She is the past chair for the executive committee of the University of Missouri Alumni Association’s Griffiths Leadership Society. From 2009 to 2012, she served as a board member of the American College Personnel Association’s Commission for Career Development.A native of St. Louis,MO, Clayton received her B.A. degree in English from Truman State University. She earned an M.A. in educational leadership and policy analysis from the University of Missouri-Columbia, and an Ed.D. degree in educational leadership and higher education from theUniversity of Nebraska-Lincoln. Favorite SMU Tradition My favorite SMU tradition is the Celebration of Lights, experiencing the full SMU community of students, staff, faculty, and families coming together to kick off the holiday season. Learn More About SMU Spirit & Traditions Learn more about the Hegi Family Career Development Center Visit the website Explore Other Student Affairs Leaders Dr. K.C. Mmeje Vice President for Student Affairs Read My Bio Dr. Mindy Sutton Associate Vice President and Dean of Students Read My Bio Dr. Adam Cebulski Assistant Vice President and Chief of Staff Read My Bio Ashley Wendler Dean of RLSH ad Interim Learn About RLSH Rev. Lisa Garvin Chaplain and Minister to the University Read My Bio Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share