Javascript must be enabled for the correct page display Skip to Content Close × Close × Academics Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Schools and Colleges Faculty Office of the Provost Resources Resources Undergraduate Admissions Office of Graduate Affairs Academic Calendar Mission and Ministry Alumni and Friends Quick Links Quick Links Seton Hall Homepage Seton Hall News University Calendar SHU Athletics Support Seton Hall Seton Hall University Academics Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Schools and Colleges Faculty Office of the Provost Resources Resources Undergraduate Admissions Office of Graduate Affairs Academic Calendar Mission and Ministry Alumni and Friends Quick Links Quick Links Seton Hall Homepage Seton Hall News University Calendar SHU Athletics Support Seton Hall Events PirateNet Menu Seton Hall University Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Schools and Colleges Faculty Office of the Provost Resources Undergraduate Admissions Office of Graduate Affairs Academic Calendar Mission and Ministry Alumni and Friends Quick Links Seton Hall Homepage Seton Hall News University Calendar SHU Athletics Support Seton Hall Events PirateNet University Site Search Seton Hall University About the Seminary Our Mission History Accreditation & Educational Effectiveness Faculty Departments News and Events Support the Seminary Give Now Explore Priestly Formation Permanent Diaconate Formation Graduate Programs Graduate Course Offerings Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Course Offerings Institute for Christian Spirituality Resources Gerety Lectures Graduate Catalog Undergraduate Catalog Academic Handbook Resources for Ministry Seminary Library Request Information Apply Now Join Our Mailing List Initiative To Foster Pastoral Leadership The School of Theology has received a nearly $1 million Lilly Endowment Inc. grant to support the formation of pastoral leaders. read more As a House of Formation, the Seminary offers men preparing for the priesthood the personal, academic, ministerial and spiritual formation essential for their conversion to Jesus Christ and for their commitment to a life of service to the Church. As a School of Theology, the Seminary provides a theological and philosophical foundation for men and women pursuing undergraduate and graduate studies; preparing for ministries among the people of God; and varied opportunities for continuing theological education. Request Information Apply Now NEWS Announcing Interim Rector and Dean of ICSST Spiritual leader Monsignor Gerard McCarren begins one-year appointment. VIEW ALL NEWS AND EVENTS IN FOCUS Visit Our Ministry Resource Page Dedicated to sharing digital resources for church ministry, the page covers such categories as evangelization, preaching and more. Read More IN THE MEDIA Titus Brandsma was killed in a Nazi death camp. This Sunday, Pope Francis will make him a saint. Dianne Traflet discusses the spiritual life and moral clarity of St. Titus Brandsma. View More Media NEWS Online M.A. in Theology Option Available for Deacons New online M.A. in Theology option to offer integrated and holistic formation for deacon candidates through the Center for Diaconal Formation within Immaculate Conception Seminary. VIEW ALL NEWS AND EVENTS play VIDEO Graduate Studies at the School of Theology Watch as Associate Dean Dianne Traflet, as well as current students and faculty, discuss how you can grow intellectually and spiritually during your graduate studies. Graduate Studies at the School of Theology × View All Videos IN FOCUS Faculty & Administration News Learn about the service and professional activities of the Seminary faculty and administration. VIEW MORE ABOUT FAN what Great Minds Can Do A Voice to Serve in Recovery Keaton Douglas has taken her talents for entertaining and created a program to help people heal from addiction. read more Immaculate Conception Seminary School of Theology Seton Hall University 400 South Orange Ave South Orange, NJ 07079 (973) 761-9575 Privacy Statements Title IX Nondiscrimination Statement and Information Contact Us Student Services Parents and Families Career Center Technology Web Accessibility Visiting Campus Public Safety Disability Support Services Campus Security Report Employment Follow #SetonHall www.shu.edu/social Back to top