Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING CIVIL AND ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERING CIVIL & ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERING Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 CEE 101 Amazing Infrastructure, its Impacts and the Roles of Civil and Environmental Engineers (1) This seminar course will cover an overview of world infrastructure and the roles for civil and environmental engineers perform in planning, design and construction. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 101 CEE 102 Civil and Environmental Engineering and Careers--Companies and Agencies (1) This seminar course will cover an overview of companies and agencies that employ civil and environmental engineers including specific examples of roles. A different type of company or agency will be covered each week. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 102 CEE 103 Engineering for Natural and Human Caused Disasters (1) This seminar course will cover natural and human caused disasters: why they occur and how they can be prevented or mitigated. The role of prevention or mitigation played by civil and environmental engineers will the featured. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 103 CEE 220 Introduction to Mechanics of Materials (4) NW Introduction to the concepts of stress, deformation, and strain in solid materials. Development of basic relationships among loads, stresses, and deflections of structural and machine elements such as rods, shafts, and beams. Load-carrying capacity of these elements under tension, compression, torsion, bending, and shear forces. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in A A 210. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 220 CEE 250 Environmental Processes and flows (3) NW Introduces the concepts of environmental materials and energy balance within the context of Pacific Northwest case studies, in particular nutrient loading, eutrophication, hypoxia/fish kills, water treatment, and global climate change and its regional impacts on water resources and hydrologic cycles. Prerequisite: either MATH 120, or MATH 124. Instructors: Brett Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 250 CEE 291 Introduction to AutoCAD for Civil Engineers (2) NW Provides an introduction to engineering drafting and graphical communication. Includes application of drafting standards and structure as well as creating and modifying basic drawings in 2D and 3D drafting in AutoCAD. Introduces reading plan sets and creating portions of plan sets applied to civil and environmental engineering fields. Prerequisite: MATH 124 or MATH 112. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 291 CEE 297 Foreign Study (3-5, max. 15) For participants in approved foreign-study programs. May not be used to satisfy upper-division major requirements. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 297 CEE 298 Special Topics in Civil and Environmental Engineering (1-5, max. 10) Explores special topics in civil and environmental engineering. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 298 CEE 299 Independent Project (1-5, max. 10) Research on special topics under supervision of a faculty member. May not be used to satisfy upper-division major requirements. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 299 CEE 307 Construction Engineering (5) Introduces construction engineering including construction methods, engineering economics, contracts, project delivery methods, plan and specifications, scheduling, estimating, productivity, environmental regulations, safety and green construction. Uses scheduling and estimating software tools and emphasizes communication engineering information. Offered: AW. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 307 CEE 317 GeoSurveying (5) Measurement and digital mapping techniques; integration of surveying methods and techniques, monitoring of structures; spatial data collection and integration with surveying data; adjustment of measurements, concepts of error; surveying control; coordinate systems, transformation; highway vertical curves; Earthwork, leveling and datum consideration, photogrammetry, GPS, GIS, remote sensing, cadastral and construction surveys, digital mapping. Prerequisite: either MATH 126, MATH 134, MATH 135, or MATH 136. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 317 CEE 327 Transportation Engineering (5) Studies vehicular transportation fundamentals including vehicle dynamics, geometric design, pavement design, traffic flow concepts, level of service analysis, intelligent transportation systems, travel demand prediction methods, freight logistics, and management of transportation systems. Includes a review of relevant vehicle operating characteristics. Prerequisite: PHYS 121 or PHYS 141; and either MATH 126, MATH 134, MATH 135, or MATH 136. Offered: WSp. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 327 CEE 337 Construction Materials (5) General treatment of physical and mechanical properties and engineering behavior of metallic and nonmetallic materials. Steel, aluminum, aggregates, portland cement concrete, bituminous materials, asphalt concrete, wood. Laboratory testing, instrumentation, and investigation into macro-behavior. Sustainability issues including recycling, energy requirements, and greenhouse gas production associated with the materials. Prerequisite: CEE 220. Offered: ASp. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 337 CEE 347 Introduction to Fluid Mechanics (5) Jim Thomson, Alexander R Horner-Devine, Jessica D Lundquist Introduces the mechanics of incompressible fluids and their applications. Hydrostatic pressure forces. Kinematics, potential flows, and the Bernoulli equation. Conservation of mass, momentum, and energy. Laminar and turbulent flows. Flow in pipes, pipe networks, and open channel flows. Prerequisite: CEE 220; and PHYS 122 or PHYS 142. Offered: AW. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 347 CEE 348 Hydrology and Environmental Fluid Mechanics (4) Alexander R Horner-Devine, Erkan Istanbulluoglu, Jessica D Lundquist Introduction to the physical processes that govern transport and mixing in the environment. The course uses fluid mechanical principles to understand flow in the atmosphere, river basins, groundwater, lakes and estuaries with implications for the movement of water, contaminant and other tracers through the environment. Prerequisite: CEE 347; and either PHYS 123 or PHYS 143. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 348 CEE 349 Case Studies in Environmental Engineering (3) Case studies are used to introduce fundamental environmental engineering concepts with a focus on engineering approaches that consider the interconnectedness of human and environmental systems. Prerequisite: either CHEM 153, CHEM 162, or CHEM 165. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 349 CEE 350 Mass and Energy Balances in Environmental Engineering (4) Introduces concepts of mass balance, energy balance, and mass transport, and movement of water, chemicals, and energy through natural and engineered environmental systems, with application to water treatment, global elemental cycles, the earth's energy balance. Credit cannot be applied toward graduation for both CEE 350 and CHEM E 310. Prerequisite: either CHEM 153, CHEM 162, or CHEM 165; PHYS 122 or PHYS 142; and either AMATH 351 or MATH 207. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 350 CEE 352 Introduction to Microbial Principles in Environmental Engineering (5) Introduction to microbiological processes occurring within natural and engineered systems. Fundamentals of microbial classifications/processes and their impacts on ecological and human health, and roles in engineered applications and global cycling of such elements as carbon, oxygen, and nitrogen. Prerequisite: BIOL 180 View course details in MyPlan: CEE 352 CEE 354 Introduction to Chemical Principles in Environmental Engineering (5) Introduction to chemical processes occurring within soil, water, and air in natural and engineered environmental systems. Includes identification of inorganic and organic chemicals; fundamental thermodynamics and kinetics of chemical processes; examination of chemical processes in environmental and engineered systems; and impacts of chemicals and chemical processes on ecological and human health. Prerequisite: either CHEM 153, CHEM 162, or CHEM 165. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 354 CEE 356 Quantitative and Conceptual Tools for Sustainability (4) Conceptual and quantitative tools are introduced that incorporate sustainability principles into environmental engineering. It uses a systems analysis perspective to address critical issues in environmental engineering. Topics include life cycle analysis and long-term system mass balances that facilitate decision making and process optimization at generational time scales. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 356 CEE 357 Environmental Engineering (5) Describes water and air resources, parameters that characterize their quality, and how their use alters their properties. Elements of hydrology. Mass and energy balances as applied to environmental systems. Global environmental change. Basics of aquatic chemistry and microbiology applied to municipal water and wastewater treatment operation. Groundwater contamination and treatment. Prerequisite: CHEM 142, CHEM 143, or CHEM 145 Offered: WSp. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 357 CEE 367 Geotechnical Engineering (5) Fundamental engineering properties of soil and rock; depositional processes and physical characteristics, hydro-conductive properties and advective flow; volume change characteristics including short- and long- term deformation; shear strength properties; and applications of basic concepts to practical problems such as foundation design and slope stability. Prerequisite: CEE 347. Instructors: Arduino, Kramer, Wartman Offered: WSp. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 367 CEE 377 Introduction to Structural Design (5) Berman, Eberhard, Reed, Roeder Introduces the concepts, approaches, procedures, and codes for the structural design. Characterization of structural loads. Structural systems and system behavior. Analysis of statically determinate structures and introduction to analysis of statically indeterminate structures including approximate methods. Introduction to the behavior and design of fundamental structural member. Prerequisite CEE 220. Offered: AW. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 377 CEE 378 Structural Analysis (5) Fundamental analysis and modeling of civil structural systems. Equilibrium, kinematics, and constitutive relations; formal solution procedures emphasizing element-based stiffness methods; computer-based and manual techniques; verification and interpretation of results; case studies involving real structures; introduction to finite element analysis of 2D continua. Prerequisite: CEE 377. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 378 CEE 401 Pavement Design for Roads (1) Pavement design and construction to include both low and high-volume roads; both gravel and bituminous-surfaced pavements. Pavements as a critical element for infrastructure projects. Aids student ability to participate in a variety of road projects, including design and construction. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 401 CEE 402 Energy Infrastructure (1) Energy infrastructure, focusing largely on balance of plant topics. Includes elements of site selection, design, and construction. Electrical production facilities and transmission. Emphasis on renewable energy facilities. Aids student ability to participate in a variety of projects involving energy infrastructure. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 402 CEE 405 Traffic Simulation (3) In-depth discussion of microscopic traffic simulation models. Will provide engineering and planning students the information on how to develop and operate traffic simulation models and evaluate and present results from simulation models. Hands-on course projects and labs will be used for this course. Prerequisite: CEE 327 View course details in MyPlan: CEE 405 CEE 408 Sustainable Roadway Design and Construction (3) Steve Muench The holistic concept of sustainability and how it applies to roadway infrastructure. Provides context and methods for applying sustainability ideas to roads and quantifying them in a meaningful way. Includes (1) introduction to sustainability, (2) roadway sustainability best practices, (3) current industry practice, and (4) sustainability assessment using the Greenroads Rating System and related tools. Prerequisite: CEE 307 and CEE 327. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 408 CEE 409 Engineering Rome: Study Abroad (5) Muench Covers Roman civil engineering over 3,000 years from Ancient Rome to the present day. Introduces civil engineering topics reinforced by practical engineering calculations, local experts, and site visits. Provides international and historical perspective on engineering and the contributions of engineers to infrastructure and society. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 409 CEE 410 Traffic Engineering Fundamentals (3) General review of the fundamentals of traffic engineering, including their relationship to transportation operations management and planning, with emphasis on calculations and procedures in the Highway Capacity Manual; field surveys and data analysis. Prerequisite: CEE 327. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 410 CEE 412 Transportation Data Management and Visualization (3) Yinhai Wang Modern concepts, theories, and tools for management, visualization, and analysis of transportation data. Applications of software tools to large data sets, such as highway sensor data, real-time traffic and mobility service data, spatial data, probe vehicle and mobile device data. Addresses information retrieval, storage, knowledge discovery, data exchange, online sharing, visualization, communication, system optimization, and decision support. Prerequisite: CEE 327. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 412 CEE 415 Machine Learning for Civil Engineers (3) QSR Cynthia Chen Aims to provide students with an overview of machine learning basic concepts and common tools; introduces machine learning for civil engineering applications; exposes students to basic technical elements of machine learning; and equip students with basic capabilities for common machine learning tasks (including regression, supervised and unsupervised learning, decision trees) and their applications in civil engineering. Prerequisite: either MATH 126 and MATH 208, or MATH 136; and either IND E 315 or STAT 390. ; recommended: prior programming experience. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 415 CEE 416 Urban Transportation Planning and Design (3) Brief review of major issues in urban transportation planning. Planning process discussed and transportation models introduced. Uses a systems framework, including goals and objectives, evaluation, implementation, and monitoring. A design term project, individual or small groups, utilizes material presented on a contemporary problem. Prerequisite: CEE 327. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 416 CEE 420 Engineering with Developing Communities (3) DIV Introduces key technologies, theories, and challenges of infrastructure design for development. Covers technologies for energy, water, sanitation, and disaster response in low-resource contexts. Explores development theory and cross-cultural communication as they pertain to global infrastructure design. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 420 CEE 421 Pavement Design and Construction (4) J. Mahoney, S. Muench, J. Yamaura Structural design and construction processes associated with bituminous and concrete pavements. Covers theory, practice, and software tools for structural thickness design and layered elastic analysis; as well as construction methods, materials, and logistics. Includes small group case-study work on actual paving projects and state-of-the-art mobile project inspection software use. Prerequisite: CEE 337. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 421 CEE 422 Energy and Transportation (3) T. LARSON, J. MAHONEY Introduces climate change; vehicles, energy requirements and pollution; transportation fuels; energy and power plant terminology; traditional fossil fuel, nuclear, and renewable energy plants; permitting power plants and projects. Prerequisite: CEE 327. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 422 CEE 424 GIS for Civil Engineers (3) GIS in civil engineering applications. Geographic and spatial data types and acquiring considerations. Data models and structures. Projections and transformations. Attribute-based operation, spatial operations. Surfaces and near neighbors. Training on Arc GIS software. Prerequisite: CEE 317. Offered: AS. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 424 CEE 428 Lightweight Cementitious Composites ([0-2]-, max. 2) Janssen Introduces the process of designing within constraints and introductory experimental design. Covers the importance of proper laboratory documentation. Examines the characteristics of cementitious binders and elementary composite behavior. Considers constructability. Interprets pre- and post-cracking elastic behavior. Includes organization and production of technical report the documents work performed. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 428 CEE 432 Advanced Remote Sensing and Earth Observation (4) NW, QSR David E. Butman Covers the theory and application of satellite remote sensing as a tool for environmental science. Topics include the fundamentals of electromagnetic radiation, reflection and absorption, black body radiation, use of the Plank Function, satellite and sensor technology, map projections, integration of GIS data, and digital image analysis. Practical training with advanced image processing software (ENVI and open source). Recommended: GIS; statistics; and basic physics. Offered: jointly with ESRM 432; W. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 432 CEE 433 Temporary Structures (3) Focuses on the design and analysis of temporary structure systems used on heavy civil projects. Covers design, analysis, and construction means and methods for scaffolding, formwork, shoring, and falsework systems. Prerequisite: CEE 307; CEE 337; and CEE 377; recommended: CEE 291. Offered: AS. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 433 CEE 434 Project Estimating (3) Presents the basic principles of estimating the time and cost of construction projects. Focuses on the thought process that is required for construction engineers to analyze job conditions and assess the required labor, equipment, and methods of construction necessary to perform the work. Prerequisite: CEE 307 and CEE 337. Offered: WS. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 434 CEE 435 Project Scheduling (3) Julian Yamaura Presents the basic and advanced principles of planning and scheduling infrastructure construction projects. Focuses on the thought process that is required for construction engineers to develop organized work breakdown structures to create and maintain construction schedules. Prerequisite: CEE 307. Offered: AS. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 435 CEE 436 Foundation Design (3) Design considerations for foundations and retaining structures. Subsurface investigations and determination of soil properties for design. Design of shallow and deep foundations and retaining structures. Foundations and soil considerations for waterfront structures. Prerequisite: CEE 367. Offered: AW. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 436 CEE 440 Professional Practice Studio (2) Fundamentals of integrated civil engineering design, professional services marketing, project management, team dynamics, total quality management, value engineering, professional liability, and applied ethics in engineering practice. Emphasis on written and oral communications and on ethical, social, and economic factors. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 440 CEE 441 Transportation and Construction Capstone Design Project (5) Comprehensive design project focusing on planning, design, and construction of a transportation project such as highways, transit, and airports. Prerequisite: CEE 307; CEE 327; and CEE 337. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 441 CEE 442 Structural Geotechnical Capstone Design Project (5) Comprehensive team design project focusing on structural and geotechnical engineering. Requires design drawings, written reports, and oral presentations interfacing with related fields such as aesthetics and architecture, mechanical systems, traffic, environmental planning. Prerequisite: CEE 367 and CEE 377; either CEE 451 or CEE 452; and one additional course from CEE 436, CEE 451, CEE 452, CEE 453, CEE 454, CEE 456, or CEE 457. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 442 CEE 444 Water Resources and Hydraulic Engineering Capstone Design Project (5) Opportunity to effect design solutions for projects or major project components in such representative areas as reservoirs and associated systems for flood control, water supply, irrigation, and hydroelectric power, surface water control systems, fisheries related projects, small harbors, and coastal engineering problems. Prerequisite: either CEE 345 or CEE 347; and either CEE 475, CEE 476, CEE 482, CEE 483, or CEE 484. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 444 CEE 445 Environmental Engineering Capstone Design Project (5) Individual and group design studies addressing environmental engineering problems such as stormwater management, water and wastewater treatment facilities, and residual processing. Prepare proposals, engineering reports, and alternative evaluations; process equipment design, present reports on selected design problems. Prerequisite: either CEE 345 or CEE 347; and either CEE 473, CEE 475, CEE 476, CEE 481, CEE 482, CEE 483, or CEE 484. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 445 CEE 451 Design of Metal Structures (3) Charles William Roeder, Jeffrey W Berman Introduction to the design and behavior of metal structures using LRFD concepts. Application of design methods and codes to columns, beams, frames, connections, and tension members. Prerequisite: CEE 377. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 451 CEE 452 Design of Reinforced Concrete Structures (3) Tyler S Sprague, Dawn E Lehman, Laura N. Lowes, Paolo Calvi, Marc O Eberhard Fundamentals of design of buildings in reinforced concrete in accordance with current codes and practices. Prerequisite: CEE 377. Offered: AS. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 452 CEE 453 Prestressed Concrete Design (3) Analysis, design, and construction of prestressed concrete structures. Prerequisite: CEE 452. Instructors: Eberhard, Stanton Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 453 CEE 454 Design of Timber Structures (3) Includes the design and construction of timber structures, using elements made of sawn wood, glued-laminated wood, and manufactured wood products. Prerequisite: CEE 377. Instructors: Berman, Reed Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 454 CEE 455 Structural Unit Masonry (3) Structural behavior and design of reinforced brick, tile, and unit concrete masonry structures. Prerequisite: CEE 377. Instructors: Tawresey Offered: jointly with ARCH 426. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 455 CEE 457 Advanced Structures I (3) Laura N. Lowes Introduction to the finite element method for modeling civil structures. Formulation of line and continuum elements using virtual work and the principal of minimum potential energy. MATLAB programming of the finite element method. Use of commercial software to model real structures. Prerequisite: CEE 378. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 457 CEE 462 Applied Limnology and Pollutant Effects on Freshwater (3) NW Principles of aquatic ecology that relate to causes and effects of water quality problems in lakes and streams. Population growth kinetics, nutrient cycling, eutrophication; acidification, oxygen/temperature requirements, and effects of various wastes on aquatic animals. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 462 CEE 463 Limnology Laboratory (2) NW Examination of biota of fresh waters, survey of limnological methods, analysis of data, and writing of scientific papers. Prerequisite: BIOL 473/FISH 473/CEE 462, which may be taken concurrently. Offered: jointly with BIOL 474/FISH 474; A. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 463 CEE 465 Data Analysis in Water Sciences (4) J. Lundquist Covers fundamental topics related to data analysis, including statistical inference testing and error estimation, linear and quantile-based regression models, Monte Carlo simulation, time series analysis, Bayes theorem, and data visualization using modern computer techniques. Applications to water sciences, but techniques are applicable to any area. Prerequisite: IND E 315; either AMATH 301 or CSE 142; recommended: Basic stats and computer programming (or matlab) Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 465 CEE 473 Coastal Engineering I (3) Linear theory of water waves, wave transformations near shore, sediment motion, and elementary tidal theory; shoreline protection methods; and applications illustrated by selected case histories. Prerequisite: CEE 347, OCEAN 285, or M E 333. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 473 CEE 474 Hydraulics of Sediment Transport (3) A. HORNER-DEVINE Introduction to sediment transport in steady flows with emphasis on physical principles governing the motion of sediment particles. Topics include sediment characteristics, initiation of particle motion, particle suspension, bedforms, streambed roughness analysis, sediment discharge formulae, and modeling of scour and deposition in rivers and channels. Prerequisite: CEE 347. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 474 CEE 475 Analysis Techniques for Groundwater Flow (3) R. NEUMANN Presents the fundamentals of subsurface flow and transport, emphasizing the role of groundwater in hydrologic cycle, the relation of groundwater flow to geologic structure, and the management of contaminated groundwater. Concepts are applied to well-known hydrogeologic sites. Prerequisite: CEE 347. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 475 CEE 476 Physical Hydrology (3) Global water picture, data sources and data homogeneity, precipitation and streamflow hydrography analysis; calculation of surface runoff, evapotranspiration, and groundwater recharge. Hydrologic data frequency analysis and probability theory. Hydrologic design: flood mitigation, drainage. Introduction to deterministic and stochastic models. Prerequisite: CEE 347. Instructors: Istanbulluoglu Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 476 CEE 477 Open-Channel Flow (3) Water flow in natural and engineered channels, rivers, and streams. Analysis and design of channels (lined, vegetated), flow controls (weirs, spillways), and structures affecting fish passage (culverts). Prediction of water surface profiles. Introduction to river mechanics. Design-oriented problems. Prerequisite: CEE 347. Instructors: Jessup. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 477 CEE 478 Water Systems Management and Operations (3) J. Lundquist Overview of past and future water management and policy issues related to current water resources projects. Through readings, writing, guest speakers, and class discussion, considers both technical and social aspects of water resource system management and operations. Topics include federal water policy, regional water planning, expansion of existing water supplies, stream flow forecasting, planning with climate change, and more. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 478 CEE 480 Air-Quality Modeling (3) NW Evaluation of air-quality models relating air pollution emissions to environmental concentrations. Emphasis on models used for air pollution permits. Emphasizes current problems. Prerequisite: MATH 125. Offered: jointly with ATM S 480; W. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 480 CEE 481 Hydraulic Design for Environmental Engineering (3) Erkan Istanbulluoglu Introduction to the theory and the practice of planning and design of urban water supply distribution, pump stations, sewage and storm-water collection systems, and green stormwater infrastructure. Engineering methods and computer programs are applied for designing basic system elements. Prerequisite: CEE 347; and either CEE 350 or CEE 357. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 481 CEE 482 Wastewater Reuse and Resource Recovery (3) Introduces wastewater treatment and systems, emphasizing fundamental biological, chemical, and physical processes related to protection of public health environmental quality and water reuse. Process analysis of the configuration and sizing of major types of treatment processes for various sizes of plants and effluent requirements. Prerequisite: CEE 350 or CEE 357. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 482 CEE 483 Drinking Water Treatment (3) Studies scientific, engineering, and regulatory principles underlying drinking water treatment; development of conceptual models for how and why treatment processes work and mathematical models describing their performance under various design and operating scenarios; field trips to water treatment systems. Prerequisite: CEE 350 or CEE 357. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 483 CEE 490 Air-Pollution Control (4) Fundamental concepts of air pollution Control including emission sources, atmospheric dispersion, ambient concentrations, and emission standards, with emphasis on processes and equipment for controlling emissions. Offered: jointly with ENV H 461; ASp. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 490 CEE 491 Deterministic Systems (3) Development of quantitative methods for mathematical problem solving with emphasis on computer applications. Linear programming, mathematics of the simplex algorithm, sensitivity analysis, dynamic programming, systems simulation, and goal programming. Class project required. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 491 CEE 496 Fate and Transport of Chemicals in the Environment (3) Neumann Presents a general introduction to the fundamental physical, chemical, and biological processes governing the movement and fate of chemicals in surface water and groundwater. Provides basic literacy in environment transport and fate processes, creating a solid foundation for accessing and synthesizing material on these topics. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 496 CEE 497 Engineering Jordan: Water in an Arid Land Study Abroad (5) DIV H. Gough Examines impacts of a hot dry climate on water engineering systems by studying the engineered water cycle in Jordan including: water cycles and sources in Jordan; drinking water treatment and desalination; wastewater treatment and reuse; decentralized and on-site treatment; and ancient water engineering. Offered: S, even years. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 497 CEE 498 Special Topics (1-5, max. 12) Special topics in civil engineering offered as course with lecture or laboratory. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 498 CEE 499 Independent Study/Research (1-5, max. 12) Individual undergraduate research project. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 499 CEE 500 Civil and Environmental Engineering Seminars (1, max. 3) Prerequisite: graduate standing in Civil and Environmental Engineering. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 500 CEE 521 Seepage and Consolidation (3) Confined and unconfined seepage through porous media, flow net solutions, consolidation, settlement, numerical solution of seepage, and consolidation problems. Prerequisite: CEE 367 or equivalent. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 521 CEE 522 Shear Strength and Slope Stability (3) Shear strength of cohesive and granular soils and slope stability analysis of natural and man-made slopes. Prerequisite: CEE 367 or equivalent. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 522 CEE 523 Advanced Foundation Engineering (3) Design of shallow and deep foundations for bearing capacity and settlement. Construction considerations. Prerequisite: CEE 522 and CEE 527. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 523 CEE 529 Foundation Soil Improvement (3) Analysis and design of physical and chemical treatment techniques commonly applied to problem foundation soils for civil engineering structure. Prerequisite: CEE 523. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 529 CEE 531 Rock Engineering (3) Engineering classification, physical and mechanical properties of rocks, failure modes and initial stresses in rocks, laboratory and field testing of rocks, rock slope engineering, underground openings, foundations on rocks. Prerequisite: CEE 437 or permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 531 CEE 576 Water Resources Planning (3) Engineering, social, and economic factors involved in water resource development and management; water policies, programs, and administration; use relationships and conflicts; considerations for regional water resource systems. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 576 CEE 599 Special Topics in Civil and Environmental Engineering (1-5, max. 20) Special topics in civil and environmental engineering offered occasionally by permanent or visiting faculty members. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 599 CEE 600 Independent Study or Research ([1-5]-) Topics covered depend on faculty and student interest. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 600 CEE 601 Internship (2, max. 6) Internship in an established program between industry, government, and the University. Prerequisite: permission of Graduate Program Coordinator and committee chair. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 601 CEE 700 Master's Thesis (*-) Prerequisite: permission of adviser. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 700 CEE 800 Doctoral Dissertation (*-) Prerequisite: permission of adviser. View course details in MyPlan: CEE 800 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022