Skip to Main Content apply now ☰ Students Parents Alumni People WyoWeb Virtual Tour Give Events A-Z Directory Admissions UW Admissions First Year Transfer International Graduate Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Scholarships Academics Explore Colleges Academic Affairs Catalog/Schedules Degree Plans Graduate Education Honors College Majors/Degrees UW at a Distance Art Museum UW Libraries Athletics NCAA Athletics Athletics Traditions Cowboy Joe Club Athletics Tickets Campus Recreation Club Sports Rodeo Intramural Sports NOLS Research Research & Econ Dev Wyoming INBRE Neuroscience Ctr Tech Business Ctr Nat Parks Service Research Prod Ctr Supercomputing Water Research WY EPSCoR/IDeA Amer Heritage Ctr UW Life Campus Safety Campus Maps Transit & Parking Res Life & Dining Diversity Student Orgs Cultural Prgms Fine Arts Campus Activities University Store UW Pride About UW Points of Pride Alumni Association Geological Museum Foundation Cowboy Parents UWyo Mag Brand Center Visit Campus Download Viewbook Give to UW UW Home UW Institutional Directory Campus Safety UW - Laramie, Wyoming | University of Wyoming Home Menu UW Police Department UW Alert Winter Road Conditions Weather Silent Witness Program Dean of Students Environment Health and Safety Department Contact Us Chad Baldwin Bureau of Mines Bldg 137 Laramie, WY 82071 Phone: (307) 766-2929 Email: cbaldwin@uwyo.edu Campus Safety Your Community Awaits The University of Wyoming is dedicated to providing our students, faculty, staff, and visitors a living and learning environment that is safe and secure. The following University resources have been dedicated to help provide the highest levels of campus safety as possible. If you witness a crime that is being committed RIGHT NOW, immediately contact the UWPD at 766-5179 or 911. Please see all safety procedures below. Take Action! Safety Procedures If you witness a crime that is being committed RIGHT NOW immediately contact the UWPD at 766-5179 or 911. For crime information or to anonymously report a suspicious activity/person, please call UWPD at 766-5179. To discuss concerns about an individual student, faculty or staff, please contact the Dean of Students office at dossafe@uwyo.edu or call 766-3296. For information about mental health concerns, please contact the University Counseling Center at uccstaff@uwyo.edu or call 766-2187. For after-hours and weekend help for mental health or suicide concerns, please call the UW Crisis Line at 766-8989 and ask for the counselor on call. For additional information on campus policies or procedures, please visit: COVID-19 Risk Management Safety Office UW Crime Statistics UW Police Department University Regulations Missing Persons Policy (pdf) UW Emergency Response Plan (pdf) Educational records privacy guidelines (FERPA) Automated External Defibrillator (AED)/Emergency Call Box Information Map (PDF) Student Code of Conduct UW Police Department The UWPD operates 24 hours a day, 365 days a year and is responsible for law enforcement, public safety, building security, and traffic and parking control. UW Alert UW Alert is a text messaging notification system designed to keep students, faculty and staff informed during emergencies. Text Tips Program To send an anonymous tip via text message to the University of Wyoming Police, text the keyword UWYO and your message to 847411 (tip411). Winter Road Conditions Provides road conditions throughout the State of Wyoming. Weather Provides local weather conditions. Silent Witness Form Please use the Silent Witness Form to anonymously report a suspicious activity or person. Dean of Students To discuss concerns about an individual student, faculty or staff, please contact the Dean of Students. UW Safety Office The UW Safety Office partners with university administration, colleges, departments, staff, faculty and students to ensure a safe and healthful environment for everyone. Contact Us Chad Baldwin Bureau of Mines Bldg 137 Laramie, WY 82071 Phone: (307) 766-2929 Email: cbaldwin@uwyo.edu 1000 E. University Ave. Laramie, WY 82071 UW Operators (307) 766-1121 | Contact Us | Download Adobe Reader Accreditation | Virtual Tour | Emergency Preparedness | Employment at UW | Privacy Policy | Harassment & Discrimination | Accessibility