Skip to Main Content Brown University Undergraduate Orientation Search Menu Site Navigation Home Before You Arrive You’re In! Here’s What Comes Next. Summer Emails Get Oriented Pre-Orientation New Student Orientation Transfer & RUE Orientation Orientation Welcoming Committee Parent & Family Orientation Design Your Education Course Placement Your Campus Home Search Undergraduate Orientation Parent and Family Orientation Breadcrumb Home Get Oriented Sub Navigation In This Section Pre-Orientation New Student Orientation Transfer & RUE Orientation Orientation Welcoming Committee Parent & Family Orientation Parent and Family Orientation Learn about Orientation options for parents and families of new students. Congratulations on your student’s admission to Brown! You are an important member of the Brown community, and we will communicate with you during your student's years at Brown through letters, the Brown Alumni Magazine and Brown-related events across the country. The first such event is Orientation. All entering students are required to attend Orientation, which introduces them to Brown's distinctive academic culture and student community. Orientation includes special sessions for families that allow you to interact with other parents, and to speak with senior administrators and faculty about academic and student life at Brown. Schedule of Events 2022 events forthcoming Student and Family Support If circumstances or distance make it impossible for you to accompany your student to Brown, please don’t worry: our faculty, administrators and students are here to help them acclimate to Brown. Likewise, if you will be bringing your student to campus for a Pre-Orientation program earlier in the week and are unable to stay until Orientation begins, the staff of the various programs will work closely with your student to ensure a successful transition. Much of the information presented to parents at this time is also available online and will be presented again during Family Weekend in the fall. Travel Information If you are planning to accompany your student to campus, please note that area lodgings fill up quickly. Visitor Accommodations Directions and Parking Parent and Family Gateway Parents and families are an important part of the Brown community. Learn more about how to get involved and find important resources. Family Resources https://www.youtube.com/embed/5D76q-lyI-I Parent & Families Webinar This webinar took place on August 3, 2021 and it discussed Fall Move In 2021. https://www.youtube.com/embed/5Bm1Ml1R7ks Academic Communities at Brown This webinar focuses on the Open Curriculum, academic advising and communities. https://www.youtube.com/embed/wisThxJ7Ek4 Financial Resources & Support This webinar took place on August 17th, 2021 and focused on financial resources and support. https://www.youtube.com/embed/hHBAdoyTzkM How to eat on campus This webinar took place on August 24, 2021 and focused on how to eat on campus. https://www.youtube.com/embed/sxxqRrqPHg4 A guide to Pre-Orientation This webinar took place on August 24, 2021 and focused on Pre-Orientation programs for first year students. https://www.youtube.com/embed/Z8_likSL7SQ Campus Resource Webinar This Parent & family webinar took place on August 31st, 2021 and focused on campus resources for welcoming our students and families to campus. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Before You Arrive You’re In! Here’s What Comes Next. Summer Emails Get Oriented Pre-Orientation New Student Orientation Transfer & RUE Orientation Orientation Welcoming Committee Parent & Family Orientation Design Your Education Course Placement Your Campus Home This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Parent and Family Orientation Open details for Parent and Family Orientation Bookmark this Page