Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Incoming Students – Summer 2022 Current Students Employers Alumni Veterans Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About Overview Dean's Message Mission & History STM Values Facts & Figures STM Global Diversity at STM Contact Us and Staff Directory Accreditation and Educational Effectiveness Related Links Strategic Plan STM News About BC Admission Overview Why Choose STM? How To Apply Funding Your Studies Scholarships & Assistantships Federal Financial Aid Webinars and Campus Visits Request Information Meet the Admissions Team Partnerships Related Links Living in Boston Facts & Figures FAQ New Student Information Academics Overview Programs Master of Divinity (M.Div.) Master of Arts in Theology and Ministry (M.A.) Master of Theological Studies (M.T.S.) Hybrid M.A. in Theology and Ministry Master of Theology (Th.M.) Ph.D. in Theology and Education Doctorate in Sacred Theology (S.T.D.) Licentiate in Sacred Theology (S.T.L.) Bachelor of Sacred Theology (S.T.B.) Certificate in Theology and Ministry Certificate in Hispanic Ministry Certificate in Religious Education Post-Master's Certificate Certificate in Christian Spirituality Certificate in Ignatian Spirituality Certificate in Spiritual and Pastoral Care Hispanic Ministry Programs Dual Program with M.S.W. Dual Program with M.B.A. Dual Program in Counseling Nondegree Coursework Summer at STM Intensive on the 19th Annotation for Spiritual Directors Courses Summer at STM Summer at Linz Summer at STM Supervised Ministry Spirituality Studies Programs in Hispanic Theology and Ministry STM From a Distance Related Links Current Student Resources Dual Degrees Boston Theological Interreligious Consortium Arts at STM Certificates & Nondegree Faculty & Research Overview Faculty Directory Jeffrey Von Arx, S.J. John F. Baldovin, S.J. André Brouillette, S.J. Francine Cardman Vicente Chong, S.J. Richard J. Clifford, S.J. Andrew R. Davis Daniel J. Daly Dominic F. Doyle Brian Dunkle, S.J. Angela Kim Harkins Colleen M. Griffith Margaret Eletta Guider, O.S.F. Barton T. Geger, S.J. Franklin T. Harkins Thomas H. Groome Mary Jo Iozzio David W. Jorgensen Maria Kakavas L. Callid Keefe-Perry Melissa Kelley Richard Lennan Rafael Luciani Christopher R. Matthews Catherine Mooney Matthew S. Monnig, S.J. Hosffman Ospino Theresa A. O'Keefe Félix Palazzi Andrea Ponzone, J.C.D., LL.B. William D. Roozeboom Jane E. Regan Walter J. Smith, S.J., Ph.D. Thomas D. Stegman, S.J. Judith A. Talvacchia O. Ernesto Valiente Benjamin Valentin Andrea Vicini, S.J. Joseph E. Weiss, S.J. Faculty Expertise New Testament Abstracts Student Research International Fellows Theology and Ministry Library Related Links BC Theology Department Lumen et Vita (STM Student Journal) Institute for Advanced Jesuit Studies Ricci Institute for Chinese-Western Cultural History Center for Teaching Excellence Community Overview Liturgy & Worship Diversity & Dialogue Formation Living in Boston Our Spaces Career Development Student Forum Related Links Current Student Resources BC Campus Ministry BC Graduate Student Life STM Alumni Resources Continuing Ed Overview Crossroads Formación Continua Campus Events / Webinars Registration Instructions STM Webinar Zoom Help Encore The Journey Continues Calling Out From the Depths Related Links BC Theology Department Lumen et Vita (STM Student Journal) Institute for Advanced Jesuit Studies Ricci Institute for Chinese-Western Cultural History Center for Teaching Excellence Close Directory A to Z Listing Search STM site Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Incoming Students – Summer 2022 Current Students Employers Alumni Veterans BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Faculty Expertise New Testament Abstracts Student Research International Fellows Theology and Ministry Library Faculty & Research Putting Faith Into Action Our faculty are scholars, mentors, and ministers, helping students transform into leaders of communities around the world. Faculty members approach their work as more than a job: student formation is their ministry—their service to the Church and to the world. Through sincere interactions and enduring relationships, faculty members help students flourish academically, in ministerial work, and in exploring their own spiritual expression. Additionally, faculty members’ connections from across the Church and the academy assist students in forming professional networks. Together with the Boston College Theology Department, our faculty make up the nation’s largest Catholic theological faculty. Our professors are known for their expertise in contemporary Church matters, doctrine, liturgy, and social justice. latest faculty news 2019 faculty publications Related Links BC Theology Department Lumen et Vita (STM Student Journal) Institute for Advanced Jesuit Studies Ricci Institute for Chinese-Western Cultural History Center for Teaching Excellence Play Faculty Collaboration Two book projects, Hope: Promise, Possibility, and Fulfillment and The Holy Spirit: Setting the World on Fire are notable examples of how STM faculty members collaborate and support one another academically. For these projects, the faculty selected a central theme, and then each contributor explored the issue from her or his theological area of expertise. STM Faculty in the News First endowed chair for STM A gift intention from alumna Anne Marie Kitz will honor School of Theology and Ministry founding Dean Richard Clifford, S.J. Jubilate Deo Award School of Theology and Ministry Professor John F. Baldovin, S.J., is honored for his substantial contribution to the development of pastoral liturgy in the U.S. Hosffman Ospino honored The School of Theology and Ministry theologian was awarded the Richard Cardinal Cushing Medal for the Advancement of Church Research. Cavalieri Visiting Jesuit Professor Ecuadorian scholar and School of Theology and Ministry alumnus Vicente Chong, S.J., returns to STM as the inaugural chairholder. What makes education Catholic? What does it mean to place the word “Catholic” before such terms as school, education, or teacher? A new book explores the answer. Pope Francis’s Vision for the Church A conversation about the pope’s goals for the future. A Catholic-Jewish encounter over sacred texts BC School of Theology and Ministry will develop a course curriculum for Jewish-Christian learning based on the Psalms. Science for Seminaries BC's School of Theology and Ministry will integrate neuroscience into its curriculum. Bolstering Practical Theology Benjamin Valentin and Callid Keefe-Perry have joined the STM faculty. STM Facts 95% graduate placement rate within six months of graduation 100% of master's students receive financial support 400 total enrollment Meet Our Faculty Our faculty are both dedicated scholars and experienced ministers—recognized for their theological expertise and for their service to the Church and world. Faculty Directory The Complex Church Richard Lennan Pastoral Care and Counseling Melissa Kelley Theology of the People Rafael Luciani “We try to teach academic courses in ways that are eminently pastoral and applicable. Our practical courses are very academic. We try to teach them both in ways that nurture people's own spiritual growth. The academic, the pastoral, and the spiritual - letting all three suffuse each other and inform and color each other. We don't see these as a triangle. We see them as integrated. ” Thomas H. Groome, Professor, Theology and Religious Education Unparalleled Access to Expertise In additon to the important mentoring relationships between STM students and faculty, students also form relationships with stellar faculty in the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Theology Department, whose primary research areas include biblical studies, historical theology/history of Christianity, comparative theology, systematic theology, and theological ethics. theology department Academic Tools Supervised Ministry Library Faculty Directory Courses Back To Top Back To Top School of Theology and Ministry Simboli Hall 9 Lake Street Brighton, MA 02135-3841 617-552-6501 About Admission Academics Faculty & Research Continuing Ed/Formación Continua Community Apply Visit Give Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College