Looks like you're using an unsupported browser to view this site, so it may not load correctly. We recommend using Safari, Chrome or Firefox for the best experience. BROWN PEDIATRIC EMERGENCY MEDICINE HomeAboutFellowshipFacultyLife in ri Contact US BROWN PEDIATRIC EMERGENCY MEDICINE Hasbro Children's Hospital Providence, Rhode Island A letter from our Vice Chair, Dr. Linda Brown It is an honor to serve as the Vice Chair of Pediatric Emergency Medicine for Brown Emergency Medicine. I have had the pleasure of being a part of this division for many years now, but I still remember viewing this group through the lens of a pediatric resident. Initially the busy and varied clinical practice of this Level I Pediatric Trauma Center drew me into the specialty, but it was the faculty and fellows who solidified my decision to pursue pediatric emergency medicine as a career. The group has grown since, but the core values remain. They are intelligent, hard-working, engaging educators, who are passionate about delivering the highest quality care to children. They are amazing role models and mentors for those working their way through the process of deciding on a career path. From innovative studies in biomedical engineering to quality improvement initiatives that impact pediatric resuscitation to pioneering new methods to distribute life-saving naloxone, our faculty and fellows are inventive, intellectually curious and supportive of research in all its forms. Through this website we are pleased to give you some insight into Brown Pediatric Emergency Medicine, a vibrant, active division with invested faculty and fellows who aim to continually improve the care delivered to all children. Exceptional patient centered care We are the only pediatric emergency department and level one pediatric trauma center in the state of Rhode Island. We proudly serve the emergent and urgent medical needs of children and adolescents for the state and surrounding regions. Staffed 24 hours a day, seven days a week by board certified pediatric emergency medicine physicians. Learn More Cutting-edge research Brown University/Hasbro Children’s Hospital has been an active contributor to the Pediatric Emergency Care Applied Research Network (PECARN) since 2011. Faculty are also actively involved in collaborative research with the American Academy of Pediatrics Section of Emergency Medicine Collaborative Research Committee (SOME-CRC), and the Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute at Brown University. Learn More Invested in our future physicians Our pediatric emergency medicine fellows are the heart of our department. In addition, residents from several programs including Brown Emergency Medicine, Brown Pediatrics, Kent Hospital Emergency Medicine, Kent Hospital Family Medicine, St. Luke’s Dental Medicine and medical students from Brown University Alpert School of Medicine have the opportunity to develop skills in pediatric emergency medicine alongside our faculty. Learn About our FELLOWSHIP Contact us Name Email Address Message Thank you! Your submission has been received! Oops! Something went wrong while submitting the form.