Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Political Science PhD You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Political Science PhD Apply Request More Info Political Science PhD Admissions Careers & Opportunities Curriculum Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Political Science PhD Conduct original scholarly research and form advanced pedagogical skills with the Doctor of Philosophy in Political Science at Temple University’s College of Liberal Arts. Students in this 46-credit doctoral program critically examine topics such as global politics, political behavior, political thought and the role of the state in the economy in preparation for careers in academia and research. The Political Science Department's faculty members are nationally recognized in their fields and integrate their current and published research with PhD coursework. Faculty research and expertise focus on American politics, comparative politics, international relations and political theory, which also serve as primary subject matters in the curriculum. PhD students are an integral part of the learning and teaching experience across the Political Science Department. They conduct research, teach courses and work closely with various faculty members and students throughout the department. Learn more about current Political Science PhD students and their research. Students are prepared to pass qualifying examinations in two of the four main political science subject areas. Program Format & Curriculum Students have seven years to complete the Political Science PhD program on a full- or part-time basis, with classes offered after 3:00 p.m. The 46-credit curriculum includes core, methods and research courses along with six electives taken in areas related to the comprehensive exams. Core courses include Introduction to Political Theory and Teaching Methods. Methods courses include Political Statistics I and II, Topics in Research Design, and Qualitative Research Methods. Research courses include Preliminary Examination Preparation, Pre-Dissertation Research and Dissertation Research. Culminating events for the Political Science PhD include a qualifying examination, which comprises oral and written sections, as well as a dissertation and defense. Learn more about the Political Science PhD curriculum. Our Community The College of Liberal Arts at Temple comprises many disciplines and research areas. Now more than ever, an interdisciplinary liberal arts education is invaluable for your future pursuits. It offers the opportunity to further push your drive to create real change in the world, here at Temple and beyond. In this graduate program, you’ll work closely with diverse faculty members who are highly esteemed in their field and with a curious, passionate community of peers. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Doctor of Philosophy offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $966.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,329.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Program Contact For questions regarding the Political Science PhD, contact the following staff member. LaTasha Goodman is the academic coordinator. Phone: 215-204-7796 Email: lgoodman@temple.edu The following staff members lead the Political Science Department. Robin Kolodny is the chair. Phone: 215-204-7709 Email: rkolodny@temple.edu Adam Ziegfeld is the graduate chair. Email: awz@temple.edu Jessica Brennan is the administrator. Phone: 215-204-7796 Email: jessica.brennan@temple.edu Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-POLS-PHD Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Political Science PhD Admissions Careers & Opportunities Curriculum Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info