Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Air Force ROTC AFROTC right arrow down arrow Our Detachment right arrow down arrow Detachment 665 Cadre right arrow down arrow Commander Recruiting Officer Operations Flight Commander NCOIC of Personnel NCOIC of Administration Program Director Prospective Cadets right arrow down arrow How to Join Crosstown Schools Program Requirements Returning to school? FAQ Request More Information Contact Us Home » Campus Life » Air Force ROTC » Our Detachment Set Navigation title in component Detachment 665 Cadre Commander Recruiting Officer Operations Flight Commander NCOIC of Personnel NCOIC of Administration Program Director Our Detachment Vision right arrow down arrow Produce Mission-focused Leaders that personify Service and inspire Excellence through: Leadership that values performance, rewards excellence, and inspires commitment Dynamic Training focused on fitness, field-training preparation, service, and personal/professional development Education that instills academic and professional excellence through instruction, motivation and oversight First-class Unit Support that enables uninterrupted mission focus Culture of mutual respect, self-discipline, and esprit d’ corps History of Excellence right arrow down arrow 2007 - Northeast Region Outstanding Small Detachment 2009 - Northeast Region Outstanding Medium Detachment 2012 - Northeast Region Outstanding Medium Detachment 2015 - Northeast Region Outstanding Large Detachment 2017 - Northeast Region Outstanding Medium Detachment 2018 - Northeast Region Outstanding Large Detachment 2020 - Northeast Region Outstanding Large Detachment Every Thursday more than 100 students walk around the University of Cincinnati’s campus in their Air Force uniforms. These are the proud cadets of UC’s Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps. The tradition of military training at the University of Cincinnati began in 1917. The Air Force came to campus after the branch’s creation in 1947. Today, AFROTC is the largest commissioning source for the Air Force, producing quality officer candidates who serve in a broad spectrum of career fields. The University of Cincinnati Air Force ROTC detachment grew over the years to now include cross-town cadets from Xavier University, Thomas Moore College, and Northern Kentucky University. We are currently 106 cadets strong. We can normally range between 70-120 cadets at any time. This is considered a large detachment for the national level of AFROTC in which we compete against other detachments to be ranked number one. Even though we strive to be the best in our region we do not see our cadets as just a number - we have a strong focus on the adacemics and health of each and every cadet in the program. Need a mentor or even a tutor? Every cadet is also a student and the upperclassmen have taken the same classes as the underclassman so the amount of help available is limitless. Focus Areas: Academics Fitness Service Social Leadership Air Force ROTC Detachment 665 2585 Dennis St Cincinnati OH, 45221 513-556-2237 afrotc@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Air Force ROTC Detachment 665 2585 Dennis St Cincinnati OH, 45221 513-556-2237 afrotc@uc.edu © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top