Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Engineering & Computer Science Main Navigation Departments Centers Current Students Future Students Services & Resources Employment News & Events Giving Contact Us Our Mission Dean's Office ECS Strategic Plan Enrollment & Degrees Awarded Student Sucess Center (SSC) Women in Computer Science and Engineering (WiCSE) Innovation and Entrepreneurship Initiative (EIR) Engineering Ambassadors Network (EAN) Summer Program for High School Students Newsletter Alumni Give Back ECS Catalog Description Governor’s May Revise Includes $67.5 Million for CSUF's Engineering & Computer Science Innovation Hub 2022 Commencement Student Engineering and Computer Science Research Showcased University Arms Students With Ethical Hacking Skills to Promote Cybersecurity Donation to Support Research on Artificial Intelligence in Medical Field, Diversity in STEM DEPARTMENTS & PROGRAMS Explore the different programs available on campus and see which one is best for you. There are currently eight different programs to choose from. Learn more about what our campus has to offer now! Explore Now NEW APPLICATION PROCESS Beginning June 1, the current portal, CSU Mentor, will be replaced by Cal State Apply, a streamlined, user-friendly application for all CSU incoming freshmen, transfer, graduate and international students. The improved process allows students to apply to multiple CSU campuses with just one easy application. Apply Now TUITION & CAMPUS FEES The CSU makes every effort to keep student costs to a minimum. Fees listed in published schedules or student accounts may need to be increased when public funding is inadequate. Therefore, CSU must reserve the right, even after fees are initially charged or initial fee payments are made, to increase or modify any listed fees. Learn More Our Mission Our mission is simple. We want to educate engineers and computer scientists who will graduate with state-of-the art knowledge in their chosen field and are ready to embark on careers in industry and government, or proceed to acquire advanced degrees in their own or related fields. More and more of our graduates are also interested in being entrepreneurs, thanks to the success of so many young people on the West Coast who have become successful in creating wealth via technology. At Cal State Fullerton's College of Engineering and Computer Science, you will learn, invent and explore possibilities. And when you graduate, you're going to be ready to take on a challenging and rewarding career. You will be ready to change the world. First Year Experience Welcome to the College of Engineering and Computer Science (ECS) at California State University, Fullerton! Your first year as an ECS student is an important one in which you have opportunities to make new friends, learn more about majors, join student organizations and participate in events across campus. Learning to manage all your new responsibilites, courses and activites can be a difficult trantion for many first year students. As such, this section of the ECS website is dedicated to providing important information related to your first year success. Read More This site is maintained by Engineering & Computer Science. Last Published 5/23/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact ecswebmaster@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.