Skip to main content Skip to main content SMU Home Giving Giving Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Simmons About Dean's Message Programs, Degrees, and Certifications Faculty and Staff Directory Simmons Governance Simmons School History Executive Board Simmons Luminary Award XPRIZE Honor Code Simmons Resources Travel-Study Programs Simmons Lecture Series AERA 2022 Graduation Ceremony May 2022 Paving the Way to Inclusion Conference Simmons Graduate Council Faculty and Administrative Position Openings Simmons Blogs and Social Media Hub Annette Caldwell Simmons Hall Harold Clark Simmons Hall Photo Tour Contact Us Academic Departments & Areas of Study Applied Physiology & Wellness B.S. | Applied Physiology & Sport Mgmt. Undergraduate Specializations Applied Physiology and Health Management Sport Management Sport Performance Leadership M.S. | Health Promotion Management M.S. | Sport Management Non-Degree | Wellness Dispute Resolution & Counseling M.S. | Counseling Specialties Clinical Mental Health Marriage, Couple and Family School Counseling M.A. | Dispute Resolution Non-Degree | Dispute Resolution Specialties Executive Coaching Education Policy & Leadership M.Ed. | PK-12 School Leadership M.Ed. | Higher Education Ed.D. | PK-12 School Leadership Ed.D. | Higher Education Graduate Liberal Studies MLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities DLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities Non-Degree | Science, Arts, & Humanities Ph.D. in Education Teaching & Learning B.S. | M.Ed | MBE | Ph.D. Graduate Specializations Bilingual Special Ed ESL Gifted Literacy Math STEM Urban Education Research Research A comprehensive list of Simmons research projects Faculty Research Publications & Presentations Recent research publications and presentations Center on Research & Evaluation (CORE) Offers comprehensive program evaluation services, largely in the non-profit sector, and performs education research Research in Mathematics Education Conducts research in mathematics education and disseminates findings Integrative Physiology Laboratory Investigates autonomic function and thermoregulation in healthy and clinical populations Locomotor Performance Laboratory Studies terrestrial locomotion and the relationship of muscle function to metabolic energy expenditure and performance Center for VR Learning Innovation Investigates the use of virtual, augmented and mixed reality for education and human development Youth Sports Impact Partnership SMU and the Children’s Health Andrews Institute have launched a collaboration dedicated to improving the health, activity levels, and well-being of kids. Research Resources for Simmons Faculty and Staff Technology and Education Cluster Our Faculty Community Engagement Advanced Placement Summer Institute Summer Institute for AP and Pre-AP Teachers The Budd Center Partners with community agencies to offer educational opportunities for disadvantaged children Center for Family Counseling Counseling services in Plano for individuals and families College Access Programs Programs and workshops that help students advance academically Institute for Leadership Impact Leaders in education, health and social enterprise enhance skills to lead organizations and solve real-world problems Project Connect A repository of ideas, activities and videos for educators interested in improving instruction for English Language Learners West Dallas STEM-Focused School Preparing students for the next generation of STEM jobs Alumni Search Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Graduate Liberal Studies Master of Liberal Studies Master of Liberal Studies Master of Liberal Studies Program Semester Schedules Course Descriptions Study Away MLS in the News Admissions Tuition and Scholarships Adjunct Faculty Alumni and Graduates Resources for Liberal Studies Request More Information Contact Information Doctor of Liberal Studies Doctor of Liberal Studies Program Components Semester Schedules Faculty Alumni and Graduates Curriculum Admissions Tuition & Financial Aid Contact Us Certificate of Advanced Graduate Study ☰ Certificate of Advanced Graduate Study Graduate Liberal Studies Academics Graduate Liberal Studies Certificate of Advanced Graduate Study The purpose of the Certificate of Advanced Graduate Study (CAGS) is to provide adults the opportunity to pursue advanced studies in interdisciplinary, liberal arts in a focused and disciplined manner. The program encourages in-depth study of a core topic, while drawing upon various disciplines to provide a broad understanding of the subject. This program is designed for students with a Master's degree who wish to pursue advanced graduate work in a focal area of interdisciplinary study. The Certificate program is an 18-hour course of study. With the approval of a faculty mentor, students select a topic and select courses from the Master of Liberal Studies curriculum. A student’s course of study may conclude with an optional capstone project. This certificate is not designed to be a professional or vocational credential, but rather to enrich the student’s knowledge and understanding of their chosen curricular field of study. Academic Requirements The course of study detailed below must be completed within four years and students must maintain a 3.0 GPA throughout the program. Application to this program will fulfill the following objectives: clarify the expectations of the program focus on a topic and select a faculty mentor review writing and research methods prepare an outline of the student’s plan of study A core curriculum of 18 credit hours drawn from: the MLS course offerings an optional capstone seminar (three credit hours) in which students have the ability to complete and present their final papers, projects, or creative work Click here to apply online now for the certificate of advanced graduate study admission Criteria for Admission Online CAGS application A 750-word proposal that identifies the student’s interest area, purposes for advanced study, previous study or background knowledge of the topic, and a tentative course of study. This document will be used by the Dean to determine whether the student’s study proposal is appropriate for the program, and upon acceptance will be used as a working proposal for the introductory seminar Official transcripts from all colleges and universities attended with evidence of an earned master’s degree with a minimum (preferred) GPA of 3.00 Application fee If you have any questions about the online admissions process Please contact the Graduate Liberal Studies office at: Email: mls@smu.edu | Request Information Phone: 214-768-4273 Graduate Liberal Studies Doctor of Liberal Studies Master of Liberal Studies Certificate of Advanced Graduate Study Upcoming Events Contact Graduate Liberal Studies Contact Us 214-768-4273 mls@smu.edu Request Information Visit Us Annette Caldwell Simmons Hall 3101 University Blvd, Suite 234 Dallas, Texas 75205 Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 facebook twitter