Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Search BC.edu Links The Connors Center Menu Main Nav Contact Back Back Close About Overview Virtual Tour Requests for Proposal Contact Weddings Overview The Estate The Bridal Experience Wedding Weekend & Lodging Catering & Vendors Rates & Reservations Inspirations Wedding Request for Proposal Social Events Meetings & Conferences Retreats Team Building & Outings Close Directory A to Z Listing Search All Departments in Auxiliary Services Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Retreats Retreats Owned and operated by Boston College, the primary mission of the Connors Center is to provide a venue for contemplative retreats. Our 80-acre estate offers a serene environment for reflection. Amenities | Lodging | Catering/Vendors | Rates Request Proposal for Retreat at Connors Center Indoor Spaces Main Parlor This magnificent formal parlor features wood paneling, French doors, and a large fireplace. The Main Parlor can also be combined with the Dover Parlor and Estate Room for larger receptions and overlooks a garden terrace, which can accommodate a labyrinth. Dimensions: 38' x 23.5' Capacity: 70 (theater); 36 (circle of soft seating) Ideal for: mid-size retreats or quiet reflection Estate Room The Estate Room, located off the Main Parlor, provides a beautiful space for large retreats. Dimensions: 57' x 31' Capacity: 160 (theater); 100 (circle); 90 (crescent rounds) Ideal for: large retreats, labyrinth space, prayer space Dover Parlor A grand carved mantle is the focal point of this elegant parlor. Standard furnishings include soft seating couches. Retreatants can take advantage of an outdoor patio attached to the space - or walk to the serene St. Cecilia’s Garden. Dimensions: 25.5' x 19' Capacity: 35 (theater); 18 (circle of soft seating) Ideal for: small retreats or quiet reflection Charles River Meeting Room The Charles River Meeting Room offers fully modern amenities and traditional accents. The multipurpose space can be configured to serve a broad range of needs. Dimensions: 25' x 53' Capacity: 50 (theater); 36 (u-shape); 40 (hollow square) Ideal for: student retreats Garden Terrace Room This bright and airy space features high ceilings and large doors that open onto the expansive grounds. With exceptional light and a cheery color palate, this room is an ideal setting for daytime and evening events. Dimensions: 18’ x 28’ Capacity: 16 (square); 40 (dinner); 45 (theater) Ideal for: board retreats, artspace Sun Parlor The Sun Parlor offers a bright and cozy space to connect and relax. Dimensions: 29' x 16' Capacity: 20 (circle of soft seating) Ideal for: small retreats and staff lounge Hospitality Suite This modern room offers guests an opportunity to rest and relax on soft seating furniture. Many guests take advantage of the outdoor deck attached to the suite, as well as all the complimentary snacks and beverages. Dimensions: 25' x 56' Capacity: 20 (lounge) Ideal for: quiet reflection and evening socials Reflection Room(s) These cozy spaces forgo traditional furniture and instead offer plenty of pillows for relaxation and reflection. Dimensions: Varies Capacity: Varies Ideal for: personal reflection and spiritual direction Siena House Need an all-in-one retreat or meeting space with a kitchen to cook your own meals? Siena House offers basic retreat facilities for value-conscious groups. Capacity: 24 (lounge) Ideal for: student retreats, immersion trip lodging Outdoor Spaces Pavilion After a quiet walk along the trails, enjoy a debriefing session in the Pavilion while surrounded by Mother Nature. The Pavilion offers a covered, open-air space. Dimensions: 26.5' x 62.5' Capacity: 80 (seated at picnic tables) Ideal for: outdoor retreat activities St. Cecilia's Garden Originally designed by Olmsted and Vaux, famed landscape designers of New York City’s Central Park, St. Cecilia’s Garden features beautiful fieldstone pathways and picturesque flower beds. Dimensions: 69' x 58.5' Ideal for: Nature walks, outdoor prayer services, labyrinths and quiet reflection Lower Garden and Arched Terrace The expansive lower garden positioned adjacent to the archways and stone staircases that make the Connors Center truly distinctive. Appointed with cafe tables and wicker rockers, this is a favorite area among all our guests. Dimensions: 142' x 53' Ideal for: Nature walks, outdoor prayer space, labyrinths and quiet reflection Charles River Landing Visitors who take the five-minute walk through wooded trails arrive at the rustic Charles River Landing. This undeveloped riverside spot offers a serene break from the day to day. Ideal for: reflection, nature walks Anchor Amenities Lodging Catering & Vendors Rates At the Connors Center, our serene setting is only half the story. To ensure the success of your retreat, our staff will support you every step of the way and tend to every detail. Main House The Main House of the Connors Center offers a broad range of amenities and resources, including: Access to our Hospitality Suite, with a piano, foosball table, air hockey table, and other entertainment Fitness center On-site professional event coordinator Free parking Wireless internet Audiovisual and technology costs are included in the rental fee for the property. The following items may be placed on reserve for your group on a first come, first serve basis: LCD projector Projector screen Easels Flipchart paper and markers Lectern with microphone Siena House Amenities offered in Siena House are limited to a LCD projector and screen. The Connors Center works with outside vendors to provide many specialty amenities and services not listed above. Visit our vendor page for more information. Signature Suites (main house) The Connors Center offers six finely appointed guest suites. Each room offers a queen-size bed, a private bathroom, cable television, and wireless internet. Guest Wing Suites (main house) The Connors Center offers 21 additional suites with queen- or full-size beds, private bathrooms, and wireless internet. Guest Bedrooms (main house) The Connors Center offers 36 guest bedrooms with shared bathrooms. Siena House Siena House offers two-, four-, and six-person bedrooms. Linens are provided and groups are expected to make their own beds. Please speak with our staff for more information about lodging options. All lodging fees are subject to the Massachusetts lodging tax. The Connors Center provides all catering arrangements and is able to offer you a wide range of dining options and flawless on-site execution. Main House Our menus are custom created to meet your individual needs. In addition to traditional selections, we have experience accommodating a range of special dietary and allergy needs. Siena House This small retreat house is the only on-site facility that offers the flexibility for groups to bring and prepare their own meals. Catered options are also available. Facility Rental As meeting sizes and requests are highly variable, all meeting and conference facility rates are determined based on space use and number of guests. Deposits An initial nonrefundable deposit is due when the contract is signed. Cancellations If the reservation is cancelled, the sponsor will be responsible for a cancellation fee as outlined in their contract. Payments Payments for events are by check made payable to Boston College or with a credit card. Catering Since all menus are specifically created for each event, catering costs will vary depending upon menu selections. A 20 percent administrative fee will be added to all catering costs. This fee is used to supplement the operation of the center, including setup, breakdown, and cleaning costs; it is not a tip, gratuity, or service fee. Other Fees Any additional services required will be charged directly to the client. These may include damage fees, police services, valet parking, coat check, etc. Memorable Moments “The Connors Center has provided the most wonderful, welcoming, heart-warming sentiments. My most memorable moments are the conversations that I've had with various individuals–young and old, student and faculty–in the dining room over a hot, home-cooked meal. The Connors Center is Holy Ground as it has provided me with the space and opportunity to encounter individuals where they are and as they are.” SoYun C., Boston College A True Find “It can be difficult to find a clean, well-managed retreat site that offers reasonable prices and great service! We are thrilled to have found the Connors Center! ” Mary, Mount Alvernia Amazing and beautiful “Thank you so much for providing us with the space. We had such an awesome time in an amazing place with beautiful people. ” Muslim Student Association, Boston College Reflect and Share “The Connors Center has provided myself and so many other BC students with an incredibly beautiful space to reflect and share ourselves with one another. On the Halftime retreat this weekend, we got the chance to walk down to the river and hang out by the water. It was gorgeous and such a great reminder of how much of a blessing it is to be able to attend retreats in that space. ” Sam S., Boston College “The space is amazing and the entire experience was lovely! We can't wait to come back. ” Katy, Fontbonne Academy Back To Top Back To Top The Connors Center The Connors Center 20 Glen Street Dover, MA 02030 617-552-9210 meet@bc.edu Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Learn about the Estate Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College