Your browser does not support iframes. Skip to main content Menu Scheller College of Business Request More Information Attend an Info Session Contact Us Directory Apply Now Search Why Scheller? Programs Executive Education Academics Centers & Initiatives News & Events Overview & History Dean's Message and Report Meet Ernest Scheller Jr. Advisory Board Accreditation Strategic Plan Business at Tech Graduates Get Hired Return on Investment Faculty and Advisors Global Perspective A Good Fit Corporate Engagement Trading Floor Georgia Tech Community Student Life Making Connections and Learning Opportunities Diversity Diversity News Career and Recruiter Services Career Services for Students Hire Our Students Giving to the College Meeting the Challenge Priorities and Needs Faculty Support Student Support Program Enrichment Unrestricted Endowment The Impact of Your Gift How to Make a Gift FAQs Scheller MBA Annual Fund Alumni Network Alumni News Alumni Resources Update Contact Information Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Full-time MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQsEvening MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Advancement Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQs Executive MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Student & Alumni Profiles FAQsMBA Programs Which Georgia Tech MBA is Right for Me? Commitment to Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Dual Degree Options Experiential Learning For Engineers For Military Community MD/MBA Option MBA Early Admission for Undergrads Rankings The Intersection Podcast Earn Your MBA in Atlanta Graduate Certificate Business Analytics Certificate Undergraduate Admissions Curriculum Career Services Student Services Student Life Scholarships & Awards Rankings & Stats Connect With Us The Intersection Podcast, Undergrad PhD Concentrations Program Milestones Faculty and Staff Funding Admissions FAQs Recruiting Events Student Bios Program News Request Program Information Interdisciplinary M.S. M.S. in Quantitative & Computational Finance (QCF) Master of Science in Analytics at Georgia Tech Lean Six Sigma Certification Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Certification Lean Six Sigma Black Belt Certification FAQs Custom Programs FAQs Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Engineering Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship International Management Management of Technology Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results Academic Speaker Series Guest Speakers in Accounting Guest Speakers in Finance Guest Speakers in Marketing Current Faculty Opportunities Business Analytics Center Engage with Us Executive Council News Research Education People Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics About Cecil B. Day The Cecil B. Day Prize Speakers and Events Faculty Support Net Impact Center for International Business Education and Research Projects Research Events Books People at CIBER Inside CIBER News and Events Archives International Management Certificate Sign Up for Future CIBER News Financial Analysis Lab Subscribe to Reports Institute for Leadership and Social Impact About Us Programs News Impact Speaker Series Leadership for Social Good Study Abroad Program Social Impact Fellows Ideas to Serve (I2S) Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Servant Leadership Programs Minor in Leadership Studies Excel Alumni Other ILSI Programs Partnerships Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business About Us Sustainable Business Insights Research Briefs Sustainable Business Events Sustainable Business News Blog Research & Thought Leadership Empowering Students Industry Engagement Newsletter Participating in the Drawdown Georgia Compact Drawdown Georgia Business Compact Meet the Team Alumni Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program Director's Message About Steven A. Denning T&M Curriculum Program Faculty & Staff Admissions T&M Corporate Affiliates Denning T&M Program News TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta Program Network TI:GER MBA & PhD FAQs News Apply Inquire Resources in Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results (TI:GER Program) Program Home » Centers & Initiatives » Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results (TI:GER Program) » Program Menu TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta Program Network MBA FAQs PhD FAQs News Apply Inquire Resources in Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship The TI:GER program uniquely integrates transdisciplinary coursework with projects. Beginning in the spring term and continuing in the fall term, students take one course and one virtual lab. In the second spring term, students take one course. This table shows the sequence of the three courses – Innovation Analysis, Innovation and Business Model Design, and Innovation Execution – and the two virtual labs – Innovation Research Methods 1 and Innovation Research Methods 2 – by academic term. Each course is three credit hours, and each virtual lab is one-and-one-half credit hours, so students earn a total of 12 credit hours in the TI:GER program. All TI:GER courses are MBA electives and count toward the MBA degree. Each course meets from 6:30pm to 9:15pm once weekly. Each lab is virtual (that is, asynchronous online); students complete each weekly lab assignment at times convenient for them. Class sessions include discussions, exercises, workshops, and lectures so students gain the knowledge necessary for technology innovation. In virtual labs, TI:GER students conduct interviews and observational fieldwork to acquire and develop the practical skills essential for success in their innovation projects. While taking courses, TI:GER students are working on innovation projects. TI:GER projects come from Georgia Tech PhD students and from CDL-Atlanta. Technologies and projects can differ every term. Recent projects include biotech, biomedical, communications technology, health care technology, information technology, materials technology, robotics, sensors, and software. TI:GER is the educational program for the Creative Destruction Lab (CDL-Atlanta), which is a global milestone-based mentoring program for massively-scalable science-based startups. CDL-Atlanta is directed and operated from the Strategy and Innovation academic area at Scheller College. The curriculum in the TI:GER program prepares MBA and PhD students to work with CDL-Atlanta startups. During the first TI:GER course, all students work on PhD-student or MBA-student projects. In the second and third TI:GER courses, students work primarily on projects from CDL-Atlanta. The TI:GER program has prerequisite courses for MBA students Full-time MBA students automatically take all prerequisites during the fall term (i.e., their first term at Scheller College). Evening MBA students must ensure they take these two core courses before beginning the TI:GER program: MGT 6000 Financial and Managerial Accounting (three credit hours) and MGT 6500 Analytical Tools for Decisions (1.5 credit hours). Two other core courses that are preferred as prerequisites for Innovation Analysis and required as prerequisites for Innovation and Business Model Design are MGT 6504 Principles of Finance (1.5 credit hours) and MGT 6505 Marketing Management (1.5 credit hours). The TI:GER program has prerequisite educational modules for PhD students and PhD candidates After admission to the TI:GER program and before the start of the first course, PhD students must take and pass online, asynchronous, preparatory educational modules on a selection of important business fundamentals, such as marketing and finance. All the prerequisite educational modules are free. They carry no course credit. All modules together take less than 20 hours to complete. Earning a passing score on all modules is necessary to register for TI:GER courses. After admission to the TI:GER program, PhD students receive more information on the prerequisite modules. 1st Term: Spring In the first term of the TI:GER® program, which is a spring term, students take the course Innovation Analysis, which is three credit hours; this course focuses on market analysis, industry analysis, technology analysis, financial analysis, and strategy analysis for innovation projects. Students also take the virtual lab Innovation Research Methods 1 (IRM1), which is 1.5 credit hours; this lab presents an overview of qualitative research focusing on interview methods essential to the fieldwork students conduct to advance the analysis of their innovation project. Courses: Innovation Analysis Innovation Research Methods 1 (IRM1) 2nd Term: Fall In the second term of the TI:GER program, which is a fall term, students take the course Innovation and Business Model Design, which is three credit hours; this course focuses on using the analyses from the spring term to inform the design and validation of the business model for the innovation project. Students also take the virtual lab Innovation Research Methods 2 (IRM2), which is 1.5 credit hours; this lab focuses on methods for observational fieldwork, qualitative data analysis (QDA), and use of NVivo software for QDA. Courses: Innovation and Business Model Design Innovation Research Methods 2 (IRM2) 3rd Term: Spring In the third term of the TI:GER program, which is a spring term, students take the course Innovation Execution, which is three credit hours; this course focuses on the execution of an innovation project with a CDL venture. This course also provides discussions with numerous industry experts on the practices necessary to launching an innovation project as a new product or service, as a corporate venture, or as a startup. Course: Innovation Execution Apply Application deadline: October 1st TI:GER Full Time and Evening MBA FAQs TI:GER PhD FAQs 04-06-2022 The Creative Destruction Lab at Georgia Tech Scheller Hosts Commerce Stream Session for Founders, Mentors, and MBAs Read more Jonathan Giuliano Professor of the Practice Strategy & Innovation Read bio 03-17-2022 Creative Destruction Lab Launches New Global Space Stream at Georgia Tech Scheller Read more Scheller College of Business Home Why Scheller? Overview & History Business at Tech Georgia Tech Community Career and Recruiter Services Giving to the College Alumni Network Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Programs MBA Undergraduate PhD Interdisciplinary M.S. Executive Education Lean Six Sigma Certification Custom Programs Academics Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Academic Speaker Series Current Faculty Opportunities Centers & Initiatives Business Analytics Center Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics Center for International Business Education and Research Financial Analysis Lab Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta News & Events Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller LinkedIn Instagram Facebook Twitter Youtube Flickr Georgia Institute of Technology Scheller College of Business 800 W. Peachtree St. NW Atlanta, GA 30308 404.894.2600 © 2021 Georgia Institute of Technology Intranet Emergency Information Contact the College Privacy & Legal Notice Accountability Web Accessibility Resources for People with Disabilities Plugins Youtube Usage Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures