Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. African American Cultural & Resource Center AACRC right arrow down arrow About Us right arrow down arrow Our Staff Programs right arrow down arrow Tyehimba Akwaaba Black Student Welcome Kuamka right arrow down arrow Kuinuka Scholarships Spring Break Tour Transitions B.A.S.E. ALLC Talk About It Tuesday Student Groups right arrow down arrow Brother 2 Brother Habari Gani Ambassadors Sisters Impacting Sisters (S.I.S.) The Center right arrow down arrow Reserve the AACRC AACRC Reservation Policies Home » Campus Life » AACRC African American Cultural & Resource Center Habari Gani?! Whether walking in the front door or calling into the office, everyone is greeted with "habari gani?" which is a Swahili phrase that asks, "what good news do you have?" The AACRC fosters an atmosphere where lively conversation is welcomed and encouraged, leadership development and academic success are prioritized, and quiet study spaces are regularly utilized. The AACRC also hosts several large-scale traditional programs that are annual marquee events of the African American experience at the University of Cincinnati. Now celebrating its 30th year, the AACRC is poised to become a model for cultural and racial understanding in higher education. The Center serves as a resource for enlightenment about the Black experience and has become a known resource for variety of organizations on campus and in the Greater Cincinnati community. The AACRC helps prepare students to become effective leaders, and plays a key role in the mission of the university by: influencing academic excellence through programming and recognition providing connections building community relationships recruiting and retaining students Give to the AACRC Thank you for your interest in donating to the African American Cultural & Resource Center. As University enrollment numbers continue to increase, the AACRC has in turn been serving more and more Black students. Due to this, we always appreciate the support from our village. In recognition of our 30th anniversary, our goal is to raise $30,000 this year to strengthen current programs (Tyehimba, Spring Break Tour, Kuamka, etc.) as well as to create new opportunities for student development. We’re calling on people to contribute at least $30 so that our students can continue to have a “home away from home” at the University of Cincinnati. Give to the AACRC Reserve the AACRC The AACRC has three spaces available to reserve. Please visit our reserve page to learn more about our policies and procedures. Questions? Contact ucaacrc@ucmail.uc.edu. Stay Connected Stay connected with us by subscribing to our newsletter, following us on social media (@ucaacrc), or visiting the center located in 60 W Charlton St., across from Fifth Third Arena and near Daniel and Dabney Residence Halls. Directions to AACRC: The accessible entrance is on the west side of the building (60 W. Charlton St. directly across from the Fifth Third Arena and the Oscar Robertson statue). The entrance is at the top of the staircase or you can take the ramp up to the glass doors with the colorful AACRC sign. Give us a call at 513-556-1177 if we can help you find our space. Black Roundtable Calendar Share Information With Our Students African American Cultural & Resource Center 60 W. Charlton Cincinnati OH 45219 513-556-1177 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati African American Cultural & Resource Center 60 W. Charlton Cincinnati OH 45219 513-556-1177 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top