Utah State University sites use cookies. By continuing to use this site you accept our privacy and cookie policy. I agree Skip to content Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries QUICK LINKS MyUSU SEARCH Utah State TODAY Close search Search Utah State University: I want to search All USU sites People Search terms Submit search × Utah State TODAY Open main menu Close Open search Home Explore Stories Close Explore Stories Arts & Humanities Business & Society Health & Wellness Land & Environment Science & Technology Teaching & Learning Campus Life Athletics University Affairs Series Topics In Focus All Stories Resources Close Resources Subscribe USU Pressroom USU in the News Submission Instructions Submit a Press Release Contact us Quick Links Close Quick Links Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries MyUSU Land & Environment Poll the Audience: Using Data From Citizen Science to Keep Wild Birds in Flight By Lael Gilbert | May 18, 2022 Full Size New research examines the accuracy of information produced by citizen science apps for monitoring bird populations and found that it could actually offer a lot of utility for researchers. (Tim Lumley photo) × Download Close Download Using the eyes and ears of public volunteers can stretch the reach of science, according to a new analysis from Erica Stuber from the Department of Wildland Resources and the Ecology Center. Stuber and a team of researchers examined the accuracy of information produced by citizen science apps for monitoring bird populations. They compared publicly-produced data with officially tracked numbers from monitoring programs and found that, with some refinement, data from citizen scientists could offer a lot of utility for researchers. Citizen science asks volunteers from the general public to collect a variety of information to answer particular questions or to collect observations — and report it to a shared database. Over the past decade such collective public power has benefited science efforts in all sorts of ways, from sorting images of the cosmos to mapping mosquito populations. But the big data collected by such efforts is now outpacing scientists’ ability to effectively use it, especially when it comes to decisions about wildlife populations. Which is a shame, Stuber said, because data from such public efforts are often collected with more detail and across a wider geographical range than professional researchers can manage by themselves. If there was a way to better filter, focus and apply such data, it could be a valuable resource in a climate of shrinking restoration budgets, insufficient feet-on-the-ground and intimidatingly vast areas that wildlife depend on to survive and thrive. A key step toward better using the available information is to understand and test the data coming out of such projects by directly comparing citizen science numbers with more traditional monitoring methods. The app eBird, developed and maintained by the Cornell Lab of Ornithology, has been around for 20 years. It has several attractive features, including tools to help identify species and GPS tracking of sighting locations. It allows birdwatchers to keep track of their birding activity while making the data collected openly available to others. A popular product, eBird has produced an inordinate amount of data, but not always in a form that researchers can directly use. Every three years the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service estimates the number of bald eagle nesting sites in territories across the U.S. to track how the population is faring. Stuber partnered with the agency and the eBird science team to identify the type of information that could benefit agency efforts, and to compare that filtered app data with official counts of bald eagle populations. When Stuber compared the official numbers with numbers from the app, she found them surprisingly well-matched. She’s repeated this comparison with other bird counts and is finding patterns. “The data from citizen science isn’t always right on target, but it is still useful,” she said. For instance, the data from citizen scientists seem to be a good match for tracking the timing of migrating waterfowl, Stuber said, but it’s not always super accurate in pinpointing waterfowl abundance across seasons. “If we can begin to identify the circumstances when it is most accurate, and when it misses the mark, and why, we’ll be able to use this massive resource to augment official monitoring efforts that can be hugely expensive and often dangerous.” Although numbers from the citizen science app won’t replace official counts of wild bird populations, it can complement them, she said. And it can communicate nuance and detail that official counts sometimes don’t catch. There is still a lot of work to be done, but these comparisons create a baseline of information to launch similar work, she said. WRITER Lael Gilbert Public Relations Specialist Quinney College of Natural Resources 435-797-8455 lael.gilbert@usu.edu CONTACT Erica Stuber Assistant Professor Department of Wildland Resources erica.stuber@usu.edu TOPICS Research 717stories Wildlife 125stories Comments and questions regarding this article may be directed to the contact person listed on this page. Next Story in Land & Environment May 23, 2022 1067 Utah State Magazine Excerpt: A Giant 1% For most of summer 2020, Bella Wetzler '23 and others from the Lutz research team worked and camped in relative isolation among the towering old-growth forests of Yosemite National Park. Read the Story See Also May 20, 2022 538 Ask an Expert - Don't Try to Outfox the Fox Red foxes, although not native to Utah, are becoming more common in cities and suburban settings. Trending on Utah State Today Read the Story HEALTH & WELLNESS May 19, 2022 165461 Update for USU Community on Coronavirus Read the Story UNIVERSITY AFFAIRS May 02, 2022 2707 USU Names Irungu Inaugural VP of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Read the Story UNIVERSITY AFFAIRS May 26, 2022 2643 Degree Programs Realigned to Create New Department at Utah State University Read the Story UNIVERSITY AFFAIRS May 03, 2022 2627 Utah State University to Award More Than 7,000 Degrees in 2022 FOLLOW US USU Facebook USU Twitter USU YouTube USU Instagram USU LinkedIn Old Main Hill, Logan, UT 84322 (435) 797-1000 EXPLORE STORIES Browse Archives Explore Topics Explore Series USU in the News FOR THE MEDIA Pressroom Media Contacts Media resources About USU SUBSCRIBE Receive our weekly newsletter. Subscribe to Utah State Today Email Subscribe Maps & Directions Search USU Campus Safety Jobs Contact Disclaimers Copyright Privacy Accessibility Non-Discrimination Back to top of the page