Skip to content marquette.edu // Search // Contacts // A-Z Index Marquette UniversityBe The Difference Admissions Applying to Marquette Ready to apply? The links below will direct you to the online application pages for each college, school or special academic program. ADMISSIONS FOR Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Graduate business Dentistry Law SPECIAL ACADEMIC PROGRAMS Study abroad Study in Washington, D.C. Special academic programs International students Transfer students Summer studies Visit Marquette Marquette University, an urban university located in Milwaukee, Wis., provides daily visits to prospective students. Visit Marquette. Watch students tell their stories What's it like to live, study and play at Marquette University? Nobody knows better than those doing just that. Watch students tell their stories in My Marquette. Academics Academics at Marquette Marquette is routinely listed among the country's top universities, renowned for academic rigor, innovation and the achievements of its community of scholars. Colleges and schools Klingler College of Arts and Sciences College of Business Administration Diederich College of Communication School of Dentistry College of Education Opus College of Engineering Graduate School Graduate School of Management College of Health Sciences Law School College of Nursing Rankings Marquette ranks 84th in the 2020 edition of America's Best Colleges, released by U.S. News & World Report. View more rankings. Enhance your experience Whether it's through studying abroad, community service or student organizations, Marquette students take advantage of numerous programs to add to their experience. About About Marquette Marquette is a Catholic and Jesuit university located in Milwaukee, Wis., that offers more than 80 majors in its nationally and internationally recognized colleges and schools. About Marquette Tuition & costs Catholic & Jesuit Diversity at Marquette Our mission Our history Student demographics Academics Colleges & schools Majors & programs How we measure the student experience Assessment Accreditation Rankings & recognition Marquette en Español Acerca de Marquette Beyond the classroom Community Engagement Corporate Engagement Land Acknowledgment COVID-19 COVID-19 Information Libraries The libraries at Marquette The libraries at Marquette are a place where people, technology, and the printed word come together in a vibrant atmosphere that advances learning and discovery. Raynor Memorial Libraries Raynor Memorial Libraries website Library hours Raynor Memorial information desk: (414) 288-7556 Law Library Ray & Kay Eckstein Law Library website Current semester hours Building hours Student services Law information desk: (414) 288-7031 Collections and archives The Department of Special Collections and University Archives features university treasures, including the J.R.R. Tolkien Collection. University Archives Learn about the collections Search the collections Digitized collections Research Research at Marquette Research at Marquette has a strong sense of purpose and action, whether through the extension of knowledge beyond existing boundaries, the development of solutions to the world’s most pressing problems or the search for answers to life’s deepest questions. Learn more Grants, awards & presentations Books by Marquette faculty Discover research at Marquette Centers & institutes Faculty awards Office of Research & Innovation Office of Research & Sponsored Programs Marquette experts DISCOVER Marquette research Every spring, DISCOVER: Marquette University Research and Scholarship showcases some of the most interesting research happening on and off campus. Check out our interactive 2019 Discover Magazine Accessible PDF See past issues Athletics Athletics at Marquette The university's 16 varsity sports teams play in the BIG EAST Conference. Join us as we proudly say: We are Marquette! Teams Men's basketball Women's basketball Cross country Men's golf Men's lacrosse Women's lacrosse Men's soccer Women's soccer Men's tennis Women's tennis Track & field Women's volleyball Tickets The Ticket Office conducts ticketing for seven Golden Eagles' varsity sports: men’s and women’s basketball, men’s and women’s lacrosse, men’s and women’s soccer and women’s volleyball. Spirit Shop The Spirit Shop features the most popular brands of attire for Marquette fans. Shop on campus or online. Alumni Marquette alumni Ring out ahoya with fellow alumni through the Marquette University Alumni Association, an organization of nearly 110,000 members worldwide. Learn more About MUAA Class notes and news Clubs & chapters Events & reunions Alumni Newsletter Networking Join the CIRCLES business networking program Connect with the MUAA group on LinkedIn Marquette Magazine Marquette Magazine is the university's official quarterly alumni publication. View latest issue. Giving Help to enrich and expand student opportunities, support our teacher-scholars, foster innovation and transform our campus. Give online today and rise with us! Your journey begins here. Start your application Tour Campus Request more info Your journey begins here. Start your application Tour Campus Request more info A Marquette education prepares students to Be The Difference. Top 100 America’s Best Colleges — U.S. News & World Report No. 6 in the nation for job placement — Zippia, U.S. Department of Education data A Catholic, Jesuit university in the heart of Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Here since 1881 When you come to Marquette, you’ll be challenged to push your boundaries, to lead and to serve, to open your heart and to hone your mind. UNDERGRADUATE 75+ majors and 80+ minors Explore Our Majors and Minors GRADUATE 90+ certificate, master’s and doctoral degree programs Discover Our Graduate Programs ONLINE Online undergraduate and graduate programs Connect With Online Learning Professional Programs in Health 9 programs in professional health Examine Our Professional Health Programs LAW 17 practice areas Investigate Our Law Programs and Degrees Graduate Business Degrees Nationally ranked MBA programs Review Our World-Class Master's Programs Best Value in Private Colleges 13:1 student-to-faculty ratio #12 Best Schools for Internships (private universities) When you leave, you’ll be ready to change the world. WE ARE MARQUETTE 80% of our students participate in service International students from 70 countries 1,857 first-generation undergraduate students 115,000 alumni around the world and growing What happens after graduation? 91% of our alumni are employed full time or in graduate school 1 year after graduation. — Undergraduate Alumni Survey 2017 97% of students with full-time employment said their job was related to their career goals. — Undergraduate First Destination Survey 2021 96% of our alumni are employed full time 10 years after graduation. — Zippia, U.S. Dept. of Education data BIZTIMES NOTABLE ALUMNI A conversation with alumna Kareeda Chones-Aguam, Senior Vice President of Partner Strategy and Management, Milwaukee Bucks and Fiserv Forum, Comm ’98, about being a Notable Alumni and how Marquette shaped her life and career. Read Kareeda’s story Levantar trofeos: historia de resiliencia de un exalumno de Marquette Ahora trabajando para los Milwaukee Bucks, Francisco Manzano-Aréchiga, quién se graduó de Marquette en el 2019, reflexiona sobre su trayectoria hasta el momento. Leer la historia de Francisco As women and men for and with others, Marquette alumni are leaders in life who lift those around them. Learn more about our comprehensive fundraising campaign RESEARCH, SCHOLARSHIP AND INNOVATION National recognition. Generous support. Expanded research impact. BUSINESS + INNOVATION Introducing the new home for Marquette Business and Innovation Leadership Programs. Read about the new state-of-the-art facility Extended Reach Faculty win more top-tier NIH grants as Marquette launches initiatives to help them achieve at this level. Read about NIH grants Mapping Memory Dr. Kristy Nielson’s award-winning research uses MRI imaging to reveal early signs of dementia — and explores exercise to slow brain decline. Read about Dr. Nielson The Explorer Challenge 3 years, 300 students, faculty, staff and community partners, 72 initiatives. They all add up to a better world, a stronger Milwaukee, a 45% return on investment and national accolades. Learn about the Explorer Challenge Choosing the Peaceful Path A Marquette peace program helps Milwaukee teens manage conflicts that derail high school careers. Read about Peace Works Immigration on Stage Sparked by his own journey, Dr. Jeffrey Coleman examines the role of African immigrants in Spanish theatre. Read about Dr. Coleman Beyond the classroom: Community engagement and corporate partnerships. $15.5 million The dollar amount of donated dental services that Marquette dentistry students provide annually to more than 17,000 patients through our Milwaukee clinics. 85+ Nonprofit organizations/schools in the greater Milwaukee area that have benefited from 168,000 hours of service provided by Burke Scholars since the program began 25 years ago. $40 million Combined investment by Northwestern Mutual, Marquette University and the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee to create Northwestern Mutual Data Science Institute. SCALING WELLNESS IN MILWAUKEE This collaboration within the human services, health care, educational and criminal justice sectors that is bringing Wisconsin to the forefront of the trauma-informed care movement. Read about SWiM THE PRESIDENT'S CHALLENGE Developed in partnership with the Johnson Controls Foundation, this initiative provides a $250,000, two-year grant for a proposal that seeks to change the trajectory of lives in our community. Read about the challenge Land in Milwaukee. See the world. More than 8,500 undergraduate students and 3,300 graduate and professional students come to Marquette from nearly every state and 70 countries. Our neighborhoods are loaded with ethnic restaurants, festivals and markets, cultural centers and dance clubs, churches, mosques and temples, and more — places where we go global. THERE’S ONLY ONE WAY TO GET HERE. Apply Today Location Marquette University 1250 W. Wisconsin Ave. Milwaukee, WI 53233 Phone: (800) 222-6544 Key Resources español Employment Campus map Contact us Search marquette.edu COVID-19 Information eMarq CheckMarq D2L MyJob MARQUETTE A to Z ABCDEFGHIJKLM NOPQRSTUVWXYZ Privacy Policy Legal Disclaimer Non-Discrimination Policy Accessible Technology © 2022 Marquette University ©