Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Senior Administration About Baylor Menu Campus The Vibrant Baylor Campus Then & Now Traditions School Song Fight Song Baylor Bucket List The Immortal Message The McLane Carillon Virtual Tour Campus Map Directions to Baylor Connect Social Media Baylor Magazine Baylor Proud Baylor Alumni Connect Wear the Gear Facts & Figures Overview Awards & Rankings Ask Baylor Financial Highlights Heritage History Baylor Presidents Founders & Founders Day The Naming of Baylor Baylor Campus: Then & Now Historical Timeline List of Timeline Events Prominent Bears Commission on Historic Campus Representations Leadership Office of the President Senior Administration Administrative Departments Values & Vision Give Light Core Convictions Mission Top-Tier Academics Research Apply Christian Commitment Celebrating Advent Caring Community Athletic Excellence Strategic Plan Join Us Apply Now Work Here Make a Gift Visit Baylor Our Stories Baylor>About Baylor>Senior Administration>President>Linda A. Livingstone Linda A. Livingstone President Linda A. Livingstone President Dr. Linda A. Livingstone is the 15th president of Baylor University. She previously served as dean and professor of management at The George Washington University School of Business, as dean and professor of management at Pepperdine University’s Graziadio School of Business and Management, and as a tenured faculty member and associate dean of graduate programs at Baylor’s Hankamer School of Business. As Baylor’s president, Dr. Livingstone has overseen the development of Baylor’s academic strategic plan, Illuminate, which details Baylor’s pursuit of becoming a preeminent Christian research university, and the $1.1 billion comprehensive campaign that undergirds Illuminate, called Give Light. A strong voice for the role of faith-based institutions in American higher education, Dr. Livingstone has established herself as a scholar in organizational behavior, leadership, creativity, and university accreditation. She has been extensively published and cited in academic and professional outlets, including American Business Review, Journal of Organizational Behavior, Journal of High Technology Management Research, and the book Business and Corporate Integrity: Sustaining Organizational Compliance, Ethics and Trust. She serves on a number of boards, councils, and task forces, including the boards of Baylor College of Medicine, Capital Southwest Industrials, Waco Industrial Foundation, and the Independent Colleges and Universities of Texas, Inc., the Taskforce on Higher Education and Opportunity, and the AGB Council of Presidents. In addition, she serves as the Vice Chair of the Big XII Conference Board of Directors, as the Secretary of the Board of Directors of the American Council on Education, on the NCAA Division I Board of Directors, and on the NCAA Board of Governors. Dr. Livingstone was inducted into Oklahoma State University’s Hall of Fame in 2019. She is a member of the Spears School of Business Hall of Fame, was the first recipient of the Outstanding Ph.D. Alumnus Award, and was recognized in 2015 with the OSU Distinguished Alumni Award. A native of Perkins, Oklahoma, Dr. Livingstone played varsity basketball at Oklahoma State University, where she earned a Bachelor of Science in economics and management, a Master of Business Administration, and a Doctor of Philosophy in management and organizational behavior. Her husband, Brad, a high school history teacher, also played basketball at Oklahoma State. They have one daughter, Shelby, a current student at Baylor’s George W. Truett Theological Seminary. More Information Office of the President Illuminate Give Light Senior Administration Office of the President University Council Administrative Departments Organizational Chart About Baylor Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Office of the President University Council Administrative Departments Organizational Chart About Baylor