Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. University Housing University Housing right arrow down arrow Information For right arrow down arrow Future Students Parents & Families Current Residents Contract Renewal for 2022-2023 Graduate Students Co-ops Conferences Camps Summer Interns Job Seekers Apply right arrow down arrow Freshmen & New Students Parents & Families right arrow down arrow Communications Your Student Receives from Housing Room Selection Terms & Conditions Rates right arrow down arrow 2022-2023 Cohort 2021-2022 Cohort 2020-2021 Cohort 2019-2020 Meal Plan Applying FAQs Summer Semester Housing 2022 Residential Experience right arrow down arrow Core Values Communities right arrow down arrow Bellevue Gardens Calhoun Hall Campus Recreation Center Hall Dabney Hall Daniels Hall Marian Spencer Hall Morgens Hall Schneider Hall Scioto Hall Siddall Hall Stratford Heights The Deacon The Eden Turner Hall University Edge University Park Apartments U Square 101 East Corry Siddall to Calhoun Transition Food Roommates Living-Learning Communities right arrow down arrow LLC FAQ Daily Life Room Decorating Contest Get Involved right arrow down arrow RHA/Hall Council Employment right arrow down arrow Resident Advisors Move-In/Move-Out Graduate & Family right arrow down arrow Apply right arrow down arrow Graduate Housing Application Instructions Responding to a Graduate Housing Offer Graduate Housing Timeline Communities right arrow down arrow The Eden Senator Place right arrow down arrow Senator Place Relocations Private Listings right arrow down arrow Private Listing Request Short Term Resources right arrow down arrow Bellevue Gardens Departure Instructions Graduate Housing Departure Instructions Contact Us Daily Living right arrow down arrow Bellevue Gardens The Eden Grad Units Senator Place Grad Housing Winter Break 2021 Housing Search right arrow down arrow Search Tools Rental Scams Roommate Search Tips Leasing Tips Monthly Rates Frequently Asked Questions Resources right arrow down arrow Housing Application Guide To University Living Room Information Safety Transportation Vaccinations Policies Co-ops Contact Us Quarantine & Isolation Home » Campus Life » University Housing University Housing Freshmen / New Residents Wait List Now Open Learn more about how the wait list works Summer Semester Housing Application Is Open Campus life can be so much richer when you live in University Housing. Friends are everywhere, activities are easy to access, and your room is steps away from everything. apply now learn more Need a Job? Apply Now to Be a Desk Assistant! Desk Assistants (DA) are employed by University Housing and are a vital part of the operations of each residence hall community. Reporting to the neighborhood University Service Associate (USA), DAs are students who provide customer service to residents and visitors who approach the desk. Apply to be a desk assistant now COVID-19 Housing Updates Individuals who are experiencing COVID symptoms or have been exposed to someone with COVID-19 can choose from several locations for COVID-19 testing. COVID-19 Testing Information Quarantine & Isolation Housing University Housing Office Hours Monday - Friday, 9 a.m. - 4 p.m. 513-556-6461 uchousing@uc.edu Our phone system allows for a callback request. If you have left a callback request, repeating the request will move you to the end of the queue. additional contact information Having issues logging in to the portal? We are aware that some students are having challenges accessing the Housing portal. Our IT team has been notified and is currently working to resolve the issue. If your Housing portal continues to load, we advise logging out and logging back in. We appreciate your patience. Live in the heart of it all! Living in University Housing is an important and meaningful part of the college experience. It is a time for you to explore and try new things, meet new people, learn about yourself and the world around you. It offers a chance to develop life skills that go far beyond the classroom. Why live in University Housing? Over 80% of incoming freshmen, plus many returning students choose to live in University Housing. It makes it easier to get to class, meet new people, get involved with clubs and take advantage of all of the resources offered on campus. You don’t have to worry about commuting in bad weather or finding parking. There are also Resident Advisors to support the transition to college. When you live in the center of it all, there is more time to focus on why you’re here. Living in University Housing and getting involved is a great way to make a large university feel small. University of Cincinnati is excited to be classified as a primarily residential campus by the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education®. This distinction signifies that 25-49% of degree-seeking undergraduates live in University Housing. Something for everyone! UC’s energetic environment can be attributed to the dynamic layout of our campus and the charismatic, diverse community that lives here. Outside of classes, there is much fun to have and many activities to participate in. The variety of student organizations, food, and entertainment encourages students to get involved, find their passions, and contribute to the campus ecosystem. Depending on your interests, you may prefer spending free time working out and relaxing at the Campus Recreation Center. Here, students love taking classes, running on the track, and mindlessly floating down the lazy river. Or maybe you’ve always been curious about astronomy and want to learn more about the stars, you can join the astronomy club showcased at the student organization fair. No matter what you love or want to explore, you are encouraged to discover your passions and take advantage of all that life on campus has to offer. Getting involved doesn’t always equate to joining a club or student government; you may prefer to check out your hall government or working as a desk assistant in your community. Getting involved can also be as simple as rounding up a group of friends for a kickball game on Sigma Sigma Commons or hanging out in the hammock forest with fellow enthusiasts. Bearcats Pride Being a Bearcat doesn’t mean you need to fit a specific mold; it means being authentic to who you are, supported by a community that pushes you to be your best. The opportunity to live in this UC community is unlike any other you will have in your lifetime. It’s the chance to be a part of something special and have something special be a part of you. UC residence tower rises in high style May 9, 2022 Known as the southern gateway to campus, where almost 3,000 students pass through on their way to U-square every day, the more than $80 million facelift on the University of Cincinnati's Calhoun residence hall now shines a light on the positive, modern features adorning the 16-story tower overlooking UC’s Uptown campus and surrounding city. Everything you need to know about UC housing January 27, 2022 UC Director of Housing Carl Dieso shares the housing process — apply, select your room and move in — and benefits of living on campus. UC the World community offers international housing experience March 17, 2021 The University of Cincinnati's UC the World living/learning community houses first- and second-year students, international or domestic, who want to explore global cultures on campus and prepare for international experiences. Debug Query for this Request More Information Resident Education & Development Housing & Food Services 513-556-6461 Marian Spencer Hall 2911 Scioto Lane Cincinnati, OH 45219 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Resident Education & Development Housing & Food Services 513-556-6461 Marian Spencer Hall 2911 Scioto Lane Cincinnati, OH 45219 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top