Skip To Main Content www.research.iastate.edu Open Search Box View our Twitter View our Facebook View our Instagram View our Youtube Channel Open Mobile Menu View our Twitter View our Facebook View our Instagram View our Youtube Channel ResearchNews 05.26.2022 Startups near state lines gravitate toward side with lower property tax, according to Iowa State Study By Rachel Cramer, Iowa State University News Service Researchers at Iowa State University found significantly different state tax rates affect where new businesses set up shop near state lines. Their study published in the journal Small Business Economics shows the fourth greatest distortion in the U.S. is between Iowa and its northwest neighbor. “The probability of starting up on one side of the border versus… 05.24.2022 In franchising, playing tough early may support long-term benefits By Rachel Cramer, Iowa State University News Service From McDonalds to Marriott, 7-Eleven to Ace Hardware, we’re surrounded by franchises. They are the dominant retail model in the U.S., and underpinning their success are franchisors who grow a network of franchisees who use their own resources to open and run brick-and-mortar stores. But Stephen Kim, a marketing professor at Iowa State University, says… 05.23.2022 New model could improve matches between students and schools By Rachel Cramer, Iowa State University News Service For the majority of students in the U.S., residential addresses determine which public elementary, middle, or high school they attend. But with an influx of charter schools and state-funded voucher programs for private schools, as well as a growing number of cities that let students apply to public schools across the district (regardless of zip… 05.18.2022 Iowa State Researchers reveal the origin story for carbon-12, a building block for life By Mike Krapfl, Iowa State University News Service With the help of the world’s most powerful supercomputer and new artificial intelligence techniques, an international team of researchers has theorized how the extreme conditions in stars produce carbon-12, which they describe as “a critical gateway to the birth of life.” The researchers’ fundamental question: “How does the cosmos produce carbon-12?” said James Vary, a… 05.16.2022 More greens, less sugar and fries: Abriendo Caminos study finds promising results By Rachel Cramer, Iowa State University News Service A multi-state study found kids with Mexican roots consumed fewer sugary beverages, french fries and fast food and ate more vegetables after participating in a six-week, culturally-tailored education program with their families. The program, Abriendo Caminos (Opening Roads), aims to help Hispanic families lead healthier lives by weaving traditions and personal values into lessons on… 05.13.2022 Iowa State Research Community Recognized with University Honors By Dan Kirkpatrick, Iowa State University Office of the Vice President for Research Each year Iowa State recognizes the excellence of faculty and staff in its annual university awards. Honorees for 2022 were announced in an Inside Iowa State article published April 28. Here are the members of the Iowa State research community recognized for their contributions and achievements: Outstanding Achievement in Research The award recognizes a tenured… 05.06.2022 Distinguished Professor Named to National Academy of Sciences By Dave Gieseke, Iowa State University College of Veterinary Medicine Dr. Qijing Zhang, a Clarence Harley Covault Distinguished Professor in Veterinary Medicine, has been elected to the National Academy of Sciences, in recognition of his distinguished and continuing achievements in original research. Zhang, who also serves as the associate dean of research and graduate studies, is among 120 new members and 30 international members named… 04.27.2022 Campus Faculty and Staff Share Insights, Ideas at Iowa State Research Day 2022 By Dan Kirkpatrick, Iowa State University Office of the Vice President for Research For the first time since March 2019, the Iowa State University research community convened in person to collaborate, exchange ideas, and celebrate the university’s research success at Research Day 2022 at the Memorial Union on Wednesday, March 30, 2022. Vice President for Research Peter Dorhout welcomed attendees and kicked off the day by sharing the… 04.27.2022 Innovation at Work: Growing the ‘Broadband Prairie’ for smart agriculture, connected rural communities By Iowa State University Office of Strategic Relations and Communications It’s a 40-minute road trip from Ames to Zearing, with a few right-angle turns to the north and east. This time of year, you’ll drive past fields that are black and damp, still stubbled with the remains of last year’s corn and soybean crops. You’ll also drive past rows of turbines spinning in the spring winds,… 04.26.2022 First-of-its-kind study compares domestic violence programs, finds promising results By Rachel Cramer, Iowa State University News Service A new study from Iowa State University found men convicted of domestic violence were charged with significantly fewer violent and nonviolent charges one year after completing a treatment program developed in Iowa compared to a model used in most other states. Survey data from victims still in contact with the men provided preliminary evidence that… Load More Categories Advanced Materials & Manufacturing Awards & Honors Biosciences Data-Driven Science Events Funding Opportunities Global Citizens Grant Announcements Healthy Lives Innovation & Entrepreneurship OVPR Information Sustainability The Conversation Iowa State University 2610 Beardshear Hall 515 Morrill Rd. Ames, Iowa 50011 E. vpr@iastate.edu P. 515-294-6344 Copyright © 1995-2022, Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy.