Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Topics News and Events Date January 6, 2021 2021-01-06 Media Contact News Staff [email protected] 401-863-2476 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Federal Reserve Board appoints Brown president chair of Boston Fed board Christina H. Paxson, an economist, higher education leader and president of Brown University, will serve as chair of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston's board of directors, effective Jan. 1, 2021. PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — Brown University President Christina H. Paxson, an economist and professor of economics and public policy, has been appointed to serve as chair of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston’s board of directors, effective Jan. 1, 2021. The Federal Reserve Board noted Paxson’s appointment in announcing on Dec. 23 the chairs and deputy chairs for each of the 12 Federal Reserve Banks across the nation. Paxson has served as a member of the Boston Fed’s board of directors since 2016 and as deputy chair since January 2019. In her role as chair of the Boston Fed board, Paxson will be involved in supervision and regulation of the bank’s activities, and working with Eric Rosengren, president and CEO of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, as he shapes his priorities. The bank’s activities across New England include conducting economic research, participating in monetary policymaking, supervising financial institutions, providing financial services and payments, playing a leadership role in the payments industry, and supporting economic well-being in communities. A noted higher education leader and economist, Paxson also is chair of the board of directors for the Association of American Universities, which helps to shape national policy for higher education, science and innovation. In 2020, she testified before the U.S. Senate on the need for partnership between universities and federal and state leaders in the face of COVID-19, given the pandemic’s implications for health and safety as well as for research, innovation, national economic competitiveness and local economies. Paxson has consistently applied economic analysis to the welfare of broadly important, though vulnerable, populations in her decades of research and teaching. Paxson began her professional career at Princeton in 1986, where she founded the Center for Health and Wellbeing, a research center in the Princeton School of Public and International Affairs, in 2000. Over the years, her research increasingly focused on the relationship of economic factors to health and welfare over the life course, particularly on the health and welfare of children. In 2008, Paxson became chair of Princeton’s economics department and then dean of the School of Public and International Affairs (formerly the Woodrow Wilson School). In 2012, the same year she was elected vice president of the American Economic Association, she became the 19th president of Brown. Paxson is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations, became a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2017, has been the principal investigator on a number of research projects supported by the National Institutes of Health, and has authored or co-authored numerous journal articles. Tags President Related news: News and Events Brown Corporation elects two new fellows, eight trustees June 1, 2022 Brown’s governing body elected each new member based on their commitment to the University and its mission of education and research. Read Article Open details for Brown Corporation elects two new fellows, eight trustees News and Events Brown Corporation approves base budget for Fiscal Year 2023 June 1, 2022 The $1.5 billion base budget includes deep investments in student financial aid and support for faculty and staff, balancing continued advancement in academic excellence with a focus on long-term financial sustainability. Read Article Open details for Brown Corporation approves base budget for Fiscal Year 2023 News and Events In three ceremonies, medical, doctoral and master’s graduates celebrate hard-earned degrees May 29, 2022 In addresses at Brown’s Commencement ceremonies on Sunday, May 29, student speakers entreated their peers to make a positive impact using lessons they had learned during the COVID-19 pandemic. Read Article Open details for In three ceremonies, medical, doctoral and master’s graduates celebrate hard-earned degrees Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Federal Reserve Board appoints Brown president chair of Boston Fed board Open details for Federal Reserve Board appoints Brown president chair of Boston Fed board Bookmark this Page