Skip to Content Directory Maps & Directions Calendar News Library Diversity UW Seattle UW Tacoma MyUW University of Washington Bothell University of Washington Bothell Future Students Admissions Application Dates & Deadlines Campus Visit Degree Programs For Parents Orientation First Year Students Graduate International Post-Baccalaureate Returning Transfer Resources Financial Aid Food Services Housing Transportation Tuition I want to... Attend Orientation Request Information Visit UW Bothell Apply to UW Bothell » Current Students Resources Campus Safety Canvas Catalyst Financial Aid and Scholarships Food Services Registration Time Schedule Tuition Academics Academic Calendar Community-Based Learning Degrees Quantitative Skills Center Study Abroad Undergraduate Research Writing and Communication Center Student Affairs Careers Counseling Center for International Education DACA Resources Disability Resources Veterans Student Parents ASUWB Clubs and Organizations Orientation Recreation Student Affairs My UW » Schools & Programs Academic Affairs Faculty Support Institutional Research & Analysis Division of Academic Affairs Sponsored Research Schools & Programs Business Educational Studies Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences Nursing & Health Studies Science, Technology, Engineering & Mathematics (STEM) First Year & Pre-Major Program Graduate Programs Undergraduate Programs Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Safety Directory General Faculty Organization (GFO) General Staff Organization (GSO) IT MyUW Campus Services Canvas Food Service Room Reservations Commuter Services UW Alert Work Request Working at UW Bothell Accessibility Benefits Human Resources Integrated Service Center Payroll Training and Development Work/Life Balance How do I ... Apply for a Job Contact Campus Safety Find University Forms Get a Husky Card Plan an Event Alumni & Donors Get Involved Advancement and External Relations Alumni Council Distinguished Alumni Award Give to UW Bothell Update your Contact Information UW Alumni Association Volunteer Opportunities Stay Connected Alumni News Alumni Events Annual Husky 5K Bothell Block Party UW Bothell News UW Bothell Magazine Resources Alumni Services Career Center FAQ's Lifelong Learning UW Bothell Advisory Board How do I ... Find Classmates Get my Transcript Get Tickets to Husky Sports What are you Doing now? Give to UW Bothell » Discover UW Bothell Getting to Campus Building Hours Campus Map Directions Parking Transportation About UW Bothell About Leadership Chancellor Kristin Esterberg Fast Facts Mission, Vision & Core Values News & Events 2010-2020 Annual Impact Report Construction Calendar Emergency Information News Community Community Engagement Campus Tours Employers Visitors Parents and Family Home Undergraduate Admissions Apply Other Student Types Undergraduate Admissions Why UW Bothell Academics Student Life Career Connections Viewbook Apply Application Dates & Deadlines First-year Students How to Apply Admissions Requirements Advanced Coursework Homeschool Students Transfer Students How to Apply Admission Requirements Transfer Planning Worksheets Transfer Credit Policies International Students First Year Students Transfer/Post-Baccalaureatte Students Veteran Students Other Student Types English Language Proficiency Application Review I Applied. Now What? FAQ Costs & Aid Visit Us Virtual Campus Tour Calendar Admitted Students First-year admitted students Transfer admitted students Post-baccalaureate admitted students FAQs Contact Apply Other Student Types Coming back to school Are you are ready to continue your life-long learning and wish to explore degree options, personal enrichment, and professional development? This page contains information for the following types of students: Returning students Post-Baccalaureate students Non-matriculated students Education Teacher Certification students For more specific questions and inquiries contact an Admission Advisor by calling 425-352-5000 or by email at uwbinfo@uw.edu. Quick Links Ready to return? Complete the returning student request form Start your post-baccalaureate, or non-matriculated application Meet with an advisor Application dates & deadlines Tuition & fees FAQ Returning students If you have not been enrolled for two consecutive quarters (excluding summer quarter) OR a UW Bothell student who has withdrawn from a quarter and does not enroll in the following quarter is considered a returning student. Instructions for returning students Reference the Office of the Registrar's webpage for full details on the returning student re-enrollment process. How to apply Complete the Returning Student Request Form through the Office of the Registrar Submit updated transcripts (if applicable) Submission deadlines Requests for re-enrollment are accepted up to a week before the start of the requested quarter. Post-Baccalaureate students Post-baccalaureate status is for students who have received a bachelor's degree from a regionally accredited institution and are pursuing an additional undergraduate degree. Post-baccalaureate students must apply directly to a major with all program prerequisites and requirements completed. Post-baccalaureate students cannot be considered for undeclared/pre-major admission. Instructions & restrictions for post-baccalaureate students For detailed information about major prerequisites, please visit the major webpage or schedule an appointment with an admissions advisor. Post-Baccalaureate students are not eligible to earn a second bachelor's degree in the same field of study as their earned bachelor's degree(s). The Core Subject Requirements (Intermediate Algebra and World Languages) are not required for post-baccalaureate applicants. How to apply Complete the CollegeNet Post-baccalaureate Student Application Submit updated transcripts (if applicable) Apply as a Post-baccalaureate student. Application dates & deadlines As a potential post-baccalaureate student, you must know your desired major and desired start date before beginning your application. Note that not all majors accept new students each quarter. See the application deadlines page for more information on the open and close dates for applying each quarter based on your desired major. Non-Matriculated students Non-Matriculated status allows you to enroll in courses at the University of Washington Bothell without being formally admitted as a regular student. If you want to take classes at the University of Washington Bothell, but you are not seeking a degree, then you want Non-Matriculated status. For more detailed questions, click here for the Non-Matriculated student FAQ page. You may also schedule an appointment with an admissions advisor online. Instructions & restrictions for non-matriculated students Non-Matriculated students register for classes in Registration Period 3 (first day of the quarter) for Autumn, Winter, and Spring quarters. In Summer quarter, non-matriculated students can register in Registration Period 1. If you are interested in attending in a non-matriculated status, check class schedules and contact professors/advisors before submitting an online application. International students are not eligible for non-matriculated status. Credit conditions & limitations Although a student enrolled at the University of Washington Bothell in a non-matriculated status cannot earn a degree, a grade is earned and full credit is awarded and recorded on a UW transcript. The credits earned as a non-matriculated student usually transfer to other institutions. If a student is later accepted into a matriculated status at the Bothell campus, courses earned as a non-matriculated student may be applied to undergraduate degree requirements, with some restrictions. Students admitted as non-matriculated may be limited in the number of credits they will be allowed to accrue in this status. The number may vary by program. Students considering switching to matriculated (degree-seeking) status are encouraged to do so as soon as possible to ensure that they don’t lose credits. The number of non-matriculated credits that may be applied toward program requirements varies by program. Please check with a program adviser to determine the number of allowable non-matriculated credits. Students must also meet the residency requirement which states that 45 of the last 60 credits of a baccalaureate degree must be earned as a matriculated student in residence at the Bothell Campus. All non-matriculated applicants for whom English is not their native language must provide proof of English language proficiency. Application requirements Students wishing to take classes as a non-matriculated student should complete the CollegeNet Non-matriculated Student Application. Apply as a non-matriculated student. Application dates & deadlines Non-matriculated students may apply quarterly. See the application deadlines page for more information on the open and close dates for applying each quarter. Elementary or Secondary Education Teacher Certification Earn an Elementary (K-5) or Secondary (6-12) Teacher Certification in as little as one year. We prepare teachers who are thoughtful about their own learning, as well as the learning of their students. Our commitment to the knowledge and understanding of teaching and learning is evident in our program mission statement and conceptual framework. How to apply To learn more about the programs and how to apply, please visit the School of Educational Studies page. Application dates & deadlines The application for the Elementary (K-5) Teacher Certification opens on September 1st of each year and is due by November 1st. Secondary & Middle Level Teacher Certification admissions on pause for two years (2022-2023; 2023-2024). See the application dates & deadlines page for more information. University of Washington Bothell Contact Us University of Washington Bothell Division of Enrollment Management Box 358500 18115 Campus Way NE Bothell, WA 98011-8246 Phone: 425.352.5000 Fax: 425.352.5455 TDD: 425.352.5303 Email: uwbinfo@uw.edu © University of Washington Bothell Privacy Terms Site information Our Campus Academic Affairs Planning & Administration Advancement and External Relations Campus Safety Office of the Chancellor Facility Services Human Resources Parking and Transit Research Support Campus Life Accessibility Financial Aid Food Services Housing Information Technologies Student Life UW Bothell Alert Tuition Academics Canvas Catalyst Library Time Schedule Connect with us