Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Anthropology MA You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Anthropology MA Apply Request More Info Anthropology MA Admissions Careers & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Arts in Anthropology Gain advanced training in the social sciences to prepare for a PhD program or a career outside of academia with the Master of Arts in Anthropology in Temple University’s College of Liberal Arts. This 30-credit master’s program integrates the field’s four traditional subfields—archaeology, biological anthropology, linguistic anthropology and sociocultural anthropology—and is structured around two thematic areas: Evolution and Human Environments, and Mobility and Global Inequality. Evolution and Human Environments examines the origins and development of all forms of human adaptations in the biosocial realm. This area emphasizes ecological, geographic and spatial-historical data, and quantitative analyses grounded in evolutionary theory. Mobility and Global Inequality explores the social processes and institutions that impact peoples’ movement and inform their experiences based on social inequalities, resource distribution and power inequities. Students study ethnographic, linguistic, and visual data and analytical methods rooted in contemporary theory in the social sciences. The Anthropology MA is led by faculty who have expertise in the following subfields. Anthropological linguistics Biological anthropology Medical anthropology Prehistoric and historic archaeology Sociocultural anthropology Visual anthropology Conduct fieldwork and acquire the skills you need to perform work in both academic and professional settings. The culminating event for the program is a comprehensive exam designed to assess your knowledge gained in the five core courses. Program Format & Curriculum Classes for the Anthropology MA are held on Main Campus. Although designed for full-time students to complete in two years, part-time students can take up to three years to complete. Core courses include foundational coursework in the thematic areas, history of the discipline, and professional training in ethics and grant writing. Electives offer specialization in the literature, theory, and unique subdisciplinary perspectives or expansion of anthropological methods training. Students complete the following required core courses. Ethical Considerations in Anthropological Research Evolution, Human Environments and the Culture Niche Funding and Grant Writing in Anthropology History of Anthropological Theory Mobility and Global Inequality Students select one of the following required methods-focused courses. Anthropological Problems in Visual Production. Anthropology of Public Culture Field Session in Archaeology Fieldwork in Ethnography Language as Social Action Language Socialization and Cultural Reproduction Methods in Archaeology Methods in Linguistic Anthropology Methods in Physical Anthropology Quantitative Analysis of Anthropological Data Teaching of Anthropology Learn more about Anthropology MA courses. Related Graduate Degrees Anthropology PhD Applied Sociology PSM Geography and Urban Studies MA Geography and Urban Studies PhD History MA History PhD Sociology MA Sociology PhD Our Community The College of Liberal Arts at Temple comprises many disciplines and research areas. Now more than ever, an interdisciplinary liberal arts education is invaluable for your future pursuits. It offers the opportunity to further push your drive to create real change in the world, here at Temple and beyond. In this graduate program, you’ll work closely with diverse faculty members who are highly esteemed in their field and with a curious, passionate community of peers. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Arts offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $966.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,329.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Program Contact For more information about the Anthropology MA program, contact the following staff member. Christie Rockwell is the director of Graduate Studies in the Department of Anthropology. Phone: 215-204-7775 Email: christie.rockwell@temple.edu The following staff members lead the Anthropology Department. Charles Weitz is the department chair. Phone: 215-204-1424 Email: weitz@temple.edu Damien Stankiewicz is the director of undergraduate studies. Email: damien@temple.edu Yvonne Davis is the coordinator. Phone: 215-204-7775 Email: yvonne.davis@temple.edu Jessica Brennan is the administrator. Phone: 215-204-7577 Email: jessica.brennan@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Supplement your Anthropology MA coursework and enhance your graduate education experience through student clubs and organizations. You’ll meet and network with other students, become involved with the community, and build invaluable skills to help you realize your personal and professional goals. The following clubs and organizations are available to Anthropology MA students. The Anthropology Graduate Students Association meets monthly to discuss ongoing developments in the department; to plan events; and to share questions, concerns and current work. The Visual Anthropology Society at Temple is a graduate student organization for undergraduate and graduate students interested in visual anthropology, ethnographic film and the ethnography of media. Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-ANTH-MA Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Anthropology MA Admissions Careers & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info