Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Office for Institutional Equity Covered Areas Policies Compliance Training Events Resources Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact EOAA Equal Opportunity Affirmative Action Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Policy Take Action File a Complaint Request Training Prevent Sexual Violence Contact Us Home Office for Institutional Equity Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action AA Affirmative Action The University of Memphis is fully committed to the concept and practice of equal opportunity and affirmative action in all aspects of employment. The Affirmative Action Program is organized in compliance with several federal and state laws, executive orders and implementing regulations. As a federal contractor, the University is required to have a written affirmative action compliance program. The program must include identification and analysis of problem areas, the establishment of goals and timetables, and specific result-oriented action items designed to attain goals. Click here for the full policy: GE 2004 Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Policy Who is responsible for implementation of the affirmative action plans? All department chairs, directors, administrative officers, deans, and executive officers are individually responsible for supervising the implementation of the Affirmative Action Plans in their respective areas. The President of the University bears ultimate administrative responsibility for the implementation of the Affirmative Action Plans. A copy of the affirmative action program, including specific responsibilities and provisions for implementation and compliance, will be made available to any employee who requests it. Affirmative Action Plan for Equal Employment Opportunity of Women and Minorities It is the policy and intent of The University of Memphis to provide equal opportunity in employment to all persons. The University of Memphis hereby emphasizes its commitment to equal opportunities for all individuals and provides a program of affirmative action to ensure equal employment opportunity for such persons. This policy applies to all phases of the personnel process, including recruitment, hiring, placement, promotion, demotion, transfer, training, compensation, all other employment terms, conditions, and benefits, discipline and separation; and the policy applies to all locations within the University and to the use of all its facilities. To implement the declaration of policy herein, the University insures that all applicants for employment and all faculty and staff are aware of the location of the University's affirmative action policy. The policy is widely disseminated inside and outside the University. Further, the University will consider, through a designated grievance procedure, the complaints of any person who feels that he or she has been discriminated against on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, disability, or Vietnam/disabled veteran status. Affirmative Action Plan for Employment of Persons with Disabilities, Disabled Veterans and Vietnam Veterans It is the policy and intent of The University of Memphis to provide equal opportunity in employment to all persons as provided in the equal employment opportunity policy. The University of Memphis hereby emphasizes its commitment to equal opportunities for applicants and employees with disabilities, including disabled veterans, and veterans of the Vietnam era and provides a program of affirmative action to ensure equal employment opportunity for such persons. It is the policy of The University of Memphis to make reasonable accommodations to the physically and mentally disabled applicants and employees throughout the personnel process. The extent of reasonable accommodation will be determined by consideration of efficient operation of the organization and feasible financial costs, as well as the needs of a disabled employee or prospective employee. This policy applies to all phases of the personnel process including recruitment, hiring, placement, promotion, demotion, transfer, training, compensation, all other employment terms, conditions and benefits, discipline and separation. The policy applies to all locations within the University and to the use of all of its facilities. To implement the declaration of policy herein, the University has provided an opportunity for presently employed disabled persons, including disabled veterans, to so identify themselves. Applicants for employment are advised of the University's affirmative action policy and are invited to identify disability conditions. Veterans of the Vietnam era are identified by reference to military service dates on the University's New Employee Self-Identification forms. Additionally, each year, employees have the opportunity to identify disability, disabled or Vietnam veteran status. The policy will be widely disseminated both inside and outside the University. Further through designated grievance procedures, the University will consider the complaints of any person who feels that he or she has been discriminated against on the basis of disability or Vietnam/disabled veteran status. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 8/24/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.