skip to Main Navigation skip to Main Content skip to Footer Accessibility feedback NC State Home COVID-19 Updates Resources Campus Directory MyPack Portal Campus Map Libraries Campus Resources University Housing NC State Dining Bookstores Wolfline Buses Calendar Diversity Academic Resources Undergraduate Admissions Academic Departments WolfWare/Moodle Global Engagement Distance Education Academic Calendar Other Resources Student Services Center Cashier's Office Registration and Records Scholarships and Financial Aid Career Development Center NC State Help Desk Outreach and Engagement Giving NC State News Graduate School Gmail Access NC State Social Media NC State University Libraries Logo Navigation Search Find & Borrow Search Books & Media Articles Databases Journals Theses and Dissertations NC State Publications Special Collections Our Website Find Course Reserves Newspapers Patents & Trademarks Standards Tests & Measurements Textbooks Ebooks Government Information Borrow & Request Borrowing & Access Privileges Tripsaver Technology Lending Suggest a Purchase Distance Services Help Ask Us Request a Research Consultation Request a Technology Consultation Get Data Science Help Study & Learn Assignment Help Choose a Topic Cite Sources Evaluate Sources Find Articles Find a Book Ask Us All Assignment Help Workshops Data and Visualization Digital Media Digital Scholarship Makerspace Research Strategy Virtual & Augmented Reality All Workshops Spaces Reserve a Room Academic Success Center Quiet Study Graduate Student Spaces Explore Spaces Sensory Friendly Maps How Busy is the Hill Library? Technology Technology Lending Software Print & Copy Scanning Wireless Access Working off campus Help Ask Us Request a Research Consultation Request a Technology Consultation Get Data Science Help Research & Teaching Research Support Citation Management Grants & Funding Research Impact & Metrics Publishing and Copyright Data Management Open Research Faculty Spaces All Research Support Teaching Support Request an Instruction Session Copyright in the Classroom Course Reserves Library Instruction Programs Open Education Videos and Tutorials All Teaching Support Workshops Digital Scholarship Research Strategy Data and Visualization Peer Scholars All Workshops Help Ask Us Request a Research Consultation Request a Technology Consultation Get Data Science Help Media & Making Digital Media Music & Audio Video Gaming Photography Scanning Virtual & Augmented Reality All Digital Media Makerspace 3D Printing 3D Scanning Cutting & Milling Electronics Textiles All Makerspace Workshops 3D Scanning Studio Orientation Digital Media Orientation Makerspace Orientation VR Studio Orientation All Digital Media Workshops All Makerspace Workshops All Virtual & Augmented Reality Workshops Spaces Hill Library Makerspace Innovation Studio VR Studio Digital Media Lab All Media & Making Spaces Help Ask Us Request a Technology Consultation Drop-In Help for Digital Media Data & Visualization Data & Visualization Finding Data Wrangling Data Analyzing Data Visualization Geographic Information Systems (GIS) Data Management Text & Data Mining All Data & Visualization Workshops Data & Visualization Workshops Digital Scholarship Workshops Research Strategy Workshops All Workshops Spaces Data Experience Lab (DXL) Dataspace Teaching & Visualization Lab Visualization Studio iPearl Immersion Theater Game Lab All Data & Visualization Spaces Help Get Data Science Help Data & Visualization Instruction Support About Contact Ask Us Staff Directory Subject Specialists Jobs Fellows Program Collections About the Collections Special Collections Chancellor's Faculty Excellence Program Memberships & Consortia Our Organization Mission & Vision Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion Service Philosophy Fact Sheet Rules & Guidelines Annual Reports & Strategic Plans Performance Measures Honors & Awards News & Events News Events Exhibits Workshops Videos from the Libraries Visit Hours Visit the Libraries Hunt Library Map Hill Library Map How Busy is the Hill Library? Directions & Parking Libraries D. H. Hill Jr. Library James B. Hunt Jr. Library Design Library Natural Resources Library Veterinary Medicine Library Campus Information Centers Get Involved Giving to the Libraries Friends of the Libraries Student Advisory Forum University Library Committee Academic Departmental Library Representatives Help Ask Us Request a Research Consultation Request a Technology Consultation Get Data Science Help FAQ Search Today's Hours Hours My Account Log Out Ask Us Chat Link Remembering Susan K. Nutter Former Vice Provost and Director of the NC State University Libraries Susan K. Nutter, who retired in 2017 after a 30-year career as one of NC State’s and the library world’s most dynamic and influential leaders, passed away on March 25, 2019. Susan placed the Libraries at the center of NC State’s overall success. She set forth an ambitious vision and worked tirelessly to achieve it, transforming every aspect of the library along the way. Her many significant achievements ranged from building world-class research collections and spearheading the creation of the online library, to attracting and developing a uniquely talented and capable staff, to overseeing the design and realization of many beautiful and inspiring spaces for learning, collaboration, and discovery. Read more... Susan's Obituary Nutter was recognized internationally as a visionary in the academic library world. She was so dedicated to enabling others' success that her impact will be felt far and wide for generations. Read more... Purple Tributes for Susan The Color Wall and Conservatory in the Hill Library have been turned purple in memory of Susan. Read more... A Look Back at Susan's Impact Susan's contributions to the Libraries, NC State, and the library profession cannot be overstated. Here are a few news items from the recent past that illustrate her achievements and how she accomplished so much. 2016 National Medal for Library Service "2016 ACRL Academic/Research Librarian of the Year" "I had a good sense of what was coming" Memories of Susan Around the time of her memorial service, we solicited remembrances from people whose lives and careers drew upon Susan’s inspiration. Thanks to everyone who contributed their stories. We have posted them here. Celebrating Susan's Legacy Here are a handful of videos that capture Susan's vision, both in her own words and in the words of her friends and colleagues. The Hunt Library Story THE NC STATE UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES, SUSAN K. NUTTER SKN | 30 - Video 1 SKN | 30 - Video 2 SKN | 30 - Video 3 Tarheel Traveler Thirty Years of Innovative Leadership 1987: Susan joins NC State University as the Director of Libraries. 1990: The 11-story Bookstack South Tower is added to the D. H. Hill Jr. Library, greatly expanding shelving space. 2000: The NC State University Libraries is awarded the first Excellence in Academic Libraries Award by the Association of College and Research Libraries. 2003: The NC State University Libraries is awarded the American Library Association’s Library of the Future Award. 2007: The Hill Library’s newly-renovated East Wing opens, including a new Learning Commons, Special Collections exhibit gallery and reading room, and other enhancements. 2013: The James B. Hunt Jr. Library opens to international acclaim. 2016: Susan accepts the IMLS National Medal of Honor for Museum and Library Service at the White House. 2016: Susan is named ACRL Academic/Research Librarian of the Year. 1987: Susan joins NC State University as the Director of Libraries. × 1990: The 11-story Bookstack South Tower is added to the D. H. Hill Jr. Library, greatly expanding shelving space. × 2000: The NC State University Libraries is awarded the first Excellence in Academic Libraries Award by the Association of College and Research Libraries. × 2003: The NC State University Libraries is awarded the American Library Association’s Library of the Future Award. × 2007: The Hill Library’s newly-renovated East Wing opens, including a new Learning Commons, Special Collections exhibit gallery and reading room, and other enhancements. × 2013: The James B. Hunt Jr. Library opens to international acclaim. × 2016: Susan accepts the IMLS National Medal of Honor for Museum and Library Service at the White House. × 2016: Susan is named ACRL Academic/Research Librarian of the Year. × Top of page Contact D. H. Hill Jr. Library 2 Broughton Drive Campus Box 7111 Raleigh, NC 27695-7111 (919) 515-3364 James B. Hunt Jr. Library 1070 Partners Way Campus Box 7132 Raleigh, NC 27606-7132 (919) 515-7110 Libraries Administration (919) 515-7188 NC State University Libraries D. H. Hill Jr. Library James B. Hunt Jr. Library Design Library Natural Resources Library Veterinary Medicine Library Copyright Privacy Statement Accessibility at the Libraries Accessibility at NC State University Staff Confluence Login Staff Drupal Login Follow the Libraries Facebook Instagram Twitter Snapchat LinkedIn Vimeo YouTube Twitch Flickr Libraries' news ×