Department of Physiology Logo Toggle Menu About Sub Menu Caret Icon Research Arrow Icon Department Arrow Icon History Arrow Icon Faculty Education & Training Diversity & Inclusion Sub Menu Caret Icon D & I Home Page Arrow Icon Mentors Arrow Icon Seminars Journal Clubs Events Sub Menu Caret Icon Events Index Arrow Icon Retreat: 2022 Arrow Icon Social Events Archive Arrow Icon News The Department of Physiology Welcome to Penn Physiology! We invite you to spend time on our site and learn more about our vibrant department. We welcome your interest and invite you to spend time on our site. Visit the "Faculty” page to learn about the depth and breadth of our research interests; search the “About" page for department information, administrative staff contacts, and discover some history of the department in the process. Be sure to check the “Events” page frequently to stay current on our upcoming seminars and events. See the latest Events Jun 01, 2022 @ 9:30AM Faculty meeting CRB 702 1st Wednesday of every month @ 9:30am Jun 09, 2022 @ 9:30AM Ion channel journal club https://pennmedicine.zoom.us/j/95699145820 Speaker: Gyuri Panyi, Ph.D. Jun 23, 2022 @ 9:30AM Ion channel journal club https://pennmedicine.zoom.us/j/95699145820 Speaker: Federica Genovese, Ph.D. View All Events Arrow Icon Publications May 04, 2022 Cysteine-based mimic of arginylation reproduces neuroprotective effects of the authentic p... May 02, 2022 Acute deletion of the foxo1-dependent hepatokine fgf21 does not alter basal glucose homeos... Apr 28, 2022 Structural insights into trpv2 activation by small molecules View All Publications Arrow Icon News Apr 29, 2022 Congratulations to yale e. goldman! Apr 07, 2022 Congratulations kenneth margulies! Feb 16, 2022 Congratulations to joseph baur! View All News Arrow Icon OUR MISSION Physiology is the study of how living systems function. Physiologists seek to describe biological processes in physical and chemical terms. Accordingly, physiologists can be trained in diverse, which enable them to bring unique insights and technical approaches to study living systems from the sub-cellular level to the whole organism. For example, faculty in our Department have been trained in chemistry, medicine, zoology, physics, biochemistry, mathematics, biophysics, cell and developmental biology, neurobiology, and, believe it or not, physiology. Physiologists may be interested in the molecular function of individual molecules such as enzymes, membrane transporters, or molecular motors, or in how these molecules interact within a network to generate higher-level biological activities. Penn Physiology faculty have particular strengths in the molecular biophysics of membrane transport proteins and biological motors, as well as in the cell physiology and integrative biology of transport, motility, signaling and metabolism. We employ a wide range of experimental techniques in the fields of cell and molecular biology, chemistry, physics, engineering, genetics, genomics, and bioinformatics. It may not be an overstatement to suggest that Physiology enables insights from biophysics, biochemistry, molecular biology, cell biology, genetics, and pharmacology to be described in an integrated manner that can be applied to human medicine. Much of clinical medicine relies on understanding molecular, cellular and organ-system physiology. Our Research The multi-disciplinary approaches employed by our faculty encourage scientific collaborations with scientists in other departments throughout the Perelman School of Medicine and beyond. The Physiology Department is comprised of faculty whose research ranges from studies of single molecule behaviors to integrative physiology. In addition, many of our faculty have formal ties to other entities at Penn, including The Pennsylvania Muscle Institute, The Center for Orphan Disease Research and Therapy, The Institute for Environmental Medicine, the Abramson Cancer Center, the Institute for Diabetes, Obesity and Metabolism and the Center for Nanotechnology, among others. Our faculty are also strongly committed to medical and graduate student education, with leadership roles in courses, seminars and journal clubs in Physiology, Biochemistry, Molecular Biophysics, Cell Biology, and many more. Learn More The Lakadamyali Lab Super-resolution image of microtubules and tau aggregates (α-tubulin in magenta P301L tau in cyan) (in cells that express GFP-P301L tau and contain tau aggregates) Credit: Melina Gyparaki Faculty Profile Page Carol Deutsch, PhD The Deutsch laboratory is the only one studying the early stages of folding of Kv proteins and one of a few laboratories studying the functional biophysical properties of the exit tunnel. Faculty Profile Page Benjamin Prosser, PhD Ben is an emerging leader in new, exciting aspects of the molecular physiology of cardiomyocyte function and signaling. The photo featured here is credited to his lab. Faculty Profile Page Zhe Lu, MD, PhD Zhe Lu, MD, PhD is an internationally recognized leader in studies of potassium channel ion permeation. Faculty Profile Page Previous Slide Next Slide From Our Chair J. Kevin Foskett, Ph.D. Welcome to the Department of Physiology in the Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania. Our Department is devoted to research, training, and education and strives to push the boundaries of scientific discovery and academic development. The Department’s internationally recognized faculty, in conjunction with post-doctoral fellows, graduate students, and staff, use innovative tools to uncover physical and chemical mechanisms of biological processes. Our frontiers span the molecular to organ level to determine how the human body functions in health and disease. We welcome your interest and invite you to spend time on our site. Profile Page Our Faculty Get to know our multi-disciplinary Faculty members. Find a Faculty Member Arrow Icon Department of Physiology Clinical Research Building 415 Curie Boulevard, Suite 700 Philadelphia, PA 19104 Phone: 215-898-8725 Phys@Pennmedicine.upenn.edu Faculty Events News Publications Contact Us Follow Us: Sorry, your browser is out of date The web browser you are using is too old to view this site. Please update your browser or use Internet Explorer 11 or the current version of Microsoft Edge, Firefox, Chrome or Safari. Thank you!