Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Senior Administration About Baylor Menu Campus The Vibrant Baylor Campus Then & Now Traditions School Song Fight Song Baylor Bucket List The Immortal Message The McLane Carillon Virtual Tour Campus Map Directions to Baylor Connect Social Media Baylor Magazine Baylor Proud Baylor Alumni Connect Wear the Gear Facts & Figures Overview Awards & Rankings Ask Baylor Financial Highlights Heritage History Baylor Presidents Founders & Founders Day The Naming of Baylor Baylor Campus: Then & Now Historical Timeline List of Timeline Events Prominent Bears Commission on Historic Campus Representations Leadership Office of the President Senior Administration Administrative Departments Values & Vision Give Light Core Convictions Mission Top-Tier Academics Research Apply Christian Commitment Celebrating Advent Caring Community Athletic Excellence Strategic Plan Join Us Apply Now Work Here Make a Gift Visit Baylor Our Stories Baylor>About Baylor>Senior Administration>President's Council>Robyn L. Driskell Robyn L. Driskell Vice President and Chief Compliance and Risk Officer Robyn L. Driskell Vice President and Chief Compliance and Risk Officer Dr. Robyn L. Driskell currently serves as vice president and chief compliance and risk officer. She was appointed chief of staff to the president in June 2016 and appointed vice president in October 2016. In her current role, Dr. Driskell oversees the areas of compliance, risk, audit, safety and security; environmental health and safety; the equity office; the president’s diversity council; and Title IX. She earned a BA (’91) and an MA (’93) from Baylor University and a PhD (’97) in sociology from Texas A&M University. She previously served as divisional dean for the humanities and social sciences in the College of Arts & Sciences and professor of sociology at Baylor. She began her career at Baylor in 1997 in the Department of Sociology. As divisional dean, her responsibilities included faculty issues, faculty interviews and hiring, and tenure reviews. Additionally, she worked with departmental chairs, oversaw departmental matters and difficult personnel issues, and conducted chair annual evaluations. Dr. Driskell’s main goals included supporting and advising faculty members for their advancement. Her scholarly research interests include community, demography, and Latino studies. She has several peer-reviewed journal articles on these topics. Her books are The Community in Urban Society (2012) and The Discourse on Applied Sociology (2007). She was awarded the Outstanding Professor Teaching Award (2002) and the Outstanding Graduate Program Director Award (2008) at Baylor. She has served her sociology professional society in a variety of roles and was president of the Southwestern Sociological Association in 2008. More Information Department of Public Safety Environmental Health and Safety Equity, Civil Rights, and Title IX Internal Audit and Management Analysis University Compliance and Risk Services Senior Administration Office of the President University Council Administrative Departments Organizational Chart About Baylor Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Office of the President University Council Administrative Departments Organizational Chart About Baylor