Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open the search panel Open the main menu Search Go Close the search panel Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers News Events Alumni Giving About Library Login Open the Search panel Admissions Admissions Why Columbia J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics Academics J.D. Program and Curriculum LL.M. Program and Curriculum Executive LL.M. Program and Curriculum J.S.D. Program and Curriculum Dual and Joint Degrees International Programs Public Interest and Public Service Experiential Learning Courses Registration Services Academic Calendar Executive Education Areas of Study Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Criminal Justice Data Analytics Environment and Energy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Intellectual Property and Technology International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace Leadership Legal History Litigation and Dispute Resolution National Security and Privacy Social Justice and Human Rights Faculty & Scholarship Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Directory Research Centers and Programs Scholarship Archive Workshops, Lectures, and Colloquia Careers Careers Private Sector Careers Public Interest and Public Service Careers Academic Careers Judicial Clerkships Employment Statistics Employment Policies Community Life Community Life Visit Campus Dean’s Welcome Your Campus, Your City Student Life Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Strategic Initiatives Experiential Learning Academics Experiential Learning Under the guidance of full-time faculty and distinguished practitioners, students gain hands-on training through clinics, externships, simulations, policy labs, and workshops. More in this Section Explore Experiential Learning: Clinics Externships Moot Court Policy Labs Simulations Legal Writing Developing real-world lawyering skills is a fundamental part of a Columbia Law School education. The practical experience you acquire prepares you to be an effective and ethical lawyer—no matter what career path you choose to pursue. Experiential Learning Requirements J.D. students need six credits of experiential education to graduate. Requirements J.D. students need six credits of experiential education to graduate Clinics, the D.C. externship, Lawyering for Social Justice (Pro Bono Scholars Program), and the Public Education Policy Seminar and Practicum fully satisfy the requirement. All other externships provide four or five credits. Simulations and policy labs provide a range of credits. Browse the online curriculum guide for courses tagged “experiential.” Timeline Deadlines for Experiential Application Experiential Application Overview: 12:10 pm - 1:10 pm, April 6, 2022 via Zoom Open Enrollment: April 1 - 29, 2022 Application Deadline: April 29, 2022 at 5:00 p.m. (Late applications will not be accepted) Acceptance Offers: May 13, 2022 Acceptance Confirmation: May 17, 2022 Apply for Experiential Credit Application Fall 2022 Experiential Learning Handbook Fall 2022 Experiential Learning Info Session Recording LawNet Application: Link Clinics Work on behalf of real clients and gain experience as a counselor, mediator, litigator, advocate, and educator. Learn More Externships Choose from over 20 externships, covering many different areas of law and a wide variety of practice settings, to help clients solve legal problems. Learn More Moot Court Starting in your first year of law school, participate in moot court programs on campus and around the country and the world. Learn More Simulations Choose from more than a dozen simulation courses to tackle hypothetical legal challenges in the classroom and delve deeper into practice areas that match your interests. Learn More Experiential Learning Offerings Discover Experiential Learning at Columbia Law 30+ externships Learn more. 30+ policy labs and simulations Learn more. 8 clinics Learn more. Discover Experiential Learning at Columbia Law Related News and Stories Read All Stories More in The Press Faculty News Guiding a Generational Change in Clinical Education Philip Genty, vice dean for experiential education, is working to integrate Columbia Law School’s experiential learning with the broader curriculum. Students News Aneesa Mazumdar ’22: Harlan Fiske Stone Moot Court Finalist Students News Alison Hung ’22: 2022 Harlan Fiske Stone Moot Court Finalist Students News Ninoslav Kucan Dickersin ’23: Harlan Fiske Stone Moot Court Finalist Admissions Why Columbia Visit 435 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 212-854-2640 Contact Us Social Media (Administrative Title) Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Instagram Admissions Academics Areas of Study Faculty & Scholarship Careers Community Life Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers Login News Events Alumni Giving About Library Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Donate © Copyright 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York.