Skip to main content University of Washington Research Contact Us About Office of Research Announcements UW Home Quick Links MyResearch Project Lifecycle Plan/Propose Plan/Propose Overview Develop Hypothesis/Question Select Funding Source Conduct Literature Search Sponsor Requirements Recruit Team Budget Facilities and Resources Write Proposal Submit Proposal Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Setup Setup Overview Sponsor Requirements Facilities and Resources Financials Subawards Compliance Requirements (Non-Financial) Records and Documentation Methods Collaborations Data Collection Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Manage Manage Overview Financials Compliance Requirements (Non-Financial) Facilities and Resources Collect Data Analyze Data Subawards Award Changes Reporting Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Closeout Closeout Overview Financials Subawards Equipment and Materials Reporting Dissemination of Results Data Sharing Records Retention Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Resources Support Offices Human Subjects Division Office of Animal Welfare Office of Research Central Office of Research Information Services Office of Sponsored Programs Research Units Applied Physics Laboratory Washington National Primate Research Center Browse Forms and Templates Policies, Procedures and Guidance Announcements Glossary FAQs Popular Resources Funding Opportunities Grants Information Memorandum (GIMs) Institutional Facts and Rates Research Stats & Rankings New to UW Research UWFT for the Research Community Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Collaboration Connect to Expertise Find Research Expertise Research Centers and Institutes Resources for Collaboration Interdisciplinary Resources Guidance for NIH Institutional Training Grants Collaborative Proposal Development Resources Establish a Research Center or Institute Shared Research Facilities and Resources Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Compliance Compliance Overview Compliance Training Training Overview Research Training Overview Collaborative for Research Education Required Research Training Research Administration Learning HSD Training and Education MyResearch Training Transcript UW Research Menu MyResearch Project Lifecycle Plan/Propose Setup Manage Closeout Resources Collaboration Compliance Training Home UW Research Announcements Redesigned SAGE Budget Now Available June 18, 2020 Redesigned SAGE Budget Now Available Menu Home Annual Performance Evaluation Policy and Process Attendance Policy Bridge Funding Program Policy Budget/Position Control Policy and Procedure Business Attire Policy Emergency Contact Card Policy Exchange Calendar System Policy Gift Policy Instructions for Receiving Items Merit Increase Policy Non-Discrimination and Sexual Harassment Policy Relocation Policy Telework Policy (ORC) The Office of Research Information Services is excited to announce the newly redesigned SAGE Budget is now available! Review the SAGE Budget redesign job aid for more detailed instructions on creating and managing your budgets using the new design. Design Highlights Click to Expand Each Section for More Details Legacy vs. Current Format For a limited time you can choose to create and manage your budgets using the old (Legacy) SAGE Budget design OR you can begin using the new (Current) design. You can upgrade your legacy budgets to the new format at any time, however once you upgrade you can no longer work with the budget in the legacy format. You can also create a new budget by making a copy of an existing budget and upgrading it. This allows you to try out the new design while still holding on to a copy of the legacy version. NOTE: We will notify you before upgrading all legacy budgets to the new format (exact timing will depend on your feedback). Budget List The upgraded Budget List allows you to create a budget, view and open your list of existing budgets, and easily find a budget by entering the Principal Investigator, Budget Title, or Budget ID Number in the search box. Navigation The revised navigational structure creates better visibility to the various worksheets (sub-budgets) that comprise your overall budget. Key components of the navigation include: Summary (All Worksheets): A read-only summary of your budget that rolls-up costs from all worksheets. Worksheets: Where you build and edit your budget. Each budget contains, at minimum, a Primary worksheet. You can add additional worksheets for: Subawards Internal sub-budgets that have a different F&A rate or rules than the Primary worksheet Fabrication sub-budgets NOTE: Unlike legacy SAGE Budget, in the new design the primary (lead) worksheet no longer includes the roll-up data from sub-budgets. The Summary serves as the full budget roll-up view. Budget Settings: Identify information and setup details related to your overall budget such as sponsor, period start and end dates, access, caps and limits. History: Point-in-time snapshots of the budget (including the option to create a snapshot at any time). Collapse Panel: Minimize the navigation panel without compromising easy navigation between worksheets and summary. Budget Settings Budget Settings include basic identifying information and setup details related to your overall budget. Budget Settings includes periods, budget title, sponsor, data and calculations, and caps and limits. When you create a new budget, by default the Budget Settings page will display with the Periods section open. The budget start date is the only field required prior to adding costs, significantly reducing the information required upfront. Budget Summary The Budget Summary contains a read-only roll-up of all worksheet expenses, plus the following highlights: Salary and benefits combined into a single Salary and Benefit Costs section Sub-totals by personnel role type Total costs at the top for quick reference Totals combined by object code for all worksheets, with quick access to each costs’ source worksheet for more detail Object codes (with option to expand and collapse) to see high level totals or view detailed expenses Custom display for personnel costs (e.g. Annual Base Salary, Person Months, Percent Effort) Facilities & Administrative details such as rate, location, base type, and cost detail by worksheet Notes for specific personnel and costs Filters to view specific worksheets Budget Worksheets The redesigned SAGE Budget consists of a collection of editable worksheets where you can build and edit your budget. By default, each budget will contain a Primary Worksheet which cannot be deleted. You can add worksheets for sub-budgets by clicking the Add Worksheet button in the left navigation. Highlights include: Worksheet Settings Set up details related to a specific worksheet (sub-budget) such as title, organization receiving funding, base type, location, and F&A rate Personnel Entry Quick search for UW personnel using type-ahead (SAGE Budget still pulls in salary details from Workday) Edit personnel details in the side panel (no more pop-ups) Other Costs Entry Easy in-line entry of Other Costs Enter quantity and price in the side panel Subaward Entry Improvements Subawards added to your internal worksheets on lines 03-62 include a breakout of Subaward Total Direct Costs from Subrecipient F&A to ensure accurate calculation of Total Direct Costs less Subrecipient F&A for the overall budget Subaward Worksheets offer streamlined personnel and F&A entry Budget History SAGE will automatically capture a snapshot when the following actions occur: You create a new budget by copying an existing budget You connect a budget period to an application You route the connected application for review (locks the budget from editing) OSP approves the connected application (unlocks the budget for editing) You disconnect the budget from an application You upgrade a legacy budget to the current budget You can also add a snapshot at any time by clicking the ADD SNAPSHOT button below the snapshot table. Budget Export You can export your budget data to Excel (.xlsx) so that you can easily share the information with your colleagues. The layout of the Excel export has been improved to provide you with a more readable format. The following export formats will be available with this first release, with the goal to add more formats in the future based on user feedback: Summary (budget roll-up) with Excel sheets for each period’s detail Individual worksheets SF424 Detailed Budget format Resources Virtual Office Hours Join us on Friday, June 26 to share your thoughts and ask questions about the redesigned SAGE Budget. Date: Friday, June 26, 2020 Time: 10 am – noon AND 1 – 3 pm Location: Zoom (morning session) and Zoom (afternoon session) Demo Join us on Monday, June 29, 2020 for a virtual demo of the newly redesigned SAGE Budget. Date: Monday, June 29, 2020 Time: 10 – 11 am Location: Zoom Department Presentations If your department is interested in a focused demo or discussion, contact us at oris@uw.edu. SAGE Budget User Guide New SAGE documentation is now available. SAGE Budget Class Attend a SAGE Budget class offered quarterly through CORE. Questions If you have any questions or feedback, please reach out to us at sagehelp@uw.edu. Featured Research Visit UW Today-Research to see what research news is being featured. Stay Updated Manage Subscriptions University of Washington Office of Research Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools OR Support Offices Human Subjects Division (HSD) Office of Animal Welfare (OAW) Office of Research (OR) Office of Research Information Services (ORIS) Office of Sponsored Programs (OSP) OR Research Units Applied Physics Laboratory (APL-UW) WA National Primate Research Center (WaNPRC) Research Partner Offices CoMotion Corporate and Foundation Relations (CFR) Enivronmental Health and Safety (EH&S) Grant and Contract Accounting (GCA) Institute of Translational Health Sciences (ITHS) Management Accounting and Analysis (MAA) Post Award Fiscal Compliance (PAFC) Collaboration Research Expertise Centers and Institutes Interdisciplinary Resources Guidance for NIH Institutional Training Grants Collaborative Proposal Development Resources About Research Fact Sheet Research Annual Report Stats and Rankings Honors and Awards Office of Research Contact Us Manage Subscriptions Gerberding Hall G80 Box 351202 Seattle, WA 98195 Accessibility Jobs Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA