Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Career in Charitable Change You are here Home About News & Media Temple's Impact Career in Charitable Change Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Preferred Name Use Pronoun Use and Gender Identity Temple Thought Leaders Housing & Dining Health & Wellness COVID-19: Keeping Our Community Safe & Healthy COVID-19 FAQ Testing & Tracing Vaccines Academics, Tuition & Aid Temple HEERF III Grant Student Housing & On-campus Life Work-life for Faculty & Staff Faculty Teaching Information Return Scenario Planning Temple Community Health Advisory Group University Communication Vaccination Rates and Active COVID-19 Cases at Temple University International Campuses and Programs City Life Philadelphia Visiting Temple Accommodations Dining Options Religious Services Information FAQs Safety Main Campus and Philadelphia Safety FAQ Contact Temple RAVE Temple Guardian App Community Programs and Research University News Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Campus Life Arts and Culture Clubs and Organizations Housing, Dining and OWLcards Parking and Transportation Safety Student Banking Student Centers Wireless, Computers and Phone Academics Advising and Academic Support Courses and Calendars International Students Libraries Registration, Grades and Books Schools and Colleges Health and Wellness Athletics and Fitness Health and Counseling Tuition and Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition and Billing Careers and Internships Career Center Internships Student Jobs Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees Presidential Search President University Leadership Board of Trustees Updates Past Presidents 2019 State of the University History & Traditions Russell Conwell Temple Traditions Acres of Diamonds Honorary Degrees Past Honorary Degree Recipients Temple Health News & Media Media Mentions Temple University Wallpapers Temple's Impact Career in Charitable Change Fueled by Temple Experiences Advancing Breast Cancer Research Leaders in HIV Research 21st-century Learning Temple Firsts Paving the Way Medical & Community Support Student Support Contact members of Strategic Marketing and Communications Offices Public Information Facts About Temple Faculty & Staff Resources Working at Temple Calendars and Time Off Holiday Schedule Careers at Temple Human Resources Performance and Training Business Services Catering Exception Policy Double Tree Catering/ Conferences Contact Frequently Asked Questions Trademark Licensing Policy Corporate Responsibility Logo and Graphics Guide Guidelines for Trademark Use The Student, Faculty and Staff Guide to Ordering Licensed Temple Products Becoming Licensed Trademark and Licensing FAQ Where to Buy Temple Gear University-approved Hotels Club Quarters DoubleTree Hotel Hilton Garden Inn Hilton Philadelphia at Penn's Landing Loews Hotel Sonesta Philadelphia The Conwell Inn Campus Services Computers, Email and Phones Conferences and Meetings Health Sciences Center Form Main Campus Meeting Space Howard Gittis Student Center Form Documents & Insurance Facilities and Space ID Cards Parking and Transportation Faculty Resources Calendars, Schedules and Grades Courses and Curricula Instructional Resources Faculty Senate and News Research and Grants Finance and Travel Accounting and Budget Employee Banking and Finance Tuition Remission Travel and Expenses Wellness and Safety Fitness and Health Safety and Alerts Campus Development Frequently Asked Questions Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Data Integrity and Data Verification Unit In-scope Materials Quick Reference Guide Rankings Data Overview and Updates Additional Resources Frequently Asked Questions FAQ: Fox School of Business MBA rankings Enterprise Risk Management Key Terms and Definitions Helpline Frequently Asked Questions Resources Compliance With the Four Pillars Who We Are Libraries Charles Library One college class sparked this Temple grad’s passion for creating better, brighter futures for others. For many Temple students, their drive begins in the classroom, leading to opportunities that help them identify their passion and start making their mark long before graduation. For Erinn Corbett-Wright, CLA ’14, inspiration came from an undergraduate course, which helped lead her to where she is today. As vice president, Charitable Foundation program manager at TD Bank, Corbett-Wright is responsible for managing $5 million in assets. She ensures the funds are distributed across the East Coast in the form of grants to improve the lives of families through affordable housing, early learning, financial literacy, mid-career retraining, small business development and more. Corbett-Wright’s career trajectory has taken her far in the seven years since she graduated from Temple. And if it hadn’t been for the one class she took during her sophomore year, it never would have happened. A Life-altering Course Corbett-Wright took a political science course called Special Topics in Urban Politics, taught by a former Philadelphia mayor. In the class, her professor discussed his rise from grassroots organizer to Philadelphia City Council member and his tenure as mayor. He shared his thoughts on the city’s history, its growth, its opportunities, its weaknesses, and how politics has shaped its fabric and culture. The course and her professor’s experiences resonated with Corbett-Wright. She pursued an internship with current Council President Darrell L. Clarke, and then, she accepted a paid position working as a legislative assistant with State Rep. Jordan A. Harris in her junior year. Erinn Corbett-Wright ’14 College of Liberal Arts “I’m not sure that the same magic could have happened at another school or in another city. It was a uniquely Temple experience, a uniquely Philadelphia moment.” A Passionate Pivot After her time in government, Corbett-Wright decided to leverage her experience and alter her career path, focusing on nonprofit fundraising. From interning at the Mayor’s Fund for Philadelphia, to a development job at a nonprofit for advancing behavioral health, to working with the Pew Charitable Trusts’ Philadelphia Program, Corbett-Wright found her calling in the nonprofit space. Her current role at TD Bank involves working on many transformative projects, and it fuels her passion for doing good by addressing issues faced by many people and communities. Corbett-Wright’s credo is “always do good.” “I love working in philanthropy. I love grantmaking,” Corbett-Wright said. “I love making projects possible and allowing communities to be the best agents of their change and facilitating that with capital.” A Real Role Model Now, she’s a leader in a professional milieu with few visible Black Muslim women. “It is very important to me to be able to be out and visible as a Black Muslim woman,” she said. “I welcome the opportunity to add to people’s perceptions of the capabilities of Muslim women, showing up in a way that changes the conversation around what it means to be a Muslim in America and how you contribute to the fabric of society.” Temple’s 30 Under 30 The 30 Under 30 awards program recognizes trailblazing young alumni who are disrupting the status quo to make a better tomorrow for all of us. We spotlight outstanding Owls who are trendsetters, problem-solvers and innovators, including Erinn Corbett-Wright. Meet the Awardees Temple Changemakers Get to know more of Temple’s 30 Under 30 award recipients. Each year, Temple honors the achievements of 30 alumni under the age of 30 who are changing the world through the force of their will and the clarity of their vision. Meet the Awardees Read the 2020 30 under 30 awardee profiles Access to Opportunities of All Kinds A Temple education is career- and community-focused. From working with real-world clients in the classroom, to learning from industry experts and taking on internships and other opportunities across Philadelphia, all students have the chance to gain important experience when it comes to exploring the possibilities for their future. Undergraduate Internships At Temple, our students prepare for their next steps long before graduation. Our undergraduate internship opportunities offer real-world, hands-on experiences so students gain the skills needed to set themselves apart for careers or graduate school. Temple’s location in Philadelphia allows students to take on internships year-round in every industry so students can explore their interests and build professional experience easily. And, more than 800 employers visit campus each year. Our robust alumni network—which includes over 140,000 alumni in the Philadelphia region and 330,000 worldwide—provides even more opportunities for students to receive career guidance and resources. Faculty Expertise As a major national research university, Temple counts among its faculty some of the most innovative changemakers and scholars in the country. They are experts in their fields, actively engaging in research and working one-on-one with students to help them get to where they need to be. Temple is a large university, but our class sizes are small—averaging just 29 students. Our faculty are also thought leaders who provide compelling insights into what’s happening in our world right now. These insights are integrated into the classroom, where students grow to become informed global citizens. Philadelphia At Temple, Philadelphia serves as the classroom for our students. We’re deeply ingrained in the city and we ensure students can take advantage of all Philadelphia has to offer. There’s never a shortage of opportunities for students to work, learn and grow. As one of the largest cities on the East Coast and a modern center of industry, Philadelphia is rich with history, culture and opportunity. And, with so many alumni based in the region, students have access to internship and job experiences in one of the many companies and organizations that are based here. Learn About Our Impact Read more stories about Owls making a difference in the world. View Main Page Go back to AboutMore in Temple's Impact Career in Charitable Change Fueled by Temple Experiences Advancing Breast Cancer Research Leaders in HIV Research 21st-century Learning Temple Firsts Paving the Way Medical & Community Support Student Support Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community.