Skip to main content Skip to main content SMU Home Giving Giving Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Simmons About Dean's Message Programs, Degrees, and Certifications Faculty and Staff Directory Simmons Governance Simmons School History Executive Board Simmons Luminary Award XPRIZE Honor Code Simmons Resources Travel-Study Programs Simmons Lecture Series AERA 2022 Graduation Ceremony May 2022 Paving the Way to Inclusion Conference Simmons Graduate Council Faculty and Administrative Position Openings Simmons Blogs and Social Media Hub Annette Caldwell Simmons Hall Harold Clark Simmons Hall Photo Tour Contact Us Academic Departments & Areas of Study Applied Physiology & Wellness B.S. | Applied Physiology & Sport Mgmt. Undergraduate Specializations Applied Physiology and Health Management Sport Management Sport Performance Leadership M.S. | Health Promotion Management M.S. | Sport Management Non-Degree | Wellness Dispute Resolution & Counseling M.S. | Counseling Specialties Clinical Mental Health Marriage, Couple and Family School Counseling M.A. | Dispute Resolution Non-Degree | Dispute Resolution Specialties Executive Coaching Education Policy & Leadership M.Ed. | PK-12 School Leadership M.Ed. | Higher Education Ed.D. | PK-12 School Leadership Ed.D. | Higher Education Graduate Liberal Studies MLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities DLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities Non-Degree | Science, Arts, & Humanities Ph.D. in Education Teaching & Learning B.S. | M.Ed | MBE | Ph.D. Graduate Specializations Bilingual Special Ed ESL Gifted Literacy Math STEM Urban Education Research Research A comprehensive list of Simmons research projects Faculty Research Publications & Presentations Recent research publications and presentations Center on Research & Evaluation (CORE) Offers comprehensive program evaluation services, largely in the non-profit sector, and performs education research Research in Mathematics Education Conducts research in mathematics education and disseminates findings Integrative Physiology Laboratory Investigates autonomic function and thermoregulation in healthy and clinical populations Locomotor Performance Laboratory Studies terrestrial locomotion and the relationship of muscle function to metabolic energy expenditure and performance Center for VR Learning Innovation Investigates the use of virtual, augmented and mixed reality for education and human development Youth Sports Impact Partnership SMU and the Children’s Health Andrews Institute have launched a collaboration dedicated to improving the health, activity levels, and well-being of kids. Research Resources for Simmons Faculty and Staff Technology and Education Cluster Our Faculty Community Engagement Advanced Placement Summer Institute Summer Institute for AP and Pre-AP Teachers The Budd Center Partners with community agencies to offer educational opportunities for disadvantaged children Center for Family Counseling Counseling services in Plano for individuals and families College Access Programs Programs and workshops that help students advance academically Institute for Leadership Impact Leaders in education, health and social enterprise enhance skills to lead organizations and solve real-world problems Project Connect A repository of ideas, activities and videos for educators interested in improving instruction for English Language Learners West Dallas STEM-Focused School Preparing students for the next generation of STEM jobs Alumni Search Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Simmons About Simmons About Simmons Graduation Ceremony May 2022 Simmons COVID-19 Information Fall 2021 Important Student Information Dean's Message Faculty and Staff Directory Academic Integrity and Code of Conduct History: from 1920 Executive Board Simmons News Catalogs Giving Academic Services Simmons Strategic Plan Simmons Resources Travel-Study Programs Simmons Lecture Series AERA 2022 Simmons Luminary Award Paving the Way to Inclusion Simmons Graduate Council Faculty and Administrative Openings Simmons Governance Simmons Newsletters Simmons Blogs and Social Media XPRIZE Alumni Contact Us Academics Academics Applied Physiology and Sports Management Dispute Resolution Counseling Education Policy and Leadership Graduate Liberal Studies Ph.D. Teacher Education Programs & Degrees Fall 2021 Graduate Student Orientation Our Faculty Our Faculty Faculty Research Publications & Presentations Research Research Research Projects Archive 2020-21: Research Snapshot Research Resources Virtual Reality Surgery Simulator (VRSS) Integrative Physiology Laboratory CORE Locomotor Performance Laboratory Research in Mathematics Education Center for VR Learning Innovation Youth Sports Impact Partnership Faculty Research Publications and Presentations Dallas Noyce: A Community-Focused Mathematics Teacher Pipeline Technology and Education Cluster Community Engagement Community Engagement Advanced Placement Summer Institute College Access Programs The Budd Center: Involving Communities in Education Institute for Leadership Impact Center for Family Counseling Project Connect West Dallas STEM-Focused School Alumni ☰ Simmons Strategic Plan About Simmons Simmons About Simmons Simmons Strategic Plan Simmons School of Education & Human Development Strategic Plan Simmons Vision: Catalyzing Discovery and Innovation Through excellence in research, teaching, and community outreach, Simmons is a catalyst for discovery and innovation that transforms social conditions and advances human potential. Download the Simmons Strategic Plan Simmons School Goals Recruit, retain, and graduate students of the highest quality. Advance research efforts using rigorous approaches to address complex issues on both a local and global scale. Create new and innovative paradigms for partnership and community impact. Grow Simmons capacity and administrative infrastructure. Department Strategies that Serve Simmons' Goals Simmons Goal: Recruit, retain, and graduate students of the highest quality. Department of Teaching & Learning Add diagnostician certification training to Learning Therapy curriculum. In response to student and community interest, implement an Urban Education specialization. Implement infrastructural changes to our educator preparation programs that address students’ self-assessment practices. Department of Education Policy & Leadership Improve and establish coherent cross-content principles and objectives for curriculum. Implement an Urban Education specialization that satisfies student interest and meets a community need. Build new interdisciplinary, methodological, program, and center collaborations. Intentionally address equity, social justice, and diversity in courses. Department of Applied Physiology & Wellness Partner with local professional sports teams and organizations to create industry research opportunities for Master of Science in Sport Management students. Provide new funding sources for Physiology PhD students. Formalize an on-campus executive speakers series. Department of Dispute Resolution & Counseling Develop/implement assessment and evaluation techniques and practices in order to enhance student outcomes. Increase the opportunities for involvement by students in civic and industry engagement and field work. Graduate Liberal Studies Expand field research opportunities for DLS and GLS students. Develop new interdisciplinary research clusters. Develop a curricular opportunity that promotes student publications and academic presentations. Expand the Medical Center Partnerships. Simmons Goal: Advance Research Efforts Using Rigorous Approaches to Address Complex Issues on Both a Local and Global Scale. Department of Education Policy & Leadership Pursue additional support for quantitative research. Department of Applied Physiology & Wellness Pursue more research projects with area research institutions and hospitals. Pursue more external grant funding from the government, private corporations, and foundations. Pursue funding for a state-of-the art Locomotor Performance Laboratory extension facility to study biomechanical movement with broad ranging applications for athletes’ performance and health. Department of Counseling & Dispute Resolution Pursue opportunities for interdisciplinary research across SMU. Advance efforts to integrate research and evidence-based practice as part of partnership efforts. Research in Mathematics Education Pursue research opportunities that address access/equity issues in STEM education. Increase the number of externally funded grants. Increase annual research expenditures by 50%. Increase efforts to disseminate articles and presentations. Budd Center Facilitate data-driven and evidence-based collaborations between families, community serving nonprofits, and traditional and non-traditional neighborhood schools in order to improve academic and social outcomes for children. Center on Research Education By leveraging existing and successful community partnerships and interdisciplinary collaborations, expand and define CORE’s own Research Agenda, to create an identity for ourselves and to delve deeper to become experts in specific areas Simmons Goal: Create New and Innovative Paradigms for Partnership and Community Impact Department of Teaching & Learning Create new classes and programs that will increase community partnerships. Implement an Urban Education specialization that will serve with community organizations and effect positive change in local urban settings. Department of Education Policy & Leadership Build new interdisciplinary, methodological, program, and center collaborations. Department of Applied Physiology & Wellness Partner with local professional sports teams and organizations to create industry opportunities for MSSM students. Establish industry partnerships in order to involve students in “real-client” experiential learning and initiate consulting projects with industry leaders. SPL will enhance its partnerships with DISD, the Model School, and Carter High School. Department of Counseling & Dispute Resolution Increase opportunities for involvement by students in civic and industry engagement and field work. Advance efforts to integrate research and evidence-based practice as part of partnership efforts. Evaluate impact of community and industry partnerships. Encourage, incentivize, and provide structure for interdisciplinary, cross-departmental, program and center collaborations. Enhance services and capacity in the Counseling Program’s Family Therapy Clinics in Frisco, Plano, and Dallas. Graduate Liberal Studies Become involved in the new Model School, perhaps offering both Human Rights/Social Justice training for teachers and Educational Coaching and Leadership from a Human-Centered perspective. Expand the Medical Center Partnerships. Research in Mathematics Education Increase our internal and external presence in the community and nationally. Center on Research Education Based on emerging internal evidence about what works in partnerships, maintain a variety of options for engaging in the work. Pursue innovative funding mechanisms to support evaluation capacity building for a range of organizations. Will continue to simultaneously execute and evaluate a range of research and practice partnerships; will work to build a codified and common understanding of effective and replicable elements of successful partnerships by documenting “what works” across our projects. Budd Center Promote program evaluation measures for community programs in which the Budd Center is involved. Equip partners with data, professional development and coaching that enables them to align actions; maximize strengths; focus interventions; impact student outcomes; and close family, community, school and nonprofit resource gaps. Share lessons learned and strategies developed by The Budd Center in the field of collaborative community intervention and create The Leadership and Learning Development Model, a five-part professional development package being prototyped in FY2018-19. Participate in the development and implementation of the new West Dallas STEM School. Simmons Goal: Grow Simmons Capacity and Administrative Infrastructure Department of Teaching & Learning Create new classes and programs that will allow the department to serve local school districts. Department of Education Policy & Leadership Strengthen Department of Applied Physiology & Wellness Establish a Sports Institute. Conduct a major sports symposium/conference. Formalize an on-campus executive speakers series. Establish an advisory board. Department of Counseling & Dispute Resolution Be intentional in efforts to recruit high-quality, diverse faculty members during upcoming faculty searches; strive to retain current "diverse" faculty and staff members. Encourage, incentivize, and provide structure for interdisciplinary, cross-departmental, program and center collaborations. Strengthen processes and systems for faculty governance and decision-making. Research in Mathematics Education (RME) Formally establish RME as a Center. About Simmons Graduation Ceremony May 2022 Simmons COVID-19 Information Fall 2021 Important Student Information Dean's Message Faculty and Staff Directory Academic Integrity and Code of Conduct History: from 1920 Executive Board Simmons News Catalogs Giving UG Academic Services Simmons Strategic Plan Simmons Resources Travel-Study Programs Simmons Lecture Series AERA 2022 Simmons Luminary Award Paving the Way to Inclusion Simmons Graduate Council Faculty and Administrative Openings Simmons Governance Simmons Newsletters Simmons Blogs and Social Media XPRIZE Alumni Contact Us Contact Simmons Contact Us 214-768-7587 sehd@smu.edu Visit Us Annette Caldwell Simmons Hall Southern Methodist University 3101 University Boulevard Dallas, Texas 75205 Connect with Us Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 facebook twitter