Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open the search panel Open the main menu Search Go Close the search panel Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers News Events Alumni Giving About Library Login Open the Search panel Admissions Admissions Why Columbia J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics Academics J.D. Program and Curriculum LL.M. Program and Curriculum Executive LL.M. Program and Curriculum J.S.D. Program and Curriculum Dual and Joint Degrees International Programs Public Interest and Public Service Experiential Learning Courses Registration Services Academic Calendar Executive Education Areas of Study Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Criminal Justice Data Analytics Environment and Energy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Intellectual Property and Technology International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace Leadership Legal History Litigation and Dispute Resolution National Security and Privacy Social Justice and Human Rights Faculty & Scholarship Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Directory Research Centers and Programs Scholarship Archive Workshops, Lectures, and Colloquia Careers Careers Private Sector Careers Public Interest and Public Service Careers Academic Careers Judicial Clerkships Employment Statistics Employment Policies Community Life Community Life Visit Campus Dean’s Welcome Your Campus, Your City Student Life Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Strategic Initiatives Intellectual Property and Technology Intellectual property (IP) and technology law has become one of the most dynamic areas of law. The reach of internet-based businesses into every realm of professional and personal activity has given rise to debate over whether Big Tech firms engage in unfair competition and monopolistic behavior; Columbia Law School faculty are at the forefront of discussion on potential antitrust action against the online giants. IP and copyright law is a critical area of study for lawyers advising on artistic or scientific endeavors, particularly as the concept of authorship evolves. As commerce, art, finance, and business start-ups flourish in the digital space, how do antitrust provisions and intellectual property protections such as copyrights, trademarks, and patents uphold the rights of authors, scientists, entrepreneurs, and other creators? The Law School’s location in New York City gives students the opportunity to study with expert practitioners who are well versed in issues such as data privacy, encryption, copyright, and freedom of speech. Through simulations and externships, students gain practice negotiating and drafting IP agreements and serving as counsel to emerging digital businesses. They can also draw on resources such as the Kernochan Center for Law, Media and the Arts and experiential learning opportunities such as the Science, Health, and Information Clinic. Why Columbia? Explore emerging and specialized topics including media and advertising law, visual arts and music industry law, federal trademark and copyright litigation, international aspects of intellectual property, and cybercrime. Participate in simulations to gain practice negotiating and drafting IP agreements and serving as counsel to emerging digital businesses. Investigate and litigate antitrust cases through externships with the Antitrust Bureau of the New York State Attorney General’s Office. Gain hands-on experience by working on cases during externships at Volunteer Lawyers for the Arts and the Copyright Alliance. Network at events hosted by the Kernochan Center for Law, Media and the Arts. The center conducts intellectual property research, runs interdisciplinary seminars with other schools at Columbia University, hosts speakers and conferences, and awards prizes for outstanding journal articles on current IP topics. “I believe that we need to reinvigorate a great American tradition, and that is the tradition of antitrust. . . . It’s long been part of the American tradition to believe in competition, to believe in competitive markets, and Americans have always rebelled against concentrated power. A big part of the Constitution is dividing up power to make sure no one has too much. And it’s a big part of what we did in 1890, in 1914, and again in 1950: pass antitrust laws, the goals of which were to put some controls on private power and to keep markets competitive and prevent them from just becoming two or three big players. . . . Challenge our greatest tech companies, force them to compete, and the U.S. will continue to be a tech champion in the world.” —Tim Wu, Julius Silver Professor of Law, Science and Technology Related Links Explore Courses Related Faculty All Faculty Shyamkrishna Balganesh Sol Goldman Professor of Law Jane C. Ginsburg Morton L. Janklow Professor of Literary & Artistic Property Law Conrad Johnson Clinical Professor of Law Lina Khan Associate Professor of Law Clarisa Long Max Mendel Shaye Professor of Intellectual Property Law Ronald Mann Albert E. Cinelli Enterprise Professor of Law Petros C. Mavroidis Edwin B. Parker Professor of Foreign & Comparative Law Justin McCrary Paul J. Evanson Professor of Law Eben Moglen Professor of Law Christopher Morten Associate Clinical Professor of Law Eric Talley Isidor and Seville Sulzbacher Professor of Law Timothy Wu Julius Silver Professor of Law, Science and Technology Harold S. Edgar Julius Silver Professor Emeritus of Law, Science and Technology All Faculty Listing Select Centers and Programs All Centers and Programs Kernochan Center for Law, Media, and the Arts The Kernochan Center for Law, Media, and the Arts contributes to a broader understanding of the legal aspects of creative works of authorship, including their dissemination and use. It also helps students navigate the ever-changing legal dimensions of intellectual property in the digital age through courses, interdisciplinary seminars, and events on topics such as intellectual property, copyright, trademarks, the regulation of electronic media, and problems arising from new communications technologies, plus an externship on law and the arts. Areas of Study Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Intellectual Property and Technology All Centers and Programs Related Experiential Learning Opportunities All Experiential Learning Clinic Science, Health, and Information Clinic Columbia Law’s Science, Health, and Information Clinic serves the public interest by fighting for—and winning—more equitable access to scientific, technical, and medical knowledge and to the benefits that flow from that knowledge. Areas of Study Intellectual Property and Technology Clinic Lawyering in the Digital Age Clinic Areas of Study Data Analytics Intellectual Property and Technology Social Justice and Human Rights Externship IP/Arts Externships Areas of Study Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Intellectual Property and Technology Litigation and Dispute Resolution All Experiential Learning at Columbia Law Related Student Groups and Journals Columbia Antitrust Law and Economics Association Legal Technology Association Society for Law, Science, and Technology Columbia Journal of Law & the Arts Columbia Science and Technology Law Review Related News Read All Stories More in The Press Alumni News Joshua Simmons ’10: An Intellectual Property Superhero A partner at Kirkland & Ellis and IP lawyer with name-brand clients, Simmons was recently awarded the Judge Deborah A. Batts Award for Queer Visibility by the Columbia OutLaws and Queer and Trans People of Color student groups at their annual gala. Alumni News In Memoriam: Morton L. Janklow ’53, Preeminent Literary Agent Faculty News Full-Time Faculty Members Join Columbia Law School In The Press Are High-Cost Prescription Drugs the Price of Innovation? Disclose the Cost of Clinical Trials Christopher Morten | The Hill Admissions Why Columbia Visit 435 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 212-854-2640 Contact Us Social Media (Administrative Title) Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Instagram Admissions Academics Areas of Study Faculty & Scholarship Careers Community Life Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers Login News Events Alumni Giving About Library Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Donate © Copyright 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York.