Skip to site alert. Skip to content College of Dental Medicine Students Alumni Faculty Giving Contact Us Search About Us About Us Our Mission History Leadership and Administration Board of Advisors Global Dean's Council News Diversity Community Outreach Global Initiatives Support the College of Dental Medicine Events Calendar Contact Us Columbia Visiting Professorship Program CDM Publications Education Education DDS Program Advanced Standing Program for Foreign Trained Dentists Postdoctoral and Residency Programs Tuition, Fees and Financial Aid Global Programs Visits & Externships Continuing Education Academic Sections/Divisions Academic Calendars Research Research Research Areas Research Labs Research Centers Research Faculty Clinical Trials Research Resources Student Research First International Symposium of Fusobacteria Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Teaching Clinics Patient Resources COVID-19 Safety ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Our Doctors Our Services Our Locations Make an Appointment Make an Appointment Choose between ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry and our affordable Dental Clinics. Para Español, haga clic aquí. Explore Your Options Events News Play video You are here Home > Education > DDS Program DDS Program Admissions Admissions Requirements Apply FAQ Licensure Disclosure Curriculum Statistics Dual Degree Programs Advanced Standing Program for Foreign Trained Dentists Postdoctoral and Residency Programs Tuition, Fees and Financial Aid Global Programs Visits & Externships Continuing Education Academic Sections/Divisions Academic Calendars DDS Program Building the Future One of four dental schools in the U.S. that combine dental education with a medical school curriculum, the College of Dental Medicine is uniquely positioned to bring dentistry into the age of precision medicine. We have long recognized the relationship between oral health and systemic health, and as the boundaries between them disappear, we are looking ahead to a future where care will be tailored to specific populations and individuals. Our DDS students are at the forefront of this change. Our students are taught by board-certified dental specialists and general practitioners. Half of our graduates go directly into specialty training upon completion of the DDS degree. Countless opportunities for participation in research, community engagement, and global health initiative prepare our students for leadership careers in oral health. And there is no better setting for future health leaders to prepare than in New York City, with its vibrancy, diversity, and endless possibilities. Admissions Learn about our admissions requirements and application process, and view some frequently asked questions. Admissions Curriculum Our innovative curriculum is designed to bring oral healthcare education into the age of precision medicine. Curriculum Dual Degree Programs Dual degree programs offer interested DDS students an opportunity to expand their experience at the College of Dental Medicine. Dual Degree Programs Global Programs Learn about opportunities to expand your training through participation in global health initiatives. Global Programs Tuition, Fees and Financial Aid Get the financial information you need to plan for your DDS education. Tuition, Fees and Financial Aid Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Education Research Student Life Alumni Faculty Contact Us Intranet Columbia University College of Dental Medicine 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Back to top