Skip to main content UCF News | Stories of Impact + Innovation | Orlando, FL Sections × UCF News | Stories of Impact + Innovation | Orlando, FL Arts Business Colleges Community Health Opinions Science & Tech Sports Student Life Tuesday, May 31, 2022 88ºF Mostly cloudy May 2022 Apr 2022 Celebrating the National Pan-Hellenic Council’s Divine Nine at UCF Earlier this month, the National Panhellenic Council, which fosters community among students through its Black Greek-letter organizations UCF Football Venue to Become FBC Mortgage Stadium Effective July 1 through the 2031 football season, UCF’s stadium will be branded under the Orlando-based, top 20 national mortgage lender. Turning Events into Careers UCF’s new master’s program in event leadership will bring a world of experience to the epicenter of this fast-growing industry. UCF Students Oust Top Teams at 2022 North America Collegiate Programming Contest, Advance to World Finals After beating dozens of top teams to earn seventh place, UCF will advance to the World Finals for the 11th consecutive year. Knights Do That Podcast: Best Moments of Season 1 and 2 Theater student Alex Cumming reflects on his favorite moments as his time as host comes to an end. Season three of Knights Do That launches this fall with a new host. ﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿ As Hurricane Season Kicks Off, UCF Researchers Working to Make Communities More Resilient More than a dozen researchers are working on a wide variety of research that looks to prepare, respond, and mitigate hurricane impacts in Florida and beyond. When Hurricanes Strike, Social Media Can Save Lives A UCF Study finds social media can be a powerful tool for cities to communicate and to collect information to deploy emergency resources where needed most. How to Prepare for Hurricane Season From what to include in your hurricane kit to how to stay informed on updates from the university, here’s what you should know. ‘Brain-on-a-Chip’ Technology Advances Toward a New Form of Drug Screening Brain-on-a-chip simulated models hold the potential to revolutionize and accelerate the way new drugs are discovered. 1 2 Next … 6 Resources About UCF Today For the Media News Archive Pegasus Magazine Tell Us What You Think Suggest a Story University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida