Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search keywords, names, etc... Search within this section Search all sites News Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for kumc.edu Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Academics Academics Prepare for your health care career with top-ranked programs, state-of-the-art facilities and unmatched opportunities for clinical training. Admissions & Aid Degree Programs International Education Clinical Education Interprofessional Education Libraries Student Handbooks Related Links: School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing Research Research Explore world-class research programs that advance the health sciences and attract national recognition. Centers, Institutes and Cores Our Experts Research News Research Administration Human Research Protection Program Scheduling Research Facilities Related Links: Student Research Forum Summer Research Training Program Patient Care Patient Care As an academic medical center, we work with The University of Kansas Health System and other regional partners to provide high-quality, compassionate clinical care. The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Student-Run Clinics Clinical Education University and Faculty Practice Outreach Outreach We build partnerships throughout the state to find new ways to improve the lives of Kansans. Our community-based efforts extend across the country and around the world. Social Impact Rural Education Global Health Career Development Community Programs Outreach News Related Links: Community Engagement Masonic Cancer Alliance Student Life Student Life Our three campus communities offer unique social events and cultural attractions—the perfect backdrop to our world-class education programs. Student Support Activities & Events Diversity and Inclusion Wellness Why Kansas? Related Links: Office of Student Life Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Office of International Programs About About The University of Kansas Medical Center's mission is to improve lives and communities in Kansas and beyond through innovation in education, research and health care. Our Campuses Diversity and Inclusion Wellness Leadership KU Medical Center Fast Facts Events Calendar News Maps & Contact Information Make a Gift News University of Kansas Medical Center News The University of Kansas Medical Center is improving lives and communities in Kansas and beyond through innovation in education, research and health care. Explore some of our recent accomplishments. Filter by Category Select a category. Filter by Category Cancer Center Health Care Outreach Research Rural Health School of Nursing School of Health Professions School of Medicine Select a "from" date. Select a "to" date. May 20, 2022 KU Medical Center strives to increase diversity in clinical trials International Clinical Trials Day celebrates the accomplishments of human research studies, but diversity in those studies remains a challenge. May 18, 2022 Kindergarteners benefit from bike program initiated by KU Medical Center faculty Professors from schools of Health Professions and Medicine connect a local elementary school with a bicycling nonprofit in a push for lifelong activity. May 16, 2022 Class of 2022 enjoys a return to in-person graduation ceremonies Hooding and Recognition Ceremonies were held in person with an audience of the graduates’ friends and family. In Lawrence, graduates attending commencement heard advice from KU Medical Center’s Steve Stites, M.D. May 11, 2022 JUNTOS Center for Advancing Latino Health to host a Spanish-only virtual panel to discuss lessons learned from the pandemic The panel, which will convene on May 19, is the third installment of the Superando event in which experts address topics that concern Latinos, who, along with other minorities, are disproportionately affected by COVID-19. May 9, 2022 COVID-19 vaccine effective in people receiving cancer treatment, study finds About 95% of participants achieved a measurable immune response after vaccination, according to study led by a KU School of Medicine professor and published in JAMA Oncology. May 9, 2022 KU Medical Center biochemist brings interactive science to area middle schools With help from local teachers and other members in his department, scientist Aron Fenton is breaking down stereotypes about scientists and sharing stories of science as a career. May 4, 2022 Simon Craddock Lee chosen as chair of Department of Population Health While engaged in many facets of population health research, Lee’s expertise lies in implementation science and health care delivery research in cancer prevention and control. May 2, 2022 Study seeks to pinpoint perfect mix of physical activity for better aging and brain health The five-year, NIH-funded COMET clinical trial is the largest of its kind to compare aerobic, resistance training or a combination of both while looking at cognition in older adults. April 19, 2022 Hoglund Biomedical Imaging Center upgrades scanning abilities with $1.5 million NIH grant Equipment upgrade provides cutting-edge resources to researchers across the region April 13, 2022 Rep. Sharice Davids visits The University of Kansas Cancer Center Davids secured federal funding to provide advanced imaging equipment for the cancer center that will accelerate the research necessary to create new and better therapies. March 31, 2022 Seven beehives installed on KU Medical Center campus The KU Medical Center Botanical Gardens partnered with Bee KC to make the Kansas City campus a home for nature’s hardworking pollinators. March 31, 2022 KU School of Medicine ranks No. 10 in the country for primary care The school also ranks in the top 10 for producing physicians who practice in rural areas, and several of the school’s specialty programs rose in the 2023 rankings by U.S. News and World Report March 24, 2022 Traditional A Grand Affair gala celebrates KU School of Medicine students, faculty The University of Kansas School of Medicine honored exceptional performance in the “biggest, baddest” gala this side of the pandemic. March 22, 2022 Match Day is back! Match Day 2022 featured in-person celebrations for students at all three KU School of Medicine campuses across Kansas. March 16, 2022 KU master of science in health informatics program earns prestigious CAHIIM accreditation The program is one of just 23 such accredited health informatics master’s programs in the United States and Puerto Rico. March 11, 2022 New Urban Scholars program seeks to provide more doctors for Kansas urban centers Underrepresented college students who graduated high school in urban centers in Kansas are eligible for the first year of a program that provides mentorship, job shadowing and academic preparation for medical school. February 25, 2022 Kansas-based annual biosciences symposium honors university students for research posters, presentations The annual symposium is part of the K-INBRE initiative to prepare promising university students for bioscience careers in Kansas. February 22, 2022 Thousands of COVID home tests sent to 20 Kansas counties as part of COPE, a $13 million grant to improve community health The grant was offered in response to COVID-19 but its design allows for a community response to all kinds of health issues. February 14, 2022 Native Kansan Karen Weis, Ph.D., named Christine A. Hartley Rural Health Nursing Endowed Professor at the University of Kansas School of Nursing-Salina The decorated Air Force veteran and noted researcher also will oversee research at the newly established Kansas Center for Rural Health housed on the Salina campus shared by the KU schools of Medicine and Nursing February 10, 2022 KU School of Medicine creates Salina-based Kansas Center for Rural Health The center will provide the infrastructure needed so that researchers, educators and rural health stakeholders can work together to find ways to reduce or eliminate health disparities in rural Kansas. February 9, 2022 KU Medical Center part of study published in Nature introducing new immune-profiling method using only DNA from blood The method offers a powerful alternative to conventional flow cytometry based on blood DNA rather than intact living cells February 7, 2022 Long COVID examined in national study as first trial participants enroll at KU Medical Center The study, part of the NIH Researching COVID to Enhance Recovery (RECOVER) Initiative, is designed to determine the long-term effects of COVID-19 and to understand why some adults develop long COVID and others do not. January 26, 2022 KU Clinical Research Center celebrates decade of investigational science The University of Kansas Clinical Research Center (KU CRC), a dedicated clinical trials facility with support from a Johnson County sales tax, celebrates it's 10 year anniversary. January 26, 2022 Klenke-Borgmann brings simulation research expertise to joint position as nurse scientist at The University of Kansas Health System Klenke-Borgmann's doctoral research examined how clinical judgment could be taught and measured in undergraduate nursing programs. Her work at the health system is showing how simulation education can make a difference for nurses in practice. January 20, 2022 KU Medical Center researcher part of groundbreaking study on newborn screenings for rare diseases Merlin G. Butler, M.D., Ph.D., professor emeritus in the Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences at the University of Kansas Medical Center, is part a research team that recently published a paper in JAMA Network Open about a new, inexpensive genetic testing method for rare genetic disorders that will allow newborns to screened earlier than ever before. December 17, 2021 Receiving CAR-T therapy sooner improves lymphoma survival, according to study published in New England Journal of Medicine Axicabtagene ciloleucel, known by the brand name Yescarta, is significantly more effective than the current standard of care in treating people with large B-cell lymphoma who relapse after the first line of treatment. December 16, 2021 Let’s hit the highlights: news to know from 2021 The pandemic continues, but so does research and education. November 22, 2021 Senators Moran and Blunt welcome NIH’s Dr. Rutter to KU Medical Center to visit the clinical and translational science institute, Frontiers Along with leaders from Frontiers, Children’s Mercy Kansas City and the University of Kansas Medical Center, the group discussed how to adapt or “translate” medical research into useful treatments for patients. November 9, 2021 New consortium for polycystic kidney disease research brings scientists together A symposium, held virtually Oct. 27-28, allowed scientists to learn about, and share, the latest research in PKD. October 28, 2021 KU alumnus Barney Graham named Federal Employee of Year for vaccine research Barney Graham, the architect of Moderna and Pfizer vaccine, is honored in a Washington, D.C. celebration. October 14, 2021 Researchers find that older adults who are regular avocado consumers have better cognitive abilities Want to preserve your memory as you age? Reach for an avocado. September 28, 2021 Research at KU Medical Center explores effects of obesity on health and COVID-19 For people who are overweight, obese or excessively obese, the threat of COVID-19 looms large. So, University of Kansas Medical Center researchers are testing obesity as a variable in a clinical trial and continuing research on obesity in general. September 14, 2021 KU School of Nursing ranks 22nd on U.S. News Best Colleges ranking U.S. News and World Report has ranked the University of Kansas School of Nursing in its top-25 best undergraduate nursing programs in the nation. September 8, 2021 TSCORE LIFT program to create health science learning opportunities for underserved Kansas high school students The program connects high school teachers at Kansas City, Wichita, Topeka, Lawrence and Hays school districts with local health systems and university faculty. August 31, 2021 KU Alzheimer’s Disease Research Center receives $15 million and second renewal as one of 31 nationally designated centers by the National Institute on Aging Renewal of five-year grant will provide funding for the KU Alzheimer’s Disease Research Center through 2026. August 25, 2021 Study published in NEJM shows breakthrough drug can benefit more people with cystic fibrosis Trikafta can provide additional benefit for CF patients who have genetic mutations that made them eligible for previously approved CFTR modulators. August 20, 2021 International panel of experts releases first consistent guidelines for protecting bone health of childhood cancer survivors These guidelines will help physicians make informed decisions with patients by understanding their individual risks and outlining a plan for their care. August 4, 2021 Early trial results indicate Yescarta CAR-T therapy improves survival for adults who relapse from large B-cell lymphoma The study evaluated a one-time infusion of Yescarta compared with standard of care in patients who had relapsed or had refractory LBCL after frontline treatment. July 22, 2021 Dementia researchers issue urgent call for more diversity in clinical trial participation The KU ADC looks to increase diversity across all its numerous studies with a goal of making African Americans and Latinos at least 20 percent of the trial's participants across all sites. July 8, 2021 Professor pivots from Kenya to Kansas (and back again) to serve global health needs in pandemic The work of Sarah Finocchario Kessler, Ph.D., MPH, supports the progressive efforts of Wyandotte County Health Department to address social needs of Covid-positive residents. July 1, 2021 Study to assess post-vax COVID-19 antibodies in people with cancer Research looks to understand the safety and efficacy of the COVID-19 vaccine in individuals receiving immunosuppressive and cytotoxic treatments. June 22, 2021 KU Medical Center assists community partners in launching campaign against COVID-19 in multiple languages across Kansas The campaign spotlights stories in seven languages to address health disparities highlighted by the pandemic and opportunities to close the gap. June 18, 2021 Clinical trial network aims to speed up development of effective treatments for rare type of muscular dystrophy The FSHD CTRN, an international network of academic research centers, uses the expertise and infrastructure of its members to streamline clinical trial research. June 14, 2021 Meet KU School of Health Professions’ new associate dean for research, Jacob Sosnoff New position combines formative memories and personal research on mobility issues to benefit students and faculty within the School of Health Professions. June 7, 2021 Facebook Live series ‘Bench to Bedside’ provides timely, useful information from KU Cancer Center Talk show-like format allows researchers and clinicians to explain their work while engaging with the community. May 27, 2021 Rain, resilience and the French bulldog: Everything you did and didn’t know about 2020/2021 KU commencement and recognition activities After the cancellation of multiple commencement ceremonies for the Class of 2021, recognition festivities were moved online. May 25, 2021 Gold Foundation honors 3 KU Medical Center professionals for showing courage and compassion in pandemic The Gold Foundation recognized Dr. Garold Minns, Stephanie Jernigan and Carrie Summers who provided an integral role in the success of the medical center's pandemic response. May 17, 2021 Study led by KU Medical Center researchers shows early preterm births can be decreased with DHA supplementation The multi-center, double-blind, randomized, superiority trial recruited participants at three large academic medical centers in the United States. May 13, 2021 KU Cancer Center director participates in expert panel discussion on status of Cancer Moonshot The program offered participants a retrospective look at the initiative and discussed the current state of cancer research, treatment and prevention. April 29, 2021 Massive negative impact of COVID-19 on cancer screenings quantified in KU Medical Center faculty study published in JAMA Oncology The University of Kansas Cancer Center is calling for public attention to this issue to prevent cancer deaths. April 21, 2021 Newly installed solar panels on two KU Medical Center buildings to lower electricity costs and support clean energy Solar panels allow Kansas City campus to make an important contribution to the environment through the use of this renewable energy resource. April 15, 2021 Health Professions department renamed to reflect new athletic training program New master's degree will offer many opportunities for synergies between physical therapy and athletic training students. April 9, 2021 $4.2 million grant awarded for breast cancer chemoprevention study Leading the multi-site clinical trial, Carol Fabian, M.D. and her team plan to enroll 120 women ages 45 to 60 who are at increased risk for breast cancer. March 31, 2021 1937 KU nursing graduate remembered in ‘Ila’s War’ Ila Armsbury Herman, a 1937 graduate of the nursing program at the University of Kansas, shared with her niece the details of her time at KU and as an army nurse in World War II. The result was the book 'Ila's War.' March 30, 2021 KU School of Medicine rises to No. 9 in U.S. News and World Report’s ranking of best medical schools for primary care As the only medical school in the state, KU offers excellent residency programs in family medicine and other specialties within primary care. March 23, 2021 School of Medicine ‘class of change’ celebrates Match Day results Medical students at the KU School of Medicine learned where they will be working after medical school in a yearly event called Match Day. The COVID-19 pandemic led to different ways to celebrate in 2021. February 18, 2021 Clinical Trial Finder app launched by KU Cancer Center A new mobile application created by The University of Kansas Cancer Center allows anyone to identify potential clinical trials right here at KU and quickly communicate with the clinical trials team. February 11, 2021 New COVID-19 outpatient treatments including pill, injection and inhaled medicine part of clinical trial at KU Medical Center Three new outpatient treatments will be tested at the University of Kansas Medical Center in efforts to broaden options for COVID-19 patients. These new treatments may make it easier to receive COVID-19 treatment outside a hospital, as they include an oral pill, an injection and a medication that can be inhaled through a home nebulizer. February 1, 2021 KU Medical Center professor seeks to promote equity in residency applications and virtual interviews Kimberly J. Templeton, M.D., professor of orthopedic surgery at the University of Kansas Medical Center, led efforts to help women medical students maintain equity in the residency selection process. January 22, 2021 School of Medicine honors teaching excellence with virtual A Grand Affair A Grand Affair on Jan. 15 recognized teaching excellence in the University of Kansas School of Medicine through a virtual ceremony. January 12, 2021 Two new monoclonal antibody outpatient treatments for COVID-19 target older people and those with additional medical conditions Two new monoclonal antibody treatments for outpatients with COVID-19 are being tested at the University of Kansas Medical Center. Known as BRII 196 and 198 and produced by Brii Biosciences, these investigational treatments are both monoclonal antibodies designed to block the ACE receptor. January 5, 2021 Office of Graduate Medical Education provides wearable pumps for residents who breastfeed The Office of Graduate Medical Education at the University of Kansas School of Medicine has launched an innovative program to support residents who are breastfeeding. December 18, 2020 A look back at 2020: the historic year of science and resilience The mystery virus that had closed China made its way to the United States, and “business as usual” halted. By the end of 2020, the year would forever be synonymous with COVID-19, and KU Medical Center had adopted a new normal that stressed resilience and roll-up-your-sleeves science to combat the pandemic. December 15, 2020 Dr. Lee Norman appointed to board of Masonic Cancer Alliance by Governor Kelly Colonel Lee A. Norman, M.D., MHS, MBA, secretary of the Kansas Department of Health and Environment (KDHE), has been appointed by Kansas Governor Laura Kelly to the Masonic Cancer Alliance Partners Advisory Board. December 15, 2020 Sleeping better or worse since the pandemic? Sleep expert says you’re not alone Catherine F. Siengsukon, Ph.D., lab director of the SleepWell Lab at the University of Kansas Medical Center, said the pandemic has upended sleep patterns. December 7, 2020 Bench science steps into the spotlight during the pandemic Adam Rouse, M.D., Ph.D., an assistant professor and director of basic research in the Department of Neurosurgery, sees basic science emerging as a key player in the fight against the pandemic December 4, 2020 KU Cancer Center is a contributor to 49 research studies at international hematology society meeting Researchers from The University of Kansas Cancer Center are involved in the presentation of nearly 50 research studies at the 62nd American Society of Hematology (ASH) Annual Meeting. November 25, 2020 Women in academic medicine remain less likely to be promoted, according to KU Medical Center study in NEJM Female physicians are more likely to pursue careers in academic medicine than their male counterparts but are less likely to be promoted to senior faculty and leadership positions, and that gender gap is no narrower than it was 20 years ago, according to a study published by researchers at KU Medical Center in the NEJM. November 19, 2020 KU Cancer Center researchers discover men fighting both cancer and COVID-19 at higher risk than women Men with cancer and COVID-19 may be at significantly higher risk for severe symptoms and even death as compared to females fighting both, a University of Kansas Cancer Center research team has found after reviewing multiple studies. November 18, 2020 KU Medical Center awarded Medical Science Training Program grant from the NIH The physician-scientist training program at the University of Kansas Medical Center, which enables students to earn both a medical degree and a doctoral degree in a biomedical science, is now recognized as one of the most prestigious such programs in the country. November 18, 2020 Space and gravity society honors KU Medical Center researcher for his reproductive research The American Society for Gravitational and Space Research (ASGR) recognized Joseph S. Tash, emeritus professor of molecular and integrative physiology at the University of Kansas Medical Center, with its prestigious Founder’s Award. October 30, 2020 To improve COVID-19 infection control, safety and preparedness, KU Medical Center will lead nursing home interactive network in Kansas The University of Kansas Medical Center has been chosen as a training center in Kansas for a nationwide interactive virtual initiative that will share best practices to improve COVID-19 infection control, safety and preparedness in skilled-nursing facilities. October 21, 2020 American Lung Association picks KU Medical Center as research hub for COVID-19 The Airways Clinical Research Centers Network (ACRC), the research arm of the American Lung Association, named the University of Kansas Medical Center a consortium hub. The change will give KU Medical Center the responsibility to mentor and lead other universities in its group in lung-health research, including COVID-19 research. October 8, 2020 Doctor of Physical Therapy students celebrate their future and honor department’s past The annual Jessie M. Ball Lecture and DPT pinning ceremony on Oct. 4 embraced physical distancing but still invited the 59 DPT students of the Class of 2023 to the University of Kansas Medical Center’s Kansas City campus. October 7, 2020 NIH-funded effort seeks to improve COVID-19 testing in underserved communities across 10 Kansas counties The University of Kansas Medical Center has been chosen to receive a grant from the National Institutes of Health (NIH) through the RADx-UP program to support projects designed to rapidly implement COVID-19 testing strategies in populations disproportionately affected by the pandemic. October 1, 2020 One year out, KU Cancer Center’s countdown to NCI comprehensive application kicks into high gear The application will shine a light on the extraordinary work done by KU scientists and physicians in researching, treating and preventing the disease. What will remain largely hidden is the mammoth effort that goes into the application itself. September 28, 2020 Alumni Reunion Weekend goes virtual Alumni Reunion Weekend at the University of Kansas Medical Center looks a bit different in 2020, with events occurring virtually. September 22, 2020 KU Medical Center to participate in clinical trial designed to speed the testing of COVID-19 outpatient treatments The University of Kansas Medical Center will be participating in a unique nationwide clinical trial that will allow for the testing of multiple agents to fight COVID-19. Known as ACTIV-2 (Adapt Out COVID), this trial is part of the Accelerating COVID-19 Therapeutic Interventions and Vaccines effort announced by the National Institutes of Health (NIH) this spring. September 21, 2020 Athletic Training comes to KU Medical Center Learn about the new athletic training program at the University of Kansas Medical Center. Classes in the Master of Science in Athletic Training (MSAT) begin in the summer of 2021. September 18, 2020 ‘Big data’ helps KU Medical Center researchers figure out some of nursing’s toughest challenges Faculty at the University of Kansas School of Nursing are taking a unique look at the value of nursing by combining electronic health records, human resource records and other data to measure the effects of nursing on pain management. September 2, 2020 Calling all photographers: Enter Rural Kansas Photo Contest A special photo contest sponsored by Rural Health Education and Services at the University of Kansas Medical Center, celebrates its 15th anniversary. Enter your photo. August 26, 2020 Nightingale Ceremony welcomes incoming nursing students with message of resilience The 2020 Nightingale Ceremony at the University of Kansas School of Nursing welcomed the incoming students of the Class of 2022 seeking their bachelor’s degrees in nursing. Elements of the traditional ceremony fused with new precautions because of the COVID-19 pandemic. August 24, 2020 Pilot grants launch new research projects to fight COVID-19 pandemic "These awards provide our investigators with opportunities to move quickly toward developing research programs aimed at COVID-19 mitigation and treatment." --Peter Smith, Ph.D., senior associate vice chancellor for research, KU School of Medicine August 14, 2020 KU researchers pivot from cancer and cystic fibrosis to test new drug for COVID-19 Physician-scientists Gregory Gan and Deepika Polineni, who research cancer and cystic fibrosis, have teamed up to test a new drug with the potential to keep COVID-19 patients from needing a ventilator. August 11, 2020 JaySTART clinic for physical, occupational and speech therapy leaps to virtual rehabilitation When the COVID-19 pandemic closed the face-to-face Jaystart Clinic, students of physical therapy, occupational therapy and speech pathology turned to telehealth. August 10, 2020 Pioneering geneticist Merlin G. Butler, M.D., Ph.D., keeps pushing the boundaries of science Pioneering geneticist Merlin G. Butler, M.D., Ph.D., keeps pushing the boundaries of science July 30, 2020 Pandemic-era White Coat Ceremony makes history Incoming medical students symbolically joined the medical profession via a WHite Coat Ceremony shown through videoconferencing software. The pandemic-era ceremony made history by packaging the same traditions in a new format. July 29, 2020 University of Kansas Medical Center and Children's Mercy to offer clinical trial of AstraZeneca vaccine for COVID-19 The University of Kansas Medical Center and Children's Mercy Kansas City announced that they will be leading the regional efforts of a nationwide clinical trial brought through the COVID-19 Prevention Network to test the COVID-19 vaccine AZD1222, developed by Oxford University and purchased by AstraZeneca. July 8, 2020 History of medicine chair chosen for prestigious DeBakey national fellowship Christopher Crenner, MD, Ph.D., chair of the Department of History and Philosophy of Medicine at the University of Kansas School of Medicine, has been selected for a prestigious award to support historical research in medicine. June 25, 2020 Nursing student shares her experiences caring for COVID-19 patients in a New York hotspot Nayeli Bustillos, a registered nurse and KU School of Nursing student, spent four weeks in New Rochelle, New York, caring for patients diagnosed with COVID-19. June 24, 2020 KU Medical Center helps expand use of telehealth during pandemic and beyond KU Medical Center helps expand use of telehealth during pandemic and beyond June 19, 2020 Professor selected for national commission on pandemic-era nursing-home safety Jessica Kalender-Rich, M.D., FACP, associate professor of Geriatric Medicine at KU Medical Center and practicing physician, has been named to the Coronavirus Commission for Safety and Quality in Nursing Homes. U.S. President Donald Trump called for the formation of the commission in an announcement April 30, 2020, and asked the commission to assess the immediate and future implications of the pandemic on nursing homes. June 11, 2020 Lab in KU Medical Center incubator switches to coronavirus test to meet community need A private laboratory operating on the campus of the University of Kansas Medical Center conducts COVID-19 tests. Its founder says it's a service to his community. June 4, 2020 How med students who graduated early helped Kansas hospitals cope with COVID-19 KU School of Medicine graduates received their medical degrees early so they could provide care in wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. In the weeks between early graduation and their residencies, some helped tired doctors and nurses in Liberal, Kansas, any way they could. June 2, 2020 New Frontiers pilot awards support COVID-19 research Frontiers: University of Kansas Clinical and Translational Science Institute has awarded three pilot grants to scientists studying COVID-19. May 29, 2020 KU researchers hit the streets to increase cervical cancer screening rates for women in jail For many medical researchers, studying disease means going to work in exam rooms, offices and laboratories. For Megha Ramaswamy, Ph.D., MPH, it means going to jails and hitting the streets. May 15, 2020 Research associate creates face shields on KU Medical Center printer Christopher Neal, Ph.D., research associate at the University of Kansas Medical Center, donated around 100 headbands for face shields to PPE for KC. Neal used the 3D printer at work. May 7, 2020 KU Cancer Center pivots to protect patients and trial participants in COVID-19 era Cancer patients undergoing treatment at The University of Kansas Cancer Center don’t have to worry about getting a test for the novel coronavirus that causes COVID-19. The research arm of the KU Cancer Center stepped up to allow patients to opt-in to a study that provided the test in recent weeks and also covered its cost. It is just one of the many ways the KU Cancer Center is working to fight the pandemic. April 30, 2020 KU respiratory therapy students graduate early to help during coronavirus pandemic Students in the respiratory therapy program in the University of Kansas School of Health Professions have chosen to graduate early to help fend off a shortage of RTs during the coronavirus pandemic. April 22, 2020 JUNTOS delivers COVID-19 information to Kansas City’s Spanish-speaking population The JUNTOS Center for Advancing Latino Health at KU Medical Center, whose mission is to eliminate health disparities in under-served Latino communities in Kansas, is working to deliver COVID-19 information to these communities in their native language. April 14, 2020 Students share results of research at Capitol events Five undergraduate and five graduate students from the University of Kansas Medical Center showcased their research at the Kansas Capitol during two separate events in spring 2020. Students discussed the posters illustrating their research with lawmakers and the general public. April 13, 2020 University of Kansas Medical Center to participate in clinical trial of hydroxychloroquine in health care workers The Healthcare Worker Exposure Response and Outcomes of Hydroxychloroquine (HERO HCQ) trial is accompanied by a registry that will create a community of health care workers who have expressed interest in contributing to the scientific community's understanding of the impact of COVID-19. April 8, 2020 Researchers donate protective equipment to KU Health System COVID-19 caused shortages of personal protective equipment (PPE) across the globe.Here's how researchers from the University of Kansas Medical Center helped out. April 3, 2020 University of Kansas medical students to graduate early and volunteer for program providing aid to Kansans during pandemic As part of the Kansas Pandemic Volunteer Health Care Workforce, the students will serve in areas of critical need across the state. April 1, 2020 SHARPhub helps bring biomedical technologies to market in Kansas and four other central states SHARPhub was established in 2018 to help researchers move biomedical discoveries and technologies out of the laboratory and into the commercial market, where they can be used to improve human health. March 31, 2020 Cancer Center receives additional $5 million in funding from state of Kansas to support ongoing research The University of Kansas Cancer Center will receive an additional $5 million from the state budget for the KU Cancer Center Research Fund, approved by the Kansas legislature and signed by Governor Laura Kelly. These funds will be crucial to the KU Cancer Center’s competitive application for National Cancer Institute (NCI) comprehensive cancer center designation. March 24, 2020 Graduating KU medical students celebrate Match Day online and at home To stem the spread of COVID-19, ceremonies at the three KU School of Medicine campuses were canceled. Instead, they celebrated one of the most important milestones in their professional lives creatively. March 17, 2020 Eighth community college joins nursing partnership program Cloud County Community College joined the Community College Nursing Partnership at the KU School of Nursing, the eighth community college in the state to sign on. March 11, 2020 Journal publishes analysis of KU Medical Alumni Association’s fund for teaching excellence Professors at the University of Kansas School of Medicine can apply for a grant from the Medical Alumni Innovative Teaching Fund (MAITF). A history and analysis of the program was recently published in the academic journal “Medical Science Educator: The Journal of the International Association of Medical Science Educators.” March 10, 2020 KU Cancer Center researchers identify breast cancer prevention drug with fewer daunting side effects Women with a high risk for breast cancer can be prescribed drugs to help reduce their risk of cancer, but many don’t take the drugs because of their problematic side effects.Researchers at The University of Kansas Cancer Center have identified a drug that may keep the preventive punch but lessen the strong side effects. March 5, 2020 Owens leading psychiatry department’s new clinical trial research Dennis Owens, MD, PhD, leading psychiatry department’s new clinical trial research February 28, 2020 KU Cancer Center sponsors vaping town hall A special town hall meeting sponsored by The University of Kansas Cancer Center analyzed the vaping trend and aired on Fox 4 WDAF. February 21, 2020 Physical therapy student places in top 20 percent at Olympic marathon trials Chris Melgares, a doctorate of physical therapy (DPT) student from the University of Kansas Medical Center, finished in the top 20 percent of the field of 175 male runners at the U.S. Olympic marathon team trials. February 13, 2020 Drug affecting high cholesterol from genes, not lifestyle, shines in clinical trial Individuals who have an inherited condition that gives them high cholesterol regardless of diet or other lifestyle issues might one day benefit from the new drug APO(a)-I, which was tested at the University of Kansas Medical Center by Patrick M. Moriarty, M.D. Results were published in the New England Journal of Medicine in January 2020. January 31, 2020 New weight-loss study seeks to help mobility-impaired individuals get healthier Mobility Impaired Get Healthy Together (MIGHTY) will explore and compare different methods to help those will mobility issues lose weight. January 27, 2020 A Grand Affair gala honors medical school faculty and students Students and faculty from the University of Kansas School of Medicine honored excellence and celebrated their years together during the annual awards gala A Grand Affair Jan. 18 at the Kansas City Convention Center. During the event, faculty members were honored for outstanding teaching and mentoring. A Grand Affair is presented by the Medical Student Assembly and the Office of Student Affairs. January 17, 2020 Researchers from KU School of Medicine publish four articles on elusive actin protein Dr. Prachee Avasthi, assistant professor of cell biology, and her team have published four scholarly articles on actin protein and how it affects cell cilia. This basic science may help with disease research in the future. January 9, 2020 Exercise Is Medicine program revamps for maximum impact Want to lose weight, battle depression or manage chronic pain? Your doctor’s “prescription” may include a newly reimagined program at the Kirmayer Fitness Center called Exercise is Medicine (EIM). January 8, 2020 New clinical and translational science research unit opens A new research unit that will greatly expand the capacity for scientists to conduct clinical trials opened at the University of Kansas Medical Center on Jan. 13. It is the first clinical and translational science unit (CTSU) on the main KU Medical Center campus in Kansas City, Kansas. December 26, 2019 Arthur Dick, M.D., retires after 50 years of service to neurology field and department at KU Arthur Dick, M.D., retiring after 50 years, helped build neurology field and establish department at KU December 23, 2019 7 news stories that shaped 2019 Check out the memorable news stories of 2019 at the University of Kansas Medical Center. Our year in review gives you a look back at the best of 2019. December 12, 2019 Losing weight is study and practice at KU Medical Center weight management clinic The University of Kansas Center for Physical Activity and Weight Management conducts nationally funded studies based on weight loss and activity and also has an award-winning fee-for-service weight loss clinic. December 10, 2019 Department of Physical Therapy and Rehabilitation Science turns 75 When the Commission on Accreditation in Physical Therapy Education renewed the University of Kansas physical therapy program’s accreditation on Nov. 27, it marked the 75th anniversary of the program and nearly three-quarters of a century of continuous accreditation. December 4, 2019 Grant supports advance practice nurses in rural and underserved areas Advance practice nurses (APRNs) can gain additional training in rural and underserved areas with support from a nearly $2 million grant from the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA). November 25, 2019 Jernigan wins 2019 Stata Norton Distinguished Teaching Award Attention to students helped Steve Jernigan secure the 2019 Stata Norton Distinguished Teaching Award. The award recognizes excellence in teaching. November 13, 2019 Bostic receives ASCP Member Excellence in Education Award Dana Bostic, clinical assistant professor, clinical laboratory sciences, won the 2019 Member Excellence in Education Award from American Society for Clinical Pathology (ASCP). October 31, 2019 NEJM publishes clinical trial results leading to cystic fibrosis breakthrough KU Medical Center was one of the sites of a phase 3 trial that led to the approval of the drug, known by its brand name, Trikafta, by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration on October 21. October 21, 2019 Department of Dietetics and Nutrition celebrates 75 years In 1944, Hildegard Knopp and Jan Granger were the first students to graduate from the department’s dietetic internship program. The department had been founded a year earlier with the approval of the American Dietetic Association, now the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics. October 16, 2019 Panel discusses 3 Rs of rural health: recruitment, retention, reimbursement Attracting and retaining medical staff is a major challenge in rural areas, second only to financial solvency for struggling community hospitals, according to panelists who are experts in rural health October 15, 2019 All of Us visits campus, seeking volunteers for nationwide study The All of Us Research Program visited the University of Kansas Medical Center as part of its quest to collect biomedical data from 1 million individuals across the United States in the next 10 years. September 18, 2019 Jerrihlyn McGee named vice chancellor for diversity, equity and inclusion at the University of Kansas Medical Center McGee will work to enhance the successful recruitment, professional development and retention of students, faculty and staff from diverse and under-represented population groups. January 24, 2019 KU’s Department of Occupational Therapy Education celebrates 75 years The Department of Occupational Therapy Education at the University of Kansas Medical Center has developed a national reputation of excellence for educating its students to become therapists who provide essential assessment and support skills that empower their patients with physical or mental disabilities to engage in everyday life activities. Newsroom Media Inquiries 913-617-8698 khawes@kumc.edu News and Media Relations Make a Gift 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.