Skip to content Xavier University Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Giving to Xavier Open search dialog Open Navigation Menu Undergraduate Admission Admission Process Undergraduate Application Tuition and Aid Visit Campus Make Your Commitment Contact Us Close Undergraduate Admission sub menu Graduate Admission Apply to Xavier Graduate Financial Aid Events and Information Sessions Contact Us Close Graduate Admission sub menu Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Student Outcomes Academic Support Education Abroad Honors Programs Xavier University Colleges Close Academics sub menu Campus Life Residence Halls Campus Dining Options Clubs and Organizations Diversity Faith and Service Recreational Sports Cincinnati Health and Wellness First-Year Experience Close Campus Life sub menu Athletics goxavier.com Close Athletics sub menu About Xavier Xavier University Rankings Mission, Vision, and Values What is Jesuit Education? Close About Xavier sub menu Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Giving to Xavier Current Students Alumni Relations Employees Parents and Families Employment Opportunities Maps and Directions Search Xavier University: Search Undergraduate Admission Xavier Home Undergraduate Admission Tuition and Aid Menu Undergraduate Admission Tuition and Aid Scholarships Grants Loans Employment Applying for Financial Aid Satisfactory Academic Progress Contact Student Financial Services Contact Us Tuition and Aid Nearly all incoming Xavier students receive financial assistance each year through grants, scholarships, loans, and work-study opportunities. On average, an incoming, first-year student receives $22,210 in merit scholarships and grants. Tuition & Fees Breakdown Xavier University Undergraduate Tuition and Fees Summary Semester Annual Tuition & Fees $22,500 $45,000 Room & Board $6,910 $13,820 Total Charges $29,410 $58,820 Key Details Books are provided at no charge as part of the University's DayOne program. This listing is based on the 2022-23 rates for an undergraduate student taking 12-18 hours per semester living in Husman Hall in a double room with the Xavier Silver meal plan. Fees are estimated; actual course fees may vary. The estimate does not include books and supplies, transportation, or miscellaneous personal expenses. For a more detailed breakdown of charges, visit the Tuition and Fees website. Scholarship and Net Price Calculator Scholarships Students are awarded scholarships based on academic, athletic, artistic or other talents. Scholarships do not have to be repaid. All Xavier students are automatically considered for scholarships when they apply for admission. Connect with your admission counselor for information about the following scholarships: Academic Scholarships Service Awards Multicultural Scholarships Departmental Scholarships Performing and Visual Arts Alumni Scholarships Special Scholarships ROTC Scholarships State of Ohio Scholarships Private Scholarships Grants Students are generally awarded grants based on financial need or a specific talent. Like scholarships, grants are a great way to finance a college education. Connect with your admission counselor for information about grants from the following sources: Federal State Xavier University Grant Opportunities Loans Undergraduate students who demonstrate need, according to the Federal Need Analysis Methodology, may qualify for a Federal Direct Subsidized Loan. The federal government pays the interest on the Direct Subsidized Loan while the student is enrolled at least half-time. A student who does not qualify for a Direct Subsidized Loan may be eligible for a Direct Unsubsidized Loan. Connect with your admission counselor for more information. Loan Information Financial Assistance The Office of Student Financial Services will help you with all things financial aid. Everyone who reaches out, no matter the level of need, is connected with an expert to help with scholarships, grants, loans, work-study and more. Veteran and Military Affiliated Financial Aid Veteran and military affiliated students may be eligible for benefits through both the Federal and State Departments of Veterans Affairs. Visit the Student Veterans Center’s Financial Aid page to learn more. Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Xavier University 3800 Victory Parkway Cincinnati, OH 45207 513-745-3000 Privacy Policy Accessibility Policy Non-Discrimination Policy Editor Access Xavier University on facebook Xavier University on twitter Xavier University on linkedin Xavier University on youtube Xavier University on instagram