COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Geology, Major MajorGeology All Programs Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Geology The Bachelor of Arts (BA) in geology from Wichita State produces well-rounded graduates through classroom and applied learning (in the field and in the lab). The major can be combined with many areas of study such as K-12 teaching, environmental studies, business, engineering and more—leading to diverse career options in industry, education and government. Learn how geology is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted into the Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU's admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Field study gives Shocker students practical experience Geology students can gain hands-on expereince before graduation. Eighteen undergraduates from the Geology Department spent three weeks in Wyoming as part of Geology Field Camp, an intensive, four-week capstone course in the Bighorn Basin and Yellowstone region. Students had the opportunity to combine classroom lessons with field experience in sedimentology, mineralogy and structural geology. They also learned how to map and interpret rocks, which involved critical thinking and communication skills. Curriculum The BA in geology requires a minimum of 30 credit hours of geology. Core courses include: Earth Sciences & the Environment (with lab) OR General Geology Earth & Space Sciences Historical Geology Mineralogy & Optical Mineralogy Sedimentology and Stratigraphy Structural Geology View the curriculum Careers A degree in geology from Wichita State opens doors to employment in government, private industry and education—and prepares you for advanced study in any field of geoscience or environmental science. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Geology (Minor) Anthropology Biological Sciences Chemistry History Physics 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©