Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu School of Public Health About Programs Apply Students Research News & Events Faculty & Staff Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Programs Undergraduate BSPHPublic Health Minor Masters MHAEMHAMPHMS BiostatisticsDual Programs Doctoral PhD Epidemiology and BiostatisticsPhD Social and Behavioral Sciences Graduate Certificate Population HealthHealth AnalyticsHealth Systems Leadership Interpreter Course Take Action Apply Now Explore Programs News & Events Contact Us Follow SPH Online Facebooktwitter Home School of Public Health Programs MHA Mission, Vision, & Values Mission-Vision-Values Motto Learn. Lead. Care. Mission The mission of the University of Memphis MHA Program is to provide a high-quality educational experience that will, through both on-campus and executive tracks, prepare students for success in a variety of healthcare institutions. Through our strong relationships with healthcare community partners, combined with innovative classroom and blended learning methods, we provide our students with real-world healthcare management practice and immersion experiences. The Program's student leadership and professional skills development program in both tracks enhances students' attainment of program competencies allowing our students to transition more effectively into entry level positions or promotion and advancement in healthcare management. The Program's engaged scholarship model mirrors the University of Memphis and the School of Public Health approaches to scholarship as it provides an avenue for our faculty to collaborate with our community partners to generate and translate knowledge through applied research activities. Vision The University of Memphis MHA Program's vision is to be one of the country's top MHA programs and to be the program of choice to the Mid-south healthcare community for developing leaders in the healthcare management field. Values Our values of Respect, Commitment, Diversity, and Excellence are consistent with the values of the University of Memphis. Our values statements serve to illustrate how we translate our values into action and the values we hope to achieve. Respect: an expectation to create and reinforce a culture of positive regard and fairness for all colleagues and students Treat each other as valued colleagues and model our code of conduct in our actions with our students, our peers and each other. Earn and keep our student's trust by adhering to high standards of honesty, open communication and fairness. Diversity: an expectation to valuing a diverse community of students, faculty, and staff who represent the community they serve Respect diversity and value the mosaic of ethnicity, culture, religion, and lifestyle as components in successful healthcare management and education. Incorporate an understanding of the impact of diversity on healthcare management throughout our curriculum. Commitment: an expectation to strive for personal and professional excellence in the field of health care management and health care management education Encourage commitment to the pursuit of lifelong learning as a key step to personal and organization improvement. Use evidence-based teaching principles and teaching methods. Recognize our student's input and contributions and use this information to improve program delivery and outcomes. Excellence: an expectation of our program to exceed the professional internal and external standards in the community we serve Challenge our students and ourselves to solicit and respectfully consider different viewpoints, perspectives, and ideas. We will engage our students wherever they are (online and on campus) recognizing their knowledge of and contributions to learning communities. Engage our students wherever they are (online and on campus) recognizing their knowledge of and contributions to learning communities. We believe success of our students is one of the most important measures of the success of our program and as such will support students to achieve their desired potential. Promote student learning and engagement inside and outside the classroom through experiential learning opportunities, student engagement, and creation of learning communities. Collaborate with community partners, academic colleagues, and others on mutual interest of improving. We collaborate with community partners, academic colleagues, and others on mutual interest of improving. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 2/9/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.