Brown University Quick Exit General Health Physical Health Acne Asthma Breast Exams Bronchitis Colds Concussion Headaches Meningitis Mononucleosis Sleep Seasonal Flu Sun Safety and Skin Cancer Stomach Flu Testicular Self-Exams Travel and Health Yeast Infection Emotional Wellbeing Mindfulness Sleep Stress Self-Care Techniques for Stress Relief Wellness on Campus Social Wellbeing Community, Connection and Coping: Remote Resources Consent Economic Stress Roommate Relationships Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Bacterial Vaginosis Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy Gender Care GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Premature Ejaculation Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Accessing Care Gender Care GYN Visits LGBTQ Health Care at Health Services Men's Health Exams Pregnancy Tests STI Testing Options Resources and Links Nutrition & Eating Concerns Eating Well at Brown Being a Vegetarian Dietary Guidelines Eating Off Meal Plan Meal Plan And Dining Information Supplements Eating Concerns and Body Image Body Image Concerns Eating Concerns Help at Brown Sports Nutrition Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S) Sports Nutrition Accessing Care Help at Brown Worried about a Friend Sexual Health Sex 101 SHAG! Erectile Dysfunction Orgasm Premature Ejaculation Sex and Alcohol Sex Toys Sexually Explicit Media Contraception Birth Control Pills Cervical Cap Condoms Depo-Provera Emergency Contraception Fertility Awareness Method Implant Internal Condoms IUD Ortho Evra (The Patch) Ring Spermicides and Lubricants The Recent Election & Contraception Access Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Yeast Infection Safer Sex Ship n SHAG! Sexual Health and Safer Sex During Covid-19 Abstinence Condoms Dental Dams Internal Condoms Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) Pre Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Safer Sex Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) STIs AIDS/HIV Bacterial Vaginosis Chlamydia Colposcopy Gonorrhea Hepatitis B Herpes HPV and Genital Warts HPV Vaccine Molluscum Contagiosum Oral Sex and STIs Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pubic Lice and Scabies Sexually Transmitted Infections Syphilis Talking with a Partner STI Testing Options Trichomoniasis Urinary Tract Infections Yeast Infection Sexual Assault & Dating Violence Get Help Sexual Assault Response Line SHARE Advocates Dating Violence First Five Days After an Assault Male Survivors Sexual Violence and Assault Sexual Harassment Stalking Help a Friend SHARE Advocates How to Help a Friend Get Involved in Prevention Interrupting the Red Zone: How we keep each other safe Culture of Respect Collective Sexual Assault Peer Education (SAPE) Help Prevent Sexual Assault Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Relationships and Communication Consent Dating Violence Learn More Common Reactions to Sexual Violence and Assault Predatory Drugs Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Sexual Violence: Key Terms Resources and Links Alcohol & Other Drugs Alcohol Alcohol and Your Body Recognizing a Problem Risks and Realities Sex and Alcohol Ways to Cut Down Other Drugs Caffeine Cocaine Ecstasy Energy Drinks GHB Inhalants Ketamine LSD Marijuana Methamphetamine Predatory Drugs Psilocybin (Mushrooms) Rohypnol Tobacco Smokeless Tobacco Smoking Cessation Tobacco Learn More Law and Policy Summary Educational Links Accessing Care Resources at Brown Off Campus Resources Calling EMS How to Help a Friend Quit Smoking How to Talk to a Friend about Drinking or Drug Use Google Tag Manager Contraception The Recent Election & Contraception Access Many students are expressing concern about access to reproductive health care, and the potential for changes to the Affordable Care Act (ACA) under the next President. It is not yet known exactly what changes, if any, will be made to the Affordable Care Act, or when. What we do know is that any changes would take time. With the uncertainty, some students may be interested in obtaining long acting reversible contraceptives (LARCs). LARCs, including Intra-Uterine Devices (IUDs) and Implants, are a highly effective option for birth control. After insertion, LARCs can provide pregnancy prevention for 3-12 years depending on which one you choose. If you have an interest in pursuing a LARC, Health Services can help. If you have your family’s insurance: Contact your health insurance provider to understand your coverage. Most insurance plans cover LARCs, however some may not cover all types, as the ACA requirement is that a health insurer cover at least one of each contraceptive class. It is also important to find out if the method you are choosing is covered as a medical benefit or a prescription benefit (your prescription benefit provider may be separate than the medical benefit provider). According to the terms of your family insurance plan, you may be able to directly contact a local OB-GYN or Planned Parenthood, or you may need a referral from your primary care provider. Click here for a frequently updated list of local specialists who offer LARCs (Brown log-in required). These providers all accept the Brown student health insurance plan, but, when making an appointment, it is always a good idea to confirm that they take your insurance. If you anticipate you will need help with transportation to get to see a specialist, this page also offers a link to a list of Brown community members who are offering rides to appointments. If you would like to discuss your contraceptive options before seeing a specialist in the community, or need help with finding a specialist in the community, you can meet with a provider at Health Services by calling 401.863.3953 for an appointment. If you have the Brown Student Health Insurance Plan (SHIP): SHIP covers the full cost for all LARC methods, as long you see an in-network provider. You are still responsible for a $15 office visit copay. You can directly contact a local OB-GYN or Planned Parenthood. Click here for a frequently updated list of local providers who offer LARCs and accept SHIP (Brown log-in required). If you anticipate you will need help with transportation to get to see a specialist, this page also offers a link to a list of Brown community members who are offering rides to appointments. If you would like to discuss contraceptive options before seeing a specialist, you can meet with a provider at Health Services by calling 401.863.3953 for an appointment. If you need help with transportation to get to see a specialist, click here for LARC options*: Hormonal IUDs: There are three hormonal IUDs available in the U.S. All three are made of plastic and release a small amount of the synthetic hormone progestin, which thickens the cervical mucus to keep sperm from reaching the uterus. Depending what kind you get, hormonal IUDs can last between 3 and 6 years and may make your periods lighter. For many, there may be intermittent spotting in the first year and then no periods after. Effectiveness: Greater than 99% with perfect or typical use. Non-hormonal IUDs: ParaGard is the only non-hormonal IUD available in the U.S. ParaGard is made of plastic and a small amount of natural, safe copper. When people are using ParaGard their periods are more likely to remain regular but can be heavier. ParaGard can work to prevent pregnancy for up to 10 years. Effectiveness: Greater than 99% with perfect or typical use Implant: The implant (Nexplanon is the brand name; previously Implanon) is a tiny rod that's inserted under the skin of your upper arm. It's so small, in fact, most people can't see it once it's inserted—which means it can be your little secret, if you're so inclined. The implant releases progestin, a hormone that keeps your ovaries from releasing eggs and thickens your cervical mucus—which helps block sperm from getting to the egg in the first place. It prevents pregnancy for up to four years. Bleeding irregularities are common with Nexplanon. Effectiveness: Greater than 99% with perfect or typical use. * Section adapted from www.bedsider.org For more information: Call Health Services at 401.863-3953 for an appointment or 401.863-1330 to speak to a nurse. Last updated 11/29/16. About BWell: Quick Links About Us Staff Confidential Appointments Sexual Assault Response Line Workshops Peer Education Programs Health Empowerment Tools PHONE NUMBERS 401.863-2794 Health Promotion 401.863-3953 Health Services 401.863-6000 Sexual Assault Response Line 401.863-4111 EMS 401.863-3476 Counseling & Psychological Services 401.863-4111 DPS Make an Appointment View the SHAG video series! Ship n SHAG! Place an order with Ship n SHAG and get free safer sex supplies discreetly delivered to your campus mailbox! Get Involved Meet Our Staff About Us Make an Appointment Brown University BWell Health Promotion Health and Wellness Brown University Box 1928 450 Brook Street Providence, Rhode Island, 02912 Phone 401-863-2794 Fax 401-863-7953 [email protected] © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Related Offices Brown EMS Counseling and Psychological Services Health Services Social Media BWell on Facebook SHAG on Facebook BURP on Facebook Health Services on Facebook