Skip to Content Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Indiana University Bloomington Indiana University Bloomington IU Bloomington Menu About History Rankings & Campus Statistics Mission & Strategic Planning Leadership & Administration Safety & Emergency Information Visit Campus Transportation & Parking A-Z List Jobs at IU How to Hire IU Students Admissions How to Apply Cost & Finances Visit IU & Bloomington Academics The Academic Experience Degrees & Majors Business Health & Wellness Science, Engineering & Technology Public Service Arts & Culture Schools Academic Opportunities Study Abroad Online Classes & Programs Schedule of Classes & Academic Calendar Academic Advising & Support Libraries Research Hoosier Life Traditions & Spirit Student Organizations Recreational Sports Athletics Health, Wellness & Safety Housing & Dining Visiting Bloomington Attractions & Things to Do Diversity on Campus Career Prep Find Your Passion Get Experience Develop Your Career Use Your Network Alumni & Giving News & Events Indiana University Bloomington Home About Admissions Academics Research Hoosier Life Career Prep Alumni & Giving News & Events Home Hoosier Life Traditions & Spirit Traditions & Spirit Indiana, our Indiana, we’re all for you IU’s traditions shape our story. Some are beloved parts of our collective history. Some are just a few years old. All remind you that you are part of something amazing. Whether you need an A on your next exam or just need some good luck, tradition says you’ll get what you need if you shake the hand of the Herman B Wells statue. What is a Hoosier, anyway? A Hoosier is not a mascot. It’s not an animal, a bird, or a mythical creature, either. A Hoosier is a proud member of the IU family. When we need to remind ourselves what that means, we get out our cream and crimson gear or put on our candy-striped pants and go all in to cheer on our athletic teams. Put up those fists Make no mistake. We’re serious about school spirit. Freshman students learn the fight song and other basics such as the Fists and Blades during their very first week on campus during the Traditions and Spirit kickoff event. Secure your Hoosier status in five easy steps Listing every single IU tradition here would be next to impossible. There are too many to count. But there are a few things that every Hoosier simply must do. Step 1: Throw yourself into the Welcome Week festivities If you start at IU as a freshman, you will arrive on campus a full week before classes start. But you still have plenty of “work” to do! The entire campus strives to make you feel welcome and help you get acclimated to life here. Jump into the activities and by the time your first class starts, you’ll already feel at home. Once you’ve found a romantic partner you want to spend your life with, kiss them in the Rose Well House at the stroke of midnight. Tradition says that when you do, you’ll be together forever. Step 2: Show your stripes during Homecoming During Homecoming, we celebrate athletics, traditions, and all things IU. Events include parades, concerts, and, of course, a football game. Deck yourself out in cream and crimson and enjoy the fun! Step 3: Catch hoops hysteria Every year, the basketball season starts with Hoosier Hysteria. This weekend event kicks team spirit into high gear with lots of pageantry and plenty of basketball. Step 4: Shake what your mama gave you At IU, even dancing is serious fun. Students dance for 36 hours straight during the IU Dance Marathon to benefit Riley Children’s Hospital. To date, they’ve raised more than $24 million. Step 5: Have big fun during the Little 500 Frequently called “the greatest college weekend,” the Little 500 (or Little Five, as Hoosiers call it) is made up of two bike races—one for men, one for women. Teams of four ride laps around Armstrong Stadium while more than 25,000 fans cheer them on. All the money raised goes to student scholarships. Traditions & Spirit Student Organizations Recreational Sports Athletics Health, Wellness & Safety Housing & Dining Visiting Bloomington Attractions & Things to Do Diversity on Campus Indiana University Bloomington social media channels Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn Contact, Address and Additional Links Services Canvas One.IU AskIU Find Directory A-Z List Courses Campus Map Required Disclosures Library IU Bloomington Libraries IUCAT OneSearch@IU Resources Knowledge Base IT Services Faculty & Staff Resources Diversity Non-Discrimination Notice Protect IU Email About Email at IU Outlook Web Access INDIANA UNIVERSITY BLOOMINGTON 107 S. Indiana Avenue Bloomington, IN 47405-7000 Phone: 812-855-4848 Accessibility | Privacy Notice | Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of Indiana University