Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Physics and Materials Science About Undergraduate Graduate People Research Resources News SPS Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact News & Events Alumni Spotlight Seminars Lois McGlothlin Donaldson Endowed Lecture Newsletter Take Action Apply Now Contact Us Alumni Spotlights and Newsletters Seminars and Endowed Lecture Follow Us Online Facebook Home Department of Physics and Materials Science News and Events Lois McGlothlin Donaldson Endowed Lecture in Physics Lois McGlothlin Donaldson Endowed Lecture in Physics When Lois McGlothlin Donaldson attended the University of Memphis as a young woman she majored in Art History. After her college years, as she grew older, she became fascinated by the obvious beauty in Hubble telescope images of deep space nebulae. Here was art of a different sort and with a history that was unfathomable. She began to read about the stars, and developed a deep appreciation for the artistry of celestial mechanics. Fascinated with how the physical universe functions, her interests broadened to include Scientific American articles on particle physics and quantum mechanics. Looking to the future, she came to believe that mankind's advancement as a species and perhaps even our future existence might well depend on those who could develop novel ways to utilize and perhaps reinterpret the physical laws that had so captured her imagination. Had she been a younger woman when she realized all this, she would certainly have included some formal physics courses in her university studies. But new passions sometimes arrive too late in life to be fully explored. Lois passed away on Dec. 8, 2014 at the age of 71. Upon reflection after her passing, her husband saw there was still a way for her to be part of the discipline she found so appealing. Therefore, in honor of her enduring spirit of inquiry, he established in her name, an endowed lectureship in physics that would annually support the visit of a prominent scientist to discuss and exchange ideas with University of Memphis students and faculty. AD LUCEM (TO THE LIGHT). 2022 Lecture: Dr. Kelly Holley-Bockelmann / Gravity Waves and LIGO 2021 Lecture: Dr. Meg Urry / Black Holes, Galaxies, and the Evolution of the Universe 2020 Lecture: Due to the Coronavirus pandemic, the 2020 Lecture was not held. 2019 Lecture: Dr. Matthew A. Greenhouse / The James Webb Space Telescope Mission 2018 Lecture: Dr. Robert Scherrer / What is the Universe Made Of? 2017 Lecture: Dr. Clifford Martin Will / Black Holes, Waves of Gravity & Other Warped Ideas of Dr. Einstein 2016 Lecture: Dr. Eric Chaisson / Cosmic Evolution and the Rise of Complexity in Nature Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 2/7/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.