Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Department of Art and Art History Menu About Us About Us News Contact Us People Social Media Facilities Fine Arts Living-Learning Center Employment Admissions Career Options Scholarships and Financial Aid Advising Apply Online Alumni Giving Keep in Touch Areas of Study Foundations Art History Ceramics Fabric Design Graphic Design Painting Photography Printmaking Sculpture Course Descriptions Museums & Institutions Allbritton Art Institute Harding Black Collection Martin Museum of Art McMullen-Connelly Family Collection WHY STUDY ART and ART HISTORY AT BAYLOR In an increasingly visual world, the demand for the skills of artists, designers, and art historians is growing. Whether creating with paint, pencil or charcoal on canvas or paper; with tactile materials such as clay, fibers, metal or wood; with light on photographic paper; or with pixels on a computer screen - artists and designers play a key role in communicating ideas, information and aesthetics. The Department of Art and Art History and the Allbritton Art Institute promote the study of Art History through lectures, seminars, museum visits, study-abroad opportunities and guest speakers. The program seeks to encourage critical thinking, close looking, and analytical writing through the study of art and culture. Baylor's Department of Art and Art History is unique as it offers students a wide array of classes within a broad range of artistic areas and disciplines while challenging them to think creatively and critically: preparing them to enter the professional visual world or advanced study. About Us AREAS OF STUDY Foundations Art History Ceramics Fabric Design Graphic Design Painting Photography Printmaking Sculpture Course Descriptions MEET OUR FACULTY Winter Rusiloski Assistant Professor of Art My approach to teaching emphasizes basic visual concepts and principles, while empowering students to develop their own ideas and perspectives. An initial emphasis on technical skills and formal aesthetics facilitates growth and development of their own ideas during personal investigations. Contemporary issues in painting are of paramount importance to my instruction. Robbie Barber Professor of Art My teaching approach centers around empowering our students to overcome challenges. I want them to be problem-solvers and to push themselves. Additionally, I want studio art majors to understand that Sculpture and 3D Design can be the hub of many different approaches to making art. Teaching the Elements and Principles of Design continues to be the backbone of my approach, as well as teaching how to problem-solve a variety of media in relation to contemporary sculpture. Heidi J. Hornik, PhD Department Chair & Professor of Art History My courses and research have always intersected beautifully and manifested in excellent undergraduate research projects on Italian Renaissance and Baroque art. Teaching the aspects of Connoisseurship from original works of art in the Armstrong Browning Library has enabled undergraduate students to experience the kind of work that I do internationally. Frequently, my research on art and theology also engages students' interdisciplinary interests. Greg Lewallen Senior Lecturer of Art I love the interaction with students in the studio. I love getting to know them and building relationships with them. I ask them to give me their very best effort and I expect no less of myself. I feel a deep sense of responsibility to my students and try to challenge them to go beyond their comfort zone, to attempt something they wouldn't attempt on their own. Most times the results are predictable. Sometimes, the results are totally unexpected. Every once in a while, they are exceptional. That is what gets me up every morning, to see if today is the day one of my students is going to cross that threshold, the day they will have that personal Eureka! moment. Benny Fountain Associate Professor of Art There are those who have a knack for the visual: they get it, it speaks to them. As a teacher, my aim is to communicate to my students Yes, I see what you have and the world needs it, go on, here are some tools for your work ahead. H. Jennings Sheffield Associate Professor of Art I think my favorite part of teaching is introducing, and witnessing students experience the magic of photography. I love the moment when they first see their prints come to life in the developer. It is a magical moment. I think it is extremely important to expose students to all different types of art, genres, considerations and intentions current in the art world today. It is our role as artists to constantly ask questions and then investigate them. I think the most important thing is for them to learn how to critically think and keep asking questions. Kyle Chaput Assistant Professor of Art The acts of making art and teaching are an intuitive and intrinsic aspect of my being. I believe students learn best when they are enthusiastic and when students sense an instructor's passion for art and teaching, they respond in kind. To meet this obligation, I strive to inspire my classes through a technically and conceptually engaging curriculum that reflects my devotion to the fine art of printmaking and education. Julia Hitchcock Professor of Art Cultivating a strong desire to think through seeing helps students to identify the connections between the act of making art and cognitive discernment. The intertwining of technical and experiential learning derived from real life experience is potently relevant and transferable every time they enter the art lab. Mack Gingles Associate Professor of Art My role is to inspire students. I approach this responsibility by teaching a practice of drawing that focuses on the possibilities inherent to working from direct observation. If they can engage the world in front of them in a way that invites critical thinking, their effectiveness is incalculable when they start asserting themselves more independently through their own projects. Nathan Elkins Associate Professor of Art History My research on Roman imperial art explores the agency of its creation and its intelligibility within historical, social, political, and cultural contexts. This informs my teaching, for I emphasize a contextual understanding of ancient art and architecture. People often take ancient objects out of context and treat them as individual masterpieces in museums. This distorts the reality of ancient art, which was more functional and reflected the values and concerns of the society that produced and experienced it. Virginia Green Associate Professor of Art The creative process is inspired by the soulful melodies and rhythmic influences that define the pace of the visual concept. As a graphic designer, I embrace the semiotic and aesthetic value of the letter form and the emotion it evokes when used as an element of design. Items in nature, flora and fauna, serve as sources of inspiration for their complex symbolism and simplistic form as graphic symbols. FEATURED WORK All Faculty Student Featured Faculty 1Featured Student 1Featured Student 5Featured Faculty 6Featured Faculty 2Bundle III, woodcut & monotype copy OUR FACILITIES Baylor University's Department of Art and Art History maintains world class studio facilities that encompass cutting edge technology and state-of-the-art equipment allowing students' imagination to have no bounds. Our smart classrooms provide the latest in computer and presentation equipment for contemporary instruction. The goal is to give our students access to industry-standard practise and equipment so they can move seamlessly into their professional careers. Facilities ALUMNI SPOTLIGHT - Click Here for More Information Josh Martin Graphic Design Walt Disney Imagineering Erica Thorpe Photography Christie's Auction House, New York Cade Kegerris Painting Full Time Muralist and Painter Contact Visit Apply Give Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Department of Art and Art History Twitter Instagram Facebook YouTube Department of Art and Art History One Bear Place #97263 Waco, TX 76798-7263 254.710.1867 Art_Support@baylor.edu Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Us About Us News Contact Us People Faculty Robbie Barber Kyle Chaput Nathan T. Elkins, PhD Leah Force Benny Fountain Mack Gingles Virginia Green Julia Hitchcock Heidi J. Hornik, PhD Katie Larson, PhD Greg Lewallen Jerolyn E. Morrison, PhD Winter Rusiloski H. Jennings Sheffield Christopher Wood M.A. Emeritus Faculty Faculty Exhibition Catalogs Staff Social Media Facilities Visual Resource Center 3D Printing Fine Arts Living-Learning Center Employment Admissions Career Options Scholarships and Financial Aid Advising Apply Online Alumni Giving Keep in Touch Areas of Study Foundations Art History Art History Courses Ceramics Fabric Design Graphic Design Painting Photography Printmaking Sculpture Course Descriptions Museums & Institutions Allbritton Art Institute Harding Black Collection Martin Museum of Art McMullen-Connelly Family Collection