Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index International Affairs Menu Search TTU International Affairs International Travel Information Updated on December 3, 2021 International travel requirements effective December 6, 2021. All air passengers, regardless of vaccination status, must show a negative COVID-19 text taken no more than 1 day before travel to the United States. Details about travel requirements are available on the CDC website. Updated on November 27, 2021 On November 26, given the recommendation of the CDC, working in close coordination with the Department of Homeland Security, the Administration has determined that it is in the interests of the United States to take action to suspend and restrict the entry into the United States, as immigrants and nonimmigrants, of noncitizens of the United States (“noncitizens”) who were physically present within the Republic of Botswana, the Kingdom of Eswatini, the Kingdom of Lesotho, the Republic of Malawi, the Republic of Mozambique, the Republic of Namibia, the Republic of South Africa, and the Republic of Zimbabwe during the 14-day period preceding their entry or attempted entry into the United States. The full text of the Proclamation is available on the White House website. Travel Advisories for each of these countries are Level 4 – Do Not Travel – in line with CDC Travel Health Notifications (THNs). Updated on November 5, 2021 Starting on November 8, 2021, foreign national air travelers to the United States will be required to be fully vaccinated and to provide proof of vaccination status prior to boarding an airplane to fly to the United States, with only limited exceptions. The CDC has determined that for the purposes of entry into the United States, vaccines accepted will include those FDA approved or authorized, as well as vaccines with an emergency use listing (EUL) from the World Health Organization (WHO). See the CDC's website for more details. Fully vaccinated air travelers will continue to be required to show documentation of a pre-departure negative viral test from a sample taken within three days of travel to the United States before boarding. That includes all travelers – U.S. citizens, lawful permanent residents (LPRs), and foreign nationals. To further strengthen protections, unvaccinated travelers – whether U.S. citizens, LPRs, or the small number of excepted unvaccinated foreign nationals – will now need to show documentation of a negative viral test from a sample taken within one day of travel to the United States. Please visit the U.S. Department of State- Bureau of Consular Affairs for Frequently Asked Questions on COVID-19 Vaccination and Testing for International Travel. Any traveler who presents symptoms of COVID-19 or tests positive for COVID-19 is required to delay travel and should self-isolate. Please visit the CDC guidance for international travel for more information. Travelers leaving the US may reference the U.S. Bureau of Consular Affairs- Country Information page and the CDC Travel Recommendations by Destination for specific details about entry requirements and restrictions for arriving travelers for their destination and travel advisories. Travelers are advised to review state and local travel requirements as some areas have further restrictions and requirements in place. Getting Approval for International Travel For all faculty, staff and students: Please complete the following steps to get approval for an International Travel Application (ITA) and to prevent your ITA from being returned. In addition, helpful links are provided below regarding travel warnings and emergencies. Global Safety and Security Resources Helpful Links: https://travel.state.gov/content/passports/en/emergencies.html https://travel.state.gov/content/passports/en/alertswarnings.html Texas Tech University encourages all international travelers to enroll in the Department of State's Smart Traveler Enrollment Program which allows travelers to enroll with the nearest U.S. embassy or consulate during their travels. In the event of any kind of emergency, this will help the U.S. Embassy contact you and provide assistance. Quick Check List International travel is defined as any travel outside of the United States where TTU personnel are representing TTU. Complete International Travel Application (ITA) 30 days before travel. International Travel Applications will be approved within 3-5 business days. Export Control Screening is required for all international travel regardless of who pays for the travel. This is completed through the ITA process. Visit the TTU Cybersecurity website. Be wary of using USB drives given as gifts-they could contain malware. Be careful and selective when connecting to wired or Wi-Fi networks. Turn off network connections when not in use. If applicable, leave research data stateside. When possible, only meet with individuals/entities screened by the university. Visit TTU OP 79.05 for more information on international travel. Visit the IT website for more detailed information regarding IT issues and international travel including: Loaner laptops Data storage options Credential management options TTU infotech. Steps for Completing the International Travel Application (ITA): (The steps below do not apply to the faculty, staff or students going abroad through a study abroad program organized by the TTU Study Abroad Office.) STEP1. Those preparing ITAs ("preparers") are encouraged to take the training offered by TTU's Travel Office on submitting the forms online. STEP 2. Preparer should complete and submit an ITA online at least 30 days before the departure date. STEP 3. In the "Explanation" block on the online ITA, please SPECIFY in the first sentence if the traveler is: Faculty/Staff or a US citizen / Permanent Resident Student or an International Student (= student under a visa) Export Control guidelines should be added in the "Explanation". You will need to add Destination University/Company Entity Destination Contact Equipment you will be taking (Laptops, etc.) Please note: The preparer for the ITA will not be able to simply submit a link to the Destination University/Company/Entity. This information needs to be explained in the International Travel Application (ITA). Then, proceed to explain the purpose of the trip. STEP 4. Once the ITA is submitted online, the system will automatically send the ITA to the Office of International Affairs(OIA) for approval. Once OIA has approved the ITA the preparer will receive an email through the travel system. For Students only: The procedures below apply to all STUDENTS TRAVELLING ABROAD for any TTU related reason (e.g., conference, research, competition, etc.), in any status (i.e., undergraduate, graduate, postgraduate, supported by scholarships or assistantships, etc.) and with any citizenship (i.e., US or international): STEP 5. After completing step 3 (specifying clearly under the "explanation" section that the traveler is a STUDENT and distinguishing US /permanent resident student from INTERNATIONAL student); and step 4 (having the student/traveler and the supervisor both sign the ITA), please complete ELECTRONICALLY the 2 forms below and also attach to the ITA. Emergency Contact Information Release form: signed by the student Release and Indemnification Agreement form: completed by the preparer electronically, printed, and signed and NOTARIZED by the student. For liability and insurance purposes, all students are required to complete the two forms cited above and linked below before their departure on any international travel. Please send the three signed/notarized documents together to: OIA/ Emily Saiz- MS 5004: ITA (signed) Emergency Contact Information Release form (signed) Release & Indemnification Agreement form (signed/notarized) STEP 6. Upon receipt of the above documents, OIA will review and process the ITA as expeditiously as possible. The preparer will receive an email through the travel system once the ITA is approved. The student will receive insurance information regarding her/his international trip to the email he/she provided on the Emergency Contact Information Release form. TTU Employee International Travel Insurance: We are pleased to announce that Texas Tech University launched a new comprehensive travel risk management program partnered with On Call International to provide you emergency and non-emergency services and benefits. The Global Assistance Program will provide services ranging from pre-trip planning, to telephone advice, to full-scale medical and security evacuations. Key features of the new program: Medical, travel, and security assistance including insured evacuation and repatriation services Coordination of medical care Coordination and payment of travel arrangements for you or a person you designate for certain emergency circumstances Before you travel… We suggest adding On Call International to the mobile phone you'll be using abroad so you know how to contact us any time you need us. Simply follow the instructions in the Aerogami Download Guide TTUS link to easily add a digital content card right into your phone contacts in just a few taps. It is not an app to download, just an easy way to make sure you have contact information available in case you need help while away from home. Regular text messaging rates may apply. While traveling… You can make a collect call, send an email, or text On Call from anywhere in the world 24 hours day to request assistance. If you need medical care, encounter a travel problem, suffer a medical emergency, or are impacted by security crisis anywhere in the world, we strongly encourage you to take advantage of services available through On Call. Please note that you do not need to enroll in this plan. All employees are covered by this plan when outside their home country on Texas Tech University related travel or assignment, programs, or business. If proof of coverage has been requested by your consulate, please email the request to ttusrm@ttu.edu to obtain a Proof of Coverage letter. TTUS On Call ID Card and Program Summary Aerogami Download Guide TTUS On call full program summary Consulate Letter Request Form If you have any questions relating to international travel, please contact the Office of International Affairs at travel.oia@ttu.edu or phone: 806-742-3667. If you have any questions relating to insurance, please contact the Office of Risk Management at ttusrm@ttu.edu or phone: 806-742-0212. Contact TTU Contact Contact TTUContact Contact TTU News News for NewsNews for News Events EventsEvents International Affairs Like International Affairs on FacebookLike International Affairs on Facebook Follow International Affairs on twitterFollow International Affairs on twitter Subscribe to International Affairs on YouTubeSubscribe to International Affairs on YouTube Follow International Affairs on FlickrFollow International Affairs on Flickr Follow International Affairs on InstagramFollow International Affairs on Instagram Address 601 Indiana Avenue, Lubbock, TX 79409-5004 Phone 806.742.3667 Email oia.reception@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityMay 16, 2022 9:59 AM International Affairs International Students International Affairs International Students Back Admitted international students International Affairs International Students Admitted international students Back Visa Process Housing Health Insurance Pre-Arrival Guide Post-Arrival Checklist Immigration Information International Affairs International Students Immigration Information Back Immigration and Scam Alerts Make an Appointment F1 - Health Insurance F1 - Travel F1 - Employment Your F-1 Student Counselor Other F-1 Services and Processes OPT STEM OPT CPT J1 - Health Insurance J1 - Travel J1 - Employment J1 - Dependents International Student Life International Affairs International Students International Student Life Back Our Services to Incoming Students International Orientation Life in Lubbock Lubbock housing options Events hosted by ISL Get Involved Advice from current students Financial Aid for International Students Scams Against International Student FAQ's Study Abroad International Faculty, Scholars & Alumni International Affairs International Faculty, Scholars & Alumni Back J-1 Exchange Visitors International Affairs International Faculty, Scholars & Alumni J-1 Exchange Visitors Back J-1 Program Information Hosting Department Information International Scholar Resources Make an Appointment/ISSS International Partnerships/Export Control Insurance Requirements Travel Dependents Help with Taxes International Alumni International Affairs International Faculty, Scholars & Alumni International Alumni Back International Alumni Networks Give to Office of International Affairs Update Contact Information Contact Office of International Affairs Employing International Visitors International Affairs International Faculty, Scholars & Alumni Employing International Visitors Back H-1B Work Visa Information Permanent Residency Information Labor Certification for Non-Teaching Faculty Hosting Department Information Visitor Visas Paying International Visitors Fullbright Scholars & Students Make an Appointment International Scholar Resources J-1 Student Intern Information International Partnerships/Exports Help with Taxes Community Outreach & Events International Affairs Community Outreach & Events Back Community Outreach International Affairs Community Outreach & Events Community Outreach Back Art Exhibits Signature Events K-12 Global Education Outreach International Affairs Community Outreach & Events K-12 Global Education Outreach Back Mission Program Options Program Reservations K-12 Geo FAQ's Pre/Post Activities Give to K-12 ICC Facility Rental International Affairs Community Outreach & Events ICC Facility Rental Back Room Rental Information ICC Rules & Regulations Directions Passport Office International Affairs Community Outreach & Events Passport Office Back Passport Office Information Faculty/Staff Resources International Affairs Faculty/Staff Resources Back Faculty/Staff Resources International Affairs Faculty/Staff Resources Faculty/Staff Resources Back Center for Global Communication International Research and Development International Center for Arid and Semi-Arid Land Studies International Partnerships and Export Control Global Roundup Fulbright International Travel Information International Seed Funding Hosting International Students Scholarships International Affairs Scholarships Back First Year & Transfer Students Continuing Students Study Abroad Students National and International Scholarships & Fellowships About Office International Affairs About Office Back The Office of International Affairs International Affairs About Office The Office of International Affairs Back About Us Vice Provost OIA Services and Contact Information Directory Strategic Plan Organizational Chart OIA Year in Review Visitors Guide Visitors Guide - Español News and Events International Affairs About Office News and Events Back International Digest OIA News OIA Events Recent Newsletter Newsletter Archive Media Gallery International Affairs About Office Media Gallery Back Photos Videos Give to OIA International Affairs About Office Give to OIA Back Appeal from the Vice Provost International Affairs Fund for Excellence International Affairs Student Scholarship OIA Committees International Affairs About Office OIA Committees Back Scholarships International Affairs Council Fulbright Information Special Initiatives International Affairs About Office Special Initiatives Back Global Vision Awards Leadership, Management and Governance Program Texas Tech Costa Rica Campus Texas Tech Global Bridge program Mandela Washington Fellowship Ambassadors Forum Contact Us Additional Resources TTU Home Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index