Skip to main content Search Cornell Cornell Video Explore Home Browse Recent Trending Playlists Series Speakers Topics Contributors Submit MyPlaylist Play all in MyPlaylist Ask a Question tbd Name Email Address Question Send or cancel × Ask a Question Successful Thanks, ! Your question has been submitted. × COVID-19 impact: Karl Pillemer on elder care Posted on May 1, 2020 By College of Human Ecology, Weill Cornell Medicine Video Platform Video Management Video Solutions Video Player facebook twitter share interactive transcript request transcript/captions live captions download HD video SD video audio | MyPlaylist start: now end: now reset copy link copy embed X KARL PILLEMER: I'm Karl Pillemer. I'm the Hazel E. Reed Professor of Human Development at Cornell. I'm also a faculty member in the division of geriatrics at Weill Cornell Medicine. So both of those roles have had me thinking a lot about the pandemic and issues around it. There are lots of practical issues that my field is dealing with. Many people are concerned, for example, about the rise of ageism, and how the fact that this disease is associated with older people is leading to ageist narratives. People are very concerned about understanding how we protect older people who may, in fact, have to shelter in place until there is a vaccination. Not to scare anybody with that, but there are vulnerable people who may have to think about long-term self-isolation. How do we make that possible and palatable? So I think the field of gerontology and the related field of geriatrics are going to be kept extraordinarily busy, and we have a huge opportunity to marry science and service, in this case, that I think will really persist for years to come. How will this change the world going forward? I think we're going to see radical shifts in some aspects of elder care. And the most important of these is nursing home care, that we've chosen in our society, unfortunately, to relegate the sickest older people into care situations that are, at best, challenging and difficult. And remember, there are over 1 and 1/2 million people in nursing homes. And an infection like this, to use a blunt term, cuts through them like a hot knife through butter. It's where the most vulnerable people are, and we, as yet, in this response to the virus have not really focused on protecting the most vulnerable. And that really is coming back now to hurt us. So one thing is going to be how do we provide long-term care for people. Many people go to nursing homes for short-term rehabilitation. If there's a chance of infection, will they still want to go there? What about liability for these facilities? In long-term care, you must be in close proximity to provide care. You're feeding people, bathing them, changing wound dressings and so forth. So that whole system, I think, is going to have to change markedly, perhaps with a greater effort to maintain people in their own homes. I am fearful that a change in society is going to be an increasing view of older people as frail, sick, weak, isolated, unable to live full and fulfilling lives. We're seeing a little bit of that narrative, but we are also seeing-- and I'll close with this point-- something wonderful, namely that younger people who are themselves at very low risk of the disease are self-isolating in order to protect other people. And I've spent my lifetime talking to older people, and I've talked to them extensively about how they've got through other crises, like World War II and the Great Depression. I even interviewed people 15 years ago who'd been to the Spanish influenza. And they all say more or less the same thing-- being generous, helping others, trying to do whatever you can to have a good narrative when this is done, because you're going to be telling your kids about this in the same way that you listen to your grandparents talk about World War II endlessly. And you want a good narrative that casts you in a good light and shows how you helped other people. So I hope that sense of compassion and generosity might be something that persists after the crisis is done. This is a great time to reconnect in the ways that we can reconnect. So as you're watching this, do spend a moment to think how you can reach out to others, and especially to older people. Transcript Request Form Name Email Address Disability Accommodation? Disability Accommodation? Yes No Affiliation -Select- Faculty Staff Student Alumni Other Send Request Cancel X We've received your request You will be notified by email when the transcript and captions are available. The process may take up to 5 business days. Please contact cornellcast@cornell.edu if you have any questions about this request. Karl Pillemer, a Cornell University expert on older adults, predicts the pandemic will prompt a radical shift in elder care. Older people will increasingly stay in their own homes, rather than in nursing homes, which currently house more than 1.5 million people in the United States, he says. COVID-19 is particularly lethal in nursing homes; it spreads easily because caregivers feed and bathe residents in close proximity, and because older people are vulnerable to the disease. Pillemer is the Hazel E. Reed Professor in the College of Human Ecology’s Department of Human Development; he is also a professor of gerontology in medicine at Weill Cornell Medicine. More About COVID-19 coronavirus elder care gerontology health care aging human development What to watch next 59:02 MyPlaylist Inside Cornell: Karl Pillemer's '30 Lessons for Loving' 35:18 MyPlaylist Transitions of Care for Frail Elders 5:12 MyPlaylist How do we meet future challenges in senior housing and health care? surprise me Subscribe Submit Content Contact us RSS Cornell on YouTube Give Feedback Name Email Comments Send or cancel × Feedback Thanks for writing. We will be in touch shortly to address any questions, concerns, or technical difficulties you may have. × Schedule of Future Events There are no live broadcasts scheduled. × Email Updates See what's new on CornellCast and find out what's coming up next — and how you can take part. Subscribe to receive weekly CornellCast updates via email. Email address Subscribe or cancel × Subscribe Our hamsters have processed your subscription request and advise that the weekly update messages will contain details on unsubscribing in case you need them. × List Sent Our hamsters have processed your request and advise that a summary has been sent to the email address entered. × RSVP to this Live Event tdb tbd Enter your email below to be notified when this event begins Name Email Address Set reminder for Set reminder for 5 minutes 15 minutes 30 minutes 1 hour 1 day before the event starts. RSVP or cancel × RSVP Successful You should receive an email confirmation shortly. We will send you an email reminder before the show begins. You may request additional reminders for other times if you wish. You can also add this event to a calendar of your choice iCal/Outlook/other Google calendar For iCal, an .ics file will be downloaded to your computer or device. You may need to take additional steps to add the event to your personal calendar. × Settings Let us know your preferences and our accommodating hamsters will snap to it! Autoplay: on off Update or cancel × Follow this tbd tbd Enter your email below to be notified when new related videos become available. Name Email Address Follow or cancel × Thanks for Your Interest You should receive an email confirmation shortly. We will send you an email message when new related videos are posted. ×