Skip to main content Skip to main navigation George W. Truett Theological Seminary Menu About Greetings from the Dean Who We Are History What We Believe Accreditations & Affiliations Campuses Houston San Antonio Faculty Jared E. Alcántara, Ph.D. Andrew Arterbury, Ph.D. Dustin D. Benac, Th.D. Kimlyn J. Bender, Ph.D. Stephanie Boddie, PhD Brian C. Brewer, Ph.D. R. Robert Creech, Ph.D. David E. Garland, Ph.D. Scott M. Gibson, D.Phil. Angela Gorrell, Ph.D. Joel C. Gregory, Ph.D. Rebecca Poe Hays, Ph.D. Grear Howard, D.Min. Angela Reed, Ph.D. Stephen B. Reid, Ph.D. Todd D. Still, Ph.D. Michael W. Stroope, Ph.D. W. Dennis Tucker, Jr. Ph.D. Preben Vang, Ph.D. Joel Weaver, Ph.D John B. White, Ph.D. David Wilhite, Ph.D. Gaynor Yancey, DSW Terry York, D.M.A. Books by Truett Faculty Staff Denisha Akpan Arbra Bailey Maxcey Blaylock Jack Bodenhamer Bridgette Boggess Keith Bruce, D.Min. John K. Burk, Ph.D. Julie Covington Jackie Diaz Nancy Floyd Malcolm Foley, Ph.D. Rusty Freeman, D.Min. Brian Gamel, Ph.D. Karen Green Matt Homeyer, D.Min. Grear Howard, D.Min. Jennifer Howell, Ph.D. Melissa Lambeth Jenn Martinez-Ayala Nancy Plotts Paul Putz, Ph.D. Jo Ann Sharkey Reinowski Ben Simpson Jon Sisk Evan Taddia J. David Tate Cindy White Audrey Yadon News The Cord Magazine Board of Advocates Contact Us Need More Info About Truett? Map & Parking Departmental Directory Academics Degree Programs Master of Divinity (M.Div.) Master of Arts in Christian Ministry (M.A.C.M.) Master of Theological Studies (M.T.S.) Master of Arts (M.A.) in Theology, Ecology, and Food Justice Master of Arts (M.A.) in Theology and Sports Studies Master of Arts (M.A.) in Contextual Witness and Innovation Doctor of Ministry (D.Min.) Ph.D. in Preaching M.Div./Juris Doctor (J.D.) M.Div./Master of Business Administration (M.B.A.) M.Div./Master of Education (M.Ed.) M.Div./Master of Music (M.M.) M.Div./Master of Social Work (M.S.W.) M.T.S./Master of Social Work (M.S.W.) Academic Catalog Faculty Advanced Standing Admissions Apply Master's Degrees Doctor of Ministry PhD in Preaching Request More Information Why Truett? Culture & Community Affordability Academics Baylor University Visit Truett Truett Preview Personal Visit Virtual Visit Group Visit Truett on the Road Map & Parking Recruitment Team Tuition & Financing Scholarships Baylor Students Transfer Students Incoming Students New Student Orientation Advanced Standing Programs & Centers Black Church Studies Program Program Pillars Leadership Faith & Sports Institute About the Faith & Sports Institute Graduate Degree Programs Online Certificate Program High School Retreat Research & Resources Kyle Lake Center for Effective Preaching National Preaching Conference African American Preaching Conference Boomers & Beyond Conference Additional Resources 12 Most Effective Preachers Survey Office of Ministry Connections About the OMC Staff Ministry Positions Post a Ministry Position Additional Resources Ministry Position Administrative Tools Online Certificate Program Program Overview Enrollment Online Courses Seminar Courses Current Students Staff Testimonials FAQ Request More Info Program for the Future Church Who We Are What We Do Our Team Support Us Connect with Us Spiritual Formation Program Spiritual Formation Courses Spiritual Direction Training Program Personal Counseling Spiritual Direction for Baylor Students Spiritual Direction for the Truett Community Plan a Personal Retreat Theology, Ecology, and Food Justice Program About Degree Program Partnerships News Truett Church Network Center for Ministry Effectiveness Ministry Resident Program Truett Pastors Conference Wesley House of Studies Students Academic Services Registration Advising Degree Planning Substitutions & Waivers Graduation Transfer Students Advanced Standing Look Up Classes Academic Complaints Scholarship Services Mentoring Program How Do I Begin Currently Mentoring Financial Wellness Resources Online Tools Final Exam Schedule Lifelong Formation Truett Student Employment Code of Conduct Student Organizations Campus Resources Events & Resources Conferences & Lectures Dobbs Lecture Drumwright Lectures Parchman Lectures TB Maston Lecture Willson-Addis Lecture E.K. Bailey Preaching Celebration Science & Christian Ministry Conference African American Preaching Conference National Preaching Conference Summer Intensive with N.T. Wright Texas Baptist Women in Ministry Conference Athletics, Race, and Christianity (ARC) Talks Women's World Day of Prayer Racism in the White Church Truett Chapel Events Friends of Truett Dinner 20th Anniversary Campus Celebration Building Reservations Room Reservations Wedding Reservations Truett Faculty & Staff Resources Technology Support Media Library Truett Chapel African American Preaching Conference Dobbs Lectures Media Library E.K. Bailey Memorial Preaching Event Fall Preaching Convocation Parchman Lectures Preacher's Workshop Media Page Willson-Addis Media Library Archives Other Recordings Lenten Devotional Guide 2022 Continuing Education Course Catalog Alumni Continuing Education Tools & Benefits Employment Events Calendar Student Recruitment Giving to Truett Make a Gift Baylor>George W. Truett Seminary>Admissions>Visit Truett>Recruitment Team Recruitment Team Truett Seminary's Student Recruitment Team Associates work with prospective students to help them discover more about Truett and about how the Seminary can equip and prepare them for their calling. Student Recruitment Team Associates and student recruiters are current Truett students who are excited to share about their journey to and experiences at seminary. Prospective Students may recognize them from a Truett recruitment visit to their school or from a Truett exhibit booth at a conference they attended. More information about each of our Associates can be found below. Be sure to reach out to them directly with any questions you may have. Krystal Berry Hometown: Southampton County, Virginia Previous Institution Attended: Virginia State University (B.A. English), Texas Southern University (M.A. English) Why I Came to Truett: After personally accepting my call to ministry but being prohibited in a local church setting from public acceptance and affirmation, my time of prayer and intentionality led me to Truett Seminary. I found a safe space to further prepare myself until I was in a church position that would support my public affirmation. This time at Truett has allowed me to focus on the work to come while engaging in the work and studies that are present now. Favorite Part of Being a Truett Student: I love that being at the Houston Campus has not made me feel distanced from my peers and professors in Waco. It's such an extensive community, and I'm proud to be a part of and share that. Contact Krystal Lauren Jenkins Hometown: Knoxville, Tennessee Previous Institution Attended: Carson-Newman University (B.A. Religion) Why I Came to Truett: I came to Truett with the desire to become a professor. God has placed a calling on my heart to teach and encourage students, while at the same time directing students to Jesus' unconditional and sacrificial love. When researching different seminaries, I found that Truett affirms women in ministry. It is a blessing to know that I am supported by both peers and faculty. I was unsure that I would be able to attend Truett, but God has provided a way and reaffirmed my calling here. Favorite Part of Being a Truett Student: My favorite part about being a Truett student is that no matter where you are there is someone willing to help. There are people praying for you and with you. Contact Lauren Zach Barber Hometown: Georgetown, Kentucky Previous Institution Attended: Georgetown College Why I Came to Truett: I came to Truett because I felt at home the first day I walked in. I knew this was a great academic institution, so feeling extremely welcomed on my visit solidified my decision. Favorite Part of Being a Truett Student: My favorite part about Truett has been the amazing connections I have been able to form with many different people. Contact Zach Sarah Zirkel Hometown: San Jose, Costa Rica Previous Institution Attended: Baylor University (B.A. Spanish) Why I Came to Truett: I first became interested in Truett when a friend of mine told me about her plans to come. We talked about how she loved the community and felt like it was the right next step for her. I came to visit her, and as she was showing me around campus, I instantly met the kind and welcoming community that she had been talking about. As I was looking into the program, I learned about the joint MDiv and MBA program that Truett offers with the Hankamer School of Business, and I felt that this was the program for me. I loved my time in undergrad at Baylor, so making the decision to stay was an additional blessing! Favorite Part of Being a Truett Student: My favorite part has been getting to meet so many welcoming people and to be in such a Christ-like community that has encouraged me in my walk with Christ. Contact Sarah Jessalyn Brown Hometown: Lexington, Kentucky Previous Institution Attended: Georgetown College (B.A. American Studies & Theatre and Film Studies) Why I Came to Truett: Around the time I was discerning my call to ministry, my undergrad institution and Truett were coming together to partner. I was awarded an awesome opportunity to come to Truett through the Bishop Scholars Program at Georgetown College. As I learned more about Truett, I was convinced that it was the place I was meant to be. Favorite Part of Being a Truett Student: I love Truett's emphasis on spiritual formation. A minister has to be ministered to, and Truett provides a beautiful space for that to happen. Contact Jessalyn Tate Miller Hometown: Louisville, Kentucky (B.A. Religion) Previous Institution Attended: Georgetown College Why I Came to Truett: I came to Truett because I love the diversity and the academic excellence I get to experience every day. From the very first day I stepped on campus, I could sense that there is strong community at work here. The professors, faculty, and staff are intentional and really care about our success. Being a student at Truett is what God has for me to be able to take the next step in ministry. Favorite Part of Being a Truett Student: My favorite part of being at Truett are the small class sizes and the fellowship between students. Contact Tate Rebekah Graff Hometown: Dripping Springs, Texas Previous Institution Attended: University of Mary Hardin-Baylor (B.A., Christian Studies) Why I Came to Truett: I came to Truett in order to have a world-class theological education in my home of Central Texas. I have numerous friends who had attended Truett in the past, so I came to visit after hearing all of their glowing reviews. I knew it was a perfect fit for me immediately because of how welcoming the faculty, staff, and fellow students were. Favorite Part of Being a Truett Student: My favorite part of being a Truett student has been getting to know my professors. They are all so knowledgeable and wise about the subjects they teach, but they are also extremely pastoral. Not only do I know them on an academic level, but I feel like they care about me and want to know me as a whole person. They are so generous in sharing their knowledge with their students. Contact Rebekah Jordan McMahan Hometown: Richmond, Virginia Previous Institution Attended: Old Dominion University (B.A., Philosophy) Why I Came to Truett: I came to Truett after being mentored for three years by a Truett graduate. She helped me discern the things God has equipped me for and encouraged me to visit. From the moment I entered the building, I was overwhelmed by the care shown by each person I interacted with. I wanted to be in a place where, as a woman, I would be encouraged and empowered to fill the pulpit and share my beliefs, and Truett is this place for me. The emphasis on holistic care and spiritual formation have been game-changers in my personal walk with Christ. Favorite Part of Being a Truett Student: I adore the community at Truett. From professors and staff to my fellow students, I know I am loved and part of the family. Contact Jordann Jay Martinez Hometown: San Antonio, Texas Previous Institution Attended: Baptist University of the Americas Why I Came to Truett: I became interested in Truett after speaking with a mentor of mine. He encouraged me to apply as Truett was opening a campus in San Antonio. I have always felt the calling into ministry and chose to pursue that calling in my undergrad and at the master's level. I joined the MDiv program in August 2021 and have enjoyed the journey. Truett has been a blessing in my life and ministry, and I am excited to see what other opportunities God provides as I continue my studies at Truett. Favorite Part of Being a Truett Student: My favorite part of being a Truett student is having a safe environment to be able to ask questions that I am unsure about and the way professors encourage you to seek out information to support your thoughts. Contact Jay Admissions Apply Master's Degrees Admissions FAQ International Student Information Doctor of Ministry PhD in Preaching Request More Information Why Truett? Culture & Community Affordability Academics Baylor University Visit Truett Truett Preview Register for Preview Personal Visit Virtual Visit Group Visit Schedule a Group Campus Visit to Truett Seminary Truett on the Road Map & Parking Recruitment Team Tuition & Financing Scholarships Full & Partial Tuition Scholarships Partnership Scholarships Scholarship FAQ Baylor Students Transfer Students Incoming Students New Student Orientation Advanced Standing George W. Truett Theological Seminary 1100 South 3rd Street Waco, TX 76706 254.710.3755 Apply Visit Request Information Why Truett? Give General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Greetings from the Dean Who We Are History What We Believe Accreditations & Affiliations Campuses Houston San Antonio Faculty Jared E. Alcántara, Ph.D. Andrew Arterbury, Ph.D. Dustin D. Benac, Th.D. Kimlyn J. Bender, Ph.D. Stephanie Boddie, PhD Brian C. Brewer, Ph.D. R. Robert Creech, Ph.D. David E. Garland, Ph.D. Scott M. Gibson, D.Phil. Angela Gorrell, Ph.D. Joel C. Gregory, Ph.D. Rebecca Poe Hays, Ph.D. Grear Howard, D.Min. Angela Reed, Ph.D. Stephen B. Reid, Ph.D. Todd D. Still, Ph.D. Michael W. Stroope, Ph.D. W. Dennis Tucker, Jr. Ph.D. Preben Vang, Ph.D. Joel Weaver, Ph.D John B. White, Ph.D. David Wilhite, Ph.D. Gaynor Yancey, DSW Terry York, D.M.A. Books by Truett Faculty Staff Denisha Akpan Arbra Bailey Maxcey Blaylock Jack Bodenhamer Bridgette Boggess Keith Bruce, D.Min. John K. Burk, Ph.D. Julie Covington Jackie Diaz Nancy Floyd Malcolm Foley, Ph.D. Rusty Freeman, D.Min. Brian Gamel, Ph.D. Karen Green Matt Homeyer, D.Min. Grear Howard, D.Min. Jennifer Howell, Ph.D. Melissa Lambeth Jenn Martinez-Ayala Nancy Plotts Paul Putz, Ph.D. Jo Ann Sharkey Reinowski Ben Simpson Jon Sisk Evan Taddia J. David Tate Cindy White Audrey Yadon News The Cord Magazine Board of Advocates Contact Us Need More Info About Truett? Map & Parking Departmental Directory Academics Degree Programs Master of Divinity (M.Div.) Master of Arts in Christian Ministry (M.A.C.M.) Master of Theological Studies (M.T.S.) Master of Arts (M.A.) in Theology, Ecology, and Food Justice Master of Arts (M.A.) in Theology and Sports Studies Master of Arts (M.A.) in Contextual Witness and Innovation Doctor of Ministry (D.Min.) Ph.D. in Preaching M.Div./Juris Doctor (J.D.) M.Div./Master of Business Administration (M.B.A.) M.Div./Master of Education (M.Ed.) M.Div./Master of Music (M.M.) M.Div./Master of Social Work (M.S.W.) M.T.S./Master of Social Work (M.S.W.) Academic Catalog Faculty Advanced Standing Admissions Apply Master's Degrees Doctor of Ministry PhD in Preaching Request More Information Why Truett? Culture & Community Affordability Academics Baylor University Visit Truett Truett Preview Personal Visit Virtual Visit Group Visit Truett on the Road Map & Parking Recruitment Team Tuition & Financing Scholarships Baylor Students Transfer Students Incoming Students New Student Orientation Advanced Standing Programs & Centers Black Church Studies Program Program Pillars Leadership Faith & Sports Institute About the Faith & Sports Institute Graduate Degree Programs Online Certificate Program High School Retreat Research & Resources Kyle Lake Center for Effective Preaching National Preaching Conference African American Preaching Conference Boomers & Beyond Conference Additional Resources 12 Most Effective Preachers Survey Office of Ministry Connections About the OMC Staff Ministry Positions Post a Ministry Position Additional Resources Ministry Position Administrative Tools Online Certificate Program Program Overview Enrollment Online Courses Seminar Courses Current Students Staff Testimonials FAQ Request More Info Program for the Future Church Who We Are What We Do Our Team Support Us Connect with Us Spiritual Formation Program Spiritual Formation Courses Spiritual Direction Training Program Personal Counseling Spiritual Direction for Baylor Students Spiritual Direction for the Truett Community Plan a Personal Retreat Theology, Ecology, and Food Justice Program About Degree Program Partnerships News Truett Church Network Center for Ministry Effectiveness Ministry Resident Program Truett Pastors Conference Wesley House of Studies Students Academic Services Registration Advising Degree Planning Substitutions & Waivers Graduation Transfer Students Advanced Standing Look Up Classes Academic Complaints Scholarship Services Mentoring Program How Do I Begin Currently Mentoring Financial Wellness Resources Online Tools Final Exam Schedule Lifelong Formation Truett Student Employment Code of Conduct Student Organizations Campus Resources Events & Resources Conferences & Lectures Dobbs Lecture Drumwright Lectures Parchman Lectures TB Maston Lecture Willson-Addis Lecture E.K. Bailey Preaching Celebration Science & Christian Ministry Conference African American Preaching Conference National Preaching Conference Summer Intensive with N.T. Wright Texas Baptist Women in Ministry Conference Athletics, Race, and Christianity (ARC) Talks Women's World Day of Prayer Racism in the White Church Truett Chapel Events Friends of Truett Dinner 20th Anniversary Campus Celebration Building Reservations Room Reservations Wedding Reservations Truett Faculty & Staff Resources Technology Support Media Library Truett Chapel African American Preaching Conference Dobbs Lectures Media Library E.K. Bailey Memorial Preaching Event Fall Preaching Convocation Parchman Lectures Preacher's Workshop Media Page Willson-Addis Media Library Archives Other Recordings Lenten Devotional Guide 2022 Continuing Education Course Catalog Alumni Continuing Education Tools & Benefits Employment Events Calendar Student Recruitment Giving to Truett Make a Gift