Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home Public Health Now News Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. Infectious Disease, Mental Health May 18 2022 Survey Finds High Rates of Depression Among Latin American Health Care Providers A multinational survey of healthcare providers in the Americas found high rates of depression and suicidal ideation in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. Less than one third of those who said they needed psychological care received it. The COVID-19 HEalth caRe wOrkErs Study (HEROES) Regional Report from the Americas is available at the website of the Pan American Health Organization (PAHO), which co-led the study with Columbia University and the University of Chile. Ezra Susser, professor of epidemiology and psychiatry at Columbia Mailman School of Public Health and New York State Psychiatric Institute, Franco Mascayano, a PhD student of epidemiology at Columbia Mailman, and Ruben Alvarado, a professor at the University of Chile launched HEROES in 2020. Dozens of institutions collaborated across the globe: this report pertains to those in Latin America. A survey of 14,502 health care workers in 11 countries and territories (Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Guatemala, Mexico, Peru, Puerto Rico, Uruguay, Venezuela) found that between 15 and 22 percent of health care workers presented symptoms that led to suspicion of a depressive episode, with Chile accounting for the highest rate. The figures for suicidal ideation ranged between 5 and 15 percent of respondents, with the highest rates in Chile and Bolivia. Data data collection was done between July 2020 and May 2021. The most important risk factors included the need for emotional and economic support, concern about infecting family members, conflicts with family members of infected persons, and changes in usual job duties. The most important protective factors were trusting that the health care institution and the government could handle the pandemic, having children under 18, having the support of coworkers, and considering oneself a spiritual or religious person. The HEROES report finds no evidence of specific mental health policies developed by Latin American governments in the participating countries. Policy analysis was carried out by the Ibero-American Network of Health Studies and Public Policies (RESPI), formed by members of HEROES and collaborators. The report recommends the creation of healthcare policies for the mental health, particularly for health care workers, including caregivers. The authors write that early detection of mental illness is key, and support for health teams is needed within and beyond the workplace, including reducing barriers to access, such as privacy concerns. The International Network of Mental Health Care Practices and Experiences (RIPEC-SM), currently comprised of representatives of universities, social organizations, State institutions, and trade unions is highlighting and sharing practices, experiences, and resources for mental health care online. The report concludes: “Protecting the mental health of health teams should be an important component of countries’ strategies for dealing with the post-pandemic period, in which health care providers will continue to play a key role in addressing delayed care and physical and psychosocial rehabilitation needs.” Related Stories Global Study Examines Mental Health of Frontline Healthcare Workers Survey of Older New Yorkers Uncovers Worrisome Effects of Coronavirus Pandemic The COVID-19 Pandemic: Even Mild Disease Impacts Mental Health Related Faculty Ezra Susser Professor Epidemiology and Psychiatry Contact Us Timothy S. Paul Phone: 212-305-2676 Email: tp2111@columbia.edu More in Infectious Disease Our Experts Help Explain the Monkeypox Outbreak Columbia University Honors School's Pandemic Leadership BARDA Support to Speed Development of Next-Generation Sequencing-Based Diagnostics Platform Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers