Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Department of Political Science Menu About Us Contact Us News Events Undergraduate BA in Political Science Pre-Law Track BA in International Studies International Studies Course Descriptions Degree Requirements Scholarships Extracurriculars and Co-curriculars What Can I Do With This Major? Student Research Opportunities Criminal Justice Minor Internships Washington D.C. Internship Program Public Service Internship Program Bullock Scholars Program Course Descriptions Model United Nations Undergraduate Moot Court Past Accomplishments Graduate Requirements for Applying to Our Program Financial Aid Statement of Satisfactory Progress PhD in Political Science PhD Requirements Guidelines Toward the Completion of Your Doctoral Degree MA in International Relations MA in Public Policy and Administration Joint JD/MA of Public Policy and Administration Course Descriptions Graduate Awards Graduate Awards Dinner 2014 Graduate Awards Dinner 2015 Graduate Awards Dinner 2016 Graduate Awards Dinner 2017 Dissertations in Progress PhD Recipients and Placements People Office Hours Faculty & Staff Directory David Clinton Jenice Langston Melanie Pirelo Dwight Allman Steve Block David Bridge Timothy Burns Peter Campbell Jordan Cash Andrew Clayton Joanne Cummings Patrick Flavin Rebecca McCumbers Flavin Ivy Hamerly Richard Jordan Benjamin Kleinerman Sergiy Kudelia Alfred Mackenzie Curt Nichols Andi Ramon Ann Ward Lee Ward Graduate Faculty David Clinton Dwight Allman Timothy Burns Peter Campbell Jordan Cash Patrick Flavin Benjamin Kleinerman Curt Nichols Ann Ward Lee Ward Other Faculty David D. Corey Paul Marshall Victor Hinojosa Francis J. Beckwith Retired Faculty Linda Adams Gayle Avant Lyle Brown Joseph Brown James Curry Michael Mansfield William Mitchell David Nichols Mary P. Nichols Richard Riley Jerold Waltman Grad Student Directory Katherine Agnew Emma Bernstein Mary Craig Supun Dahal Gabrielle Etzel Brigid Flaherty Michael Gonzalez Elizabeth Goyette David Khan Stefan Koppert Spencer Krauss Shane Leary Angela Lin Mitchell Lock Elizabeth Wagner Lund Jason Lund Joseph Natali Hannah Norman-Krause Nolan Reisen Matthew Reising Miriel Reneau Chuck Roberts Isabelle Thelen Paul Weisser Matthew Wells Paul Vicars Alumni Profiles Rachel Alexander Jacob Boros Joshua Boucher Christine Basil Adam Carrington Olivia Carroll Clint Condra Catherine Craig Joe Griffith Marjorie Jeffrey Mary Mathie Deborah O'Malley Christopher Ruiz Jeremy Schmuck Mark Scully Ben Slomski Eric Fleury Rex Carr Corrie Harris Catherine Mathie Study Abroad Zavala Zavala Faculty Upcoming Events Past Events Summer Institute for Teachers Department of Political Science Baylor's Political Science Department is renowned for its high quality teaching and for professors who care about students. Our majors have gone on to become lawyers, journalists, politicians, lobbyists, diplomats, political analysts and teachers. We place students in top law schools around the country such as Georgetown and Harvard, and in top graduate programs such as Yale and Princeton. About Us Explore Degree Programs Degree Information All Undergraduate Graduate BA Political Science BA International Studies Prelaw Minor Criminal Justice PhD Political Science MA International Relations MA Public Policy and Administration Joint JD/MA Public Policy and Administration News More News Sep. 16, 2019 Baylor in Barbados BAYLOR in Barbados is the newest summer study abroad program at Baylor and the only based on an English speaking Caribbean island nation. Available for only twelve full-time Baylor students, Baylor in Barbados is a 5-week residential program housed at the University of West Indies, Cave Hill Campus. The program features weekend trips to Codrington College (the oldest Anglican Seminary school in the Western Hemisphere) and the Bellairs Research Institute (affiliated with McGill University of Montreal, Canada). The Cave Hill Campus lies just north of the capital, Bridgetown, in Saint Michael parish and is within walking distance of Batts Rock Beach. Baylor in Barbados combines rigorous classroom study, focusing on regional and issue-based topics in the Political Science / International Studies realm, with ample opportunity for cultural immersion and travel -- including multiple faculty-escorted day trips. Planned excursions include: a safari adventure, a visit to the Barbados parliament, an evening at the Oistins Fish Fry festival (food vendors and outdoor dancing), a historical tour of Bridgetown – including a meal at the George Washington House – and a “sandy places expedition” to sample a few of the islands many incredible beaches. Baylor in Barbados allows time for personal travel and the island of Barbados serves as a great rallying point -- after the course is over -- for family and friends to gather and continue one’s summertime Caribbean exploration. For more information click here! Contact: Dr. Curt Nichols Program Manager and Instructor curt_nichols@baylor.edu Read More Aug. 8, 2018 "What is America?" Conference From June 25-July 3, current and former graduate students in the Baylor University Political Science Department attended the twenty-third Jack Miller Center Summer Institute in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, “What is America?” Invited participants included Matthew Brogdon, assistant professor of political science at the University of Texas, San Antonio; Kevin Burns, assistant professor of political science at Christendom College; and Jordan Cash, Pre-Doctoral Research Specialist in the University of Virginia’s Program on Constitutionalism and Democracy. Among the prominent scholars who participated were Michael Zuckert (Notre Dame), James Ceaser (University of Virginia), Benjamin Kleinerman (Michigan State), Peter Onuf (University of Virginia), and Diana Schuab (Loyola University of Maryland). Read More Aug. 8, 2018 Baylor students attend Conference on “Moral Foundations of the American Constitutional Order” On June 11-15, Baylor graduate students from the Political Science Department attended the inaugural summer seminar on “The Moral Foundations of the American Constitutional Order” at Princeton University, co-sponsored by the James Madison Program in American Ideals and Institutions and the Witherspoon Institute. Among the topics covered were the historical approaches to the Founding, religion and the Founding, slavery, and common law. Participants came not only from the United States, but also the United Kingdom, Poland, and China. Baylor invitees were Joseph Griffith, Hannah Norman, Jordan Cash, and Debbie O’Malley. Next year Norman will be completing her second year in our doctoral program, Griffith will teach at the Rochester Institute of Technology, Cash will serve as Pre-Doctoral Research Specialist in the University of Virginia’s Program on Constitutionalism and Democracy, and O’Malley will serve as the inaugural Daniel Patrick Moynihan Postdoctoral Fellow at Assumption College. Read More Aug. 8, 2018 Dr. Elizabeth Amato Publishes Book Elizabeth S. Amato, who received her PhD from Baylor’s Department of Political Science in 2011, recently published “The Pursuit of Happiness and the American Regime: Political Theory in Literature” with Lexington Books (2018). Dr. Amato is an assistant professor of political science at Gardner-Webb University in Boiling Springs, North Carolina. She has also held a postdoctoral position at Michigan State University. She has published articles on Walker Percy (in A Political Companion to Walker Percy, the University of Kentucky Press) and on Tom Wolfe (Perspectives on Political Science). Read More Upcoming Events More Events Alumni Profiles More Profiles Deborah O'Malley Doctor of Philosophy Daniel Patrick Moynihan Postdoctoral Fellow Assumption College Deborah is the inaugural Daniel Patrick Moynihan Postdoctoral Fellow at Assumption College. Her research explores the source and scope of the rights of religious institutions in the American legal tradition. Read More Eric Fleury Doctor of Philosophy Asst. Professor College of the Holy Cross Eric is a a visiting assistant professor at College of the Holy Cross in Worcester, MA. He has taught courses on American Foreign Policy, International Relations, The Cold War, Terrorism, and Diplomacy. Read More Christine Basil Doctor of Philosophy Asst. Professor in the Honors College Belmont Abbey College Christine is an Assistant Professor in the Honors College at Belmont Abbey College. Read More Department of Political Science One Bear Place #97276 Waco,TX 76798-7276 (254) 710-3161 Make a Gift General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Us Contact Us News Events Undergraduate BA in Political Science Pre-Law Track BA in International Studies International Studies Course Descriptions Degree Requirements Scholarships Extracurriculars and Co-curriculars What Can I Do With This Major? Student Research Opportunities Criminal Justice Minor Internships Washington D.C. Internship Program Public Service Internship Program Bullock Scholars Program Course Descriptions Model United Nations Undergraduate Moot Court Past Accomplishments Graduate Requirements for Applying to Our Program Financial Aid Statement of Satisfactory Progress PhD in Political Science PhD Requirements Guidelines Toward the Completion of Your Doctoral Degree MA in International Relations MA in Public Policy and Administration Joint JD/MA of Public Policy and Administration Course Descriptions Graduate Awards Graduate Awards Dinner 2014 Graduate Awards Dinner 2015 Graduate Awards Dinner 2016 Graduate Awards Dinner 2017 Dissertations in Progress PhD Recipients and Placements People Office Hours Faculty & Staff Directory David Clinton Jenice Langston Melanie Pirelo Dwight Allman Steve Block David Bridge Timothy Burns Peter Campbell Jordan Cash Andrew Clayton Joanne Cummings Patrick Flavin Rebecca McCumbers Flavin Ivy Hamerly Richard Jordan Benjamin Kleinerman Sergiy Kudelia Alfred Mackenzie Curt Nichols Andi Ramon Ann Ward Lee Ward Graduate Faculty David Clinton Dwight Allman Timothy Burns Peter Campbell Jordan Cash Patrick Flavin Benjamin Kleinerman Curt Nichols Ann Ward Lee Ward Other Faculty David D. Corey Paul Marshall Victor Hinojosa Francis J. Beckwith Retired Faculty Linda Adams Gayle Avant Lyle Brown Joseph Brown James Curry Michael Mansfield William Mitchell David Nichols Mary P. Nichols Richard Riley Jerold Waltman Grad Student Directory Katherine Agnew Emma Bernstein Mary Craig Supun Dahal Gabrielle Etzel Brigid Flaherty Michael Gonzalez Elizabeth Goyette David Khan Stefan Koppert Spencer Krauss Shane Leary Angela Lin Mitchell Lock Elizabeth Wagner Lund Jason Lund Joseph Natali Hannah Norman-Krause Nolan Reisen Matthew Reising Miriel Reneau Chuck Roberts Isabelle Thelen Paul Weisser Matthew Wells Paul Vicars Alumni Profiles Rachel Alexander Jacob Boros Joshua Boucher Christine Basil Adam Carrington Olivia Carroll Clint Condra Catherine Craig Joe Griffith Marjorie Jeffrey Mary Mathie Deborah O'Malley Christopher Ruiz Jeremy Schmuck Mark Scully Ben Slomski Eric Fleury Rex Carr Corrie Harris Catherine Mathie Study Abroad Zavala Zavala Faculty Upcoming Events Past Events Summer Institute for Teachers