You may be trying to access this site from a secured browser on the server. Please enable scripts and reload this page. Turn on more accessible mode Turn off more accessible mode Skip Ribbon Commands Skip to main content Turn off Animations Turn on Animations Academic Resources Academic Calendar Academic Success BlueStar Campus Connect DePaul Central Desire2Learn (D2L) Email (Students/Faculty/Staff) University Catalog Library Campus Resources Campus Security Bookstore Campus Maps Events University Resources Directory Athletics Employment Sites A-Z Information For Alumni & Friends Current Students Faculty & Staff DePaul UniversityDePaul UniversitySchool of Continuing and Professional StudiesContinuing and Professional Studies DePaul Shortcuts Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Continuing Education Corporate Training Community College & Corporate Partnerships Corporate Training Registration Courses & Syllabi Combined Bachelor’s + Master’s Recent Office of Prior Learning Assessment About Academics Admission & Aid Faculty & Staff Student Resources Request Info Apply DePaul Shortcuts Academic Resources Academic Calendar Academic Success BlueStar Campus Connect DePaul Central Desire2Learn (D2L) Email (Students/Faculty/Staff) University Catalog Library Campus Resources Campus Security Bookstore Campus Maps Events University Resources Directory Athletics Employment Sites A-Z Information For Alumni & Friends Current Students Faculty & Staff Apply Online Request Info Visit Campus About Office of the Dean Strategic Plan News & Events Alumni Partnerships & Centers SCPS Distinctions Contact Us Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Continuing Education Community College & Corporate Partnerships Corporate Training Registration Courses & Syllabi Combined Bachelor’s + Master’s Office of Prior Learning Assessment Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Returning Students Tuition and Aid Scholarships Faculty & Staff Faculty Directory Faculty Resources Staff Directory Student Resources Undergraduate Resources Graduate Resources Request Info Apply Continuing Education Main Content Since 1972, DePaul has demonstrated its commitment to working professionals with innovative programs to support lifelong learning for adults. Whether you are completing your degree or looking to advance your career, DePaul has a program that fits, spanning a wide range of undergraduate degree, graduate degree and continuing education offerings. This is a sample of all undergraduate and graduate programs offered at DePaul. Request InfoApply Select InterestsAllBusinessCommunicationCommunity DevelopmentEducationFinanceHealthcareHuman ResourcesLawManagement & LeadershipMarketing & Public RelationsProject ManagementPublic ServiceScienceSocial ScienceTechnology Select EducationTypeAllBachelor'sMaster'sDoctoralCertificateSeminarWorkshopCourseCredential Select LocationAllOn-campusOnline Reset All Accountancy (Bachelor's) Close× The BS in Accountancy provides students a foundation of knowledge in management, finance, marketing, business law and technology, while preparing to sit for the CPA exam. Program Page Accountancy (Master's) Close× The MS in Accountancy student gains a solid understanding of a variety of business disciplines to be a proficient, industry-ready accountant. Program Page Adult-Gerontological Nurse Practitioner (Certificate) Close× The Adult-Gerontological Nurse Practitioner certificate is designed for registered nurses and provides the coursework and skills to sit for the certification exam. Program Page Advanced Data Science with Python (Certificate) Close× The Advanced Data Science with Python certificate covers advanced data science techniques using Python and how to apply them in different domains. Program Page Advanced Python (Certificate) Close× The Advanced Python certificate program covers principles of object-oriented programming (basic to advanced) and design patterns in Python. Program Page Advanced SQL (Certificate) Close× The Advanced SQL certificate program covers advanced Structured Query Language (SQL). Program Page Analytics (Certificate) Close× The Analytics certificate is to develop and improve technical and quantitative skills for the analysis of large datasets and gain experience using data-mining software. Program Page Applied Behavioral Sciences for Adult Students (Bachelor's) Close× The BA in Applied Behavioral Science for Adult Students is designed for students with an Associate's degree seeking a career in human services and other related fields. Program Page Applied Mathematics (Master's) Close× The MS in Applied Mathematics provides students the expertise to use various tools and methods to support quantitative analysis used for strategic decision-making. Program Page Applied Professional Studies for Adult Students (Master's) Close× The MA in Applied Professional Studies for Adult Students allows students to design and study personally-relevant topics not served by existing graduate programs. Program Page Applied Statistics (Master's) Close× The MS in Applied Statistics focuses on the ability to research, analyze, interpret data and also explores how to tackle problems of statistical design, analysis and control. Program Page Applied Statistics (Certificate) Close× The certificate in Applied Statistics program requires successful completion of six courses in Applied Statistics. Program Page Applied Technology for Adult Students (Master's) Close× The MS in Applied Technology for Adult Students deepens understanding and knowledge for improving the interface between technology and humanity in organizational systems. Program Page Artificial Intelligence for Enterprise (Certificate) Close× The Artificial Intelligence for Enterprise certificate program covers artificial intelligence for IT professionals and business leaders. Program Page Audit and Advisory Services (Master's) Close× The MS in Audit and Advisory Service provides students practical, advanced auditing skills to excel in a public accounting firm or corporate internal audit department. Program Page Automated Software Testing (Certificate) Close× The Automated Software Testing certificate program covers software testing strategies and tools as well as techniques for software test automation. Program Page Big Data and NoSQL (Certificate) Close× The Big Data and NoSQL certificate program covers popular NoSQL databases and how they fit with big data. Program Page Big Data Using Spark (Certificate) Close× The Big Data Using Spark certificate program covers Apache Spark and how it fits with Big Data. Program Page Biological Sciences (Bachelor's) Close× BS in Biological Sciences students take a year of introductory biology, a genetics course, a biostatistics course and offers students seven different concentrations. Program Page Building an Effective Marketing Plan (Certificate) Close× The Building an Effective Marketing Plan certificate program provides a review of the elements of marketing and examines how each element fits into the overall business plan. Program Page Business Administration (Bachelor's) Close× The BS in Business Administration offers a variety of courses, giving you the opportunity to learn about fields such as entrepreneurship, management, economics and marketing. Program Page Business Administration (Doctoral) Close× The Doctorate in Business Administration (DBA) prepares graduates with the skills and knowledge to accelerate career advancement in higher education or the corporate world. Program Page Business Administration (Master's) Close× The MBA program provides a transformational learning experience that develops the leadership skills you need to face the business challenges of tomorrow. Program Page Business Administration for Adult Students (Bachelor's) Close× The BA in Business Administration for Adult Students delivers knowledge and skills for corporate and nonprofit settings with a focus on managerial and supervisory positions. Program Page Business Analyst (Certificate) Close× The Business Analyst certificate studies policies, operations, and structure of an organization and prepares students for the Certified Business Analysis Professional exam. Program Page Business Information Technology (Master's) Close× The MS in Business Information Technology provides students the core principles of business and technology in corporations, health care institutions and government agencies. Program Page Business Writing and Grammar Essentials (Seminar) Close× The Business Writing and Grammar Essentials seminar features exercises to sharpen your grammar, punctuation, and word choices, so your writing will be more professional. Program Page Career Change (Certificate) Close× A 26-week program for career changers in technology provides the knowledge and skills to start as an entry-level programmer, full-stack developer, or similar position. Program Page Clinical Psychology (Doctoral) Close× The MA/PhD in Clinical Psychology is a combined degree for students intending to earn the PhD. The program emphasizes training in both scientific research and practice. Program Page Cloud Computing Technologies (Certificate) Close× The Cloud Computing Technologies certificate provides a high-level overview of the principles, methods, and technologies of cloud computing. Program Page Communication and Media (Bachelor's) Close× The BA in Communication and Media provides students the fundamental communication and critical thinking skills needed to enter jobs in the public, private and non-profit sectors. Program Page Community Development (Certificate) Close× The Community Development inter-disciplinary certificate program offers skills in organization planning, leadership development, and program evaluation. Program Page Computer and Information Sciences (Doctoral) Close× The PhD program in Computer and Information Sciences (CIS) offers an opportunity to pursue computing-related research that will advance state-of-the-art knowledge. Program Page Computer Science (Bachelor's) Close× The BS in Computer Science provides essential training in the foundations of computing, data storage and information processing. Program Page Computer Science (Master's) Close× MS in Computer Science graduates are excellent programmers, capable of programming front-end web and mobile applications, as well as back-end services. Program Page Computing for Adult Students (Bachelor's) Close× The BA in Computing for Adult Students is designed for students who seek to advance their careers in a range of fields involving computer and networking technologies. Program Page Consumer Behavior (Seminar) Close× The Consumer Behavior seminar explores the value of understanding consumer trends and techniques in ways that bring value to your business. Program Page Content Marketing Strategy (Certificate) Close× Content Marketing Strategy certificate provides brand, product, and service information before interaction with an organization to transform brand awareness into purchases. Program Page Counseling (Master's) Close× The MA/MEd in Counseling produces skilled leaders in three specialty areas, all accredited by the Council for Accreditation of Counseling and Educational Programs (CACREP). Program Page Criminology (Bachelor's) Close× The BA in Criminology provides students the analytical, research and organizational skills needed to improve the criminal legal system for both victims and offenders. Program Page Critical Ethnic Studies (Certificate) Close× The Critical Ethnic Studies Graduate certificate program introduces students to critical race theory and social movements through an intersectional approach. Program Page Curriculum Studies (Doctoral) Close× The PhD in Curriculum Studies prepares students to work for educational excellence and focuses on curriculum in the context of sociocultural and political environments. Program Page Customer Relationship Management (CRM) (Certificate) Close× The Customer Relationship Management certificate analyzes key decision variables of customer satisfaction and brand loyalty in B2C, B2B and B2B2C environments. Program Page Cybersecurity (Master's) Close× The MS in Cybersecurity prepares students to design, implement and maintain systems to support security policy and network architecture to mitigate risk and future attacks. Program Page Cybersecurity (Bachelor's) Close× The BS in Cybersecurity prepares students to manage an organization's computer, information and network security, and develop a solid information technology infrastructure. Program Page Data Analytics with Excel (Certificate) Close× The 6-week Data Analytics with Excel Program includes data preparation for analysis, work with Microsoft Excel?s advanced formulas, and use various data analysis techniques. Program Page Data Analytics with Excel and Tableau (Certificate) Close× The Data Analytics with Excel and Tableau certificate program covers advanced Microsoft Excel and Tableau for statistical modeling and data analytics. Program Page Data Science (Master's) Close× The MS in Data Science provides students with the technical knowledge and computational skills for a successful career in big data analytics. Program Page Data Science for Business (Certificate) Close× The Data Science for Business certificate program covers data science and big data principles and techniques for IT professionals and business decision-makers. Program Page Data Science: Programming with Python (Certificate) Close× The Data Science: Programming with Python certificate program covers Python language fundamentals and how to use Python for data analysis. Program Page Data Visualization with Tableau (Certificate) Close× The 5-week program covering data analytics and visualization with Tableau provides a comprehensive introduction to data analytics and visualization with Tableau. Program Page Decision Analytics for Adult Students (Bachelor's) Close× The BA in Decision Analytics for Adults provides students a foundation of knowledge in the collection, analysis and communication of complex and dynamic data sets. Program Page Developmental Therapist (Credential) Close× The Developmental Therapist credential coursework is for early childhood educators interested in working with very young children with disabilities and their families. Program Page DevOps (Certificate) Close× The DevOps certificate program covers DevOps and continuous delivery, for IT professionals and software developers. Program Page Digital Communication and Media Arts (Master's) Close× The MA in Digital Communication and Media Arts prepares students to use new technology to perform, persuade and communicate in a digital environment. Program Page Digital Humanities (Certificate) Close× The graduate certificate in Digital Humanities program provides hands-on knowledge and guided experience with DH projects, tools, and methods. Program Page Digital Marketing Fundamentals (Certificate) Close× Digital Marketing Fundamentals certificate teaches the terminology and strategy for internet search, web analytics, mobile marketing, social media, and digital advertising. Program Page Digital Marketing Strategy (Certificate) Close× The Digital Marketing Strategy certificate program teaches search engine marketing, social media, content marketing, and data analytics to optimize marketing activities. Program Page Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (Workshop) Close× The DEI workshop is designed for anyone who is currently active in today's labor force and is interested in practicing diversity, equity and inclusivity (DEI). Program Page Early Childhood Education (Master's) Close× MA/MEd in Early Childhood Education graduates can pursue an initial Illinois Teaching License (PEL) with an Early Childhood Education (birth?grade 2) endorsement. Program Page Educating Adults for Adult Students (Master's) Close× The MA/MEd in Educating Adults for Adult Students is designed for people working formally or informally in diverse settings, supporting the practice of adult learning. Program Page Educational Leadership (Doctoral) Close× The EdD in Educational Leadership focuses on the human, organizational, political, social and technical systems of educational institutions. Program Page Educational Leadership (Master's) Close× MA/MEd in Educational Leadership students learn to shape and inform policy, collaborate with stakeholders, build consensus, and be accountable for strategic outcomes. Program Page Effective Presentation and Communication Skills (Certificate) Close× The Effective Presentation and Communication Skills certificate teaches students skills and techniques to become more effective presenter by improving delivery skills. Program Page Elementary Education (Master's) Close× MA/MEd in Elementary Education graduates can pursue an initial Illinois Teaching License (PEL) with an Elementary Education (grades 1?6) endorsement. Program Page Emergency Management Administration (Certificate) Close× The Emergency Management Administration graduate certificate explores the conceptual elements of emergency preparedness and practical implementation of emergency management. Program Page Energy Policy and Management (Certificate) Close× Certificate program provides foundational knowledge about the global energy sector including energy policy, regulation, innovation and sustainability. Program Page Exceptionality (Certificate) Close× The four-course certificate in Exceptionality provides a foundation in Special Education to those interested to expand their understanding of various types of disabilities. Program Page Family Nurse Practitioner (Certificate) Close× The Family Nurse Practitioner certificate is designed for registered nurses and provides the coursework and skills needed to sit for the certification exam. Program Page Finance (Bachelor's) Close× The BA in Finance will provide students a solid foundation in financial management and an understanding of public and private financial processes and financial markets. Program Page Finance (Master's) Close× The MS in Finance prepares students to develop strategic financial objectives, improve investment decisions, manage corporate risk and seize new business opportunities. Program Page Finance and Accounting for Non-Financial Professionals (Course) Close× The Finance and Accounting for Non-financial Professionals course provides the basic tools and concepts of operational financial management and an overview of accounting methods. Program Page Financial Planning (Certificate) Close× The Financial Planning certificate program covers financial planning, including insurance, investments, income tax, retirement and employee benefits, and estate planning. Program Page Foundations in Human Resources (Certificate) Close× The Foundations in Human Resources certificate provides Human Resources knowledge to prepare for the Associate Professional in Human Resources (aPHR) certification exam. Program Page Fundamentals of R (Certificate) Close× The Fundamentals of R certificate focuses on developing an understanding of R, the R environment and relevant packages to promote student exploration of the R ecosystem. Program Page Geographic Information Systems (Certificate) Close× The Geographic Information Systems undergraduate and graduate certificate provides sophisticated education in GIS, remote sensing and cartography. Program Page Global Health (Certificate) Close× The Global Health graduate certificate prepares professionals to work with communities to prioritize and investigate health concerns to achieve lasting social change. Program Page GMAT Prep (Course) Close× The GMAT Prep course prepares students to succeed on the GMAT, the qualification exam for MBA programs. Program Page Google Analytics Certificate Prep (Course) Close× The Google Analytics Certificate Prep course prepares students to earn Google Analytics Certification. Program Page Governance, Risk Management, and Compliance (Certificate) Close× The Governance, Risk Management, and Compliance certificate focuses on enterprise-level information security risk management, IT audit and regulatory compliance. Program Page Grant Writing (Certificate) Close× The Grant Writing certificate program is designed for those seeking a thorough grounding in the art and science involved in writing successful grant proposals. Program Page Health Care Administration (Certificate) Close× The Health Care Administration certificate provides the skills to understand and influence the processes through which organizations provide health care opportunities. Program Page Health Care Compliance (Certificate) Close× The Health Care Compliance certificate provides an understanding of complex health care regulations and policies, as well as quality of care, fraud, waste and abuse issues. Program Page Health Informatics (Master's) Close× The MS in Health Informatics prepares students to implement and support IT solutions for health care services delivery and health information management. Program Page Health Law and Compliance - Dignity Health (Certificate) Close× The certificate in Health Law and Compliance, developed with Dignity Health, familiarizes healthcare professionals with the most significant principles in health law and policy. Program Page Health Sciences (Bachelor's) Close× The BS in Health Sciences prepares students for healthcare professions by combining biomedical instruction with an understanding of how societal factors impact health. Program Page Healthcare Administration for Adult Students (Bachelor's) Close× The BA in Healthcare for Adult Students is designed for working adults seeking to advance their careers in healthcare or redirect their careers to the healthcare area. Program Page Human Computer-Interaction (Master's) Close× The MS in Human-Computer Interaction prepares students to ideate, design, implement and evaluate information and communication technologies (ICTs) for end users. Program Page Human Resources (Master's) Close× The MS in Human Resources prepares graduates with the skills and knowledge to manage all core HR functions. Program Page Human Resources Competencies (Certificate) Close× The Human Resources Competencies course teaches knowledge the Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) believes prepares HR professionals for certification and success. Program Page IB Certificate MYP/DP (Course) Close× The IB four-part course provides a deep understanding of the International Baccalaureate (IB) curriculum and prepares participants for certification as IB educators. Program Page Information Systems (Master's) Close× The MS in Information Systems focuses on integrating business and technical emphasis on the development, management and planning of information systems. Program Page Information Technology (Bachelor's) Close× The BS in Information Technology provides skills related to the selection, creation, application, integration and administration of an organization's computing technologies. Program Page Integrated Marketing Communications (Certificate) Close× The Integrated Marketing Communications (IMC) certificate provides a comprehensive understanding of the fundamentals to build a communication strategy for your organization. Program Page International Baccalaureate Educator (Certificate) Close× The IB certificate provides a deep understanding of the International Baccalaureate (IB) curriculum and prepares participants for certification as IB educators. Program Page International Studies (Certificate) Close× The International Studies certificate is designed to provide students with key competencies in critical thinking, research and data gathering in international contexts. Program Page Introduction to SQL (Certificate) Close× The Introduction to SQL certificate program provides an in-depth introduction to Structured Query Language (SQL). Program Page iOS Developer (Certificate) Close× The iOS Developer certificate program covers iOS development for Apple devices, including iPhone and iPad, for IT professionals and software developers. Program Page Jacobs and Stone Multichannel Marketing (Certificate) Close× The Jacobs and Stone Multichannel Marketing certificate program teaches the latest strategies, tools and techniques in direct, interactive, digital and database marketing. Program Page Josei Toda's Educational Philosophy and Practice (Course) Close× Josei Toda's Educational Philosophy and Practice course introduces students to the biography, educational ideas, practices and addresses key terms in the Toda pedagogy. Program Page Journalism (Master's) Close× The MA in Journalism graduate receives not only an academic understanding of journalism but also gains a solid professional network and robust portfolio to show employers. Program Page Labor Leadership (Certificate) Close× The six-course certificate program develops the skills to engage in enforcement of contractual and labor law, arbitration, organizing, bargaining practices and strategies. Program Page Language Proficiency (Certificate) Close× The Language Proficiency certificate offers intermediate and advanced language proficiency to compete in today?s global workplace. Program Page Law (Doctoral) Close× The Juris Doctor (JD) prepares students for legal practice with theoretical instruction for cutting edge legal problems and creative approaches to practical skills training. Program Page Leadership Studies for Adult Students (Bachelor's) Close× The BA in Leadership Studies for Adult Students focuses on effective leadership, communication, change management, the role of technology and globalization in governance. Program Page Logistics and Supply Chain Management (Certificate) Close× The Logistics and Supply Chain Management certificate provides knowledge to improve company performance and prepare for the APICS Certified Supply Chain Professional exam. Program Page LSAT Prep (Course) Close× The LSAT Prep course covers the four major components of the Law School Admission Test (LSAT), the required exam for people planning to apply to law school. Program Page Machine Learning and Deep Learning (Certificate) Close× The Machine Learning and Deep Learning certificate program covers machine learning and deep learning for IT professionals. Program Page Management (Master's) Close× The MS in Management provides a thorough understanding of management theory and techniques to successfully lead, manage and implement change in a wide range of organizations. Program Page Management (Bachelor's) Close× The BS in Management program provides an overview of business operations, including techniques to strategically align the human, technology and financial assets of a firm. Program Page Management Information Systems (Bachelor's) Close× The BS in Management Information Systems provides students both the business and technological foundations of information systems management. Program Page Marketing (Master's) Close× The MS in Marketing program focuses on marketing strategy, consumer trends and data analysis, and business communications through the use of hands-on marketing scenarios. Program Page Marketing (Bachelor's) Close× The BS in Marketing deepens understanding of how marketing delivers value to customers and businesses including analyzing and solving market problems. Program Page Marketing Return on Investment (ROI) (Seminar) Close× Marketing Return on Investment (ROI) seminar teaches ways to define and use ROI to solve business problems and ensure that marketing investments are measurable. Program Page Master of Jurisprudence (Master's) Close× The Master of Jurisprudence (MJ) program is for professionals who do not seek to practice law, but encounter legal issues and would benefit from specialized legal knowledge. Program Page Master's Entry to Nursing Practice (Master's) Close× The Masters Entry to Nursing Practice (MENP) program is for college graduates who want to become nurses. Graduates are eligible for the RN licensure examination (NCLEX-RN). Program Page Mathematics for Community College Teaching (Certificate) Close× The Certificate in Mathematics for Community College Teaching is to fortify the MAMEd degree for students who wish to teach at the community college level. Program Page Metropolitan Planning and Development (Certificate) Close× The Metropolitan Planning and Development Graduate Certificate program provides students with a perspective on the institutions of municipal and metropolitan planning. Program Page Modern .NET Web Development (Certificate) Close× The Modern .NET Web Development certificate program covers web development with Microsoft .NET technologies. Program Page MS-Business Analytics (Master's) Close× The MS in Business Analytics provides students the necessary techniques to turn complex data into solutions that drive business decisions for a wide range of industries. Program Page Negotiation Strategies and Skills (Certificate) Close× The Negotiation Strategies and Skills certificate teaches the theory and practice of successful negotiations and conflict resolution to achieve desired outcome. Program Page Network Engineering and Security (Master's) Close× The MS in Network Engineering and Security trains professionals to meet industry demands for innovative network designs. Program Page Network Engineering and Security (Bachelor's) Close× The BS in Network Engineering and Security focuses on the theory and practice of designing, deploying and managing both wired and wireless networks technologies. Program Page Nonprofit Management (Master's) Close× The Master of Nonprofit Management (MNM) prepares students for leadership position in the nonprofit world or even ready them to start their own nonprofit organization. Program Page Nonprofit Management for Adult Students (Bachelor's) Close× The BA in Nonprofit Management for Adult Students builds knowledge and skills for application in nonprofit settings, especially within supervisory and managerial positions. Program Page Nursing - RN to MS (Master's) Close× The RN to MS provides registered nurses the skills and credentials needed to become a nurse administrator, nurse educator or nurse practitioner. Program Page Nursing Practice (Doctoral) Close× The Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) program gives students the leadership, business and research skills to work with health care providers, administrators and researchers. Program Page Paralegal Studies (Certificate) Close× The Paralegal Studies certificate program is a rigorous program focusing on the practical skills and legal fundamentals needed to succeed as a paralegal. Program Page Parent-Child Interaction Therapy Level 1 Training (Workshop) Close× This workshop introduces the skills of Level I Trainers (L1T) for Parent-Child Interaction Therapy, a nationally recognized, evidence-based parent management program. Program Page Practical Internet Marketing (Certificate) Close× The Practical Internet Marketing certificate is a hands-on program that covers the best practices of internet marketing for small businesses and nonprofits. Program Page Predictive Analytics (Certificate) Close× The Predictive Analytics certificate program provides working knowledge of application and interpretation of advanced techniques used in the field of predictive analytics. Program Page Professional Business Writing (Certificate) Close× The Professional Business Writing certificate is designed to improve business writing skills and teach how to write more effectively. Program Page Professional in Human Resources (Certificate) Close× The Professional in Human Resources certificate prepares for the Professional in Human Resources (PHR) and Senior Professional in Human Resources (SPHR) certification exam. Program Page Project Management (Certificate) Close× The Project Management certificate explores the complete project management life cycle, from project initiation, planning, executing, monitoring, controlling and closing. Program Page Project Management Graduate (Certificate) Close× The Project Management graduate certificate uses a cross-disciplinary approach to explore the appropriate development methodology to assure a successful IT implementation. Program Page Psychology (BA) (Bachelor's) Close× The BA in Psychology is for students to learn psychological theories and research methodologies, as well as gain an understanding of both scientific and applied psychology. Program Page Psychology (BS) (Bachelor's) Close× The BS in Psychology program is for students that desire to gain a deeper scientific understanding of psychology, studying neuroscience, or pursue a pre-health career path. Program Page Public Administration (Master's) Close× The Master of Public Administration (MPA) provides management skills for public sector leadership including organizational leadership, finance and public policy design. Program Page Public Health (Master's) Close× The Master of Public Health (MPH) provides a collaborative, applied approach to public health, focusing on health promotion and disease prevention to vulnerable populations. Program Page Public Policy (Master's) Close× The Master of Public Policy gives students the skills, experience and analytical tools to shape governmental policies that influence our local, regional and national agendas. Program Page Public Relations and Advertising (Bachelor's) Close× The BA in Public Relations and Advertising provides students a solid understanding of public relations and advertising theories and practices. Program Page Public Relations and Advertising (Master's) Close× The MA in Public Relations and Advertising prepares students for public relations, advertising and communications fields with a focus on digital, social and traditional media. Program Page Public Relations Essentials in a Digital World (Certificate) Close× The Public Relations Essentials in a Digital World certificate provides the foundation to create the most effective campaigns for driving sales and satisfying customers. Program Page Public Service Management (Master's) Close× The Master of Public Service Management provides broad-based management skills needed by nonprofit, governmental agencies, higher education and the health care industry. Program Page Publishing (Certificate) Close× The Certificate in Publishing can broaden and strengthen the preparation of graduate and students-at-large seeking to work in the publishing industry. Program Page Real Estate (Master's) Close× The MS in Real Estate delivers the skills necessary to launch or enhance a career in real estate investment analysis and finance including projects with Chicago companies. Program Page Recreation and Sport Management (Bachelor's) Close× The BA in Recreation and Sports Management provides an understanding of leisure services management and leadership to manage recreation and sports organizations. Program Page Robotic Process Automation (Certificate) Close× An 11-week program designed to help professionals understand how to accelerate efforts at transforming their businesses digitally using Robotic Process Automation (RPA). Program Page Search Engine Marketing (Certificate) Close× The Search Engine Marketing certificate deepens understanding of online search strategies and techniques used to drive traffic to company websites for profit and growth. Program Page Search Engine Optimization (SEO) (Seminar) Close× The Search Engine Optimization (SEO) seminar provides an overall understanding of the search engine landscape and Search Engine Optimization (SEO). Program Page Secondary Education (Master's) Close× MA/MEd in Secondary Education graduates can pursue an initial Illinois Teaching License (PEL) with Secondary Education (grades 5-12) endorsement in nine content areas. Program Page Six Sigma Black Belt (Certificate) Close× The Six Sigma Black Belt certificate program provides the training that prepares experienced Six Sigma practitioners for a Black Belt certificate. Program Page Six Sigma Green Belt (Certificate) Close× The Six Sigma program is designed for professionals who want to develop the ability to lead a disciplined, data-driven approach to eliminating defects in any process. Program Page Social and Cultural Foundations in Education (Certificate) Close× The Social and Cultural Foundations in Education certificate is for graduate students to study the foundations of education and educational policy from critical perspectives. Program Page Social Media Marketing (Seminar) Close× The Social Media Marketing seminar teaches how to use "social media" to enhance your business or career and gain a better understanding of the benefits of social media. Program Page Social Media Marketing (Certificate) Close× The Social Media Marketing certificate teaches the fundamentals of social media marketing including integrating social networks into digital and offline marketing programs. Program Page Social Research (Certificate) Close× The Social Research graduate certificate familiarizes students with the choices they can make in designing social science research and help with research tools selection. Program Page Social Work (Master's) Close× The Master of Social Work (MSW) prepares students for advanced social work, with attention to professional ethics, respect for human rights and the dignity of all people. Program Page Software Engineering (Master's) Close× The MS in Software Engineering focuses on the processes, methodologies, techniques, and tools of developing high-quality software systems in a cost-effective manner. Program Page Special Education (Master's) Close× MA/MEd in Special Education graduates can pursue an initial Illinois Teaching License (PEL) or an add on LBS1 endorsement. Program Page SQL Server Business Intelligence (Certificate) Close× The SQL Server Business Intelligence certificate program covers analysis services, integration services, and reporting services using Microsoft SQL Server 2019. Program Page SQL Server Database Administration (Certificate) Close× The SQL Server Database Administration certificate program covers database administration using Microsoft SQL Server 2019. Program Page Strategic Writing and Advancement for Nonprofits (Certificate) Close× The Strategic Writing and Advancement for Nonprofits graduate certificate is designed for entry or advancement in the nonprofit marketing and communication industry. Program Page Sustainable Urban Food Systems (Certificate) Close× Sustainable Urban Food Systems graduate certificate students study policies, theories and practices contributing to current developments in sustainable urban food systems. Program Page Taxation (Master's) Close× The MS in Taxation is structured to enhance understanding and analysis of complex tax statutes, tax regulations, related cases and rulings, and the Internal Revenue Code. Program Page Teaching English in Two-Year Colleges (Certificate) Close× The Teaching English in Two-Year Colleges graduate certificate is to prepare prospective teachers of introductory English and Humanities in community college settings Program Page Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL) (Certificate) Close× The Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages graduate certificate prepares students to teach English as a Second Language (ESL) to adult learners. Program Page Translation and Interpreting (Certificate) Close× Translation and Interpreting undergraduate certificate students can choose from one of two tracks: Translation or Interpreting. Program Page Value-Creating Education for Global Citizenship (Certificate) Close× This certificate program is designed for individuals who are interested in studying value-creating education for global citizenship without the need for a full degree. Program Page Virtual Exchange Design and Implementation (Course) Close× The Virtual Exchange Design and Implementation course trains professors to implement virtual exchange projects in their classes to reach a larger population of students. Program Page Web Development with JavaScript and HTML5 (Certificate) Close× The Web Development with JavaScript and HTML5 certificate program is focused on user-centered Web development. Program Page Women's and Gender Studies (Certificate) Close× The Women's and Gender Studies graduate certificate program is available both to non-degree seeking students and to students in other DePaul graduate degree programs. Program Page School of Continuing and Professional Studies 14 E. Jackson, Suite 1400 Chicago, IL 60604 (312) 362-8001 SCPS@depaul.edu ApplyRequest InfoVisit 2001-2018 DePaul University | Disclaimer | Contact Us | Emergency Plan | Consumer Information | IBHE Complaints | Privacy StatementEditor Login Continuing Education