Skip to content marquette.edu // Search // Contacts // A-Z Index Marquette UniversityDiederich College of Communication Diederich College of Communication ABOUT About Dean's Welcome Departments Diederich Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion Diederich Legacy Jobs Initiatives C-Lead Diederich Drop-In Diederich Experience Foley Safety Training Los Angeles Alumni Mentor and Network Program (MECA) The MIC MKE Neighborhood News Service O'Brien Fellowship Urban Journalism Workshop Wakerly Media Lab ACADEMICS Undergraduate Programs Academic Policies Course Listings Curriculum Pre-Law Scholars Program Study Abroad Undergraduate Forms Undergraduate Majors At A Glance Undergraduate Minors At A Glance Majors Advertising Communication Studies Corporate Communication Digital Media Journalism Film and Media Studies Public Relations Strategic Communication [Online] Theatre Arts Graduate Degrees and Programs Graduate Programs Accelerated Degree Program Admission Requirements Tuition and Financial Aid Top Graduate Student Work Online Forms STUDENTS Prospective Students Start Here Admissions Undergraduate Majors Undergraduate Minors Graduate Programs Transfer Students Scholarships Visit Us Apply Undergraduate Students Current Students Dean's Awards Diederich Experience Graduation Honors & Awards Internships Mentor Program Scholarships Student Media Student Organizations Undergraduate Advising Get all the information you need on advising, academic policies, forms, and registration. Graduate Students Visit the communication graduate studies homepage for program requirements, essential forms and to check out the work of your colleagues. DIRECTORY Faculty / Staff Directory Graduate Assistants Directory Part-Time Faculty Directory Full-Time Faculty, About Dean's Awards - Faculty and Staff ALUMNI College Alumni Association Alumni Spotlight Graduate Alumni Profiles Alumni Mentor Program Los Angeles Alumni Mentor and Network Program (MECA) Marquette University Alumni Association EVENTS / PRODUCTIONS Events Axthelm Lecture Burleigh Lecture Nieman Lecture Guest Speakers Scholarship Week and Symposium MUSIC PERFORMANCES Spring 2022 performance schedule THEATRE ARTS PERFORMANCES 2021-22 Theatre Arts season STUDENT WORK Find Your Way Learn what a degree in communication can do for you Student Work From strategic thinking to artistic development Johnston Hall Future technology in an historic building Faculty Dedicated to Student Success We're glad you're here Welcome to the Diederich College of Communication, a college dedicated to the advancement of communication research and education through creativity, connectivity, and diversity—creating collaborative relationships for the greater good. Celebrating the Class of 2022: Eren Goes West The Class of 2022 is moving on to their next chapters! Eren Joyce is graduating with a double major in digital media and writing-intensive English. After internships with Discovery World, HBO Max, and Hivemind, they have secured a prestigious internship with the Television Academy (the people who bring you the Emmys), working with the Jim Henson Company in Los Angeles this summer. "I like to describe creative development work as everything you need to do to get a creative work — whether it be a TV show, film, or something else entirely — ready for public consumption…To me, it seemed like the perfect marriage of my two majors." Diederich College News and Events June Events 7-8: SPARK Session 1 12-13: SPARK Session 2 14-15: SPARK Session 3 16-17: SPARK Session 4 28-30: Urban Journalism Workshop 20-21: SPARK Session 5 "Diffraction" is Seeking Extras for Full-Length Film Four Journalists Selected as 2022-2023 O'Brien Fellows Kris Holodak Featured on IWL's Research Spotlight Diederich College Honors Academic Achievements Tracey Sturgal wins Teaching Excellence Award Applications for the Emerging Filmmakers Fellowship Open until April 1, 2022 Quick Links Apply Today: Undergraduate Programs Apply Today: Graduate Programs Academic Advising Prospective Students College Majors Graduate Studies Commencement 2022 Internships College Visits Virtual and/ or in-person visits hosted daily for future students and their families. For more information, contact Melissa Econom at (414) 288-4613. CONNECT WITH US: Tweets by MUCollegeofComm PROBLEM WITH THIS WEBPAGE? Report an accessibility problem To report another problem, please contact cailin.hostad@marquette.edu. Arts at Marquette The College of Communication is the proud home of several arts programs, including dance, film, music and theatre. One College. Eight Majors. Students learn a variety of strategic and creative skill in our broad curriculum. Earn Two Degrees in Five Years. Learn about the requirements for our accelerated bachelors-masters program. Location Marquette University 1131 W. Wisconsin Ave. Milwaukee, WI 53233 Phone: (414) 288-7133 Key Resources Campus contacts Campus map Contact us Search marquette.edu eMarq CheckMarq D2L MyJob MARQUETTE A to Z ABCDEFGHIJKLM NOPQRSTUVWXYZ Privacy Policy Legal Disclaimer Non-Discrimination Policy Accessible Technology © 2022 Marquette University ©