Skip to main content Clemson University Degrees Home Degree Programs MENU Performing Arts (B.A.) LEARN MORE ABOUT If your talent, passion and goals are in music, theatre or audio technology, you will find your place here at Clemson. Your course of study, education and professional training will offer you the time and opportunity to explore your path — whether it is on stage, behind the scenes or in teaching or administration. As a performing arts major, you will receive the expert instruction and hands-on experience you need to move ahead in your career and engage in your craft. Come reach your potential and push your limits as part of Clemson's collaborative community of professors, students and professional artists. FAST FACTS The Brooks Center serves as a professional roadhouse, recital hall, classroom and laboratory — all rolled into one beautiful performing arts venue. Regardless of whether your focus is music, theatre or audio technology, you'll study and gain experience in all three areas. A degree in performing arts will prepare you for a career in many aspects of the arts, from behind the scenes to center stage. Clemson's performing arts faculty are nationally recognized for their work and deeply involved in their professional fields. You'll have opportunities to study and work alongside visiting performers and professionals from nationally touring productions. WHAT YOU'LL STUDY Whether you aspire to a career in audio, music or theatre, you'll enroll in a set of core classes that give you the tools to be successful in a wide variety of performing arts professions. Our customized course of study, culture of performance excellence and tradition of small class size combine to make you a vital partner in your education. Audio Technology Concentration Using the Brooks Theatre as your laboratory, you'll learn about recording techniques, live sound reinforcement and music technology. You'll gain professional experience as you record concerts and run sound for events and shows. In your senior year, you'll produce a CD of your own work. Music Concentration Tailor your studies to suit your needs and aspirations. Study performance, music theory, music history, music technology and arts administration. Choose from more than 20 performing ensembles to develop your talent and gain experience. Take advantage of private lessons available to every vocal student and instrumentalist. Theatre Concentration Our actors design, our writers act and our directors write. So whether you decide to specialize in writing, design, acting or directing, you'll know and understand all aspects of theatre. You'll also get to experience a wide range of performances and plays - from classical to contemporary - emphasizing both the production values and thematic/structural diversity of new works. Curriculum Performing Arts: Audio Technology Concentration, B.A. Performing Arts: Music Concentration, B.A. Performing Arts: Theatre Concentration, B.A. Popular Minors Entrepreneurship Film Studies Writing Similar Majors Communication (B.A.) English (B.A.) EXPERIENCES BEYOND THE CLASSROOM Majoring in performing arts at Clemson makes the stage your classroom. But offstage, Clemson students get numerous opportunities to build sets, participate in internships, join ensembles and expand their range with vocal and acting coaches. Video Let some of our students tell you why they value their Clemson performing arts education.Learn More » Performing The Brooks Center for the Performing Arts is a living performing arts laboratory where visiting artists and industry professionals provide hands-on, behind-the-scenes learning experiences for all performing arts students. Learn More » Theatres The Brooks Center includes a 968-seat proscenium theatre that serves as the main stage, a 100-seat black box theatre and a 100-seat recital room. National tours of "Hairspray," "Avenue Q" and "Spamalot" have recently performed here. Ensembles With more than 25 ensembles to choose from, we have a place for you to express your passion for performing. Opportunities include choral ensembles, instrumental music ensembles, the Clemson Players, Tiger Band and the University Dance Company. Learn More » Intern The Department of Performing Arts has partnerships with arts organizations that offer internships to performing arts students. These include the Eugene O'Neill Theatre Center, Spoleto Festival USA, Walt Disney Company and Worklight Productions. Lessons The Department of Performing Arts offers private music lessons to all students attending Clemson. Private instruction is offered in a wide variety of instruments as well as voice. CONNECT WITH OTHER STUDENTS Performing Arts Student Council Ensembles and Groups Creative Inquiry AFTER GRADUATION Your college decision isn't really about the next four years. We get it. It's about what doors are opened by your degree and whether those opportunities are what you had envisioned for yourself. Here's a snapshot of what life after graduation looks like for some of our most recent students. WHERE OUR RECENT GRADUATES HAVE GONE KEY 41-100% 21-40% 11-20% 0-10% RECENT EMPLOYERS Wardrobe Supervisor Norwegian Cruise Line Manager of Patron Services and Hospitality Berkshire Theatre Group Songwriter Silvercreek Records Project Manager Berklee College of Music Audio Technician Work Light Productions RECENT POSTGRADUATE STUDIES M.A. Communication: Producing Film, Television and Video American University MFA Sound Design Savannah College of Art and Design Master of Sport and Entertainment Management University of South Carolina M.A. Music Education New York University Steinhardt Doctor of Music Florida State University COMMON CAREER AREAS Theatre Performing Writing and Literary Management Directing Dramaturgy Touring Show Technician Stage Management Talent Agent Design Sets Lighting Costumes Sound Box Office Music Education Performing Conducting Composing and Arranging Music Libraries Broadcasting Administration and Management Sales Audio Technology Analysis Recording Engineer Editing Composing Sound Design Sound Reinforcement Mixing and Production Sound Restoration Management FIND OUT MORE Have more questions or want more information? Fill out the form below, which goes directly to the following department contact. If you’d also like to receive general University information from Clemson’s admissions office, please follow the link to the right and sign up to join our mailing list. Jessica Garcia Recruiter jgarci6@clemson.edu Department Website College Website Loading... Department Website College Website Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2015 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on Google+ Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on YouTube Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram Search Clemson University degrees Clemson Degree Programs Search Alphabetical List Schedule a Visit Campus Life Admissions Costs & Financial Aid Similar Majors To Performing Arts (B.A.) Communication (B.A.) English (B.A.)