Skip To Main Content LIBRARY ONLINE SERVICES DIRECTORY MAPS CALENDAR SEARCH Box About Cal Poly Pomona Cal Poly Pomona Overview Visitor Information Campus Maps & Tours News Events Administration Annual Security Report Campus Safety Plan Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions International Admissions Continuing Education Admissions Military & Veterans Admissions Financial Aid & Scholarships Student Accounts & Fees Outreach, Recruitment, & Educational Partnerships Academics Colleges & Departments Majors & Degrees University Catalog & Academic Schedules University Library Research Academic Resources Registrar Campus Life Student Services Student Activities Recreation & Fitness Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Diversity Calendars & Events Campus Safety & Emergency Info Athletics Visit Athletics Website Alumni Visit Alumni Website Giving Why Give Ways to Give Where to Give close expanded menu Slideshow This slideshow contains 5 slides that will change every 8 seconds. The first button is to play and pause the slideshow, followed by buttons to go to the previous slide, next slide, or choose individual slides. ❚❚Pause ▶Play 1 2 3 4 5 Commencement Rooftop view of the 2017 commencement ceremony First Day Students going to the bookstore on the first day of classes Strategic Planning Dr. Alva presenting at a town hall presentation The Collins College of Hospitality Management A taste of the college College of Business Administration Students attending a lecture at the CBA complex. Academic Affairs The Office of the Provost Provost's Bio Provost's Team The Division of Academic Affairs Faculty & Staff Resources Domestic State Travel International Travel HR Actions Academic Manual Forms Awards & Recognitions Open Positions Planning and Accountability Strategic Plan Academic Master Plan College Annual Reports Academic Program Indicators Bronco Interactive Dashboards (BID) Program Assessment and Review Institutional Research & Academic Resources Priorities and Initiatives Newsletter - Academic Affairs Corner Meetings (Upcoming Events) Past Events Contact & Location Feedback Form Academic Affairs The Division of Academic Affairs encompasses a wide array of activities and functions in support of the academic mission of the university. Cal Poly Pomona takes great pride in our continuing efforts to sustain excellence in undergraduate and graduate education and is especially proud that U.S. News & World Report's 2017 "America's Best Colleges" listed Cal Poly Pomona among the best public universities in the Western United States - tying for eighth place among non-doctorate-granting institutions. Mission of Academic Affairs – Central Offices Academic Affairs Central Offices provide leadership and support to faculty, staff, and students in the pursuit of excellence in undergraduate and graduate education and scholarly activity. The Central Offices fulfill this mission by: Providing services to support students in reaching their academic goals. Facilitating the professional development of faculty in all phases of their careers as teacher-scholars. Building and enhancing an international perspective. Advancing a culture of civic engagement. Assisting faculty and staff in obtaining external support for their professional activities. Facilitating program innovation, assessment, and review. Providing data and analytic support to guide planning and decision-making. Administering financial, physical, and technological resources, and working on matters of shared governance with the Academic Senate and other constituencies. University Mission, Vision, and Values Division of Academic Affairs The Office of the Provost Colleges University Library Academic Planning, Policy and Faculty Affairs Academic Programs Academic Research and Resources Office of Research Office of Student Success Contact Us Accessibility Jobs A-Z Index Ask Billy Title IX Privacy Safety & Emergency Info Change Your Password eHelp Feedback Document Readers Email MyCPP BroncoDirect Canvas © California State Polytechnic University, Pomona All Rights Reserved