COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Communication Sciences and Disorders, Doctorate DoctorateCommunication Sciences and Disorders All Programs College of Health Professions Communication Sciences and Disorders A Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) program in communication sciences and disorders from Wichita State will prepare you to function professionally as an independent researcher, teacher-scholar in an academic setting or as a program administrator. Individualized doctoral programs of study, mentoring by nationally and internationally recognized faculty, and specialized practica are combined to help you develop optimal research and teaching skills. Learn how Communication Sciences and Disorders is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program Consideration for program admission requires: Application for admission to the WSU Graduate School, including official transcripts from all institutions attended; and either MA and AuD only: Application to the Communication Sciences and Disorders Centralized Application Service (CSDCAS) including all transcripts, letters of recommendation and supporting documents; or PhD only: Submit supporting documents directly to the WSU CSD department. Admission requirements Inside the Program CSD students participate in CLARION Interprofessional National Competition Each year CSD students participate in the prestigious CLARION Interprofessional Competition, a national competition dedicated to improving health care through interprofessional collaboration. Student teams are given a case and charged with creating a feasible 360-degree, interprofessional plan to address a specific health care issue. Students work as part of an interdisciplinary team and present their research to a panel of interprofessional judges. Curriculum The doctoral program offers several degree tracks depending on whether a student has a bachelor's degree or graduate degree. View the curriculum Careers A degree in communication sciences and disorders from Wichita State will put you on the path toward a high-paying, high-demand career in postsecondary education. Audiologists and speech-language-pathologists with a Ph.D. can also find employment in a wide range of settings from local schools and clinics to large health care facilities. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Communication Sciences and Disorders (Master's) Audiology (Doctorate) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©