Dance Education Skip to content Skip to primary navigation Skip to search box Skip to admissions quick links Skip to secondary navigation Skip to breadcrumb TC Menu Search for people, news & websites Go Resource Links Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Columbia Library myTC Directory Apply Now Request Info Search Bar Primary Navigation About Academics Admission & Aid Faculty & Research News Give to TC Dance Education Secondary Navigation Main Degrees & Requirements Courses Faculty News Secondary Navigation More About Visionary Benefactor Current Students Meet our students TC Arts & Humanities Dance Education Carousel Choose Your Path Whether you want to focus on teacher education, leadership and policy, movement sciences, or craft your own interdisciplinary specialization, our doctoral program in Dance Education has a research path for you. Click Here to Learn About Our Degree Ed.D. Student Patricia Dye, Photography by Jaqlin Medlock In Your Program You will learn from our renowned faculty across the College as well as the rich and extensive dance education community in New York City and beyond. Click Here to View Our Faculty Ed.D. Student Heather Dougherty, Photography by Jaqlin Medlock See Your Future Lead the next generation and advocate for dance in all education contexts. Click Here to Learn More About Us Ed.D. Student Pascal Rekoert, Photography by Jaqlin Medlock Arnhold Institute As the core training ground for doctoral students, learn how to research in a community of scholars committed to equity, inclusion and excellence in dance education. Click here to Learn About the Institute Photography by Jaqlin Medlock Welcome to the Dance Education program The EdD in Dance Education doctoral program at Teachers College affirms dance as an essential form of embodied experience that shapes learning across diverse global contexts. Through dance education experiences people of all ages imagine, create, think critically, collaborate, understand culture, shape identity, and communicate meaning about human experiences. Our doctoral community welcomes experienced dance educators who celebrate many dance traditions and aim to transform the next generation of dance education through impactful work with adult stakeholders in the field. In preparing doctoral students as teacher educators, researchers, and leaders, our core mission is to cultivate educational experts that forge new pathways in dance education that are accessible, inclusive, equitable, and excellent for all learners. Our doctoral students are interested in educating K-12 dance educators, classroom teachers, teaching artists, studio dance educators, college students, university instructors, as well as administrators and policy makers. As researchers, our doctoral students examine a wide range of educational issues impacting underrepresented sectors of the field, such as K-12 urban education, community college learners, and university dance teacher preparation for example. During integrated course-work, we critically examine historical assumptions and contemporary contexts, engage in collaborative dialogue and discourse, and enact socially just practices and policies. “Dance for All” has been the core philosophical identity at Teachers College for over 100 years. Nested in the arts mecca of the world, the doctoral program brings together renowned faculty from across the college with the vibrant dance community of New York City. Teachers College is recognized by scholars as a primary incubator for the development of dance education as a field in PK-12 schools and universities and it has played a principal role in cultivating and empowering dance education leaders since the early 1900s. As the nation’s premier institution in the teaching of teachers in all fields, Teachers College is the ideal place to earn a doctorate in dance education and to join the legacy of dance education leadership. Learn More Upcoming Event Pioneering Visions for Access and Equity in Dance Education Thursday, April 8, 2021 5:30-8:30 PM EST The inaugural Arnhold Insitute symposium looks to seminal black histories, that though they have largely been ignored have shaped the field of Dance and Dance Education at Teachers College and beyond. Learn More Forge Your Path Click the image below to watch a video about the Dance Education Program Stories View As View as grid View as list For admissions, please contact ahadmission@tc.columbia.edu Admissions Information /media/media-library-2018/images/program-admissions-info-boxes/resized-Admission-Info-4-lg-1.jpg|/media/media-library-2018/images/program-admissions-info-boxes/resized-Admission-Info-5-lg.jpg|/media/media-library-2018/images/program-admissions-info-boxes/resized-Admission-Info-1-lg.jpg|/media/media-library-2018/images/program-admissions-info-boxes/resized-Admission-Info-3-lg-1.jpg|/media/media-library-2018/images/program-admissions-info-boxes/resized-Admission-Info-2-lg.jpg|/media/media-library-2018/images/program-admissions-info-boxes/resized-Admission-1-lg-1.jpg Application Requirements Dance Education Doctor of Education Fund Your Degree Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Request Info Apply Now × Dance Education Doctor of Education Major Code: DANC Points/Credits: 90 Entry Terms: Fall Only Application Deadlines Spring: N/A Summer/Fall (Priority): January 5 Summer/Fall (Final): April 1 * Deadline for Fall 2022 extended to June 1. Supplemental Application Requirements/Comments * Online Degree Application, including Statement of Purpose and Resume Transcripts and/or Course-by-Course Evaluations for all Undergraduate/Graduate Coursework Completed Results from an accepted English Proficiency Exam (if applicable) $65 Application Fee Two (2) Letters of Recommendation Academic Writing Sample Portfolio required (included in online application) Must hold Master's degree Academic background in dance (undergraduate and/or graduate degree) or professional dance performance/teaching experience required * Additional information and requirements from the program are listed on the Degrees & Requirements page. View Degree Page Contact Us Program Director: Dr. Barbara Bashaw Teachers College, Columbia University 334-J Horace Mann Phone: 212-678-4168 Email: danceed@tc.columbia.edu Contact Us Teachers College, Columbia University 525 West 120th Street New York, NY 10027 Tel: +1 (212) 678-3000 Map & Directions Directory Ask a Question Resources Admission & Aid Student Life Courses Academic Calendar Office of the Registrar Office of Teacher Education TC NEXT Employment Legal Consumer Information / Student Right to Know Legal Notices Policy Library Non-Discrimination Title IX Compliance Ethics Reporting Public Safety GDPR Notice Make a Gift to TC Diversity Work at TC TC Facebook TC Twitter TC Instagram TC Youtube TC LinkedIn © 2022, Teachers College, Columbia University, New York, NY 10027. Back to skip to quick links