Skip to content Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Find People Events Global Health Donate Search About Us About Us Explore VP&S Message from the Dean VP&S History Celebrating the Leadership of Lee Goldman Facts & Statistics 2021 State of the School Explore VP&S Leadership and Administration Campus Resources and Facilities Events Community Programs Contact Us Education Education Academic Programs Residencies, Fellowships, and Training Student Resources Office of Innovation in Health Professions Education Academic Programs MD Program MD Dual Degrees and Special Programs Program in Genetic Counseling Programs in Human Nutrition Programs in Occupational Therapy Programs in Physical Therapy PhDs in Biomedical Sciences Additional Master's Degree Programs Additional Educational Opportunities MD Program Join our MD program to become a physician with compassion, a sense of self, and true grit in all medical pursuits. Explore Our Program Research Research Office for Research Areas of Research Research Faculty Honors and Awards For Researchers For Researchers Core and Shared Facilities Research Resources Funding Areas of Research VP&S continues to be a world leader across the entire spectrum of basic science, translational, and clinical research Learn About Our Research Patient Care Departments & Centers Departments & Centers Affiliated Hospitals and Institutions Basic Science Departments Centers and Initiatives Clinical Departments and Divisions Faculty Initiatives Clinical Departments and Divisions Our mission is to provide world-class patient care, foster innovative research, and train the next generation of leaders in medicine. View Clinical Departments and Divisions You are here Home > About Us > Message from the Dean > Dean's Lecture Series Explore VP&S Message from the Dean Katrina Armstrong's Biography Dean's Lecture Series Alexander Ming Fisher Lecture Cartwright Lecture Dean's Distinguished Lecture Series David Seegal Alpha Omega Alpha Visiting Professorship Lecture Heidelberger-Kabat Lecture Innovation in Biological and Medical Sciences Distinguished Lecture Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Lecture Samuel Rudin Distinguished Visiting Professorship Lecture Dr. Thomas Q. Morris Symposia on Medical Education VP&S History Celebrating the Leadership of Lee Goldman Facts & Statistics 2021 State of the School Dean's Lecture Series We live in a time of free-flowing exchange of ideas across disciplines, geographic borders, and cultures. The Dean’s Lecture Series at Columbia University Irving Medical Center (CUIMC) was established as a leisurely way to learn about work being performed in other medical, scientific, and academic disciplines. The lectures, sponsored by the Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons, are intended to focus on the collaborative nature of our scientific endeavors and to celebrate scholarly exchange among all CUIMC faculty, other Columbia faculty, and the greater scientific and academic medicine community. Lecture topics are diverse, from fundamental bench research, patient care, and medical education to humanism and death and dying. The lectures honor scientists of world acclaim; for example, nearly half the recipients of our annual Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize have gone on to win the Nobel Prize. The recipient of the Horwitz Prize, one of Columbia’s most prestigious awards, gives well-attended lectures at both the medical center and Morningside campuses. Other lectures honor Columbia benefactors and legends, among them the Heidelberger-Kabat Lecture, which memorializes Columbia’s pioneers in immunology, Michael Heidelberger and Elvin Kabat. Leading scholars, clinicians, scientists, and thinkers have also lectured at Columbia, and we have been fortunate to honor them for their contributions to their fields. Visiting lecturers have included Bert Vogelstein, Stanley Prusiner, Barbara McClintock, Zbigniew Brzezinski, Fred Friendly, Simon Schama, Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, Judah Folkman, George Soros, and Arthur Caplan. The lectures are not intended to be isolated events. They are intended to build lasting scientific curiosity and collaboration well after faculty and students leave the lecture hall. By working together, we increase our opportunities to improve health and prevent disease far beyond our clinics, classrooms, and labs. I invite you to attend any or all of these lectures throughout the academic year. Alexander Ming Fisher Lecture Established in the early 1970s, this lecture focuses on the topics of death and dying. Alexander Ming Fisher Lecture Dean's Distinguished Lecture Series The Dean’s Distinguished Lecture Series was founded in 1981 to provide a forum and formal vehicle for interdisciplinary academic exchange in the basic sciences, clinical sciences, and humanities. Dean's Distinguished Lecture Series Cartwright Lecture This lecture facilitates the exchange of scientific knowledge, attracting scholars, researchers, and clinicians from the world's top medical, scientific, educational, and policymaking institutions. Cartwright Lecture David Seegal Alpha Omega Alpha Visiting Professorship Lecture This professorship was established to honor a distinguished medical scholar and teacher. David Seegal Alpha Omega Alpha Visiting Professorship Lecture Heidelberger-Kabat Lecture Established in the mid-1950s to honor the work of Dr. Michael Heidelberger and, later, Dr. Elvin Kabat, this lecture serves as a premier forum for new developments and discoveries in immunochemistry. Heidelberger-Kabat Lecture Innovation in Biological and Medical Sciences Distinguished Lecture Established in 2013, this lecture highlights creative and exciting work from leaders in science. Innovation in Biological and Medical Sciences Distinguished Lecture Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Since 1967, this prestigious award honors a scientific investigator or group of investigators whose contributions to knowledge in either of these fields are deemed worthy of special recognition. Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Samuel Rudin Distinguished Visiting Professorship Lecture This lecture serves as an important vehicle for the exchange of scientific knowledge among Columbia University, the greater New York City community, and academic institutions around the world. Samuel Rudin Distinguished Visiting Professorship Lecture The Dr. Thomas Q. Morris Symposia on Medical Education This endowment was established to support an annual symposium to explore the future of medical education and features participants who have promoted quality medical education in significant ways. The Dr. Thomas Q. Morris Symposia on Medical Education Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About VP&S Careers Education Research Administration Inside VP&S Columbia University Irving Medical Center Vagelos College of Physicians & Surgeons 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Back to top