Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of Nationally Competitive Awards NCA right arrow down arrow About NCA right arrow down arrow Programs and Events Understanding Fellowships Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us News Awards right arrow down arrow Core Awards right arrow down arrow Fulbright U.S. Student Program Gaither Junior Fellows Program right arrow down arrow Gaither Info Session Goldwater Scholarship right arrow down arrow Goldwater Info Session Marshall Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Mitchell Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Rhodes Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Truman Scholarship right arrow down arrow Truman Info Session Udall Scholarship right arrow down arrow Udall Info Session Priority Awards right arrow down arrow Boren Awards right arrow down arrow Boren Info Session Critical Language Scholarship right arrow down arrow CLS Info Session Fulbright UK Summer Institutes right arrow down arrow Fulbright UKSI Session Gates Cambridge Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Knight-Hennessy Scholarship National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship Paul & Daisy Soros Fellowships for New Americans Schwarzman Scholarship right arrow down arrow Schwarzman Scholarship Info Session Other Awards right arrow down arrow International Studies International Students Underrepresented and Minority Students Specific Interests or Disciplines Applying right arrow down arrow Deciding to Apply Preparing Your Application right arrow down arrow Recommendation Letters Essay Strategies Developing as a Candidate The Leadership Essay Student Spotlight right arrow down arrow 2021–22 Award Winners 2020–21 Award Winners 2019–20 Award Winners 2018–19 Award Winners NCA Ambassadors Fulbright@UC right arrow down arrow Info Session Recordings UC Fulbright Winners Fulbright Boot Camp Aspire Scholars For Faculty Home » Campus Life » Office of Nationally Competitive Awards » About NCA » Frequently Asked Questions Set Navigation title in component Programs and Events Understanding Fellowships Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us News Frequently Asked Questions Is this financial aid? right arrow down arrow No. Though every fellowship provides financial support for the specified grant activity, these awards are different from the merit or financial aid scholarships that might be more familiar to you. If your immediate goal is to identify scholarships to help with tuition, contact UC’s Student Financial Aid Office. Though NCA is not Financial Aid, it might be worth considering how a fellowship might expand your horizons, especially if you have felt constrained by financial need in the past. Explore the awards featured on this website, come to a Fellowships 101 session, or attend one of our many events throughout the year to learn more about how one of these awards might open doors for you. Can alumni apply? right arrow down arrow Many fellowships encourage recent alumni to apply. How recent is recent? It depends on the award, but foundations often define this in terms of time from graduation. If you have identified an award that interests you, NCA will be happy to support you as your work on your application. You should first carefully review the fellowship’s rules to determine your eligibility and then contact nca@uc.edu to set up an advising appointment. Can international students apply? right arrow down arrow There are several fellowships that welcome applications from international students. In general, awards funded by U.S. taxpayer money will only be available to U.S. citizens and permanent residents. However, there are several awards that welcome applications from international students. These fellowships are really competitive. Should I even bother applying? right arrow down arrow It is true that the national and, in some cases, international competition for these fellowships is keen, but UC students can—and do—win these awards ! If you have found an award that aligns with your goals, and you meet the eligibility criteria, then it is worth applying for two main reasons. First, it is true that, if you look at selection rates, the probability of any one candidate winning is relatively low. But it is also true that people win these awards every year! Your only chance at winning comes if you are willing to work hard at the application and throw your hat in the ring. But winning is not the only benefit of applying, which brings us to the second reason: the application process provides its own rewards. If you commit yourself to the process, you will emerge with a refined understanding of your academic and personal history, a more nuanced account of your future academic and professional goals, a more robust language for discussing both, and a polished set of essays ready to be adapted into graduate school application materials. Applying for a national fellowship demands that you engage in sustained introspection and asks you to synthesize elements of your history, identity, and ambitions into a powerful story about who you are and who you want to be. In our view, the development that comes from engaging in this kind of work is the best reason to apply. Office of Nationally Competitive Awards 707A Swift Hall 513-556-1003 nca@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Office of Nationally Competitive Awards 707A Swift Hall 513-556-1003 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top