Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Health Policy and Management MPH You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Health Policy and Management MPH Apply Request More Info Health Policy and Management MPH Accreditation Admissions Departmental Research Fieldwork & Internships Online Program Option Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Public Health in Health Policy and Management In the Master of Public Health (MPH) in Health Policy and Management at Temple’s College of Public Health, you will develop competencies that are integral to the assessment, development, design, implementation, leadership and management of public health–related programs and initiatives. You will also learn to formulate governmental and organizational policy designed to improve population health and the patient experience of care and reduce the per capita cost of healthcare. Effective, evidence-based health policy is essential to the well-being of people around the world. Health policies typically involve subsets of public policies that should, but do not always, serve the interests of the public. Such policies may be affected by the distribution of resources and services and influences, political or otherwise. Students in this master’s degree program may pursue transdisciplinary coursework and cross-cultural research across multiple departments in the College of Public Health, as well as in Temple University’s professional schools, including the Beasley School of Law, the Fox School of Business and the Lewis Katz School of Medicine. Graduates of the MPH in Health Policy and Management program are prepared to assume positions of leadership in a variety of health services organizations and settings. Our graduates pursue careers in organizational administration, health policy analysis and healthcare research, among others. What sets apart our MPH in Health Policy and Management? Unparalleled flexibility: The MPH program maximizes flexibility for working professionals. You can complete the program on campus or online, on a full- or part-time basis. Gain real-world experience: Through the program’s culminating fieldwork experience, students apply their classroom learning to real-world scenarios in health services or public health organizational settings that prepare them to advance their careers. Learn from renowned faculty: Our faculty are experts in emergency management, health policy analysis, healthcare organization leadership, patient experience and quality of care, population health, and primary and long-term care. Program Format Students take core courses that explore the fundamentals of public health, as well as courses that focus on specific topics in health policy and management. You will also complete two fieldwork courses and take electives in order to build topical expertise. Students can complete the MPH on-site or choose a fully online program option. The program offers a flexible curriculum: Students complete the MPH in two years, or part time to finish it in four years. See a full list of program courses. Dual Degree Programs The public health perspective is relevant to many professional fields in which population-based theory and research can assist in improving health outcomes. An MPH dual degree opens new career options and enhances graduates’ mobility within their chosen fields. The College of Public Health offers two dual degree programs. Master of Social Work-MPH MPH-Master of Science in Health Informatics Our Advisors The College of Public Health offers personalized advising services to students in each department. MPH students can seek program support from Theresa White Senior Graduate Advisor and Admissions Phone: 215-204-5105 Email: theresawhite@temple.edu Anne Frankel Online Program Coordinator Phone: 215-204-9117 Email: anne.frankel@temple.edu Related Graduate Degrees The College of Public Health offers four other MPH programs. MPH in Applied Biostatistics MPH in Environmental Health MPH in Epidemiology MPH in Social and Behavioral Sciences A Certificate in Global Health is available to all MPH students, who may complete the certificate by using their three MPH elective courses for global health classes. The College of Public Health offers the Health Policy and Health Services Research PhD program for students interested in pursuing a research-intensive doctoral degree. Student Organizations You can engage with peers and find leadership opportunities in student-led clubs and organizations in the College of Public Health. Learn more about student clubs and organizations. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Public Health offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2018–2019 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,020.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,398.00 per credit Online tuition: $975 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. HP-HPAM-MPH Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Health Policy and Management MPH Accreditation Admissions Departmental Research Fieldwork & Internships Online Program Option Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info