Skip to content Enter search text All the UW Current site Search scope All the UW Current site MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Menu Home Make things accessible Get started Checklist Tools and resources Websites Documents Videos Online courses Online meetings Social media Managing for accessibility Policy Policy Resources UW Policy UW Guidelines Procurement Milestones Plan People Leadership Task Force UW-IT ATS Liaisons Get involved Get involved Take the Challenge Read the Blog Events Get help Accessible Technology Accessible Technology Make digital content accessible The UW strives to ensure technology can be used successfully by people with a wide range of abilities. Get started Find out what it means to make information technologies and digital materials accessible to people with disabilities and what you need to know. Get started Get help Learn how to report access barriers, request accommodations, or get help making technologies and digital materials accessible. Get help Policy Read about UW policies, guidelines, leadership, plans and progress related to accessible technologies and digital materials. Policy Most-visited resources Whatever content you are creating at the UW should be accessible. Review the IT Accessibility Checklist and visit our top how-to guides. Websites Documents Videos Online courses Online meetings Experiencing inaccessible technology? Please let us know. If you experience a barrier that affects your ability to access UW websites, videos, online forms, or other IT, please send a detailed message. Email help@uw.edu For additional issues or needs related to accessibility or accommodations at the UW, please see our getting help with accessibility page. Accessibility blog GAAD 2022 and the new UW Accessible Technology website Data viz accessibility in 2021 Accessibility review of online survey tools More blog posts Events calendar University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA