Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Mission & Ministry Mission & Ministry Information For: Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Campus Ministry Menu Main Nav Campus Ministry Racial Justice Back Back Close About Overview Meet the Staff Racial Justice Pastoral Counseling Axios Center Pregnancy Resources Together Graduate Programming Connections Religious Vocations Becoming a Jesuit Support Campus Ministry Alumni Resources Liturgy & Sacraments Overview Mass Schedule Liturgical and Music Ministries Sacraments University Chapels Rise and Reflect Related Links BC Jesuit, Catholic Maps Retreats Service Immersion Overview 4Boston 4Boston Community Partners Appa Arrupe International Immersion Global Public Health–Honduras Habitat for Humanity Ignatian Family Teach-In Faith Communities Overview Catholic Christian Life Community Gratia Plena Ignatian Society Knights of Columbus St. Thomas More Society Sons of St. Patrick Una Voce Multi-Faith Student Faith Groups Off-Campus Worship Multi-Faith Chapel Racial Justice Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Mission & Ministry Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close University Chapels Home Liturgy & Sacraments University Chapels Liturgy & Sacraments Mass Schedule Liturgical and Music Ministries Sacraments University Chapels Rise and Reflect Reserving a chapel Members of the BC community are welcome to reserve our chapels for weddings, Masses, prayer groups, or other events simply by completing the Chapel Reservation Form. If you are organizing a liturgy at a location other than one of the BC chapels, such as the Campus Green, O'Neill Plaza, or an off-campus retreat house, and wish to have Mass supplies, please submit the Mass Kit Form. Multi-Faith Chapel St. Joseph’s Chapel Simboli Hall (STM) Chapel Trinity Chapel The Multi-Faith Chapel is located on Lower Campus at 66 Commonwealth Ave., a Boston College residence hall. The chapel is used primarily as meeting and worship space for non-Catholic student and employee groups. There is an adjacent study lounge maintained by the Office of Residential Life. If you would like to reserve this space, please submit the Avenue Lounge Requests form. Chapel capacity is approximately 50, and the chairs can be arranged in a variety of ways. The center has a built-in viewing screen but no sound system. Food and drink are not allowed in the Multi-Faith Chapel, but can be used in the adjacent study lounge. Wheelchair access is available by a ramp into the Chapel and by an elevator which can be accessed through the main entrance of the building on Commonwealth Avenue. There is a small amount of parking in the lots next to the building. Parking for people without a Boston College parking permit must be arranged through Campus Ministry. Parking is available on Commonwealth Avenue after 3 p.m.; prior to that it is limited to one-hour increments. Parking regulations on Commonwealth Avenue are monitored and enforced by the city of Newton. St. Joseph’s Chapel is located on Upper Campus in the basement level of Gonzaga Hall, a Boston College residence hall. The chapel can be used for Sunday and daily Mass, baptisms, and prayer services. It can also be used for other events such as lectures and meetings. There is a meeting room attached to the chapel which seats about 15. The seating capacity is approximately 225, arranged in six sections of chairs. The chapel has a sound system but no other built-in media equipment. Food and drink are allowed in the meeting room but not the chapel. The chapel is reached by two sets of stairs and currently there is no wheelchair access. Parking is available in the lot one flight up from the chapel. Parking for people without a Boston College parking permit must be arranged through Campus Ministry. The Simboli Hall Chapel is located on the Brighton Campus on the first floor of Simboli Hall, home to Boston College’s School of Theology and Ministry. The chapel can be used for all liturgical functions; use of the chapel for weddings, baptisms and funerals is limited to employees, students, and alumni, except by special permission. It is also used for concerts and lectures. Separate classroom space is available for meetings. The seating capacity is approximately 70, with a main aisle separating two sections of chairs. The chapel has equipment for video recording but does not have a sound system. Food and drink are allowed in the classrooms but not in the chapel. There is an elevator into the building accessed by the parking lot in the rear of the building. Parking is available in the lot in front of the building and several other lots on the grounds of the Brighton Campus. Parking for people without a Boston College parking permit must be arranged through Campus Ministry. Trinity Chapel is a stand-alone building located on the Newton Campus. The chapel can be used for all liturgical functions. Use of the chapel for weddings, baptisms and funerals is limited to employees, students, and alumni, except by special permission. It is also used for concerts and lectures. There are no meeting, conference, or dressing rooms available. The seating capacity is approximately 400, with a main aisle separating two sections of pews and chairs. The chapel has a large sanctuary area and a vestibule which is separated from the main church by glass doors. The chapel has a sound system but no other built-in media equipment. Food and drink are allowed in the vestibule but not the chapel. There is a wheelchair ramp into the building; the bathroom on the main level of the chapel is a step up from the main floor. Parking is available in the parking lot next to the building and several other lots on the grounds of the Newton Campus. Parking for people without a Boston College parking permit must be arranged through Campus Ministry. Back To Top Back To Top Campus Ministry McElroy 233 Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-3475 About Racial Justice Liturgy & Sacraments Service Immersion Retreats Faith Communities Support Campus Ministry Division of Mission & Ministry Mission and Ministry Campus Ministry Center for Ignatian Spirituality Center for Student Formation First Year Experience Intersections Montserrat Pastoral Support The Volunteer and Service Learning Center University of Mission and Ministry Service Center Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College