Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Voice and Speech for the Actor Certificate (Undergraduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Voice and Speech for the Actor Certificate (Undergraduate) Apply Request More Info Voice and Speech for the Actor Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Voice and Speech for the Actor Undergraduate Certificate Sharpen your public speaking and voice skills with the Voice and Speech for the Actor Undergraduate Certificate in Temple University’s School for Theater, Film and Media Arts. Study how to articulately communicate and refine your ability to deliver impactful monologues, speeches and performances through this four-course, 12-credit undergraduate certificate program. The curriculum utilizes the renowned Fitzmaurice Voicework method, used in both traditional and conservatory approaches across the theater landscape. Fitzmaurice Voicework is a blend of classical voice training and contemporary techniques. You’ll receive instruction on the use of proper diction and sight reading to build and develop your onstage presence. Students will learn how to strengthen the tongue and jaw to ensure better delivery, proper breathing techniques, sight reading, and where to look when delivering a message. The confidence gained in this certification prepares students for careers in speaking roles beyond traditional stage and screen acting, including education, journalism and politics, among others. You’ll also be prepared for voice-over opportunities in radio and television advertising. Classes & Curriculum The required courses for Voice and Speech for the Actor Undergraduate Certificate are Speech for the Actor, Advanced Speech for the Actor, and Voice for the Actor. Learn more about coursework for the Voice and Speech for the Actor Undergraduate Certificate. Related Graduate Degrees Theater-Acting MFA Musical Theater Collaboration MFA Vocal Arts MM* Performance DMA* Performance MM* *Boyer College of Music & Dance Internships and Opportunities The Theater Department has forged strong relationships with theaters and dance institutions throughout Philadelphia, providing many internship opportunities for students. Theater students have interned with the Arden Theatre, Lantern Theater, McCarter Theater, Philadelphia Theatre Company, Prince Music Theater, The Lighting Practice, Walnut Street Theatre and Wilma Theater. Learn more about career, internship and other opportunities. School Partnerships & Associations In addition to productive, internship-generating relationships with theatrical institutions, the Theater Department also maintains memberships with the Association for Theatre in Higher Education, National Association of Schools of Theatre, University Resident Theatre Association and U.S. Institute for Theatre Technology. Tuition & Fees The tuition for this Certificate Program is based on school or college of your major, program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. Additional Information Our Academic Advisors The School of Theater, Film and Media Arts academic advisors will help you chart your course through your academic program. Sachiko Nakazato is the academic advisor for the undergraduate certificate in Voice and Speech for the Actor. Phone: 215-204-3437 Email: sachiko.nakazato@temple.edu Leanna Arnold is the senior academic advisor for the Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts. Phone: 215-204-2227 Email: leanna.arnold@temple.edu Program Contact Donna Snow is the faculty contact and head of Acting. Phone: 215-204-8414 Email: dsnow@temple.edu Accreditation The Theater Department is accredited by the National Association of Schools of Theatre as well as a member of the University Resident Theatre Association. CA-VSA-CERT Additional Program Information Visit School Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Voice and Speech for the Actor Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info