Department of Sociology - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Sociology About Us Research Department History Faculty & Staff Undergraduate Program Majors: Requirements and Concentrations Minors: Requirements and Concentrations Internship Resources for Majors Undergraduate Spotlight Graduate Program Prospective Students Current Students Handbook Careers in Sociology Sociology Graduate Course Catalog News News Archive Joseph S. Werlin Awards Support Us SOCIOLOGY News & Events Congratulations to Sloan Rucker for receiving the Graduate Student Paper Award for their work on “An Intersectional Look at Black Women’s Experiences in Texas Prisons” Sociology in Action Lecture - March 28th - Skills of the "Unskilled": Work, Gender, and Mobility Among Mexican Migrants - Recording Available Congratulations to Carlos Campos, Jr. on receiving the Undergraduate Student Paper Award for “A Contemporary Analysis of the U.S. Indigenous Peoples Movement” Congratulations to former Sociology M.A. student Chelsea Cooper for being awarded the Outstanding Master’s Thesis Award from the Conference of Southern Graduate Schools The sociology department welcomes our new assistant professor, Hyunseok Hwang Congratulations to Professor Anderson for her National Science Foundation grant Congratulations to Sociology M.A. Student Sloan Rucker for Receiving the 2021 Barbara Espy Chenworth Scholarship from WGSS Prof. Kwan comments on "skinny shaming" in USA Today Congratulations to Andreina Ruiz for being a 2021 AY Mellon Scholar Small Grant to Support Learning for Undergraduate Sociology Majors The Department of Sociology is pleased to announce its new Small Grant to Support Learning for Undergraduate Sociology Majors. Supported by a generous gift from Ms. Joella Werlin, the grant is designed to defray some of the costs associated with undergraduate education. The Department invites Sociology majors to submit applications to reimburse up to $100 in learning-related materials. Steven Nelson, Ph.D. comments on Houston Public Media about Houston's rise in violent crime As we approach a year into the pandemic, our own Zelma Oyarvide Tuthill discusses the social impact it has had in our Houston community Majoring or Minoring in Sociology? Consider a Concentration in Health and Medicine or Workplace Diversity Zelma Oyarvide Tuthill, Ph.D. receives Werlin Sociology Faculty Award for her collaborative project with Black.Migration.Houston. UH Sociology identified by Washington Monthly as a springboard for success Congratulations to Pamela Quiroz, Ph.D. on receiving a SSRC grant to study COVID-19 effects on Latinos Professors Kwan and Graves publish their latest book, "Under the Knife: Cosmetic Surgery, Boundary Work, and the Pursuit of the Natural Fake" (Temple University Press), and blog about cosmetic surgery in the age of COVID. About Sociology at UH The department of sociology at the University of Houston is comprised of an innovative and highly productive faculty, producing cutting-edge research in the areas of social inequality, health, work, education, social psychology and culture. We offer training to undergraduate and graduate students in sociological theory, statistics, and quantitative and qualitative research methods. Graduates of our undergraduate and M.A. programs are equipped to enter the workforce in fields such as social science research, education, social services or data analysis or to pursue advanced degrees in sociology or related disciplines. Learn more Department Programs Undergraduate Graduate Faculty Highlights Faculty Publications Faculty Excellence Faculty Grants DEPARTMENT OF SOCIOLOGY 3551 Cullen Boulevard, Room 450 Houston, TX 77204-3012 Phone: 713.743.3940 Fax: 713.743.3943 University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies