Utah State University sites use cookies. By continuing to use this site you accept our privacy and cookie policy. I agree Skip to content Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries QUICK LINKS MyUSU SEARCH Close search Search Utah State University: I want to search All USU sites People Search terms Submit search × Open main menu Close Open search About Close About Who we are Meet Utah State Fast Facts Diversity and Inclusion Leadership History and Traditions Notable Alumni Newsroom Utah State Today Utah State Magazine Pressroom USU Experts Locations Visit Campus Statewide Campuses USU Eastern Maps Cache Valley and Utah Information Contact USU Calendars Directory Employment Giving Admission Close Admission Become an Aggie How to Apply Campus Tours Undergraduate Admissions School of Graduate Studies International Admissions Concurrent Enrollment Financial Aid and Cost Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Scholarships Graduate Funding Registration Academic Calendar Online Catalog Dates and Deadlines Tuition and Payment Register for Classes Transcript Requests After Admission New Student Orientation Parent & Family Resources USU 1010: Connections Deferment Notification of Leave Academics Close Academics Overview Learning at Utah State Colleges and Schools Statewide Campuses USU Online Study Abroad Honors Program Majors and Minors Degree Finder Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Online Degrees Professional and Technical Education Find Help Advising Academic Support Veterans Resources Center Academic Success Programs Disability Resources Center Career Design Center Resources Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Libraries Graduation Campus Life Close Campus Life Student Experience Experience USU Living on Campus Health and Wellness Safety at Utah State Things to do Get Involved Athletics Recreation Arts and Culture Information Events Calendar Clubs and Organizations Student Affairs Resources Aggie Wellness Inclusion Center Involvement Ready Center for Community Engagement Wellness Ready Research Athletics Extension For You Close For You Prospective Students Current Students Parents Faculty and Staff Donors Alumni & Friends Ask USU Quick Links Close Quick Links Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries MyUSU Arts and Culture The Arts at Utah State The Caine College of the Arts provides a collaborative culture in which a unified "community of the arts" can thrive. This collaboration supports opportunities in discovery, teaching, and learning, and connections across artistic disciplines. The Caine College of the Arts brings together students and faculty for artistic study and a liberal arts education at a research university. Art Venues The Chase Fine Arts Center Complex primarily serves the students in the Caine College of the Arts and groups many art venues — such as the Russ/Wanlass Performance Hall, the Morgan Theater, plus the Tippetts and Eccles galleries, to name a few. The newly renovated Lyric Theater can be found downtown Logan. Fry Street Quartet USU is the only higher education institution in the state with a professional string quartet in residence, the Fry Street Quartet. The quartet performs at USU’s Caine Performance Hall, a world-class structure where the technical marvels of its cutting-edge acoustics are unmatched. Lyric Repertory Theatre Each year, Logan offers summer performances by the Utah Festival Opera Company, the university’s own Lyric Repertory Company, rotating art exhibits, a daily summer music series, quarterly community-wide gallery walks, and various festivals. Museums From recent works of art to prehistoric artifacts, USU’s museums offer a glimpse into diverse perspectives. Nora Eccles Harrison Museum of Art The university’s Museum of Art houses one of the largest permanent art collections in the Intermountain West that includes a large collection of Native American artwork. Anthropology Museum USU’s Museum of Anthropology has featured collections of a variety of artifacts and medium to explore humanity, such as photographs, ceramics, stone tools, and textiles, and more. Prehistoric Museum From prehistoric rock art to the Utahraptor’s unearthed skeleton, explore artifacts and collections 3 billion years in the making at USU Eastern’s Prehistoric Museum in Price. Campus Events and Culture USU is home to many rich traditions for students to create and share, most organized by students on campus. Poetry & Music Enjoy Poetry and a Beverage at USUSA’s PoBev. Come watch your fellow Aggies sing, dance, play instruments, and more at an open mic night with free food drinks. Dances & Shows The Howl is Utah’s largest Halloween dance and costume party and has been a student favorite since it was created. Students also can attend concerts, like the Big Agg Show on the quad. This is the Aggie Life. Athletics Events Whether it’s with for the first football game or at one of USU’s Club Sports, students can pregame the big game through camping out on the quad or tailgate at the parking lot before doors open. You can also join the HURD for the ultimate game experience. Native American Culture At USU, we honor and preserve the rich Native American heritage and traditions in our area. From clubs and events to building traditional Hogans on campus, USU gives students a space to celebrate their culture and share a taste with others. Upcoming Events 31 MAY Arts/Entertainment Lineage II Tuesday | at 10:00 am 17 JUN Arts/Entertainment A Fox on the Fairway Friday | at 7:30 pm 18 JUN Arts/Entertainment A Fox on the Fairway Saturday | at 1:00 pm 19 JUN Arts/Entertainment USU Alumni Band: Season Opener Sunday | at 7:00 pm 24 JUN Arts/Entertainment Disney's Freaky Friday, the Musical Friday | at 7:30 pm 25 JUN Arts/Entertainment Disney's Freaky Friday, the Musical Saturday | at 1:00 pm All Events Want to learn more about USU? Request Information FOLLOW US USU Facebook USU Twitter USU YouTube USU Instagram USU LinkedIn Old Main Hill, Logan, UT 84322 (435) 797-1000 ABOUT USU Contact Quick Facts News For Media Career EDUCATION Find a Degree Colleges & Schools Graduate School USU Online Statewide Campuses RESOURCES Academic Calendar University Catalog Library Canvas IT Service Desk Quick Links Directory Events Visit Campus Maps Giving Maps & Directions Search USU Campus Safety Jobs Contact Disclaimers Copyright Privacy Accessibility Non-Discrimination Back to top of the page