Home About Overview Mission, Vision, Values, & Goals Academics Overview Curriculum Certificate Programs Dual Degree Programs Admission Admission Information Financing Your Degree Staff & Faculty Student Life Penn Public Health Society Global Health Society Racial Equity Task Force Service Corps MPH Student and Alumni Stories Awarded MPH Students Contact Us About Overview Mission, Vision, Values, & Goals Academics Overview Curriculum Certificate Programs Dual Degree Programs Admission Admission Information Financing Your Degree Staff & Faculty Student Life Penn Public Health Society Global Health Society Racial Equity Task Force Service Corps MPH Student and Alumni Stories Awarded MPH Students Contact Us Back to CPHI Navigation Engage with CPHI Join Our Mailing List Search Master of Public Health University of Pennsylvania About Overview Mission, Vision, Values, & Goals Academics Overview Curriculum Certificate Programs Dual Degree Programs Admission Admission Information Financing Your Degree Staff & Faculty Student Life Penn Public Health Society Global Health Society Racial Equity Task Force Service Corps MPH Student and Alumni Stories Awarded MPH Students Contact Us 2021 Student Award Winners The MPH program congratulates Jonathan Muruako, Nia Lucas, Nicholas Sachs, and the founding members of the Racial Equity Task Force (Julia Hah, Leena Kasa, Farzana Khan, Rachel Randolph, Nahara Saballos, and Angela Song). They have won a variety of awards for engagement and leadership within the MPH program and at the University of Pennsylvania. See our awarded MPH students here Our Mission The University of Pennsylvania MPH program leverages the University’s interdisciplinary resources to prepare the next generation of public health leaders and innovators to promote the health of populations locally, nationally, and globally. Read Full Mission Statement Student & Alumni Stories Check out our new feature, where you can learn more about some of our amazing students and alumni! Click here to read Student and Alumni Stories CPHI Master of Public Health The Penn MPH The University of Pennsylvania Master of Public Health Program (MPH Program) is a university-wide, interdisciplinary collaboration among eight schools. In addition to the faculty from the School of Medicine where the program is housed, faculty from Nursing, Arts and Sciences, Veterinary Medicine, Wharton School of Business, Dental Medicine, and Social Policy and Practice, are integral partners in this initiative. The overall MPH Program objective is to provide a focal point for enhancing collaborations in public health research and practice. We consider this program to be a unique model for training the next generation of public health leaders. With a 5:1 student to faculty ratio, students have access to public health experts who will mentor them from coursework through their Capstone projects. The program is flexible, allowing for both full-time and part-time study. Note from the MPH Program Director: The MPH program continues with its mission to train the next generation of public health practitioners. We are aided by the flexibility of our program, which allows students to work part-time or full-time and sequence courses as best fits their goals. Because of the passion and dedication of our faculty and staff, we were able to quickly pivot to temporarily offer courses remotely as we navigate this uncertain time for all of us. Many of our MPH students and faculty have also pivoted to work on COVID-19 public health issues behind the scenes and on the front lines. If you have any questions about the MPH program, you can reach out to our team. If you have questions about the admission process and updates related to admission timelines for fall 2021, visit our admission information page here. In Health, Hillary C.M. Nelson, PhD, MPH Director, MPH Program Want to hear more about what the program has been doing during COVID-19 and to continue anti-racism work? Read our update here. Council on Education for Public Health The Penn MPH is fully accredited by the Council on Education for Public Health (CEPH). The 2019 Report and Final Self-Study are available upon requests to Dr. Hillary Nelson. Directions to the MPH Office Read our mission statement Host an MPH student at your site Master of Public Health 3620 Hamilton Walk Anatomy Chemistry Room 141 Philadelphia, PA 19104 Directions to the Anatomy-Chemistry Building Hillary CM Nelson, PhD, MPH, Director hnelson@pennmedicine.upenn.edu Moriah Hall, MPH, Associate Director moriahh@pennmedicine.upenn.edu Center for Public Health Initiatives Anatomy Chemistry Building, Room 148 3620 Hamilton Walk Philadelphia, PA 19104 Directions to CPHI Email:  Fax: 215.573.9025 University Mail Code: 6011 Links to Public Health-Related Programs at UPenn ASPPH News and Events Campus Health at UPenn Check Out CPHI on Twitter Follow Us on Facebook Follow Us on Instagram © The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania | Site best viewed in a supported browser. | Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help | Privacy Policy | Site Design: DART Web Team.