Emergency Notification More details Skip to main content Dartmouth Home Search Index Dartmouth College New Student Orientation Home Academics Families Resources Instructions and Checklist for the Class of 2026 Communication to the Class of 2026 and Incoming Transfer Students Related Sites Academic Calendars Access and Accessibility during Orientation Admissions Campus Maps Office of Pluralism and Leadership Office of Visa and Immigration Services Parent, Guardian, and Family Connections Student Accessibility Services Undergraduate Deans Office Undergraduate Housing Search this Site New Student Programs Office of Student Life 6181 Collis Center Dartmouth College Hanover, NH 03755 E-mail: New.Student.Orientation@dartmouth.edu CONGRATULATIONS ON YOUR ACCEPTANCE TO DARTMOUTH COLLEGE! Greetings Class of 2026 and Incoming Transfer Students: We can’t wait to welcome you to campus and support your transition to our community – to YOUR community! We have been working with many campus colleagues on our New Student Programs schedule and will share further information in late June on what to expect. In the meantime, we are excited to share the following arrival information – please read carefully and be in touch with questions! Continue to watch your email and this webpage for updates. We look forward to meeting you, and please do not hesitate to reach out to us at new.student.orientation@dartmouth.edu if you have any questions. Kathleen Cunneen Director, New Student Programs and Eric L. Ramsey Associate Dean for Student Life Arrival Dates Please pay close attention as your arrival date depends on the programs to which you are invited or in which you choose to participate. Students participating in FYSEP’s Summer Session, the International Student Pre-Orientation Program, and the Native and Indigenous Student Pre-Orientation Program will receive information regarding their arrival date directly from their program. Please make travel arrangements based on the confirmation and instructions from your Pre-Orientation Program or summer session. Pre-season athletes will receive arrival dates directly from their coaches. All other incoming students who choose to engage in First-Year Trips will arrive and move into their residence hall on Wednesday, August 31. Incoming students who will not be engaging with the First-Year Trips Program will arrive and move into their residence hall on Sunday, September 4. Additional arrival details are below. Arrival Details Unless you are participating in FYSEP’s Summer Session or a Pre-Orientation Program, the date you will arrive on campus depends on whether you choose to engage with the First-Year Trips Program. Arrival details for these summer or Pre-Orientation Programs will be communicated directly by the program. Wednesday, August 31 All other incoming students who choose to engage with First-Year Trips should arrive on Wednesday, August 31 to move into your residence hall. You will receive more details later, but you should be settled and ready to begin New Student Orientation by 5:00 p.m. ET on August 31. Families and supporters who travel with their student should plan to leave campus by 5:00 p.m. on Wednesday, August 31. Students will be remarkably busy with and immersed in New Student Orientation programming and First-Year Trips until the first day of classes. Beginning at 5:00 p.m. on Wednesday, students will begin to participate in New Student Programs, including First-Year Trips; small group, peer-led experiences with Orientation Leaders; and Orientation programming. Sunday, September 4 Incoming students who choose to not participate in First-Year Trips should arrive and move into their residence hall on Sunday, September 4 by 5:00 p.m. ET to join other students in New Student Orientation programs and small group experiences. Families and supporters who travel with their student on Sunday, September 4 should plan to leave campus that day by 5:00 p.m. Students will be busy with and immersed in New Student Orientation programming until the first day of classes. Further Information (what is coming next!) Mid- to late May You will be invited to set-up your Dartmouth account and email. Watch for that email message! This will begin your pre-arrival process. You will also be invited to begin your Residential Life Housing Star Portal (application). Late June Further information about what to expect during New Student Orientation will be available. You can expect First-Year Trips registration materials to arrive via email. Registration involves thinking about what types of First-Year Trips experiences appeal to you, sharing any access and health needs we need to know, and providing the opportunity to reflect on what will support your First-Year Trips experience. More About First-Year Trips All incoming students will be invited to engage with the First-Year Trips Program, which offers a diverse array of small-group, peer-led overnight experiences in the spaces and places within and surrounding Dartmouth’s campus. A program within the Outdoor Programs Office, First-Year Trips is committed to working with all students to accommodate their needs so that they feel confident and comfortable participating in the program; you do not need any prior experience or gear to engage with First-Year Trips. We encourage all students to participate but know that ultimately some students may choose not to participate or be unable to participate in First-Year Trips. That’s totally okay! If that’s the case, pay attention to the arrival date for those not participating in First-Year Trips. Thank you and talk again soon! Our Mission: New Student Orientation allows students to begin to create deep connections to the institution. With high standards and great compassion, we will prioritize the support of new students as they transition to both academic and co-curricular life at Dartmouth, and we will courageously and clearly communicate (and reinforce) the shared values of our community. Additionally, we are committed to recognizing the many paths taken by students before they arrive, and the multiple ways to experience and engage with our community once they begin their Dartmouth journey. Through its programs and mission, New Student Orientation strives to highlight a campus that is inclusive, welcoming, and caring for all. Contact Us Top of page | Privacy | Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Last Updated: 5/13/22