Skip to main content Main navigation Academics Faculty & Research News & Events Offices & Services About Us Information For Alumni Industry Partners & Recruiters Prospective Students Shortcuts Employment & Jobs Visit Us Make a Gift Search Read the latest updates on coronavirus from Harvard University. For SEAS specific-updates, please visit SEAS & FAS Division of Science: Coronavirus FAQs SearchMenu Prospective Students Prospective Undergraduate Students What concentrations (majors) are a part of SEAS? In keeping with our emphasis on broad-minded learning we’ve designed programs and courses that cater to students at multiple levels and fully incorporate laboratory research. SEAS believes in educating “T-shaped” individuals, or those who have deep knowledge in a discipline but are able to collaborate across the boundaries of disciplines. Concentrations and Secondary Fields Applied Mathematics (A.B., A.B./S.M., Secondary Field in Mathematical Sciences) Applied Mathematics is a quantitative liberal arts degree that provides the opportunity for combining mathematical thinking with any subject for which mathematics can be productively applied. Applied Mathematics is inherently an interdisciplinary concentration with ties to other concentrations both within and outside of SEAS. Areas of focus include biological sciences, economics, engineering, and computer science, among others. Biomedical Engineering (A.B.; A.B./S.M.) Biomedical engineering lies at the intersection of the physical and life sciences. The overarching intellectual goal of biomedical engineering is to apply quantitative engineering analysis to understand the operation of living systems and to design novel systems to satisfy unmet needs in clinical medicine. Biomedical engineering distinguishes itself from the other life sciences disciplines by using scientific knowledge to create new biomaterials and devices. The A.B. in Biomedical Engineering requires 14 courses. Computer Science (A.B., A.B./S.M., Secondary Field) Computer Science is the study of the principles, techniques, and tools that enable this transformation, today and in the future. Students concentrating in Computer Science take a range of courses encompassing theoretical foundations to practical applications sharing an intellectual heritage from mathematics, engineering, and design. Computer Science concentrators learn about how modern computational systems are designed and built, and how these systems can be used to effectively and efficiently solve a variety of problems. Electrical Engineering (S.B.) Electrical Engineering spans a broad range of topics, ranging from the physics of new materials and devices, the circuits and next-generation computing platforms made from these devices, and the algorithms that run on these platforms. The range of subtopics includes power systems, (micro)electronics, control systems, signal processing, telecommunications, and computing systems. The S.B. in Electrical Engineering requires 20 courses. Environmental Science & Engineering (A.B.; A.B./S.M.; S.B.) Environmental Science and Engineering is an interdisciplinary field that applies principles from the natural science and mathematics to better understand and address environmental challenges. The overarching goals of the field are to protect human health from adverse environmental conditions, to protect local and global environments from the deleterious effects of human activities, and to improve environmental quality. Students pursuing these topics can obtain an A.B. or S.B. degree in Engineering Science with an environmental focus. Mechanical Engineering (S.B.) Mechanical engineering deals with the study and application of mechanical systems. It covers a range of subtopics including mechatronics and robotics, structural analysis, thermodynamics and engineering design including the analysis of mechanical systems using finite element methods, the science of new materials and devices for micro electromechanical systems (MEMS), and biological and nanotechnology applications. The S.B. in Mechanical Engineering requires 20 courses. Main navigation Information For In Prospective Students Prospective Graduate Students Learn More Funding & Scholarship: Graduate Programs Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) How to Apply Non-Degree Status: Special Students & Visiting Fellows Contact Information Graduate Student Data Clubs & Organizations Prospective Undergraduate Students What concentrations (majors) are a part of SEAS? SEAS Tours (undergraduate only) Clubs & Organizations Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ's) Student Stories Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences 150 Western Ave, Allston, MA 02134 29 Oxford Street, Cambridge, MA 02138 Footer - Social Media Links Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Footer Diversity Mission Trademark Notice Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy