Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Campus Recreation Hours-Schedule Member Services Member Services Online Member Portal Online Member Portal Instructions Membership Rates Fees Room Reservations and Events Parking Programs Programs Aquatics Fitness Intramural Sports Outdoor Adventures Sport Clubs Youth Spirit Spirit Band Rotunda Spirit Squads About ☰ Campus Recreation Programs Sport Clubs Sport Clubs Sport clubs, under the guidance of student organizations and Campus Recreation, seek to provide a broad-based program of recreational, competitive and instructional sport opportunities. The program is designed to promote participation in a wide variety of sport activities—complimenting the university's intramural, intercollegiate, and wellness programs. Student members administer each sport club. Is experience required to join? Experience is not required to join any of the sport clubs listed below. Often, many students that are members of the various clubs have never participated in their respective sport prior to college. Tryouts are held for some of the sport clubs, in most cases, all those trying out will make the club. If none of these clubs interest you, students may always start another sport club. Where do the clubs compete? The competitive sport clubs compete against other regional and national colleges including UT-Austin, Texas A&M, Texas Tech, Oklahoma State, Rice and Baylor. Opponents also include other amateur clubs in the region. Baseball Learn More Golf Learn More Ice Hockey Learn More Men's Lacrosse Learn More Women's Lacrosse Learn More Mens Rowing Learn More Polo Club Learn More Triathlon Learn More Rugby Learn More Men's Soccer Club Learn More Women's Club Soccer Learn More Club Tennis Learn More Ultimate Frisbee Club Learn More Men's Volleyball Learn More Women's Club Volleyball Learn More Waterpolo Learn More For more information on a particular club, please contact Bonnie Hainline. Email Bonnie Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share