Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Research at Brown Show/Hide Home Conducting Research at Brown Centers, Institutes and Libraries Undergraduate Research Assistance How Do I...? Products Based on Discoveries Made at Brown University MetaPULSE System Banknote Authentication and Processing Technologies Circuit Scan 1000 3D Petri Dish FlexiVap MetaPULSE System, marketed by Rudolph Technologies The MetaPULSE® System uses patented picosecond ultrasonic laser sonar technology to provide an opaque film metrology tool. This tool can be used to measure thicknesses of single or multi-layer opaque films for aluminum and copper processes. The MetaPULSE also identifies missing layers or interfacial problems such as poor adhesion, and characterizes material properties such as density and roughness. Learn more. Banknote Authentication and Processing Technologies, marketed by Spectra Systems Spectra’s software and hardware systems include high-speed currency authentication sensors. Central banks use the sensors for authentication at rates of up to 40 banknotes per second with error rates as low as less than one in 100,000. The sensors operate on sorter from both Geiseke and Devrient as well as De La Rue International. Spectra has also developed quality control equipment for use in paper and polymer banknote manufacturing and printing with their engineered taggants. Learn more. Circuit Scan 1000, marketed by Micromagnetics The Circuit Scan 1000 is a scanning magnetic microscope capable of capturing external magnetic fields generated by an operating circuit. then analyzes these fields to provide a map of the current density distribution, with a spatial resolution on the order of tens of nanometers. The system uses a proprietary, ultra-sensitive magnetic sensor technology with deep sub-micron spatial resolution. This technology was initially developed in the Nanoscale Physics and Devices group here at Brown. The CS1000 maps currents at extreme small scales through any dielectric or nonferrous overlayers, and has superior linear response over the full signal range seen in integrated circuits. The magnetic sensors have a wide frequency response (0-5 GHz), and are thermally stable, requiring no special environmental controls. Additionally, they have spatial resolution, resolving features to date as small as 60 nanometers, a feature size well below the current state-of-the-art in the semiconductor industry. Learn more. 3D Petri Dish, marketed by Microtissues The 3D Petri Dish™ is a natural 3D cell culture environment that is scaffold-free and that maximizes cell-to-cell interactions. It is useful fo spheroids, mammospheres, gliomaspheres, hepatospheres, chondrospheres, osteospheres, cell aggregates, neurospheres, cardiospheres, embryoid bodies, and myoballs. The micro-molds allow users to cast their own 3D Petri Dish™ out of agarose; the gels fit in standard 12 a 24 well dishes. The micro-molds are autoclavable and reusable. They offer new technological advantages by allowing users to make hundreds of spheroids of uniform size in a single pipeting step and control spheroid size; image an array of spheroids on the same optical plane; form spheroids of two different cell types; grow spheroids from single cell clones; harvest spheroids for RT-PCR and Western Blots without enzymes; form microtissues in complex shapes for novel applications. Learn more. FlexiVap, marketed by Glas-Col The FlexiVap™ Work Station is a new line of analytical nitrogen/air evaporators developed at Brown and licensed and manufactured by Glas-Col, LLC. FlexiVap touts advantages including: one manifold suits all standard size vials easy closure of any manifold position reduced nitrogen consumption complete even flow rates to all parts These small footprint instruments are used to concentrate chemical and biochemical solutions for further analysis, or evaporate to dryness for further reactions. Learn more. Conducting Research at Brown Finding Funding Research Strategy and Development (ORSD) Preparing and Submitting a Proposal Managing an Award Sponsored Projects (OSP) Research Compliance (IRB, IACUC, COI, Export Control, Research Data Management and Data Use Agreements) Brown Technology Innovations Our Team Brown Biomedical Innovations to Impact (BBII) Brown Technology Innovations Advisory Board For Faculty and Inventors News from Brown Technology Innovations Research Administration Information Systems (RAIS) Research Management Support (RMS) Research Agreements and Contracting International Research & Activities Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR) How Do I...? 2022 Research Achievement Award Winners About the Office Newsletter Forms and Policies Training and Outreach Graduate Student Resources Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Office of the Vice President for Research 350 Eddy Street | Brown University | Box 1937 | Providence, RI 02912 Vice President for Research 401-863-7408 [email protected] Research Strategy and Development 401-863-7999 [email protected] Brown Technology Innovations 401-863-7499 [email protected] Office of Sponsored Projects 401-863-2777 [email protected] Research Administration and Information Systems 401-863-2777 [email protected] Office of Research Integrity 401-863-3050 [email protected] @brownuresearch Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat