Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Lynch School of Education and Human Development Centers & Initiatives Search BC.edu Links Center for Thriving Children Menu Main Nav Mary E. Walsh Center for Thriving Children Center for Thriving Children Contact Back Back Close About Our Work Research Professional Learning Why Integrated Student Support? Close Contact Directory A to Z Listing Search Lynch School Website Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Admission Visit Centers & Initiatives BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close The Mary E. Walsh Center for Thriving Children (CTC) advances science, implementation, and innovation to promote healthy child and youth development, learning, and thriving. The Center advances its mission through four core strategies Science The Center supports applied research and evaluation to uncover and better understand the impacts of programs, policies, and practices that hold promise for bettering the lives of young people through systemic change. View Our Research Implementation We support the development, implementation, and refinement of best practice for educators, programs, schools, and agencies interested in more effectively addressing the complex needs and strengths of children and families. The Center is an incubator for collaborations between researchers, practitioners, and policy makers. City Connects Networked Learning Professional Learning Systemic Impact We translate knowledge to inform policies, budgets, and practices at scale. Policy Briefs and Toolkits Innovation We pursue new frontiers so that every child can receive supports and opportunities that promote healthy development, learning, and thriving. Resources for Practitioners City Connects All children deserve a chance to learn, but many face obstacles too steep for them to climb alone. City Connects builds a network of support for students, their families, and the schools that serve them, improving outcomes now—and for years to come. City Connects Website Resources for professionals Practitioners Learn more Through City Connects, the S3 Academy, custom consultations, and our action guides and practice briefs, the CTC helps schools, districts, and early childhood programs improve their approach to student support/family engagement. Researchers Learn More Our research aims to improve understanding of effective approaches to student support by leveraging scientific advances and cutting edge methodologies capable of analyzing the impact of complex, comprehensive interventions. Policymakers Learn More The Mary E. Walsh Center for Thriving Children develops policy briefs, toolkits, and impact summaries for legislative leaders throughout the country who are advancing integrated student support policy and practice. Select publications and reports More Center Reports City Connects Blog The Weekly Connect 5/30/22 May 30, 2022 City Connects City Connects in the news May 26, 2022 Alyssa Haywoode The Weekly Connect 5/23/22 May 23, 2022 City Connects Girls on the Run moves through the pandemic May 19, 2022 Alyssa Haywoode The Weekly Connect 5/16/22 May 17, 2022 City Connects The power of partnership: City Connects and The Salem Pantry May 12, 2022 Alyssa Haywoode The Weekly Connect 5/30/22 May 30, 2022 City Connects City Connects in the news May 26, 2022 Alyssa Haywoode The Weekly Connect 5/23/22 May 23, 2022 City Connects VIEW MORE POSTS VIEW LESS POSTS Share Your Thoughts Back To Top Back To Top Mary E. Walsh Center for Thriving Children Boston College Campion Hall 305D Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-4231 cityconnects@bc.edu Carolyn A. and Peter S. Lynch School of Education and Human Development Campion Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-4200 About Admission Academics Faculty & Research Centers & Initiatives Community Apply Visit Give CONNECT WITH US Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College