Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music About Us Admissions Academics Ensembles Faculty Support Events Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Majors and Programs Composition Commercial Music Conducting Jazz Studies Music Business Music Education Music History Pedagogy Performance Recording Technology Vocology Certificate Take Action Apply Now Alumni Support Us Scheidt Family Music Center Contact Us Follow the School of Music Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedInVimeo Home Music Academics Performance Major Prepare for professional performance success. As a performance major, your focus will be the mastery of your primary instrument through participation in a variety of ensembles, including orchestra, opera, and classical chamber music. Performance majors enjoy working closely with the faculty member appointed as their major teachers and receive extensive performance opportunities as soloists, chamber musicians, and orchestra members. The program is offered in 20 instruments: flute, oboe, clarinet, saxophone, bassoon, percussion, trumpet, horn, trombone, euphonium, tuba, piano, harpsichord, organ, violin, viola, cello, bass, guitar and voice. With our Bachelor to Doctoral degree offerings, you have the advantage of working side-by-side with students in multi-level music programs. Within our NASM-accredited program, you work collaboratively in class and studio, making music together on stage and off, and building professional relationships across program boundaries. This comprehensive environment fosters the sharing of expertise, experience, and perspectives to add immeasurably to your development. Our accomplished faculty is composed of many talented musicians who are dedicated to helping you expand your talents and find success in the music industry. These concentrated courses of study are for those wishing to pursue careers as soloists, orchestral and band musicians, opera and concert vocalists, college-level applied music teachers, conductors, chamber musicians, recording artists and studio musicians, church musicians, and other avenues as professional musicians. You will enjoy state-of-the-art music facilities, and work with a large and diverse community of faculty, students, and industry professionals. You’ll have the opportunity to attend numerous concerts, clinics, and master classes given by students, faculty, and visiting artists that will broaden your experience. Additionally, the University’s location allows limitless opportunities to plug into a vibrant music city and perform. Admission + Audition Requirements Interested students should complete the University of Memphis application and apply to the School of Music. Performance auditions are held to determine admission into School of Music programs and to award performance scholarships and graduate assistantships. All students who want to major or minor in music, or who seek a music scholarship must audition. Brass Keyboard Percussion Strings Voice Woodwinds What degrees do we offer? Bachelor of Music in Performance Delve into the applied classical performance area as you expand your talents and find success in the music industry. The Bachelor of Music in performance is designed for students who exhibit exceptional potential as performers in their principal applied area. Our mentor program pairs you with a professor for dedicated and personalized instruction throughout your degree program. Scholarships are available. Outcomes: Performance students will develop specialized musicianship skills and techniques that will lead to a professional career as a solo classical performer or graduate study as a classical performer. Performance students will master specialized musicianship skills and techniques for working within an ensemble leading towards a professional career or graduate study as a classical performer. Performance students will develop the musicianship and skills needed for preparing and performing in a wide range of ensembles and collaborative experiences Performance students will possess fundamental knowledge both of their major instrument as well as music in general with the goal of establishing specialized musical career interests. View Bachelor of Music in Performance for required courses for degree completion. APPLY NOW > Master of Music in Performance Combining advanced music performance training with additional study in both traditional and contemporary disciplines, you’ll specialize in your applied classical performance area with a secondary component in the teaching of that area. With your MM in Performance, you will attain industry standards of preparation for a career as a performer, scholar, or teacher. Our mentor program pairs you with a professor for dedicated and personalized instruction to develop skills to a professional level. Graduate assistantships and scholarships are available. Outcomes Performance students will achieve specialized focus in their musical development for continued cultivation towards a career path. Performance students will demonstrate the ability to prepare musical experiences/performances that are informed by an understanding of historical performance practice and advanced musical analysis and frame the results in a scholarly manner Performance students will possess the extended knowledge of pedagogical methods and experience in the area of studio teaching and rehearsal settings, including conceptual and practical applications that support learning View the Master of Music in Performance sample degree plan. APPLY NOW > Accelerated MM-to-DMA in Performance Students who wish to continue from the MM into a DMA program of the same concentration have the option, with the audition and approval of the major professor, of following an accelerated track. This four-year track can save you two semesters of coursework compared to the traditional five-year MM to DMA path. Our programs combine the rigorous study of performance to challenge you to reach the highest standards of professional performance. Students are prepared to enter the profession as highly qualified musicians with the potential for long-term professional success. Graduate assistantships and scholarships are available. MM/DMA Accelerated Track in Performance Degree Plan MM/DMA Accelerated Track in Performance Recommended Timeline Outcomes Performance students will have a specialized focus in their musical development for continued cultivation towards a career path. Performance students are capable in the preparation of musical experiences/performances that are informed by an understanding of historical performance practice and advanced musical analysis and frame the results in a scholarly manner Performance students will master the extended knowledge of pedagogical methods and experience in the area of studio teaching and rehearsal settings, including conceptual and practical applications that support learning Performance students will perform and rehearse in an area of specialization at the highest level of professional practice. View the Accelerated MM-to-DMA in Performance sample degree plan. APPLY NOW > Doctor of Music Arts in Performance Designed for students seeking the highest degree in the field, the DMA is a rigorous three-year course of study culminating in a doctoral dissertation. The Doctor of Musical Arts degree in Performance is intended for those musicians planning to work at the most advanced academic and professional levels of music. This program offers you an opportunity to bring creative and performance achievement to a high level while enriching individual backgrounds with academic studies, including specialized training in music history and theory, and other areas. Students are expected to demonstrate strong academic capabilities in addition to a high level of achievement in performance. Our programs combine the rigorous study of conducting techniques and literature with related work in performance, music theory, and musicology in a vibrant and intimate setting, all within a major research university. Graduate assistantships and scholarships are available. Outcomes: Performance students will perform and rehearse in an area of specialization at the highest level of professional practice. Performance students will display a thorough understanding of the history of their instrument and comprehensive knowledge of the repertoire and literature specific to the area of specialization. Performance students will demonstrate historical and theoretical knowledge supportive of the development of individualized interpretations within a full range of musical styles View the Doctor of Musical Arts in Performance sample degree plan. APPLY NOW > Artist Diploma in Performance The Artist Diploma is a one-year program for gifted performers who are looking for advanced studies without the additional academic demands required in a Doctor of Musical Arts (DMA) or Ph.D. program. Applicants must have already earned a master's degree. This program is limited to the most advanced instrumentalists and vocalists who are in the beginning stages of professional careers as performers. Working closely with a faculty mentor, you'll supplement your existing qualifications with a selection of graduate-level music courses and performance experience with School of Music ensembles. Outcomes: Performance students will demonstrate the technical mastery and musical expertise requisite to having a significant professional career in their chosen area of performance. Performance students will demonstrate historical and theoretical knowledge supportive of the development of individualized interpretations within a full range of musical styles. Performance students will display a thorough understanding of the history of their medium and comprehensive knowledge of the repertoire and literature specific to the area of specialization. View the Artist Diploma in Performance sample degree plan. APPLY NOW > Areas of Study Brass click here > Keyboard click here > Percussion click here > Strings click here > Vocal Arts click here > Woodwinds click here > Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/24/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.