COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Manufacturing Engineering, Minor MinorManufacturing Engineering All Programs College of Engineering Industrial and Manufacturing Engineering Wichita State’s minor in manufacturing engineering offers additional knowledge and skills for students in other engineering emphases in the designing, planning and efficient production of products. The minor is a valuable asset for many engineering careers and graduate-level study. Learn how manufacturing engineering is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application WSU manufacturing engineering students enjoy access to one of the world’s largest 3D printers. Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To take courses in the College of Engineering, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU’s admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Grad student's career takes flight with Spirit internship As a Shocker, you have access to a huge list of employers that provide internship opportunities for students looking to get hands-on job experience. Business grad Anushiya Shiley Gomes returned to WSU to earn her master’s, and in the process received a coveted internship at Spirit AeroSystems, one of Wichita’s top employers. Her time in the classroom gave her the background to succeed at Spirit. Curriculum To complete the manufacturing engineering minor, you’ll take 23 credit hours of courses exploring engineering graphics, materials, manufacturing methods, mechanics and more. View the curriculum Careers WSU’s vast industry connections—and experience-based learning for every major—gives manufacturing engineering students the chance to grow their professional network, build a resume and earn a paycheck, all while still in school, leading to high-paying careers in diverse fields. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Product Design and Manufacturing Engineering Industrial Engineering Operations Management (Minor) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©