Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity (OIED) Show/Hide About Compliance and Oversight Action Plans Initiatives Resources Incident Reporting Events Resources for Virtual Environments The Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity is committed to maintaining an inclusive environment for the entire Brown community including learning and business operations in virtual spaces. All members of the community are encouraged to keep equity and inclusion at the forefront of their interactions. Below we share a list of ways you can help to ensure that we continue to uphold our values in regards to diversity, equity, and inclusion. Ensure that your materials are accessible for individuals who may be differently-abled. For video meetings with Zoom, you can record the meeting and enable captions that will appear when the video is downloaded. You can also utilize the chat box feature to share written notes, which can be saved and shared later. Use language that exhibits respect and sensitivity to all constituents you are communicating with (students, staff, faculty). As one example, you can use generic greetings like Dear Students or Good Morning Staff, when addressing a class or large numbers of individuals in emails, announcements, and video conferences to avoid gender-specific language. Be kind. Be flexible. Be adaptable. Remember that people may be operating with limited resources and could have additional stressors. Tip sheets to download and share: Tips for Maintaining Equity and Inclusion in a Virtual Space (Download) Tips for Maintaining Equity and Inclusion while teaching remotely (Download) Tips for Maintaining Equity and Inclusion while learning remotely (Download) Tips for Maintaining Equity and Inclusion while working remotely (Download) Tips for Maintaining Equity and Inclusion for DEI Practitioners (Download) References and Resources: Maintaining Equity and Inclusion in Virtual Learning Environments, San Diego State University Inclusion, Equity, and Access While Teaching Remotely, Rice University Center for Teaching Excellence Resources Training Resources Request Consultation/Training Resources for Anti-Racism Resources for Virtual Environments Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Contact Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity Brown University Box 1988 Horace Mann, Third Floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2216 Email [email protected] Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat