Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Information for Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni Search BC.edu Links Career Center Menu Main Nav Career Center Meet With a Career Coach Back Back Close About Overview Meet Our Team Student Employment Contact and Visit Us Meet with a Career Coach Learning Outcomes Career Clusters Overview Career Exploration Business, Consulting, and Finance Communication, Arts, and Media Education, Nonprofit, and Social Service Government, Law, and Public Policy Healthcare and Nursing Science, Technology, and Engineering Jobs and Internships Overview Be Career Ready Internships Jobs Resumes Cover Letters Online Presence Networking Interviewing Evaluating an Offer and Salary Negotiation Graduate School Overview Applying to Graduate School Law School For Current Graduate Students Events and Programs Overview Event Calendar Careerfest Endeavor Schedule of Events Endeavor Fellows Endeavor Keynote Endeavor FAQs Information for Alumni Envision Designing Your Career Course Alumni Job Shadow Program Career Fairs and Networking Events Campus Recruitment Eagle Intern Fellowship Career Closet Praxis Summer Program Winter Break Challenge Illumination Awards Outcomes Resources Overview Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Handshake Guide Eagle Exchange Guide Meet With a Career Coach Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC Career Center Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Science, Technology, and Engineering Home Career Clusters Science, Technology, and Engineering Career Clusters Career Exploration Business, Consulting, and Finance Communication, Arts, and Media Education, Nonprofit, and Social Service Government, Law, and Public Policy Healthcare and Nursing Science, Technology, and Engineering Explore STE Careers in science, technology, and engineering offer opportunities to use scientific inquiry, research, data analysis, critical thinking, and programming to solve complex real world problems and drive innovation. We invite you to explore this cluster to determine if it is a good fit for you and leverage our resources to launch your job, internship, or graduate school search. Meet Your Career Coach Our specialized Science, Technology, and Engineering career coach will help you launch a job, internship, or graduate school search in your field of interest. MAKE AN APPOINTMENT Kayla Pelland This cluster may be for you if: You have a desire to identify and solve complex real world problems You are curious, analytical, creative, and resilient You enjoy critical thinking, scientific inquiry, and collaboration Careers in science, technology, and engineering are open to students of all backgrounds. If you have preconceptions or doubts that are preventing you from exploring careers in these fields, we encourage you to make an appointment. Let’s dig deeper into these beliefs and engage in a meaningful conversation together. Key Resources Handshake Use your Handshake account to search for jobs/internships, connect with employers, find events, and more. Eagle Exchange Use your Eagle Exchange account to connect with BC alumni. Join the Science, Technology, and Engineering group to network with members and participate in group discussions. Jobs + Internships Browse our jobs and internships pages to prepare to apply to STE positions. Use our STE resume and cover letter examples to help you get started. STE Newsletters Update your career interests in Handshake to receive regular updates from our coaches with exclusive resources, reminders, event invites, job/internship postings, and more. Upcoming Events Science, Technology, and Engineering Career Center Explore Opportunities in Science, Technology, and Engineering Biotechnology/Pharmaceuticals Data Science/Analytics Engineering Environment/Sustainability Research/Academia Software Development/Information Technology Biotechnology/Pharmaceuticals The fields of biotechnology and pharmaceuticals both involve making products to enhance the human condition. Biotechnology focuses on creating products from living organisms while pharmaceuticals focuses on creating products using artificial sources, including chemicals. These industries are predicted to continue to grow in today’s markets. Types of Positions Scientific Research Assistant Research Associate Clinical Research Coordinator Laboratory Technician Process Development Associate Quality Control Analyst Where BC Graduates Have Gone Biogen Merck Moderna Therapeutics Novartis Pfizer Sanofi Genzyme Takeda Vertex Pharmaceuticals Hiring Timelines 18% received job offers during fall semester of senior year or before 51% received job offers during spring semester of senior year 31% received job offers after graduation Outcomes Online Resources Vault Career Guide to Pharmaceuticals and Biotechnology, Third Edition Massachusetts Biotechnology Council Massachusetts Life Sciences Center BioSpace FierceBiotech Professional Associations American Association of Pharmaceutical Scientists Biotechnology Innovation Organization Biomedical Engineering Society Association of Clinical Research Professionals Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America Do I need to go to graduate school? A graduate degree is not required for most entry-level positions, however people in the industry do obtain graduate degrees as they advance in the field. Graduate School Data Science/Analytics Data science is a multidisciplinary field that uses scientific methods, processes, algorithms and systems to extract knowledge and insights from structured and unstructured data. Similar to data mining and “big data”, data science is crucial to modern day marketing, with the growth of e-commerce and social media being able to target consumers directly through it. Data science will be crucial for the next wave of marketing and consumer analysis. Data analytics is the process of examining data sets in order to draw conclusions about the information they contain, increasingly with the aid of specialized systems and software. Data analytics technologies and techniques expand across a multitude of industries (consumer products, healthcare, manufacturing), and enable organizations to make more informed business decisions. A data analyst is similar to a data scientist, but are often not responsible for creating the algorithms used for data discovery and acquisition. Rather than creating their own data projects, data analysts often find themselves tackling specific business tasks using existing tools, systems, and data sets. Both careers share a common goal: to discover how to use information to answer questions and solve problems for the benefit of their business/industry. Types of Positions Data Analyst/Scientist Clinical Data Manager Product Analyst Data Infrastructure Data Engineering Data Quality and Data Governance Data Analytics Engineering Data Product Manager Online Resources Dice Kaggle Data Elixir Data Science Central iCrunch Data Data Jobs 365 Data Science Professional Associations American Statistical Association Digital Analytics Association International Institute of Business Analysis Society for Clinical Data Management Data Science Association Association for Information Science and Technology Technical Interviews Technical interviews require candidates to demonstrate a particular skill set or knowledge that relates to the job, such as writing code for a computer programming position. They are commonly used for positions in science, technology, or engineering. You may be asked to solve puzzles or problems, complete a coding challenge, or answer specific targeted questions. Resources on our interviewing page will help you prepare. Interviewing Do I need to go to graduate school? While there are some entry-level data scientist positions available, you’ll typically need a minimum of a master’s degree in data analytics, data science, computer science, mathematics, or statistics, although some people have degrees in engineering, economics, econometrics, business, operations research, neuroscience, or computational psychology. Some employers require applicants to have a doctorate in one of the aforementioned fields. Best 23 Schools with Data Science Master's Programs A graduate degree is not required for most entry-level data analyst positions, however people in the industry do obtain graduate degrees as they advance in the field. Graduate School Engineering The field of engineering primarily deals with the design, manufacture and operation of structures, machines or devices. The engineering industry is comprised of sectors like civil, industrial, mechanical, electrical, chemical, and more. The engineering industry has an enormous potential of creating new jobs within the industry with categories primarily based on designing, manufacturing, installing, repairing, packaging or selling engineering products. Types of Positions Mechanical Engineer Civil Engineer Electrical Engineer Chemical Engineer Industrial Engineer Hiring Timelines 50% received job offers during fall semester of senior year or before 50% received job offers during spring semester of senior year Outcomes Online Resources Vault Guide to Engineering Jobs, Second Edition DiscoverE EngineerJobs.com Engineering Central Campus Resources Schiller Institute for Integrated Science and Society Professional Associations American Society for Engineering Education Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Computer Society National Society of Professional Engineers Do I need to go to graduate school? In order to work as an engineer, one must obtain an engineering degree within a specialized area of engineering. BC students interested in pursuing an engineering career should first determine what type of engineering is the best fit and then research the programs for that engineering discipline. Graduate School Graduate Program Resources: U.S. News Top Engineering Schools Engineering Graduate Programs Environment/Sustainability The environment and sustainability industry focuses on creating sustainable technology and industrial processes in a way that minimizes negative consequences to the environment. This field is closely related to clean energy and carbon emission reduction. There are a variety of functional roles within this industry from marketing and sales to environmental science and engineering. The field is projected to grow as the demand for environmentally friendly products and services increases. Types of Positions General Areas: Waste Management Water/Air Quality Management Environmental Planning and Regulation Conservation Fishery/Wildlife Management Parks/Outdoor Recreation Job Titles: Botanist Ecologist Energy Consultant Geologist Park Ranger Geographic Information Systems (GIS) Analyst Where BC Graduates Have Gone AECOM Commonwealth of Massachusetts EBI Consulting Northstar Recycling EnerNOC Triumvirate Environmental VHB Hiring Timelines 6% received job offers before senior year 13% received job offers during fall semester of senior year 69% received job offers during spring semester of senior year 12% received job offers the summer after senior year Outcomes Online Resources Massachusetts Clean Energy Center Ecological Society of America National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration EnvironmentalScience.org U.S. Environmental Protection Agency National Park Service U.S. Geological Survey Energy Central Jobs Campus Resources EcoPledge Environmental Studies Program Earth and Environmental Sciences Department Boston College Office of Sustainability Professional Associations Ecological Society of America Student Conservation Association North American Association for Environmental Education American Geosciences Institute Geological Society of America Do I need to go to graduate school? Because environmental services/sustainability incorporates many different types of functional areas, there are a range of types of graduate programs one can consider. An important first step is to determine what your interest area within this career area is—are you focused on climate science? Sustainability? Environmental policy? Environmental law? The graduate program you select should be focused accordingly. Always be sure to research schools of interest to make sure your interests align with the strengths and focus of the program. In some cases and depending on your goals, you may not need a graduate degree to get into the field or you may be able to complete a certificate program. Graduate School Law School Graduate Program Resources: Environmental Sciences Graduate Programs Sustainability Graduate Programs Environmental Law Programs Environmental Policy Graduate Programs Research/Academia Academia is concerned with the pursuit of research, education, and scholarship. Conducting research either independently or for an organization or becoming a professor at an institution is typically the route taken for most pursuing academia. Online Resources National Science Foundation Research Experiences for Undergraduates U.S. Department of Energy Science Undergraduate Laboratory Internships Campus Resources Undergraduate Research Opportunities Biology Department Chemistry Department Physics Department Do I need to go to graduate school? While it is possible to get an entry-level job in research without a graduate degree, a graduate degree is key to career advancement. Your graduate degree will be in the field in which you want to focus your teaching and/or research. Graduate School Software Development/Information Technology Both software development and information technology closely revolve around the development, maintenance, and study of new telecommunications and software. The industry includes software services such as training and documentation, as well as consultation and data recovery. With the ever-increasing reach of the internet, the industry is expected to grow exponentially, especially around cloud-based systems. Types of Positions Software Developer Software Engineer Software Architect Quality Assurance Engineer Where BC Graduates Have Gone Amazon Dell DraftKings Google Optum Oracle Hiring Timelines 49% received job offers during fall semester of senior year or before 37% received job offers during spring semester of senior year 15% received job offers after graduation Outcomes Online Resources Mass Technology Leadership Council AngelList Dice Stack Overflow TechCrunch CrunchBoard Campus Resources Computer Science Department Computer Science Society TechTrek Women In Computer Science Professional Associations Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Computer Society CompTIA Association of IT Professionals Women in Technology Black Data Processing Associates Grace Hopper Celebration Association for Computing Machinery Technical Interviews Technical interviews require candidates to demonstrate a particular skill set or knowledge that relates to the job, such as writing code for a computer programming position. They are commonly used for positions in science, technology, or engineering. You may be asked to solve puzzles or problems, complete a coding challenge, or answer specific targeted questions. Resources on our interviewing page will help you prepare. Interviewing Do I need to go to graduate school? A graduate degree is not required for most entry-level positions, however people in the industry do obtain graduate degrees as they advance in the field. Graduate School From the Career Center Blog Internship Spotlight: Summer Internships in Science, Technology & Engineering The Eagle Intern Fellowship (EIF) provides financial support to Boston College undergraduates with demonstrated financial need who obtain summer internships April 14, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam How to Explore Cybersecurity Careers Cybersecurity is a rapidly growing industry that spans the government, business, law, engineering, and tech sectors. If you’re interested in April 11, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam 6 Employers Give You Their Career Fair Advice Registration for the Boston College Career Fair opens to all students on February 7th. As you think about how to January 24, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Internship Spotlight: Annabelle Schultze ’22 This past summer, I had the wonderful opportunity to work virtually at Citizens Bank as a user experience (UX) research October 27, 2021 BCCareerCenterTeam How to Set Up Your Own Mock Technical Interview For many positions in the Science, Technology, and Engineering cluster, technical interviews are a key component of the interview process. September 02, 2021 BCCareerCenterTeam Meet the STE Student Advisory Board We’re excited to introduce you to the new Science, Technology, and Engineering Career Cluster Advisory Board. These student leaders help September 01, 2021 BCCareerCenterTeam Internship Spotlight: Summer Internships in Science, Technology & Engineering The Eagle Intern Fellowship (EIF) provides financial support to Boston College undergraduates with demonstrated financial need who obtain summer internships April 14, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam How to Explore Cybersecurity Careers Cybersecurity is a rapidly growing industry that spans the government, business, law, engineering, and tech sectors. If you’re interested in April 11, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam 6 Employers Give You Their Career Fair Advice Registration for the Boston College Career Fair opens to all students on February 7th. As you think about how to January 24, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam VIEW MORE POSTS VIEW LESS POSTS Visit Blog Back To Top Back To Top Career Center Southwell Hall 38 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-3430 About Departments & Programs How can we help you? Events Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College