Skip to site alert. Skip to content Columbia School of Nursing Students Alumni Faculty Contact Us Search Make a Gift About Us About Us Message From the Dean Leadership Faculty Our Culture News Events Facts and Figures Accreditation Make a Gift Contact Us Our Culture Diversity and Cultural Affairs Civility Statement Social Justice and Health Equity and Anti-Racism Commitment Sustainability Our History Jonas Partnership Join Our Team Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Learn about our commitment to social justice and health equality and anti-racism. View Our Progress Academics Academics A Columbia Nursing Education Admissions at a Glance Academic Programs Courses Financial Aid Continuing Nursing Education Helene Fuld Health Trust Simulation Center Academic Programs Doctor of Nursing Practice Doctor of Nursing Practice in Nurse Anesthesia Doctor of Philosophy Masters Direct Entry Program For Non-Nurses Masters in Advanced Clinical Management and Leadership Online Prerequisites for Entry to Nursing Transgender Non-Binary (Trans NB) Health Care for Advance Practice Nurses and PAs Palliative Care Throughout the Lifespan for Advanced Practice Registered Nurses (APRNs) Admissions at a Glance Learn more about Admissions at Columbia Nursing, including important dates and deadlines, and how to apply to all of our programs. Learn More About Admissions Research Research Research Faculty and Postdoctoral Fellows Research Areas of Focus Research Centers and Programs Training Programs Research Resources Research Centers and Programs Center for Health Policy Center for Improving Palliative Care for Vulnerable Adults with MCC Precision in Symptom Self-Management Center Center for Healthcare Delivery Research and Innovations Center for Research on People of Color Center for Sexual and Gender Minority Health Research Linking to Improve Nursing Knowledge Research Areas of Focus Explore the research areas of focus conducted by our faculty, postdocs, and students. View Our Focus Areas Patient Care Global Health Global Health Global Opportunities for Students Global Research International Visitors WHO Collaborating Center Contact Global Opportunities for Students Global opportunities for clinical practicum and research may be available for MDE and doctoral students at Columbia Nursing. Get More Information Partnership Boosts Grant Writing Success for Nursing Trainees May 12, 2022 Share this page Share on Facebook Tweet Share on Linkedin Share by email Pre- and post-doctoral trainees who receive one-on-one grant writing support are twice as likely to have their research projects funded, show new findings from Columbia Nursing. Just over 80% of trainees who received support were awarded funding, compared to just 42% of those who did not, reported Kristine Kulage, MPH, and her colleagues in Nursing Outlook. Kulage is the director of the school’s Office of Scholarship and Research Development. Producing high-quality scholarship and research that address health disparities and inequities is a central mission of Columbia Nursing, Kulage and her colleagues noted in the study. Mentorship is critical for nurses’ overall success, but trainees may also benefit from support with the administrative aspects of grant-writing, which mentors may not be able to provide. To address this issue, Kulage and her colleagues developed a one-on-one partnership program with four elements: regular meetings, a timeline with milestones, writing and editing support, and attention to administrative documents. The program, intended for predoctoral students and postdoctoral fellows who are either new to research or starting the process of seeking funding for their dissertation or postdissertation research, was implemented in 2011. In the recent study, the authors reviewed 40 grant applications submitted by pre- and postdoctoral trainees between 2011 to 2020. Seventeen of the 21 applicants who participated in the partnership program (81%) received funding, versus eight of the 19 applicants who didn’t participate (42%). Elaine Larson, PhD, a professor emerita and the study’s senior author, oversaw the genesis and launch of the partnership program. Other authors were Elizabeth Corwin, PhD, a professor and vice dean for research; Jianfang Liu, PhD, an assistant professor; Rebecca Schnall, PhD ’09, a professor and associate dean; Kodiak Soled, MS, a research scientist and PhD student; and Arlene Smaldone, PhD ’03, a professor, all at Columbia Nursing; and John Usseglio, MPH, an informationist at Columbia University Irving Medical Center. In a testimonial included in the report, Soled said the partnership “was essential to successfully writing and securing my first federal grant … on the first submission…. This rigorously systematic yet supportive opportunity was invaluable to unlocking a significant milestone and obtaining hopefully the first of many future grants in my career as an independent research scientist.” The partnership is not a formal part of the predoctoral curriculum or the postdoctoral training program, and participation in it is voluntary. “We want to increase the diversity of program participants, better advertise its availability, and ensure that any barriers to participation are identified and addressed so all feel free to take advantage of this opportunity,” Kulage says. Nurses seeking a well-resourced PhD program that is a good match for their needs, she adds, should see the partnership as yet another benefit of choosing Columbia Nursing. Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Academics Research Patient Care Global Health Contact Us Students Alumni Intranet Careers Columbia University School of Nursing 560 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Back to top