Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Doctoral Program in Physical Therapy (DPT) Become an outstanding Doctor of Physical Therapy with the help of UCF Request Info Program at a Glance Program Doctorate College(s) College of Health Professions and Sciences Department(s) Kinesiology&Phys Thpy, Schl of 2-3 Years In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $575.99 per credit hour $1,400.39 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Cultivating Excellence in Physical Therapy Practice The Doctor of Physical Therapy (DPT) program prepares students to become competent, compassionate, and ethical physical therapists able to effectively treat patients in a variety of healthcare settings. Graduates will be highly dedicated professionals who demonstrate clinical excellence through exceptional critical thinking, communication, patient education, advocacy, practice management and research skills. The Doctor of Physical Therapy program is a three-year (nine consecutive semesters) professional doctoral curriculum designed to prepare entry-level therapists to practice in a variety of clinical settings. The professional curriculum is a full-time “lock-step” program. The program includes multiple clinical education experiences (internships) ranging from eight weeks to twelve weeks in duration. It also includes focused interprofessional education activities involving students from other professional disciplines as well as research training and activities. Students who successfully complete the course of study will be granted the Doctor in Physical Therapy degree (DPT), enabling the graduate to take the national board examination leading to state licensure as a Physical Therapist. The UCF Doctor of Physical Therapy program promotes lifelong learning and professional development, which is attained through active involvement in professional organizations such as the American Physical Therapy Association. UCF’s Doctor of Physical Therapy Program is fully accredited by the Commission on Accreditation of Physical Therapy Education. Request Information Highlights The UCF DPT program has a 100% licensure pass rate each year. The field of physical therapy is projected to see a 21% job growth through 2030 (according to the US Bureau of Labor Statistics). DPT graduates have a median salary of $91k (according to the US Bureau of Labor Statistics). Application Deadlines Domestic International Summer October 15 Summer October 15 Ready to get started? Apply Today Course Overview Human Gross Anatomy 12 credits of cadaveric dissection in the gross anatomy laboratory to best learn human anatomy. Pain Mechanisms and Treatment in Rehabilitation Contemporary examination of sources of pain and best practices in the treatment of patients with pain. Neurologic Physical Therapy Evaluate and treat patients with neurologic impairments such as traumatic brain injury, spinal cord injury, stroke. Orthopedic Physical Therapy Evaluate and treat patients with conditions and pathologies associated with musculoskeletal dysfunction common to active populations and athletes. Research Applications Application of scientific methodology into contemporary issues of physical therapy practice or movement science. Primary Care Screening of patients with conditions that results in differential diagnosis and referral to other medical or health care providers to optimize care. View all DPT courses that you'll take The clinical options UCF DPT students are provided with are completely invaluable, and I'm very thankful to UCF DPT for the wonderful opportunities I was able to take advantage of during my time as a student." — Victoria (Morgan) Daacon ‘10DPT DPT Skills You'll Learn Evaluate, diagnose, and treat patients of all ages and spanning the continuum of care. Learn hands on evaluation and treatment of patients. Develop skills to be an advance provider, able to manage patients with neurologic, musculoskeletal, or other pathologic conditions that impact function and quality of life. Collaborate with a healthcare team in various settings within the healthcare system. Where Physical Therapists Work Acute, Subacute, and Rehabilitation Hospitals Specialty Clinics Outpatient Facilities Private Practices Veterans Affairs Military Healthcare Facilities Professional Sports Schools Long-Term Care Facilities Home Health Agencies Admission Requirements Applicants must meet all program requirements to be considered for admission. The following items MUST arrive to PTCAS by October 15. All necessary forms can be found at www.ptcas.org. Request Information To apply, submit the general graduate admissions requirements, as well as the following items by the deadline: Completed PTCAS Application All transcripts GRE scores TOEFL and foreign transcript evaluation (if required) Observation hours (must be completed and verified) Letters of recommendation Resume upon request Incomplete applications will NOT be reviewed. Request Information College of Health Professions and Sciences News Check out more stories Health & Medicine Survivor Link National Training Program Launches at UCF The program will support nine social work students, developing their ability to respond to domestic violence. Colleges & Campus UCF Opens New Huntington’s Disease Multispecialty Clinic Located in Research Park, the new clinic offers multidisciplinary care from the College of Medicine, School of Social Work, and College of Health Professions and… Community UCF Class Spotlight: Introduction to American Sign Language In honor of National American Sign Language Day, April 15, here’s a look at a course — plus an instructional video — that teaches students… Health & Medicine UCF Students Team up to Provide Care at Apopka Farmworkers Clinic For the first time since the pandemic, the clinic has returned to in-person services at full capacity. UCF DPT Alum Receives ‘Emerging Leader’ Award Vanessa Ziccardi ’15DPT is the 2021 recipient of the Emerging Leader Award from the Florida Physical Therapy Association. The honor recognizes physical therapists in Florida who demonstrate extraordinary service early in their career. Meet Vanessa and learn about her work Degree Search College of Health Professions and Sciences programs Doctorates Doctor of Physical Therapy (DPT) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management Request Information × Enter your information below to receive more information about the Doctor of Physical Therapy (DPT) program offered at UCF. Loading... × The Doctor of Physical Therapy (DPT) program prepares students to become competent, compassionate, and ethical physical therapists able to effectively treat patients in a variety of health care settings. Graduates will be highly dedicated professionals who demonstrate clinical excellence through exceptional critical thinking, communication, patient education, advocacy, practice management and research skills. The Doctor of Physical Therapy program is a three-year (nine consecutive semesters) professional doctoral curriculum designed to prepare entry-level therapists to practice in a variety of clinical settings. The professional curriculum is a full-time "lock-step" program. The program includes multiple clinical education experiences (internships) ranging from eight weeks to twelve weeks in duration. It also includes focused interprofessional education activities involving students from other professional disciplines as well as research training and activities. Students who successfully complete the course of study will be granted the Doctor in Physical Therapy degree (DPT), enabling the graduate to take the national board examination leading to state licensure as a Physical Therapist. This program has potential ties to professional licensure or certification in the field. For more information on how this program may prepare students in that regard, please visit https://apq.ucf.edu/files/Licensure-Disclosure-CHPS-Doctor-of-Physical-Therapy.pdf. The UCF Doctor of Physical Therapy program promotes lifelong learning and professional development, which is attained through active involvement in professional organizations such as the American Physical Therapy Association. UCF's Doctor of Physical Therapy Program is fully accredited by the Commission on Accreditation of Physical Therapy Education. Mission The mission of the University of Central Florida's Doctor of Physical Therapy Program is to cultivate excellence in physical therapist practice through comprehensive and focused doctoral education. The program fosters excellence through its dedication to foundational sciences, clinical skill proficiency, research and evidence-based practice, service and professional duty, and lifelong learning. The program is committed to the development and strengthening of the healthcare community in order to optimize patient care in the dynamic healthcare environment. Vision The Doctor of Physical Therapy Program at the University of Central Florida will be distinguished for: Its breadth, depth, and collaborative approach to physical therapist education Clinical excellence and advancement of clinical practice Scholarly achievements and professional recognition of students, faculty, and clinical partners Dedication to the health and well-being of the Central Florida community Professional commitment and advocacy Cultivation of professional development to advance the practice of physical therapy Program Prerequisites Each prerequisite course must be completed with a minimum grade of "C". The overall GPA for all prerequisite courses must be a 3.00 or higher to be considered for admission. The program recommends all prerequisite courses be completed at the time of application. Candidates with all prerequisites completed at the time of application may be given preference over those still completing courses. No more than two prerequisite courses may be in progress the fall semester prior to the program's start and no more than one course may be in progress during the spring semester prior to the program's start. Courses older than ten years will not be accepted. Online courses are NOT accepted for the following prerequisites: anatomy courses, physiology courses, physics courses, or chemistry courses, unless taken in semesters affected by COVID-19 (see program Admissions page for additional information). Hybrid courses are only accepted for the prerequisite courses listed above if the lab component is delivered in a face-to-face format (submission of course description/syllabi may be required to verify course delivery mode). Email [email protected] to request a prerequisite review. Anatomy and Physiology - Two courses with labs and a minimum of 8 credit hours is required. One of two options must be met: Option 1: One semester of Human Physiology with lab and one semester of Anatomy with lab. Option 2: Two semesters of Anatomy/Physiology combined courses with labs. Biology / Biological Studies - Two courses and a minimum of 6 credit hours is required. Labs are not required. Must be courses for science majors. Chemistry - Two courses with labs and a minimum of 8 credit hours is required. Introduction and survey courses are NOT accepted. Physics - Two courses with labs and a minimum of 8 credit hours is required. General Physics and Physics with Calculus are both acceptable courses. Psychology - One course (3 credit hours) is required. Any psychology course that is taken within the Psychology Department will meet this requirement. Statistics - One course (3 credit hours) is required. Degree Requirements Required Courses 114 Total Credits Complete all of the following Year 1 Complete all of the following Summer Term 1 Complete the following: PHT5003 - Foundations of Physical Therapy (2) PHT5125 - Clinical Kinesiology (2) PHT5125L - Clinical Kinesiology Lab (1) PHT6115C - Gross Anatomy/Neuroscience I (6) PHT6156C - Applied Human Physiology for Health Sciences (3) Fall Term 1 Complete the following: PHT5240 - Physical Assessment (1) PHT5240L - Physical Assessment Lab (2) PHT5260 - Patient Care Skills (2) PHT5260L - Patient Care Skills Lab (2) PHT6118C - Gross Anatomy/Neuroscience II (6) PHT6153 - Physiologic Assessment in Physical Therapy Practice (2) PHT6606 - Research Methods in Physical Therapy (2) Spring Term 1 Complete the following: PHT5218C - Therapeutic Modalities in Rehabilitation (3) PHT5241 - Therapeutic Exercises I (2) PHT5241L - Therapeutic Exercise Lab I (2) PHT6242 - Orthopedic Physical Therapy (3) PHT6242L - Orthopedic Physical Therapy Lab (1) PHT6306 - Pathology in Rehabilitation (2) PHT6356 - Pharmacology in Rehabilitation (2) Year 2 Complete all of the following Summer Term 2 Complete the following: PHT5718 - Neurological Physical Therapy (3) PHT5718L - Neurological Physical Therapy Lab (1) PHT6219C - Pain Mechanisms and Treatment in Rehabilitation (2) PHT6245 - Therapeutic Exercise II (2) PHT6245L - Therapeutic Exercise II Lab (1) PHT7722C - Integrative Clinical Practice (2) Fall Term 2 Complete the following: PHT6521 - Management of Physical Therapy Services (2) PHT6322C - Pediatric Physical Therapy (3) PHT6716C - Advanced Orthopedic Physical Therapy (2) PHT6720 - Integumentary Physical Therapy (1) PHT6805C - Clinical Education I (4) PHT7742C - Acute Care Physical Therapy (2) Spring Term 2 Complete the following: PHT6374C - Geriatric Physical Therapy (2) PHT6381C - Cardiopulmonary Physical Therapy (2) PHT6618 - Research Applications in Physical Therapy (2) PHT6719 - Advanced Neurological Physical Therapy (2) PHT6719L - Advanced Neurological Physical Therapy Lab (1) PHT7134C - Physical Therapy Integration (2) PHT7730C - Primary Care for the Physical Therapist (2) Year 3 Complete all of the following Summer Term 3 Complete the following: PHT7822C - Clinical Education II (6) Fall Term 3 Complete the following: PHT7721C - Integrations in Orthopedic Physical Therapy (1) PHT7772C - Advanced Neurological Physical Therapy II (1) PHT7780C - Advanced Geriatric Physical Therapy (1) PHT7329C - Advanced Pediatric Physical Therapy (1) PHT7521 - Management of Physical Therapy Services II (2) PHT7823C - Clinical Education III (4) PHT6070C - Radiology/Imaging for Physical Therapy (3) Spring Term 3 Complete all of the following Complete the following: PHT7021 - Professional Practice in Physical Therapy (2) PHT7900 - Capstone Project in Physical Therapy (3) PHT7829C - Clinical Education IV (4) PHT 7XXXC Elective Course Complete 1 of the following Elective Course Options (student must select at least one of the following courses, pending availability). PHT 6958 Physical Therapy Study Abroad can fulfill the elective requirement and may be offered at any point in the DPT curriculum: Complete at least 1 of the following: PHT7778C - Advanced Manual Therapy (2) PHT7764C - Advanced Neurological Treatment (2) PHT7702C - Advanced Orthotics and Prosthetics (2) PHT7779C - Sports Physical Therapy (2) Earn at least 2 credits from the following types of courses: PHT 6958 - Study Abroad Examinations 0 Total Credits Each student is required to achieve a passing score on the comprehensive examination. If a student does not achieve a passing score on the first attempt, a second version of the exam will be provided. If the student does not achieve a passing score on the second examination, the student will be required to pass an oral comprehensive examination which will involve patient case scenario(s). The first two examinations will include the practice exam(s) developed by the Federation of State Boards of Physical Therapy, with passing scores required to be no less than 600 (overall scale score). If a student is required to take the oral examination, a passing score is deemed as having the majority of raters providing an overall pass score. Failure of the comprehensive examination upon this third attempt will result in review by the program faculty in accordance with its retention and advancement procedures to determine if the student will be dismissed form the program or placed on a remediation plan. Grand Total Credits: 114 Application Requirements Applications are only accepted for Summer admission. The application for this program can be found at www.ptcas.org. The Doctor of Physical Therapy program at UCF participates in the Physical Therapist Centralized Application Service, known as PTCAS. Prospective students applying to the entry-level physical therapist education program must apply online using the PTCAS application (this is in addition to the UCF Graduate Application which serves as a supplemental application). To learn more about the PTCAS application process, visit www.ptcas.org. All application materials MUST be sent directly to PTCAS. Materials sent to the university or program and not to PTCAS will not be accepted. The following application materials must be received by PTCAS no later than October 15. Completed PTCAS Application (www.ptcas.org), including all documents required by PTCAS. One official transcript from each college/university attended. Official GRE scores taken within last five years. Use GRE CODE for UCF PTCAS: 3871 (Do not use the UCF "Institution Code" for GRE) Prerequisite courses completed within ten (10) years of anticipated matriculation. A minimum of 50 hours of observation/volunteer or work experience under the direct supervision of a licensed physical therapist. Hours must be verified through PTCAS by November 1st to be considered. A variety of settings is recommended. Three (3) letters of recommendation with PTCAS recommendation forms, including one (1) from a physical therapist. Applicants who have attended a college/university outside the United States must also provide a course-by-course credential evaluation with GPA calculation through WES. UCF Graduate Application (supplemental) must be submitted in addition to PTCAS application. Deadline to submit the supplemental application is October 15. Incomplete applications will NOT be reviewed. Application requirements: The bachelor's degree may be in any discipline from a regionally accredited institution and may be in progress at the time of application. However, the degree must be awarded prior to the program's start date in the Summer C semester (mid-May). Minimum GPA of 3.00 (on 4.00 scale) in the last 60 credit hours of an undergraduate degree. Minimum GPA of 3.00 (on 4.00 scale) for all prerequisite courses. Each prerequisite course grade must be a 'C' or higher ("C-" grades are NOT accepted). Submission of competitive GRE scores within last five (5) years. An interview, by invitation only. UCF Graduate Application (supplemental) MUST be completed by October 15 with supplemental application fee paid by ALL APPLICANTS. A resume will only be required for students who are offered an interview by the program. Once requested, the applicant will email the resume directly to the program. Applicants not meeting these minimum requirements will not be considered for admission. Meeting minimum requirements does not guarantee an applicant an interview or admission to the program. All applicants and admitted students to the Doctor of Physical Therapy program must perform certain Essential Functions in order to participate and complete program requirements. PTCAS will begin accepting applications in July, however, the program will not begin reviewing applications until August or September. Admissions decisions will be made only once per academic year. Incoming students must begin the program in the summer C semester (mid-May). Thirty-eight (38) students are admitted to the program each year. The demographics of a recent class include an average age of 22 years and a grade point average of 3.80 for upper-division coursework and 3.75 for prerequisite courses (on a 4.0 scale), and an average GRE scores of 155 / 156 / 4WA. Admission to the program is competitive based on the above criteria, the applicant's abilities, past academic performance, work experience and match of the applicant with the program's mission and goals. Application Deadlines Physical Therapy DPT *Fall Priority Fall Spring Summer Domestic Applicants Oct 15 International Applicants Oct 15 *Applicants who plan to enroll full time in a degree program and who wish to be considered for university fellowships or assistantships should apply by the Fall Priority date. Financial Information Graduate students may receive financial assistance through fellowships, assistantships, tuition support, or loans. For more information, see the College of Graduate Studies Funding website, which describes the types of financial assistance available at UCF and provides general guidance in planning your graduate finances. The Financial Information section of the Graduate Catalog is another key resource. Fellowship Information Fellowships are awarded based on academic merit to highly qualified students. They are paid to students through the Office of Student Financial Assistance, based on instructions provided by the College of Graduate Studies. Fellowships are given to support a student's graduate study and do not have a work obligation. For more information, see UCF Graduate Fellowships, which includes descriptions of university fellowships and what you should do to be considered for a fellowship. University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida