Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Information For Search BC.edu Links Math Department Menu Main Nav Math Department Math Department Contact Back Back Close About Overview Giving to Mathematics Contact News & Notes Open Positions People Undergraduate Overview Majors and Minors Courses Selecting Courses Course Approvals Registration Overrides Tutoring Undergraduate Research Careers and Opportunities Awards FAQ About Advanced Placement About Calculus Graduate Overview Ph.D. Program Graduate Brochure Ph.D. Requirements Ph.D. Coursework Qualifying Exams Application Requirements Advanced Coursework Financial Aid Teaching Fellowships Graduate Courses Exemplary Math Educators Project Noyce Master Teacher Fellowship Noyce Teaching Fellowship Master of Science in Teaching Program Developing Exemplary Math Teacher Leaders Project Research Overview Faculty Awards and Professional Recognition Seminars and Colloquia Overview Mathematics Education Colloquium Series Distinguished Lecture Series Close Contact Directory A to Z Listing Search Morrissey College Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Math Home Graduate Graduate Ph.D. Program Graduate Courses Exemplary Math Educators Project Developing Exemplary Math Teacher Leaders Project Graduate Programs Ph.D. Program in Mathematics The doctoral degree program is our primary offering. Students in this program are supported with Teaching Fellowships, which include a generous stipend plus complete tuition remission. The limited size of our program contributes to a tight-knit group of friendly graduate students who interact closely with our mathematics faculty. Get Started Request Info Apply Now Learning Outcomes The Department of Mathematics is engaged in an ongoing effort to assess our programs. We have organized this effort around several learning goals. We measure student outcomes in these areas annually, and we use that information to improve the structure and content of our major, and of our doctoral program. The learning outcomes to be attained for graduate students are: Students will have broad knowledge of the major areas of modern mathematics (algebra, analysis, and geometry) and detailed command of advanced topics in at least one of these areas. Students will be able to do original research in their area of study. Students will teach effectively courses in mathematics at the college level. Back To Top Back To Top Math Department Maloney Hall, Fifth Floor Boston College Chestnut Hill, MA 02467-3806 617-552-1201 math@bc.edu Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Gasson Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Contact Departments Art, Art History, and Film Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics Engineering English German Studies History Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Romance Languages and Literatures Slavic & Eastern Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology Giving to Math Apply Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College