Brown University Quick Exit General Health Physical Health Acne Asthma Breast Exams Bronchitis Colds Concussion Headaches Meningitis Mononucleosis Sleep Seasonal Flu Sun Safety and Skin Cancer Stomach Flu Testicular Self-Exams Travel and Health Yeast Infection Emotional Wellbeing Mindfulness Sleep Stress Self-Care Techniques for Stress Relief Wellness on Campus Social Wellbeing Community, Connection and Coping: Remote Resources Consent Economic Stress Roommate Relationships Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Bacterial Vaginosis Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy Gender Care GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Premature Ejaculation Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Accessing Care Gender Care GYN Visits LGBTQ Health Care at Health Services Men's Health Exams Pregnancy Tests STI Testing Options Resources and Links Nutrition & Eating Concerns Eating Well at Brown Being a Vegetarian Dietary Guidelines Eating Off Meal Plan Meal Plan And Dining Information Supplements Eating Concerns and Body Image Body Image Concerns Eating Concerns Help at Brown Sports Nutrition Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S) Sports Nutrition Accessing Care Help at Brown Worried about a Friend Sexual Health Sex 101 SHAG! Erectile Dysfunction Orgasm Premature Ejaculation Sex and Alcohol Sex Toys Sexually Explicit Media Contraception Birth Control Pills Cervical Cap Condoms Depo-Provera Emergency Contraception Fertility Awareness Method Implant Internal Condoms IUD Ortho Evra (The Patch) Ring Spermicides and Lubricants The Recent Election & Contraception Access Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Yeast Infection Safer Sex Ship n SHAG! Sexual Health and Safer Sex During Covid-19 Abstinence Condoms Dental Dams Internal Condoms Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) Pre Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Safer Sex Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) STIs AIDS/HIV Bacterial Vaginosis Chlamydia Colposcopy Gonorrhea Hepatitis B Herpes HPV and Genital Warts HPV Vaccine Molluscum Contagiosum Oral Sex and STIs Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pubic Lice and Scabies Sexually Transmitted Infections Syphilis Talking with a Partner STI Testing Options Trichomoniasis Urinary Tract Infections Yeast Infection Sexual Assault & Dating Violence Get Help Sexual Assault Response Line SHARE Advocates Dating Violence First Five Days After an Assault Male Survivors Sexual Violence and Assault Sexual Harassment Stalking Help a Friend SHARE Advocates How to Help a Friend Get Involved in Prevention Interrupting the Red Zone: How we keep each other safe Culture of Respect Collective Sexual Assault Peer Education (SAPE) Help Prevent Sexual Assault Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Relationships and Communication Consent Dating Violence Learn More Common Reactions to Sexual Violence and Assault Predatory Drugs Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Sexual Violence: Key Terms Resources and Links Alcohol & Other Drugs Alcohol Alcohol and Your Body Recognizing a Problem Risks and Realities Sex and Alcohol Ways to Cut Down Other Drugs Caffeine Cocaine Ecstasy Energy Drinks GHB Inhalants Ketamine LSD Marijuana Methamphetamine Predatory Drugs Psilocybin (Mushrooms) Rohypnol Tobacco Smokeless Tobacco Smoking Cessation Tobacco Learn More Law and Policy Summary Educational Links Accessing Care Resources at Brown Off Campus Resources Calling EMS How to Help a Friend Quit Smoking How to Talk to a Friend about Drinking or Drug Use Google Tag Manager Contraception Spermicides and Lubricants What are spermicides? Spermicides are a contraceptive method that come in many forms including foam, cream, gel, film, and suppositories. Spermicides contain the chemicals non-oxynol 9 (N-9) or octoxynol that prevent pregnancy by immobilizing and killing sperm. What are lubricants? Lubricants are products that increase sexual pleasure by making the contact surfaces wet and slippery and by decreasing friction and possible irritation. Lubricants can be water, silicone or oil based. If you are using the lubricant with a latex product (like latex condoms), be sure that it is water or silicone based. Oil based lubricant will cause the latex to deteriorate and could cause the condom to break. The important difference between spermicides and lubricants is whether or not they offer any contraceptive protection. Spermicides prevent pregnancy; lubricants do not. Some lubricants come in forms similar to spermicides but offer no contraceptive protection, so if you need pregnancy protection, just be sure the package specifies that it is a contraceptive. How effective are spermicides in preventing pregnancy? If you use spermicides alone (not using condoms or another method) correctly every time you have intercourse, there is a 6% risk of pregnancy. However, not all people who use spermicide use them correctly every time, so the average pregnancy rate is about 21%. Do spermicides prevent STI transmission? Because spermicides kill sperm, scientists initially believed that they would also kill sexually transmitted infections (STIs) such as chlamydia, gonorrhea and HIV. However, according to the Centers for Disease Control, N-9 contraceptives do not protect against these infections and may increase STI exposure risk because it can cause genital irritation. To read more about this report, click here. How do I use spermicides? General information on spermicide use: For vaginal intercourse, spermicide is inserted into the vagina ahead of time. Detailed instructions for use are always included in the packaging. Be sure to read them carefully before you use any of these products. Insertion of a spermicide into the rectum, as a means of reducing STI risk, is not recommended because the spermicide can cause irritation of the rectal tissues, and can actually increase the risk of STI transmission. For STI protection, always use condoms when having anal sex. For each act of intercourse you should insert another application of spermicide. If more than 1 hour has passed between insertion of a spermicide and intercourse, another application of spermicide must be used. The spermicidal chemicals may cause genital irritation, particularly N-9. If you experience inflammation or a burning sensation, look for a spermicide with octoxynol or a lower amount of N-9. The various spermicides are listed below and include information about their N-9 content. Jellies, Creams & Gels Jellies, creams and gels all have the same level of protection but have different consistencies and textures. Experiment to find which type of spermicide suits you and your partner. Twist the applicator on to the end of the tube of spermicide and fill the applicator. Untwist the applicator, insert it into the vagina approximately 3 inches and depress the plunger to squirt the spermicide out. All three products will protect you from pregnancy immediately. These spermicides vary in the amount of N-9 they contain, but most have between 1% and 5%. The applicator may be washed with mild soap and water, stored in a clean, dry place and used again. Foam Spermicidal foam is the same consistency of mousse hair-styling products. Shake the can of foam vigorously for at least 30 seconds. Press the tip of the applicator on the nozzle of the can, press down and fill the applicator. Insert the applicator into the vagina approximately three inches and depress the plunger to squirt the foam out. It will be active immediately. Foam has a concentration of N-9 of about 12.5%, which may lead to genital irritation. The applicator may be washed with mild soap and water, stored in a clean, dry place and used again. Vaginal Contraceptive Film (VCF) This spermicide comes as a 2-inch by 2-inch sheet of film with a consistency similar to wax paper. Fold it in half, and then in half again and place it on the tip of your index finger and insert the film into the vagina and up near the cervix. You must insert VCF at least 15 minutes before intercourse for it to work effectively. The film will dissolve to a thick gel consistency by absorbing vaginal secretions. Do not place the film on the tip of the penis for insertion as the film will not have adequate time to dissolve and may not end up in the right position. VCF has the highest concentration of N-9, about 28%, which may lead to genital irritation. Use another type of spermicide or another method if you experience irritation. Suppositories These are spermicides in a solid form. Brand names you might see in the drugstore include: Encare, Intercept, Koromex, and Semicid. Read and follow the directions on the box. You must allow 10 to 15 minutes for the suppository to dissolve into a foamy substance before having intercourse. Suppositories may be somewhat less effective than foam, cream or gel because it is hard to tell if they have dissolved sufficiently. Because suppositories have a N-9 content of 2% to 8%, some women may experience a sensation of warmth or burning as the suppository dissolves. If this is painful or irritating, use another type of spermicide or another method of contraception. What's the difference between oil, water and silicone lubricants? The only lubricant you should use with latex condoms or dental dams is water-based or silicone-based lubricant. Oil-based products such as Vaseline, mineral oil, baby oil, vegetable oil, cold creams and most hand creams have oil in them that degrades and weakens latex. Mineral oil, a common ingredient of hand lotions, can cause a 90% decrease in condom strength after as little as 60 seconds of exposure, dramatically increasing the chance of leakage or breakage. Water-based or silicone-based lubricants have no oil and don't react with latex. An easy way to tell the two apart is that oil-based lubricants bead water and are difficult to wash off. Water-based lubricants rinse off easily in plain water. If you're not sure, read the label. If you're still not sure, don't use it as a lubricant with latex. Where can I find spermicides and lubricants? The pharmacy in Health Services carries spermicidal foam and jellies, as well as lubricant at prices that are typically 50% cheaper than drug store prices. Click here to check out the pharmacy's hours and stop by to pick some up. Spermicides and lubricants are over the counter products which do not require a prescription. Lubricant is also available in Health Promotion on the 3rd floor of Health Services and via Ship n SHAG (online ordering of safer sex supplies for Brown students). Related Links To learn more about the different types of spermicide, you can visit: Planned Parenthood Manufacturer of VCF and Foam About BWell: Quick Links About Us Staff Confidential Appointments Sexual Assault Response Line Workshops Peer Education Programs Health Empowerment Tools PHONE NUMBERS 401.863-2794 Health Promotion 401.863-3953 Health Services 401.863-6000 Sexual Assault Response Line 401.863-4111 EMS 401.863-3476 Counseling & Psychological Services 401.863-4111 DPS Make an Appointment View the SHAG video series! Ship n SHAG! Place an order with Ship n SHAG and get free safer sex supplies discreetly delivered to your campus mailbox! Get Involved Meet Our Staff About Us Make an Appointment Brown University BWell Health Promotion Health and Wellness Brown University Box 1928 450 Brook Street Providence, Rhode Island, 02912 Phone 401-863-2794 Fax 401-863-7953 [email protected] © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Related Offices Brown EMS Counseling and Psychological Services Health Services Social Media BWell on Facebook SHAG on Facebook BURP on Facebook Health Services on Facebook