Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Center for the Enhancement of Teaching & Learning CETL right arrow down arrow About Teaching and Learning Resources Faculty & Staff Login Home » About UC » CETL » About About Our Work CET&L promotes research-based best practices through programming that inspires, invigorates, and empowers faculty dedicated to the success of their students. Our core areas of expertise include: Academic Program Assessment, Course Design, Diversity and Inclusion, Gateway Instruction, the Scholarship of Teaching and Learning (SoTL), Evidence-Based Teaching Strategies and Innovation, Textbook Affordability, and Universal Design for Learning and Accessibility. Our Staff Bryan Smith Assistant Vice Provost & Director, CET&L Langsam Library 480DA 513-556-6382 smbr@ucmail.uc.edu Within Undergraduate Academic Affairs, Bryan directs strategic vision and planning for CET&L, and is ultimately responsible for CET&L programming. In particular, he co-chairs the Diversity & Inclusion Committee's workgroup for Faculty Development; he runs workshops on teaching and learning; he serves on the Undergraduate Academic Affairs Council, the General Education committee, IT@UC Governance committee, the Experiential Learning Council, the Course Evaluation committee, and as advisor to the Provost's Academic Committee in support of academic program outcomes assessment. In addition, he is available to consult with academic departments on issues of teaching, learning, program assessment, and curricula. Kimber Andrews Associate Director, CET&L Langsam Library 480 513-556-6301 kimber.andrews@uc.edu Kimber joined CET&L in 2016. She directs efforts related to Universal Design for Learning (UDL) and supports faculty to design accessible courses for diverse learners. Her interests include contemplative practices in education, cultivating resilient learners, and equitable practices in teaching and learning. She leads workshops, faculty learning communities, and reading groups focused on these topics and is available for individual consultations. Kimber has designed and taught a variety of studio art courses in film and dance as well as dance history and appreciation. She created the first online dance course at UIUC in 2010 and has worked with many faculty to integrate video projects into their courses. Kimber is a visiting lecturer at University College of Southwest Norway where she co-teaches an intensive PhD course in Arts-Based Research in Education and Culture. In addition to her classroom teaching, Kimber leads free weekly sessions on mindfulness and yoga for the faculty and staff at UC. Kimber's scholarly work has appeared in Conversations on Embodiment Across Higher Education: Teaching, Practice and Research edited by Jennifer Leigh and Arts-Based Methods in Education Around the World edited by Tatiana Chemi and Xuangyun Du. She has presented her research at the annual meeting of the American Educational Research Association, the International Congress on Qualitative Inquiry, Building Interdisciplinary Bridges Across Cultures, and the International Society for Education through Art. Anna Donnell Associate Director, CET&L Langsam Library 480 513-556-1270 anna.donnell@uc.edu Since 2015, Anna has directed efforts related to course design and innovative pedagogy at CET&L and supported instructors and departments in creating inclusive and equitable learning environments. In addition, Anna directs efforts related to large enrollment gateway courses through the Great Gateways Initiative. Currently, Anna facilitates the Junior Faculty Learning Community (JR-FLC), the Great Gateways Faculty Learning Community (GG-FLC), and the Designing Engaging Courses Institute (DECI). Anna also designs and facilitates workshops for instructors and Teaching Assistants on evidence-based practices in the areas of course design, active learning, inclusive and equitable teaching practices, student engagement, Active Learning Classrooms, metacognition, and more. Anna is available for individual and group consultations as well as classroom observations for any instructor at UC to develop personalized strategies that improve student success. Anna has designed and taught General Chemistry and Chemistry for Everyday Living while incorporating metacognition, active learning, and connecting the classroom experience with the greater world. Anna's research interests include peer mentoring, professional identity formation, and career development within the field of educational development. Anna’s analytical chemistry experience includes trace metal analysis, speciation, and metalloproteomics with a focus on environmental and health applications. Anna's scholarly work has appeared in The Journal on Centers for Teaching and Learning, The Journal of Chemical Education, Analytical and Bioanalytical Chemistry and on The POD Network website. She has also presented at professional conferences including The POD Network Conference, Lilly International Conference on College Teaching, The Ohio-PKAL Annual Conference, SciX: The Great Scientific Exchange, The Winter Plasma Conference, Pittcon, The ACS National Meeting, and The ACS Central Regional Meeting. Beth Faller Associate Director, CET&L Langsam Library 480 513-556-6367 beth.faller@uc.edu Beth joined CET&L in 2015. She has over fifteen years of experience in the field of education including teaching, curriculum design, faculty and teacher professional development, and educational research. She works with UC faculty and departments on course design, implementing new teaching practices, assessment, and the Scholarship of Teaching and Learning (SoTL). Beth’s interests include equitable teaching practices, creating classroom community in face-to-face and online courses, teaching students how to learn, active learning techniques, and promoting wellness for students and instructors. She leads workshops, faculty learning communities, and reading groups focused on these and other topics and is available for individual and group consultation. Beth has developed and taught courses in both university and Adult Basic Education settings. She recently taught a graduate-level course for students across disciplines on postsecondary teaching. She has previously taught aspiring teachers courses on educational technology, sociolinguistics and bilingual education, and writing development and instruction, as well as a course to help K-12 school leaders understand contrasting models of literacy reform. Beth’s scholarly work has appeared in peer reviewed journals such as The Journal of Adolescent & Adult Literacy, Reading Research Quarterly, The Reading Teacher, Science Scope, and Preventing School Failure. She has also presented at professional conferences such as the annual meetings of the American Educational Research Association and Council for Exceptional Children, the Lilly Conferences on College and University Teaching and Learning and the International Society for Exploring Teaching and Learning. Additionally, she has written teaching cases for the Public Education Leadership Project, a joint initiative of the Harvard Graduate School of Education and Harvard Business School. Visit her Scholar@UC site to explore a selection of her scholarly works. Christian Drennen Assistant Director, CET&L Langsam Library 480 513-556-9433 christian.drennen@uc.edu In close coordination with Undergraduate Studies, Enterprise Academic Technologies (IT@UC), UC Online, and faculty, Christian directs CET&L’s efforts to support high quality and learner centered online instruction. He also creates resources related to using Canvas and other educational technologies for instructors of online, flipped, and hybrid courses. Christian has more than 10 years of instructional design experience in both higher education and corporate settings. Prior to his move to CET&L, Christian was the Senior Instructional Designer in UC’s College of Allied Health Sciences. There he worked with the Center for Educational Technology and Instructional Support (CETIS) team to implement a systematic process for creating instructional materials in both classroom and online environments. Christian has also worked as a Corporate Learning Specialist for a fortune five-hundred company where he designed and implemented training curriculum consistent with adult learning principles for virtual, face-to-face, and off-shore instruction. Christian is proficient in the Adobe Creative Suite, Zoom, WebEx, Teams, and Kaltura. He also has experience in course design models, interaction and mental models, and flipped classroom modalities. Daniel Dale, Ph.D Assistant Director, CET&L Langsam Library 480 513-556-9372 daniel.dale@uc.edu Daniel first worked with CET&L from 2016-2017 as a graduate assistant, before joining as an assistant director in 2019. Daniel directs efforts related to technology and the classroom. Daniel’s work focuses on helping faculty integrate technology throughout their curriculum. This includes helping faculty use technology in the classroom, design content that enhances students’ digital literacy, and create engaging online courses. His other interests include writing pedagogy, innovative pedagogies, and increasing diversity, equity, and inclusion in the classroom. Daniel leads workshops, faculty learning communities, and reading groups focused on these and other topics and is available for individual and group consultation. Daniel’s research focuses on how students utilize digital literacies in a variety of contexts. In particular, he is interested in how students learn digital literacies and then apply those literacies in non-technological spaces. Daniel has also designed and taught numerous courses at the University of Cincinnati. He currently teaches composition and previously taught courses focused on technology and literature, American literature after the Civil War, and comic books. Daniel’s scholarly work has been published in journals such as the European Journal of American Culture and the Journal of Graphic Novels and Comics. He also has a book chapter on the affective labor of working with students forthcoming in Terms of Service: Affective Labor and Alt-Ac Careers, an edited collection published by the University of Kansas Press. Melissa Kessel Executive Staff Assistant, CET&L Langsam Library 480B 513-556-9319 kesselms@ucmail.uc.edu Melissa joined CET&L in 2019. She is the primary contact for the Center and the first person you’ll reach when you have questions about CET&L and the services they provide. Additionally, she provides administrative, communication, and financial support for the Center staff in support of their academic mission. Prior to working with CET&L, Melissa spent 6 years working with elementary, middle, and high school students in Cincinnati Public Schools. She has also spent time overseas in Japan working as an English teacher. Melissa is passionate about education and when she is not in her office, you can either find her in Japanese class or in the country itself. 日本語は流暢ではないのでメール等は全て日本語で送らない様、お願い致します。 Our Partners Academy of Fellows for Teaching & Learning Learning Commons UC Libraries Enterprise Academic Technologies Faculty Enrichment Center Student Affairs Office of Advising & Academic Services UCBA Teaching & Learning Center Honors & UC International Career Education Faculty Senate Graduate School Center for the Enhancement of Teaching & Learning 2911 Woodside Dr Langsam Library 480, Mail Location 0033 Cincinnati OH 45221 Tele: 513-556-9319 Fax: 513-556-2261 cetl@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Center for the Enhancement of Teaching & Learning 2911 Woodside Dr Langsam Library 480, Mail Location 0033 Cincinnati OH 45221 Tele: 513-556-9319 Fax: 513-556-2261 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top