Brown University Quick Exit General Health Physical Health Acne Asthma Breast Exams Bronchitis Colds Concussion Headaches Meningitis Mononucleosis Sleep Seasonal Flu Sun Safety and Skin Cancer Stomach Flu Testicular Self-Exams Travel and Health Yeast Infection Emotional Wellbeing Mindfulness Sleep Stress Self-Care Techniques for Stress Relief Wellness on Campus Social Wellbeing Community, Connection and Coping: Remote Resources Consent Economic Stress Roommate Relationships Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Bacterial Vaginosis Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy Gender Care GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Premature Ejaculation Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Accessing Care Gender Care GYN Visits LGBTQ Health Care at Health Services Men's Health Exams Pregnancy Tests STI Testing Options Resources and Links Nutrition & Eating Concerns Eating Well at Brown Being a Vegetarian Dietary Guidelines Eating Off Meal Plan Meal Plan And Dining Information Supplements Eating Concerns and Body Image Body Image Concerns Eating Concerns Help at Brown Sports Nutrition Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S) Sports Nutrition Accessing Care Help at Brown Worried about a Friend Sexual Health Sex 101 SHAG! Erectile Dysfunction Orgasm Premature Ejaculation Sex and Alcohol Sex Toys Sexually Explicit Media Contraception Birth Control Pills Cervical Cap Condoms Depo-Provera Emergency Contraception Fertility Awareness Method Implant Internal Condoms IUD Ortho Evra (The Patch) Ring Spermicides and Lubricants The Recent Election & Contraception Access Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Yeast Infection Safer Sex Ship n SHAG! Sexual Health and Safer Sex During Covid-19 Abstinence Condoms Dental Dams Internal Condoms Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) Pre Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Safer Sex Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) STIs AIDS/HIV Bacterial Vaginosis Chlamydia Colposcopy Gonorrhea Hepatitis B Herpes HPV and Genital Warts HPV Vaccine Molluscum Contagiosum Oral Sex and STIs Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pubic Lice and Scabies Sexually Transmitted Infections Syphilis Talking with a Partner STI Testing Options Trichomoniasis Urinary Tract Infections Yeast Infection Sexual Assault & Dating Violence Get Help Sexual Assault Response Line SHARE Advocates Dating Violence First Five Days After an Assault Male Survivors Sexual Violence and Assault Sexual Harassment Stalking Help a Friend SHARE Advocates How to Help a Friend Get Involved in Prevention Interrupting the Red Zone: How we keep each other safe Culture of Respect Collective Sexual Assault Peer Education (SAPE) Help Prevent Sexual Assault Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Relationships and Communication Consent Dating Violence Learn More Common Reactions to Sexual Violence and Assault Predatory Drugs Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Sexual Violence: Key Terms Resources and Links Alcohol & Other Drugs Alcohol Alcohol and Your Body Recognizing a Problem Risks and Realities Sex and Alcohol Ways to Cut Down Other Drugs Caffeine Cocaine Ecstasy Energy Drinks GHB Inhalants Ketamine LSD Marijuana Methamphetamine Predatory Drugs Psilocybin (Mushrooms) Rohypnol Tobacco Smokeless Tobacco Smoking Cessation Tobacco Learn More Law and Policy Summary Educational Links Accessing Care Resources at Brown Off Campus Resources Calling EMS How to Help a Friend Quit Smoking How to Talk to a Friend about Drinking or Drug Use Google Tag Manager Other Drugs Cocaine What is cocaine? Cocaine is an addictive stimulant drug made from the leaves of the coca plant. Although healthcare providers occasionally use it as a local anesthetic for medical purposes such as surgery, it is otherwise an illegal controlled substance. Cocaine is the second most trafficked illegal drug in the world. Other names for cocaine include: Blow Coke Crack Rock Snow What does cocaine look like? Cocaine looks like a fine, white, powder. Cocaine purchased on the street is frequently mixed with other substances including cornstarch, talcum powder, or flour. However, not all substances mixed with cocaine are neutral – cocaine purchased on the street is frequently mixed with amphetamine and other stimulant drugs. How do people use cocaine? Cocaine use frequently happens in a binge – repeatedly taking the drug in a short amount of time – to maintain the high. Cocaine is snorted, ingested, injected, or smoked. Short-term effects Cocaine causes a short high, typically below 1 hour. The length of the high depends on how it is used – the high from snorting lasts 15 – 30 minutes, while the high from smoking or injecting may be more intense but shorter, lasting 5 – 10 minutes. The high from using cocaine is followed by an intense period of depression, irritability, loss of appetite, and difficulty sleeping. Regardless of how much cocaine someone takes or how frequently they take it, using cocaine increases the risk of sudden heart attacks, strokes, seizures, and respiratory failure, which can result in death. The most common physical symptoms include: Increased heart rate, blood pressure, and body temperature Convulsion Muscle spasm Nausea Restlessness The most common mental symptoms include: Anger Paranoia Hostility Anxiety Mental symptoms can persist even once the physical high has worn off Long-term effects There are many long-term consequences of cocaine use, some of which depend on the administration method. If snorted: Loss of sense of smell Nosebleeds Frequent runny nose Difficulty swallowing If ingested or rubbed into gums: Severe bowel decay Needle injection: Increased risk of infection HIV Hepatitis C Abscess General effects, regardless of administration method: Irreversible damage to blood vessels of the heart and brain Hypertension (increased risk of heart attacks and strokes) Liver, kidney, and lung damage Malnutrition Hallucinations (auditory, tactile) Sexual problems including infertility for both men and women Disorientation, confusion, apathy Mood disorders (depression, anxiety) Psychosis Public domain image: (https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Side_effects_of_chronic_use_of_C...) Häggström, Mikael (2014). "Medical gallery of Mikael Häggström 2014". WikiJournal of Medicine 1 (2). DOI:10.15347/wjm/2014.008. ISSN 2002-4436. Public Domain. Why do people use cocaine? The human brain produces a neurotransmitter (chemical messenger) called dopamine in areas that control pleasure and movement. Under normal circumstances, the brain releases dopamine in response to potential rewards like food or sex. After dopamine is released, it is quickly broken down or recycled back into brain cells. Cocaine hijacks this system and prevents dopamine from being recycled, which causes it to build up in the brain. This intense buildup causes cocaine’s high, including feelings of pleasure and energy. Note: almost all drugs of abuse affect the dopamine system. What about crack cocaine? Crack cocaine is the most potent form of cocaine and is typically 75 – 100% pure, which is both far stronger and riskier than snorting cocaine powder. Crack cocaine is typically smoked which allow for a more intense and faster high, but a much shorter high. Because of the intensity of the high from crack cocaine, addiction can develop much more quickly. Can a person overdose? Yes, a person can overdose on cocaine. Using too much cocaine can have a toxic reaction resulting in serious harmful sickness or even death. Overdose can occur unintentionally, and can occur even after the first use of cocaine. Using cocaine with alcohol at the same time is particularly risky and can lead to severe harm. The most common effects of overdose are cardiovascular, causing arrhythmia, heart attacks, and strokes, but can also lead to seizures. How is an overdose treated? Overdoses are treated by managing the conditions that overdose creates: heart attack, stroke, and seizure. This involves restoring blood flow to the heart or brain, or stopping an ongoing seizure. How do I recognize a problem with cocaine? Some danger signs are: More frequent use Needing more and more to get the same effect Spending time thinking about using the drug If you find it's hard to be happy without it Spending more money than you have on it Missing class or failing to finish assignments because of cocaine Making new friends who do it and neglecting old friends who don't Erratic or unpredictable behavior. If you find that you can't stop using cocaine, then remember, there's help available. How do I help a friend who's having trouble with drugs or alcohol? If you are concerned about a friend's drug or alcohol use, this page contains information about different ways to help them. Resources If you or a friend are having trouble with drugs or alcohol, or just have questions, there is help available. Related Links Dance Safe Dance Safe is a harm-reduction web site centered on drugs found in nightclubs and raves. The site offers drug information, a risk assessment, ecstasy testing kits and e-news. National Institute on Drug Abuse NIDA drug pages have research reports, statistics and information on addiction. The Good Drugs Guide This British harm-reduction web site provides extensive information on cocaine, including the basics, dangers, mixing with other drugs and links. About BWell: Quick Links About Us Staff Confidential Appointments Sexual Assault Response Line Workshops Peer Education Programs Health Empowerment Tools PHONE NUMBERS 401.863-2794 Health Promotion 401.863-3953 Health Services 401.863-6000 Sexual Assault Response Line 401.863-4111 EMS 401.863-3476 Counseling & Psychological Services 401.863-4111 DPS Make an Appointment Calling EMS If you are wondering if you should call EMS, you should call EMS. If you are still wondering, click here. Talking to a Friend About Drinking or Drug Use It's not easy to know what to say when you're worried about a friend's drug or alcohol use. Click here to learn what to do and what not to do. Get Involved Meet Our Staff About Us Make an Appointment Brown University BWell Health Promotion Health and Wellness Brown University Box 1928 450 Brook Street Providence, Rhode Island, 02912 Phone 401-863-2794 Fax 401-863-7953 [email protected] © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Related Offices Brown EMS Counseling and Psychological Services Health Services Social Media BWell on Facebook SHAG on Facebook BURP on Facebook Health Services on Facebook