COVID-19 Diagnosis - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to COVID-19 Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search COVID-19 Information for... Students Faculty & Staff Guidelines & Protocols Face Coverings on Campus Potential Exposure to Coronavirus COVID-19 Diagnosis Completion of Self-Quarantine / Isolation Campus Prevention Travel Guidelines Event Guidelines Campus Cleaning Protocols COVID-19 Information Coronavirus Symptoms Positive Case Reporting On-Campus Testing COVID-19 Vaccine Information Communications FAQs UH Home COVID-19 Guidelines & Protocols COVID-19 Diagnosis Guidelines & Protocols Face Coverings on Campus Potential Exposure to Coronavirus COVID-19 Diagnosis Campus Cleaning & Safety Practices Completion of Self-Quarantine/Isolation Campus Prevention Travel Guidelines Event Guidelines Reporting COVID-19 Diagnosis/Symptoms Reporting Potential COVID-19 Exposure Request to Return to Campus Inquiries: Inquiries regarding a positive case or exposure: UH COVID-19 Case Support Helpdesk 832-84C-OVID or 832-842-6843 10:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m., Monday through Friday covid19coordinator@uh.edu COVID-19 Diagnosis Employee and Supervisor Protocols Student Protocols Vendor Protocols Visitor Protocols University Response Employee and Supervisor If an employee has tested positive for COVID-19 or an employee is exhibiting symptoms (e.g. fever or chills, shortness of breath, congestion) of COVID-19, the following steps should be taken by the employee and their supervisor: Employee Steps If you think you might have COVID-19 due to the presence of Coronavirus Symptoms (e.g. fever or chills, shortness of breath, congestion): Avoid coming into close contact with anyone Contact your health care provider for diagnosis, treatment and/or COVID-19 testing, as necessary (If you are a BCBSTX HealthSelect participant, telehealth virtual visits are available to you at no cost) and follow advice from your health care provider COVID-19 Testing is available on campus for UH students, faculty and staff. If you undergo a test for COVID-19 and you test positive, notify your supervisor of this development and submit the Reporting COVID-19 Diagnosis form to report your positive test result and follow the protocols below for a positive test If you receive a positive test result for COVID-19 (regardless whether you have symptoms), you should: If at work, go home immediately and avoid coming into close contact with anyone Contact your supervisor as soon as possible to notify them Complete the form Reporting COVID-19 Diagnosis to report your positive test result Consult your health care provider (If you are a BCBSTX HealthSelect participant, telehealth virtual visits are available to you at no cost) Instruct the employee to visit the HR page or contact HR at hrsc@uh.edu to discuss leave options. Follow CDC guidance on what to do if you are sick Stay home (except to seek medical care) Do not return to campus until written approval is received. See Completion of Self-Quarantine/Isolation. Cooperate with contact tracers to provide information regarding others with whom you have had close contact For information regarding staff temporary remote work guidelines due to a solely COVID-19 related reason, visit the UH Human Resources website. Supervisor Steps If an employee is exhibiting symptoms (e.g. fever or chills, shortness of breath, congestion) of COVID-19, the supervisor should: If at work, instruct the employee to go home immediately and avoid coming into close contact with anyone. If the employee is sick as a result of COVID-19 symptoms, the employee should use sick leave. However, assess the Temporary Remote Work/Sick leave Guidelines in case the employee can continue to work remotely. Encourage the employee to undergo a test for COVID-19 and to follow CDC guidanceon what to do if you are sick Instruct the employee to visit the HR page or contact HR at hrsc@uh.edu to discuss leave options. If the employee has tested positive for COVID-19, the supervisor should: If the employee is at work when you are notified, make sure the employee is separated from others and immediately sent home If the employee is at home, advise the employee to stay home and follow the employee protocols above for their situation; also, find out when the employee was last at work Advise the employee to complete the form Reporting COVID-19 Diagnosisto report this positive test result Upon completion of the form, an automatic notification will be sent directly to Facilities/Construction Management. If applicable, the affected area will be cleaned per Facilities/Construction Management COVID-19 Cleaning Protocol. Advise co-workers of a potential exposure (but do not identify the employee by name) and that contact tracers will work with the individual who tested positive to identify close contacts and notify them if they need to self-quarantine. Further advise that they do not need to take any specific action unless notified, but they should continue to monitor their health for the presence of any Coronavirus Symptoms and follow the Campus Prevention In unique situations when it is clear that certain co-workers have been potentially exposed as a result of close contact for a prolonged period of time with the affected employee (as described in Potential Exposure to Coronavirus), they should be instructed to: Complete the form Reporting Potential COVID-19 Exposure If advised to Self-Quarantine, follow the Completion of Self-Quarantine/Isolationprotocols and do not return to campus until written approval is received. Inform them that they will need to submit a Request to Return to Campus form and be approved before they can return to campus as detailed in Completion of Self-Quarantine/Isolation If you or any of your employees have questions, you may direct them to the COVID-19 Case Support Help Desk by calling 832-842-6843 or emailing covid19coordinator@uh.edu. UH Students Protocols for a Student with COVID-19 Diagnosis/Symptoms If a student has tested positive for COVID-19, or is exhibiting symptoms (e.g. fever or chills, shortness of breath, congestion) of COVID-19, the following steps should be taken. These steps are necessary in order to protect the safety and wellbeing of all University community members and especially those residents staying on campus. For Students Living on Campus If you think you might have COVID-19 due to the presence of Coronavirus Symptoms (e.g. fever or chills, shortness of breath, congestion): Avoid coming into close contact with anyone Contact your health care provider or the Student Health Center (713-743-4510) for diagnosis, treatment and/or COVID-19 testing, as necessary and follow their medical advice COVID-19 testing is available on campus for UH students, faculty and staff. If you get tested and receive a positive test result, submit the form Reporting COVID-19 Diagnosis and follow the protocols below for a positive test or diagnosis. If your illness impacts your ability to perform schoolwork, contact your instructors If you tested Positive for with COVID-19 regardless of whether you have symptoms: Notify your Desk Assistant (DA) or Residence Advisor (RA) via phone call or text regarding options available for self-isolation. If your DA/RA is unavailable, contact your Residence Life Coordinator (RLC). Outside of business hours, call the DA for your residence hall: Bayou Oaks: 713-743-9594 University Lofts: 832-842-5638 Cougar Place: 713-743-6994 Cougar Village 1: 832-842-6020 Cougar Village 2: 713-743-6432 Moody Towers North: 713-743-6057 Moody Towers South: 713-743-6056 *Please provide the following information in your communication: your first and last name, student ID number, room and bed space booking number, best estimate of the time of exposure/ date and time of positive COVID-19 test result. If you choose to stay on campus for self-isolation, you may be required to move to a designated space on campus for a length of time depending on CDC guidelines. This will assist in maintaining the health and wellbeing of all residents living on campus. For safety purposes, residents will need to arrange for the transportation of their own belongings. Services will be limited if you choose to stay on campus as you self-quarantine or isolate. Student Housing and Residential Life (SHRL) staff will help coordinate services for you such as dining, mail/package delivery and garbage disposal. SHRL will provide instructions on hand washing closing as utilizing communal laundry units is not permitted while under self-quarantine or isolation. Guests are not permitted. Residents may only leave their room to seek medical care and/or in the event of a building emergency Follow CDC guidance on what to do if you are sick Follow the Completion of Self-Quarantine/Isolation protocols Do not return to class in person or participate in on-campus activities until written approval is received. If contacted by contact tracers, please cooperate to provide information regarding others with whom you have had close contact. If your illness impacts your ability to perform school work, contact your instructors For Students Living Off Campus If you think you might have COVID-19 due to the presence of Coronavirus Symptoms (e.g. fever or chills, shortness of breath, congestion: Avoid coming into close contact with anyone Contact your health care provider or the Student Health Center (713-743-4510) for diagnosis, treatment and/or COVID-19 testing, as necessary and follow their medical advice. COVID-19 testing is available on campus for UH students, faculty and staff. If you get tested and receive a positive test result, submit the form Reporting COVID-19 Diagnosis and follow the protocols below for a positive test or diagnosis. If your illness impacts your ability to perform schoolwork, contact your instructors If your illness impacts your ability to perform schoolwork, contact your instructors If you tested Positive for COVID-19 (regardless of whether you have symptoms): If on campus when symptoms begin or when you suspect or learn of a diagnosis of COVID-19, go home immediately and avoid coming into close contact with anyone Complete the form Reporting COVID-19 Diagnosis Contact your health care provider or the Student Health Center (713-743-4510) for diagnosis, and treatment, as necessary and follow their medical advice. Stay home (except to seek medical care). For students who are not on campus or enrolled in face-to-face classes and have not been identified as exposed by UH contact tracers, the UH Student Health Center providers are readily accessible to assist with resources and guidance on other testing options for students. Stay home (except to seek medical care) Follow CDC guidance on what to do if you are sick Follow the Completion of Self-Quarantine/Isolation protocols Do not return to campus until a Request to Return to Campus form is submitted and written approval is received. If contacted by contact tracers, please cooperate with contact tracers to provide information regarding others with whom you have had close contact If your illness impacts your ability to perform school work, contact your instructors Vendors When vendors come to campus to provide services/products, they are required to follow the same prevention protocols that UH has implemented for students and employees. In addition, UH vendors and its employees are required to provide services to UH in accordance with CDC guidelines and vendor protocols. The UH prevention protocols are set out below: Vendor Steps Exposure Assessment Vendors must conduct an exposure assessment prior to coming to campus by doing the following: If you are not up-to-date with COVID-19 vaccinations, ask yourself: Within the past 10 days, have you have had “close contact” with a person who has tested positive for COVID-19, and with respect to that person: You were within 6 feet of an infected person for a cumulative total of 15 minutes or more over a 24-hour period? You provided them care at home? You had direct physical contact (touched, hugged, or kissed them)? You shared eating or drinking utensils? They sneezed, coughed, or somehow got respiratory droplets on you? Within the past 10 days, have you returned from international travel? If the answer to any of the above questions is “yes,” you may NOT come to the University of Houston campus or any University of Houston facility. Additionally, if you have tested positive for COVID-19, you may NOT come to the University of Houston campus or any University of Houston facility until you have completed the appropriate isolation period per CDC guidelines. Face Coverings The University of Houston encourages the wearing of face coverings, especially for individuals who are not fully vaccinated, but face coverings are not required on campus. Hand Hygiene Good hand hygiene, including frequent hand washing and hand sanitizing, should be followed by vendors before and during visits to the University of Houston campus. Reporting Positive COVID-19 Cases If you or any of your employees test positive for COVID-19 within 3 days of being in a University building, the vendor must immediately notify their University of Houston contact who will notify the UH COVID-19 Response Coordinator. The vendor will need to complete the Contractor/Vendor Reporting Form for an Individual Diagnoses or Testing Positive with COVID-19. If additional questions arise, the vendor may contact the UH COVID-19 Response Coordinator at covid19coordinator@uh.edu. Visitors UH requires that visitors follow the same prevention protocols that UH has implemented for students and employees. The prevention protocols are set out below: Visitor Steps Exposure Assessment Visitors must conduct an exposure assessment prior to coming to campus by doing the following: If you are not up-to-date with COVID-19 vaccinations, ask yourself: Within the past 10 days, have you have had “close contact” with a person who has tested positive for COVID-19, and with respect to that person: You were within 6 feet of an infected person for a cumulative total of 15 minutes or more over a 24-hour period? You provided them care at home? You had direct physical contact (touched, hugged, or kissed them)? You shared eating or drinking utensils? They sneezed, coughed, or somehow got respiratory droplets on you? Within the past 10 days, have you returned from international travel? If the answer to any of the above questions is “yes,” you may NOT come to the University of Houston campus or any University of Houston facility. Additionally, if you test positive for COVID-19, you may NOT come to the University of Houston campus or any University of Houston facility until you have completed the appropriate isolation period per CDC guidelines. Face Coverings The University of Houston encourages the wearing of face coverings, especially for individuals who are not fully vaccinated, but face coverings are not required on campus. Hand Hygiene Good hand hygiene, including frequent hand washing and hand sanitizing, should be followed by visitors before and during visits to the University of Houston campus. Reporting Positive COVID-19 Cases If you test positive for COVID-19 within 3 days of being in a University building, please immediately notify your University sponsor or event coordinator, or if uncertain, the UH Covid-19 Response Coordinator at covid19coordinator@uh.edu. University Response The University of Houston COVID Response plan uses public health guidance and best practices aimed at fostering a culture of care for our community while taking steps to help prevent the spread of COVID-19. Self Reporting Students and employees must complete the Reporting COVID-19 Diagnosis form if they have tested positive for COVID-19. The submission of the form is received by the COVID-19 Response Coordinator. Contact Tracing Once the “Reporting COVID-19 Diagnosis” form has been submitted, cases identified as infectious while on campus are routed to UH’s Contact Tracing team. The UH contact tracer will initiate a case investigation by conducting a phone interview in order to identify any UH close contacts. Close contacts include those individuals who have been within 6 feet of an infected person for a cumulative total of 15 minutes or more over a 24-hour period during the individual’s infectious period. UH close contacts will be notified of their potential exposure via email as rapidly as possible. Clean To protect public health and safety, the University of Houston adheres to Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) guidelines for cleaning and disinfecting when a person diagnosed with COVID-19 has been on campus. The cleaning after a positive COVID-19 diagnosis protocol is in addition to the normal and enhanced cleaning practices employed by the University. More information on the university’s cleaning response to a positive case can be found on Cleaning After a Positive Case. Protect If a person has tested positive or been diagnosed for COVID-19 or exhibits COVID-19 symptoms, then we ask the individual to follow the guidance in the COVID-19 Diagnosis protocols. Prevent We prevent the spread of the disease by continuing best practices, such as frequent handwashing and centralized hand sanitizer stations distributed across campus, implementation of enhanced cleaning to frequently clean and sanitize high touch points like door handles, and social distancing (also called physical distancing). Reporting COVID-19 Diagnosis Potential COVID-19 Exposure Request to Return to Campus COVID-19 Inquiries Teach Remotely Deliver your classes online. Learn About Teaching Online >> Technology Guide for Faculty >> Learn Remotely Attend classes online. Learn About Learning Online >> Technology Guide for Students >> Do You Need a Laptop? >> Work Remotely Make a flexible workplace arrangement. COVID-19 Telecommuting Form >> Technology Guide for Staff >> Reporting COVID-19 Diagnosis Reporting Potential COVID-19 Exposure Request to Return to Campus University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies