Skip to site alert. Skip to content College of Dental Medicine Students Alumni Faculty Giving Contact Us Search About Us About Us Our Mission History Leadership and Administration Board of Advisors Global Dean's Council News Diversity Community Outreach Global Initiatives Support the College of Dental Medicine Events Calendar Contact Us Columbia Visiting Professorship Program CDM Publications Education Education DDS Program Advanced Standing Program for Foreign Trained Dentists Postdoctoral and Residency Programs Tuition, Fees and Financial Aid Global Programs Visits & Externships Continuing Education Academic Sections/Divisions Academic Calendars Research Research Research Areas Research Labs Research Centers Research Faculty Clinical Trials Research Resources Student Research First International Symposium of Fusobacteria Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Teaching Clinics Patient Resources COVID-19 Safety ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Our Doctors Our Services Our Locations Make an Appointment Make an Appointment Choose between ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry and our affordable Dental Clinics. Para Español, haga clic aquí. Explore Your Options Events News News Dr. Dennis Mitchell Receives ADEA’s Distinguished Service Award at 2022 ADEA Annual Meeting April 5, 2022 Dr. Dennis Mitchell received ADEA’s Distinguished Service Award at the 2022 ADEA Annual Meeting. Dr. Mitchell is a Professor of Dental Medicine at the Columbia University College of Dental Medicine. Topic Campus News Columbia Unveils New Mobile Clinic for Community Dental Care November 12, 2021 A Nov. 12 ribbon cutting ceremony for Columbia University’s Mobile Dental Center underscored renewed efforts to address oral health disparities in Northern Manhattan and the South Bronx. Topic Campus News Need Help Quitting Smoking? At Columbia, You Can Ask Your Dentist November 18, 2021 The College of Dental Medicine is working on multiple fronts to train the next generation of dentists to help patients quit smoking. Topic Dentistry Columbia Scientists Awarded $3.97M to Study Link Between Alzheimer’s and Periodontitis October 25, 2021 Building on a long-term study of cognitive aging, researchers will collect and analyze oral health data to clarify how periodontitis is associated with Alzheimer’s disease and related dementias. Topic Research “You Belong Here”: Class of 2025 Joins Dental School “Family” September 1, 2021 The Aug. 20 White Coat Ceremony, designating the start of training for incoming dental students, emphasized inclusion and belonging. Topic Education View All News Education Explore Our Programs Explore Our Programs Patient Care Find Care Find Care Research Learn More About Our Research Learn More About Our Research Have an Impact Your gift supports superior education, groundbreaking research, and outstanding oral health care. Give to the College of Dental Medicine Give to the College of Dental Medicine Events There are currently no upcoming events. View All Events Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Education Research Student Life Alumni Faculty Contact Us Intranet Columbia University College of Dental Medicine 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Back to top