Skip to main content Search About CID People Student Outreach Executive Education News & Announcements Jobs & Opportunities Annual Reports Contact Research Programs Building State Capability Evidence for Policy Design Growth Lab Past Programs Publications Faculty Working Papers Fellow & Graduate Student Working Papers Blogs Events Seminars Global Empowerment Meeting (GEM) Subscribe HKS Home Search About CID People Student Outreach Executive Education News & Announcements Jobs & Opportunities Annual Reports Contact Research Programs Building State Capability Evidence for Policy Design Growth Lab Past Programs Publications Faculty Working Papers Fellow & Graduate Student Working Papers Blogs Events Seminars Global Empowerment Meeting (GEM) Subscribe HKS Home Search Search Center for International Development Our Research You are here Home Centers & Initiatives Center for International Development Building a thriving world for all. Evidence for Policy Design Evidence for Policy Design (EPoD) conducts development economics research, training, and policy outreach. We aim to improve lives by designing, testing and enabling better policies worldwide. We work closely with policymakers to solve some of the most pressing policy problems through innovation, testing and iteration at all stages of solution development. Building State Capability Researching new strategies and tactics to assist public organizations struggling with incomplete or ineffective policy implementation. Growth Lab The Growth Lab works to understand the dynamics of growth and to translate those insights into more effective policymaking in developing countries. We place increased economic diversity and complexity at the center of the development story and uncover how countries move into industries that offer increased productivity. CID Beyond COVID Response & Resource Page COVID-19 is the greatest global disruption of the past century. Even as we work to recover, we have a window of opportunity to do more – but only if we make use of the lessons learned and capitalize on emergent innovations sparked by the pandemic. To address this urgent need, the Center for International Development (CID) at Harvard University created the Beyond COVID initiative, a multi-sectoral approach, rooted in data and evidence, to effectively respond to the COVID development crisis and reimagine new opportunities in the post-COVID era. Inside CID Faculty and fellows are conducting research projects in 116 countries Globe GEM22 Highlights On April 28th and 29th, CID and the Malcom Wiener Center for Social Policy co-hosted CID’s flagship annual Global Empowerment Meeting (GEM22). Top business leaders, policymakers, and academics came together in this two-day in-person conference to discuss the theme of GEM22, “Healing an Unequal World”. While the two days brought to stark relief the pervasive issue of inequality in each facet of humanity, it also allowed for reflection and convening towards change. Announcing EPoD's Evidence Corps Internship Program 2022 CID's EPoD is launching the Evidence Corps internship program in 2022, which will provide funded international development internship and training opportunities for Harvard students. The aim of the program is to build students’ capacity to use economic evidence and to provide students with a toolkit to make meaningful contributions to development projects. Growth Lab Launches Data Viz Tool that Reveals Growth Opportunities for 1,000 Cities Metroverse, the Growth Lab's Urban Economy Navigator, is designed to provide policymakers, entrepreneurs, investors, business organizations, civil society, and the general public with unprecedented economic data for more than 1,000 cities in 79 countries. The platform vividly illustrates the technological capabilities that underpin a city's economy and its' opportunities for future growth. New Research Goals and Gaps: Educational Careers of Immigrant Children If we build it, will they come? Results of a quasi-experimental study assessing the impact of maternity waiting homes on facility-based childbirth and maternity care in Zambia Search and Information Frictions on Global E-Commerce Platforms: Evidence from AliExpress Tweets from CID HarvardCID #CIDExpert Robert Lawrence of @Kennedy_School discusses the causes and consequences of the diminished role of manufacturing as a driver of economic growth and inclusion in our latest #CIDSpeakerSeries podcast. 🎙️Listen to the podcast here: https://t.co/ZqlVVKSDTS https://t.co/7swNfj2Vjs 2 days ago. HarvardBSC RT @HarvardBSC: "Equatorial Guinea was on a journey into the unknown that required an adaptive strategy that generates knowledge and facili… 5 days ago. Kennedy_School RT @Kennedy_School: Congratulations to the Class of 2022! 🎉 We’re so proud of all that you have accomplished at HKS and all that you’ll con… 5 days ago. HarvardCID #CIDExpert Robert Lawrence of @Kennedy_School discusses the causes and consequences of the diminished role of manufacturing as a driver of economic growth and inclusion in our latest #CIDSpeakerSeries podcast. 🎙️Listen to the podcast here: https://t.co/ZqlVVKSDTS https://t.co/7swNfj2Vjs 2 days ago. Kennedy_School RT @Kennedy_School: Congratulations to the Class of 2022! 🎉 We’re so proud of all that you have accomplished at HKS and all that you’ll con… 5 days ago. HarvardBSC RT @HarvardBSC: "Equatorial Guinea was on a journey into the unknown that required an adaptive strategy that generates knowledge and facili… 5 days ago. HarvardCID #CIDExpert Robert Lawrence of @Kennedy_School discusses the causes and consequences of the diminished role of manufacturing as a driver of economic growth and inclusion in our latest #CIDSpeakerSeries podcast. 🎙️Listen to the podcast here: https://t.co/ZqlVVKSDTS https://t.co/7swNfj2Vjs 2 days ago. HarvardBSC RT @HarvardBSC: "Equatorial Guinea was on a journey into the unknown that required an adaptive strategy that generates knowledge and facili… 5 days ago. Kennedy_School RT @Kennedy_School: Congratulations to the Class of 2022! 🎉 We’re so proud of all that you have accomplished at HKS and all that you’ll con… 5 days ago. JOIN THE CONVERSATION Sign up for our newsletter and follow us on social media to stay up to date on new research, upcoming events, and job opportunities. Subscribe now Center for International Development Harvard University 79 JFK Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Programs Events People News Executive Education Publications Student Outreach Subscribe Contact Us Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. https://www.facebook.com/HarvardCID/ https://twitter.com/HarvardCID https://www.linkedin.com/company/center-for-international-development-harvard-u… https://www.youtube.com/user/HarvardCID https://soundcloud.com/harvard-cid