Close Alert Message Alert Carolina! Normal The University is currently operating under normal conditionsLast updated at 6:00pmFriday, May 27th, 2022Skip to Main Content Top Level Navigation Discover Navigate Navigate About the UniversityDisplay Sub Menu for About the University About the University Alumni By the numbers Branding and Identity GuidelinesOpens in new site Carolina NextOpens in new site For the MediaOpens in new site Frequently Asked Questions History and Traditions Leadership Mission & Values Support the University UNC Social Media UNC SystemOpens in new site News and UpdatesDisplay Sub Menu for News and Updates News and Updates Academics Around Campus Arts & Humanities Athletics Events Calendar Global Health & Medicine Innovation & Entrepreneurship University News Research Working at CarolinaOpens in new site Campaign for CarolinaOpens in new site AcademicsDisplay Sub Menu for Academics Academics Academic Calendar and Registrar Academic Enhancements Continuing Education Opportunities Academic Departments Friday Center for Continuing Education Libraries Online and Distance EducationOpens in new site Programs and Curricula Summer School Admissions and Aid SchoolsDisplay Sub Menu for Schools Schools College of Arts & Sciences Adams School of Dentistry Education Eshelman School of Pharmacy Gillings School of Global Public Health Government Graduate School Information & Library Science Law Kenan-Flagler Business School Hussman School of Journalism and Media Medicine Nursing Social Work Come Visit Us Diversity and Inclusion Research Innovation and Economic Development Arts and Culture GlobalOpens in new site Life at CarolinaDisplay Sub Menu for Life at Carolina Life at Carolina About the Town Campus Recreation Carolina Housing Carolina UnionOpens in new site Community and Public Service Health & Wellness AthleticsDisplay Sub Menu for Athletics Athletics GoHeels.comOpens in new site Campus RecreationOpens in new site IntramuralsOpens in new site Sports ClubsOpens in new site UNC HealthOpens in new site Search The University of North Carolina at Chapel HillHide Main Navigation Menu Featured Diamond Heels claim ACC title Tar Heels cap undefeated season with NCAA title About the University Overview By the Numbers Frequently Asked Questions History and Traditions Leadership By the Numbers Mission & Values Support the University Working at Carolina Privacy Statement Accessibility Contact Us Search PeopleOpens in new window PlacesOpens in new window Search UNC.edu Frequently Asked Questions Jump To... Visiting Contacting Carolina Applying to Carolina Athletics Course catalog information Enrollment facts and figures Employment opportunities Help with computers, internet or email Suggesting website content Submitting website feedback Using Carolina logos and symbols Where to buy Carolina gear Visiting Where do I find information about visiting UNC-Chapel Hill? The Visitors Center website contains information about historical tours, traveling to campus and parking. The campus map also has information about transit, ADA accessibility points and construction projects. Contacting Carolina Where do I mail inquiries? To send mail to a specific person, please include this information: Individual’s name The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill Department/Office name Four-digit campus box number Chapel Hill, NC 27599-four-digit campus box number What is the phone number? For general phone inquiries and campus directory assistance, call 919-962-2211. How do I reach a department via email? To find a department’s email address, please check: department list search engine How do I contact an individual on campus address? Visit the UNC-Chapel Hill online campus directory. You can search the campus-wide database or limit your search to faculty, staff or students. Campus directory assistance is also available at 919-962-2211. Applying to Carolina If you want to apply to Carolina as either an undergraduate or graduate student, learn about costs of attendance or find financial aid resources, please visit our Admissions and Aid page. Athletics Find the latest scores, schedules, and information about Carolina varsity sports at the Department of Athletics website. For information on autographs and camps, please contact the offices of individual sports listed in the athletic department directory. The Life at Carolina section of this site contains information about intramural sports, sports club and Campus Recreation. Course catalog information The Office of the Registrar offers a directory of classes, links to course descriptions in the University Catalog and information on honors courses, online offerings and more. Printed bulletins are sold by the University’s Student Stores. The department listing page contains links to University academic departments and schools, and those pages may contain course information. The Summer School website also contains course information. Enrollment facts and figures The Office of Institutional Research and Assessment reports facts and statistics about the University’s enrollment. Employment opportunities See Employment Opportunities for information on faculty positions, professional non-faculty positions, staff positions and temporary staffing. Help with computers, internet or email Contact Carolina’s ITS Service Desk or call 919-962-HELP (4357). Suggesting website content What is your Carolina story? We want to know what makes Carolina special to you. We’d love to hear about outstanding Tar Heels or the exciting work they are doing on campus, across North Carolina and around the world. Let us know by contacting the content development office in University Communications at content@unc.edu. Submitting website feedback If you have website feedback, please email content@unc.edu. If you are having technical issues with the website, please contact the ITS Service Desk. Using Carolina logos and symbols For information on the use of Carolina’s logos and symbols, check with the Trademarks and Licensing Office. Where to buy Carolina gear Student Stores offers clothing and many other items. Accessibility Alert Carolina Alumni Connect Carolina Campus Map Contact Us Careers Departments A – Z Ethics and Integrity For the Media Libraries People Directory Privacy Statement UNC Student Stores The Well Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest © 2022 The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill Tweet Share E-mail Tweet Share E-mail Tweet Share LinkedIn E-mail