Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Academic Advising Center Main Navigation About Us Show Extended What We Do General Education General Grad Requirements Undeclared Academic Success Liberal Education Major and Minor Exploration Staff Faculty Development Certificate Faculty and Staff Training Videos Navigate Student App AAC Office Location Gordon Hall-123(formerly University Hall), 800 N State College Blvd, Fullerton, California 92831 Academic advising center hours Days Office Hours: Advising Hours: Monday 8 am — 12 pm; 1 pm — 3:30 pm 9:00 am —11:30 am; 1:00 pm — 3:30 pm Tuesday 8 am — 12 pm; 1 pm — 5 pm 9:00 am —11:30 am; 1:00 pm — 3:30 pm Wednesday 8 am — 12 pm; 1 pm — 5 pm 9:00 am —11:30 am; 1:00 pm — 3:30 pm Thursday 8 am — 12 pm; 1 pm — 5 pm 9:00 am —11:30 am; 1:00 pm — 3:30 pm Friday 8 am — 12 pm 8:30 am —11:30 am Phone : (657) 278-3606 Fax : (657) 278-7146 Contact Academic Advising Center Current Students Show Extended Freshmen Major Exploration Remediation Tutoring Services Undeclared Transfer Students New Student Transfer Workshop AAT/AST Assist.org GE breadth certification Seniors Graduation Requirements Applying for Graduation Graduation Specialists Mandatory Advising Workshops FAQs Continuing Students Undeclared Undeclared Students Show Extended Major Exploration Titan Major Exploration Program Exploring Majors Appointments Assessing Personal and Career Interests Exploring Careers Declare a Major Prospective Students Show Extended Transfer Students New Student Transfer Workshop Incomplete TDAs Returning Students Major Advising Re-enrollment Information Incoming First Time Freshman AP Scores and Transcripts Academic Success Show Extended IMPROVING GPA Repeats Grade Forgiveness Balanced Schedule Time Management Academic support resources University Learning Center English Department Writing Center CBE Tutoring Center OCSAMS CASECS Student Technology Services Academic Notice and Disqualification Academic Notice Academic Disqualification Fullerton Finish TitanNet Academic Planner Academic Notice and Disqualification Requirements Major Exploration GPA Calculator AAC Virtual Printable FERPA Release Form Current Students Select a button below for more information FRESHMEN TRANSFER STUDENTS SENIORS CONTINUING STUDENTS GENERAL EDUCATION Seniors Continuing Students General Education At CSUF, there is nothing "General" about the General Education Curriculum. Students have the opportunity to choose from over 500 Approved GE courses to meet the 51 unit requirement. The General Education program, designed to introduce the student to a breadth of knowledge, prepares the student to understand and actively participate in a diverse and complex world. The specific learning goals for each category can be found in the University Catalog . General Education Unit Requirements 51 Total units including - 9 units of Upper Division General Education (300-400) - 9 units in Residence at CSUF - 3 units in cultural diversity (courses marked with an asterisk *) - General Education is limited to either 9 units or 3 courses from a single department, excluding courses in GE Area A, Core Competencies - Each course counts in only one GE Area, except those meeting Area Z, Culture Diversity General Education Academic Standards - Letter grade required - C (2.0) or better in GE Areas A.1, A.2, A.3 and B.4. Thus, a grade of C- (1.7) is not sufficient to fulfill those requirements. - CR/NC allowed if it is the only grade option available. General Education Course Requirements - Courses offered by the department of the student's major may not be used to fulfill the unit requirements of Areas B, C, D, E or Z, with the exception of areas offering choices from only one department. For Example: If you are a Psychology major, you may NOT use PSYC 361 for General Education. - Upper-division GE courses are not applicable for graduate degree credit, regardless of the student's major or the department offering the course. Major The major is the academic field in which the bachelor's degree is earned. Major requirements are usually a combination of specified courses and electives within the major. In addition, some majors may have experiential requirements such as field experience or internships. Many freshmen begin their academic careers without having declared their major. The earlier the major is identified, however, the better choices students can make regarding the selection of classes. The Academic Advisement Center has an Major Exploration Resource Center in UH 124. For more useful information, visit the Undeclared Students page on this site. Electives In order to earn a bachelors degree from CSUF, students must successfully complete a minimum of 120 units(some degree programs require higher totals). Some students choose to complete the requirements for a minor to gain those additional units while other students simply enjoy sampling courses from across the campus departments. General electives may be from the student's major department or other departments. This site is maintained by Academic Advising Center. Last Published 4/8/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact zz-pasharma@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.