Skip to main content Restrict my search to College of Nursing Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search College of Nursing About Us Dean's Message Mission Faculty Staff Instructional Design and Technology News and Events Organizational Chart Prospective Students Doctor of Nursing Practice program Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs How to apply Students with International Transcripts Information Sessions Tuition and Fees Current Students Scholarships Student Expectations Student Resources Policy Orientation Computer Requirements Commencement and Pinning Ceremony Diversity Center for Diversity and Inclusion Division of Student Affairs and Enrollment Services Simulation Center Preceptors Community Health Clinic Contact Tracer Program Alumni Giving Giving Opportunities Giving FAQ Thank You to Our Supporters Make a Gift Today! Development Office Contact Us UH Home College of Nursing Master of Science in Nursing Master of Science in Nursing Program Requirements Degree Plan and Schedule of Courses Search CON search Master of Science in Nursing Program Description The primary educational objective of the Master of Science in Nursing (MSN) program is to increase the career and educational opportunities available to registered nurses in the university’s service region. Graduates of the program will have a broader understanding of the nursing profession and will bring that understanding to the practice of nursing in their places of employment. Graduates will be prepared to assume some leadership and management roles. The Master of Science in Nursing program (Education, Administration and Family Nurse Practitioner) is designed to build upon the BSN degree and is offered at the University of Houston at Katy and online. Students in this program are prepared to function at advanced levels with an expanded knowledge of theory, research and clinical application. Graduates are prepared to provide evidenced based health care and to work on collaborative teams. Lab and/or clinical course requirements will be in a face-to-face learning environment for practice and demonstration to meet course objectives and accreditation requirements. The Master of Science in Nursing Family Nurse Practitioner (FNP) degree program is designed to prepare nurses to practice as family nurse practitioners, as educators in nursing programs, to translate research into practice or to assume leadership roles in advance nursing practice. To find out about the MSN program requirements, view the Program Requirements or email nursing@uh.edu for general information. Program Goals Assume advanced leadership roles in a variety of health care settings. Exemplify ethical, legal and professional standards for advanced nursing practice. Integrate advanced knowledge of nursing and related disciplines in the roles of educator, administrator or clinician. Participate in research and other scholarly activities to expand nursing knowledge. Work effectively in interdisciplinary relationships or partnerships to promote, maintain and restore the health of clients; improve health care delivery systems; shape health policy; or influence professional education. All new MSN students are required to attend a mandatory two day College of Nursing Program & University Support Resources & Technology Requirements Orientation held prior to the start of a Fall semester. University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies