Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Give to Brown Site Navigation Academics Undergraduate Graduate & Professional Schools & Colleges Academic Departments Centers & Institutes Libraries & Collections Global Education Non-Degree Programs Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Medical School Admission Executive & Professional Admission Tuition & Aid Research Find a Researcher Industry Engagement Conducting Research at Brown Life at Brown Athletics & Recreation Community Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Providence Student Organizations University Events News Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Research From brain science to biomedical engineering to the arts and humanities, Brown researchers fuel discovery, solve global problems and confront complex 21st century challenges with a relentless focus on the greater good. Sub Navigation In This Section Find a Researcher Industry Engagement Conducting Research at Brown Office of Vice President for Research Visit Research From brain science to biomedical engineering to the arts and humanities, Brown researchers fuel discovery, solve global problems and confront complex 21st century challenges with a relentless focus on the greater good. Exploring the Red Planet. Unearthing ancient cities. Confronting the opioid crisis. Grappling with legacies of slavery. Searching for dark matter. Brown is a leading research university, where stellar faculty and student researchers deploy deep content knowledge to generate new discoveries on those issues and many more. They generate scientific breakthroughs, shed light on social and cultural phenomena and conduct the basic research that sets the stage for future discovery. What sets their work apart? Collectively, Brown's researchers are driven by the idea that their work will have a positive impact in the world. Research News Recent Articles: Health and Medicine Brown physician, medical student urge stronger federal support for overdose prevention centers May 23, 2022 Elizabeth Samuels, an assistant professor at the Warren Alpert Medical School, and medical student Aneeqah Naeem argued for federal action supporting harm reduction centers such as those authorized in Rhode Island. Read Article Open details for Brown physician, medical student urge stronger federal support for overdose prevention centers Science and Technology Eavesdroppers can hack 6G wireless frequency with DIY metasurface, research team demonstrates May 19, 2022 Scholars from Rice and Brown universities say that next-generation wireless networks that use the technology could be designed with built-in defenses against the ‘metasurface-in-the-middle’ attack. Read Article Open details for Eavesdroppers can hack 6G wireless frequency with DIY metasurface, research team demonstrates Science and Technology Researchers highlight more equitable way to analyze DNA data from understudied groups May 4, 2022 New methods of analyzing DNA will allow for a better understanding of how genetic conditions affect different populations, ultimately enabling more targeted treatments. Read Article Open details for Researchers highlight more equitable way to analyze DNA data from understudied groups News and Events Research Achievement Awards honor early, mid-career Brown scholars May 2, 2022 The annual awards program recognizes outstanding faculty scholarship; new this year were awards for Brown inventor and startup of the year. Read Article Open details for Research Achievement Awards honor early, mid-career Brown scholars Health and Medicine Postpartum insurance loss decreased during COVID-19 pandemic, study finds April 22, 2022 Brown researchers found that temporary changes to Medicaid eligibility meant that women who were due to lose coverage 60 days after giving birth were able to stay on their plans. Read Article Open details for Postpartum insurance loss decreased during COVID-19 pandemic, study finds Health and Medicine For young adults, mindfulness habits for life and the promise of better mental, physical health April 12, 2022 In ‘The Mindful College Student,’ Eric Loucks, director of Brown’s Mindfulness Center, teaches essential mindfulness skills to help young adults flourish during this transition period and throughout their lifetime. Read Article Open details for For young adults, mindfulness habits for life and the promise of better mental, physical health Science and Technology Differences between the Moon’s near and far sides linked to colossal ancient impact April 8, 2022 New research shows how the impact that created the Moon’s South Pole–Aitken basin is linked to the stark contrast in composition and appearance between the two sides of the Moon. Read Article Open details for Differences between the Moon’s near and far sides linked to colossal ancient impact Science and Technology Brown Ph.D. student working to correct skin color bias in pulse oximeters April 7, 2022 Pulse oximeters often provide inaccurate readings for people with darker skin, a significant health disparity that physics Ph.D. student Rutendo Jakachira is working to eliminate. Read Article Open details for Brown Ph.D. student working to correct skin color bias in pulse oximeters Health and Medicine Communicating for impact: Public health students get comfortable talking about why their work matters April 7, 2022 A poster conference during National Public Health Week offered Brown public health students the opportunity to discuss the significance of their research to the community — and to their own educational experience. Read Article Open details for Communicating for impact: Public health students get comfortable talking about why their work matters Social Sciences For vaccine text-message campaigns, Brown researchers confirm success is all about timing April 6, 2022 A new study from researchers at the Policy Lab offers important information on when text-message vaccination campaigns work and when they don’t. Read Article Open details for For vaccine text-message campaigns, Brown researchers confirm success is all about timing Science and Technology How boas save themselves from suffocation when constricting and digesting dinner April 1, 2022 Researchers from Brown University show how boa constrictors breathe with different sections of their rib cage, an adaptation that likely helped them evolve into successful predators. Read Article Open details for How boas save themselves from suffocation when constricting and digesting dinner Science and Technology Seen and ‘herd’: Collective motion in crowds is largely determined by participants’ field of vision March 21, 2022 Researchers at Brown University developed a new model to predict human flocking behavior based on optics and other sensory data. Read Article Open details for Seen and ‘herd’: Collective motion in crowds is largely determined by participants’ field of vision Show More News By Topic: Health and Medicine Brown’s health and medicine scholars make vital contributions to research, patient care and public health. Visit Page Open details for Health and Medicine Arts and Humanities Brown builds on a foundation of excellence in research, scholarship and practice in the arts and humanities. Visit Page Open details for Arts and Humanities Science and Technology Brown has a distinguished record of innovation in science, technology, engineering and mathematics. Visit Page Open details for Science and Technology Social Sciences Brown scholars promote peaceful, just and prosperous societies through research, teaching and engagement. Visit Page Open details for Social Sciences Environment Brown researchers study sustainable human societies and the natural world that supports them. Visit Page Open details for Environment Research Publications Impact: Research at Brown Impact is a magazine devoted solely to the University’s research. It tells the stories of faculty and student achievements, and their influence in solving critical problems in the world through their exploration. Visit Page Brown Engineering Explore Medicine @ Brown Explore School of Public Health Magazine Explore Centers & Institutes Brown excels at education and research that integrate knowledge across diverse fields of study — a robust network of academic institutes and centers is at the heart of that work. Learn More @BrownUResearch Office of Vice President for Research Visit Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Academics Undergraduate Graduate & Professional Schools & Colleges Academic Departments Centers & Institutes Libraries & Collections Global Education Non-Degree Programs Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Medical School Admission Executive & Professional Admission Tuition & Aid Research Find a Researcher Industry Engagement Conducting Research at Brown Life at Brown Athletics & Recreation Community Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Providence Student Organizations University Events News Featured Events For Journalists Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Research Open details for Research Bookmark this Page