Skip to main content Skip to main navigation SearchMenu Baylor>Search Find Site By A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Websites starting with 'S': Sacred Harp Sing The Baylor Sacred Harp sing is held the Saturday before the second Sunday in February each year in the Great Hall of Truett Theological Seminary on the Baylor University campus. Sacred Harp singing is so named after the shape-note tunebook Sacred Harp, first published by B. F. White and E. J. King in 1844. SACS This site contains information about Baylor University's SACS Reaffirmation of Accreditation process, 2004-2006. Schedule of Classes The Schedule of Classes is a robust search tool to find classes offered at Baylor University. Scholarships - Student Financial Services Scholarships are a type of financial aid that assist students with paying for education expenses. Scholarships do not need to be paid back and can be funded by Baylor or outside organizations. School of Education Texas Teaching Degree and Texas Teaching Certificate. Baylor University School of Education is to prepare, educators who are committed to transformational leadership and service. School of Education Centennial The School of Education invites you to celebrate our 100th anniversary as a separate academic unit. School of Education LRC The School of Education LRC provides materials related to education subject fields, to child and adolescent learning, and to professional knowledge that support the SOE curriculum, and offers students experience in using equipment and materials similar to those they will use when they begin teaching. School of Education Ph.D. in Curriculum and Teaching The purpose of Baylor's Ph.D. in C&T program is to prepare graduates for university-based leadership in the field of Curriculum & Teaching. Ph.D. graduates have the intellectual and moral background necessary to provide high-quality, long-term leadership in the field of Curriculum & Teaching. School of Education Programs The Graduate Programs in the School of Education. School of Education Undergraduate Programs Texas Teaching University to obtain a Degree or Certificate. Baylor University School of Education undergraduate program emphasis is to obtain a teacher certificate or undergraduate degree programs related to Health, Human Performance and Recreation. School of Education, Mathematics Education Lab he Mathematics Education Lab is designed to be a resource for teaching and learning mathematics. It is available to Baylor faculty, staff, and students as well as area K-12 mathematics teachers. The main purposes of the Mathematics Education Lab are to focus on the improvement of mathematics teaching and learning, support preservice and in-service teacher preparation, and to improve student achievement in mathematics. School of Engineering & Computer Science The home page of the School of Engineering and Computer Science (ECS). School of Music Ensembles Learn more about the School of Music's bands, choirs, orchestras, ensembles and more. School Psychology This 60-hour Educational Specialist (Ed.S.) degree qualifies you to work in public schools as a school psychologist (or Licensed Specialist in School Psychology – LSSP if you serve in Texas). Science and Health Living Learning Center The Science and Health Living Learning Center is a Christ-centered fellowship that fosters the pursuit of wisdom, academic excellence, and meaningful relationships for the development of diverse, innovative leaders. Search Search the Baylor website. Senior Administration Meet Baylor's Senior Administration. Service & Learning The Department of Student Activities aims to facilitate meaningful service opportunities for students in order to develop and foster leadership in areas of social responsibility. Whether by painting a resident's home, organizing a national conference for poverty education, raising funds for cancer research, or improving the community by applying classroom lessons, there is an opportunity for you to connect through service to others. Sexual and Interpersonal Misconduct/Title IX Baylor University is committed to maintaining a learning environment that is free from inappropriate conduct based on gender. Baylor University’s policy is to comply with Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, which prohibits discrimination, including sexual harassment and sexual violence, based on sex in the University's educational programs and activities. It also prohibits retaliation for asserting or otherwise participating in claims of sex discrimination. Baylor University has designated a Title IX Coordinator to manage the University’s compliance with and response to inquiries and concerning related to Title IX. Social Entrepreneurship in Africa The Social Entrepreneurship in Africa program is a 15 day summer study abroad program. Students will visit one of the following three African countries: Kenya, Rwanda or Ghana. The content of the program examines the use of entrepreneurial skills to craft innovative responses to social problems in Africa. In particular, the ability of microlending practices to stimulate economic activity and alleviate poverty will be studied. Social Media Every day, we’re sharing the good news about Baylor and our family on social media. Discover Baylor's social accounts and join in the conversation! Sociology, Department of There are two primary goals of our sociology programs: the study of general sociological knowledge and the development of research skills. The application of social theories to various institutional areas, ranging from small groups to large organizations, is a major goal. Both the undergraduate and graduate programs have a strong research emphasis. Spanish Home page for the Spanish and Portuguese division of Modern Foreign Languages Spirit Fridays Baylor’s Spirit Fridays give faculty and staff a visible way to show their pride and support for Baylor by wearing the green and gold of our University. Each Friday throughout the year, President Linda Livingstone invites faculty and staff to wear their favorite green and gold apparel in the workplace. Spiritual Life Our mission is to help the Baylor University community form a Christian world view and live Christian lives by encouraging involvement in a broad range of opportunities to study the Bible, worship, grapple with important issues and serve others by showing and telling of Christ's love. Stacy Riddle Forum The Forum is a two story, 51,000squarefoot building which contains nine sorority suites/meeting rooms, a computer lab available to all students, a chapel and prayer room, a Panhellenic office and an apartment for a resident manager. Staff Council Representatives of the staff at Baylor that exchange information and provide a forum for the expression and exchange of ideas and concerns. Statistical Science Department of Statistical Science is an interdisciplinary institute that offers the Ph.D. and M.A. degrees in statistics. The graduate programs are offered with the cooperation of the Departments of Mathematics, Information Systems, and Psychology. The Department created the undergraduate B.S. in Statistics in June 2005 and anticipates admitting its first majors in Fall 2006. STEPP Program STEPP stands for Striving to Enhance Personal Performance. This is a lunch time learning opportunity available to all faculty and staff members. STEPP takes place once a month on a Tuesday during the lunch hour and is held in Barfield Drawing room. We offer a lunch that you can sign up to purchase using payroll deduct, or you are welcome to bring your own lunch. Strategic Planning On May 11, 2012, the Baylor Board of Regents adopted Pro Futuris: a Strategic Vision for Baylor University. Developed over the course of two years, Pro Futuris reflects the input and wisdom of the extended Baylor community. This web site provides information about our new vision, our development process, and the context in which our vision will flourish in the years to come. Student Activities The Department of Student Activities encompasses Campus Programs, Greek Life, Student Organizations, Spirit & Traditions, Waco Hall and the Baylor Student Union, otherwise known as the Bill Daniel Student Center. Each component works closely with the other towards a singular goal: to enhance and expand the university experience for Baylor students. Student Activities - Ticket Office Located in the Bill Daniel Student Center (SUB), the Ticket Office is your one stop shop to purchase tickets to some of Baylor's most exciting events including,traditional events like After Dark, Family Weekend, Pigskin Revue, All-University Sing and StompFest. Student Conduct Administration Student Conduct Administration has oversight for the Student Conduct Code and Honor Code. Student Copyright Topics Student Copyright Topics site provides useful information that can help students who want to copy and reuse original materials for the sake of class assignments & projects. Student Employment Student Employment is part of Baylor Human Resources and is located in Suite 200 of the Clifton Robinson Tower. Student Financial Accounts (Cashier's Office) A component of Student Financial Services, the Student Financial Accounts Office is located in the Clifton Robinson Tower. Student Financial Literacy As a free financial education program,Student Financial Literacy offers resources and coaching to Baylor students, helping you understand personal money management for both your current and future financial success. Student Financial Services Student Financial Services includes the Cashier's Office, and Student Financial Aid Office. Student Foundation The purpose of Student Foundation is to serve Baylor University and the student body by building community-minded servants and leaders in its membership and entrusting them with the responsibility of accomplishing the tasks of recruiting qualified students, raising scholarship funds and building goodwill among alumni and students. Student Government Founded in 1913, Student Government is an essential, active and working part of the student body. Student Health and Wellness Student Health & Wellness pulls together various units that provide programs and services designed to encourage and support healthy lifestyles for students as they clarify personal values and identity, establish sound interpersonal relationships, and grow intellectually as they learn to utilize their strengths, explore influences on their lives, and consider opportunities to have a positive impact on the world around them. Student ID Baylor University's ID card is a single-card program that combines many features including identification, library privileges, building access, lab access, meal plans, selected student functions, football ticket distribution, plus other activities. Student Learning & Engagement Student Learning & Engagement, charged with advancing the mission of Baylor University and the Division of Student Life, strives to support students as they translate knowledge and experience into lives marked by intentional action, pursuit of the common good, and a hope for a more humane world. Student Life The Division of Student Life seeks to enrich the Baylor experience through life‐changing programs and services resulting in an integrated education known for leadership, service, Christian faith, and the total development of student. Ultimately, we are here to guide students as they continue to grow into the person that God has uniquely designed them to be. Student Life Center (SLC) Student Opportunity & Accessibility Resources (SOAR) SOAR is dedicated to offering the research and scholarly opportunities and financial knowledge, skills, and support systems necessary for students to ensure their educational success at all levels. Student Organizations The Department of Student Activities opens pathways for students to develop their leadership and become people of influence through membership in student organizations. Whether teaching others how to samba, organizing a rally for a cleaner environment, spearheading a fundraiser for cancer research, or performing in an overseas choir tour, there is an opportunity for you to connect through student organizations. Student Policies and Procedures Baylor University rules, regulations, and policies applicable to students are listed in the Student Policies and Procedures and other student-related publications. Student Productions The university website for All-University Sing, Pigskin, After Dark, and Stomp. Student Scholarships The impact of scholarships on the lives of students is immeasurable. It opens doors to intellectual and spiritual discovery, to deeper knowledge, to greater dreams and to the courage to follow those dreams. A gift to student scholarships is a gift that can change a life. Student Testing Services The primary mission of Student Testing Services is to enable students and members of the Waco community to achieve academic and professional goals through various testing programs. Student Union (SUB, BDSC) As the home for The Department of Student Activities, but more importantly the heart of campus, the Student Union Building [SUB] or otherwise known as Bill Daniel Student Center, provides a place to relax, study, and participate in activities which build enduring loyalty between members of the Baylor community and to Baylor University. Student-Athlete Center for Excellence To assist Baylor University student-athletes in their pursuit of academic, personal, professional, and spiritual EXCELLENCE! Prepare Champions for Life Students The home page for students. Study Abroad and Exchange Programs Information about Baylor's study abroad opportunities and exchange programs. Submit a Work Order Do you have a maintenance, custodial, or event related need? Baylor Facility Services provides you the ability to place your request online (link above), by phone (x1361 – answered 24/7), text (254-401-1100 – M-F 8am-11:30pm) or by email (SRC@baylor.edu) Typical requests are hot/cold temperatures, faucet dripping, light out, sink stopped up, clean-up, lost keys or access issues, and tables and chairs for event set-up. Swahili Swahili is spoken by the seventh largest group of people in the world. It, along with English, is the trade language of East Africa, as well as other countries such as the Congo, Rwanda, Malawi, Burundi and others. Synergy Magazine Synergy is a publication of the Baylor University School of Engineering & Computer Science that keeps alumni and friends abreast of the spirit of discovery at the school. Faculty/Staff homepages starting with 'S': Song,Eunjee Baylor Faculty and Staff: Update your homepage address or learn more about your homepage and privacy settings. Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678