Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Events UWAA Members Join or renew Reasons to be a member Class of 2022 offer Member benefits Member account Get the app UW Impact Travel COVID-19 Updates Upcoming Tours Traveling with us Traveler Testimonials Tour Operators Resources & FAQs Travel insurance Communities U.S. Huskies International Huskies UW campuses, colleges & schools Common Ground Always Learning Multicultural Alumni Partnership Reunions UW Husky Landing Future Alumni Dinners with the Pack Huskies@Work Student Alumni Ambassadors Student Career Trek Services Career UW NetID Email & online tools Transcripts BECU GEICO Update your information ConGRADulations, Class of 2022 You are a Husky for life. Welcome to the alumni community! Being a Husky doesn’t end once you earn your diploma. The UWAA would like to reward your achievement with a gift: a free digital membership, good for one year. JOIN THE PACK! With your Class of 2022 digital membership, you will enjoy: Access to UW Libraries borrowing privileges, plus EBSCO online journals. Benefits and discounts to many UW facilities and services, plus benefits with alumni-owned and PNW businesses. Invitations to members-only and select UW public events, plus special surprises and opportunities throughout the year. UWAA member communications. Stay connected with UWAA’s monthly member digests and UW Magazine’s quarterly e-news. Most importantly, you will be part of a dedicated community of 60,000 Huskies who both celebrate your success and welcome you to the pack! Upgrade to a full annual or life membership and receive a special Class of 2022 UWAA grad box! Enjoy the full benefits of UWAA membership at the special new grad rate of $30. Your upgraded annual membership also includes: The Class of 2022 UWAA grad box featuring your printed membership card, an official UW alumni license plate frame, and special Class of 2022 offers and discounts from our sponsors and partners. The print edition of the award-winning University of Washington Magazine delivered to your home on a quarterly basis. Plus, your dues will go to support UWAA’s programs, events and services, including UW Impact, UWAA’s legislative advocacy program. Upgrade to life membership at the special new grad rate of $500. (You save $250!) Enjoy all of the benefits and privileges of annual membership including the Class of 2022 UWAA grad box, UW Magazine mailed to your home, annual member benefits, plus: An additional life member welcome gift: fly your large “Husky for Life!” flag with pride. Enhanced benefits available only to life members including the ability to sign up for an IMA membership and access to the Nordstrom Tennis Center. Life member “surprise and delight” perks at select UWAA events. This special rate is only available for one year after graduation. Upgrade today for the offer of a lifetime! Easy installment payments are available. Ready to join the pack? YES! SIGN ME UP As a UWAA member, you can: MAKE YOUR MARK Your membership supports UW Impact, the UWAA’s legislative advocacy program, which helps keep college accessible and affordable. Learn more! There are also many other ways membership can help make an impact, including support for students through campus activities, mentoring connections, and scholarships. SHOP LOCAL Members get great benefits at dozens of in-person and online resources and businesses, in Washington and nationwide. All share a UW connection — just like you. Save on Purple Pride gear at University Book Store. Check out all of our online benefits! BE GOLD You join a special cohort: Graduates of the Last Decade (GOLD). GOLD alumni enjoy get-togethers and perks designed just for you. Expand your Husky community by staying connected to old friends and making new ones. Plus, share some Purple Pride during your video calls with these customized Class of 2022 digital backgrounds! KEEP LEARNING UWAA members receive borrowing privileges at UW Libraries, access to EBSCO Academic Search Alumni Edition online journals and discounts for professional trainings. Thinking careers? Join Husky Landing, UWAA’s powerful professional development community. Also, with partnerships across campus including the UW Career & Internship Center, the UWAA keeps alumni in the know about career growth opportunities and resources. GET CONNECTED With more than 60,000 members, the UWAA is one of the most loyal alumni communities in the nation. Stay connected. Be proud. Give back. Join today! Be a Member UW Alumni Facebook UW Alumni Twitter UW Alumni Instagram UW Alumni LinkedIn CONTACT UWAA: 206-543-0540 uwalumni@uw.edu About UWAA Join University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA