Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Title IX — Sexual Harassment and Sexual Violence Title IX — Sexual Harassment, Sexual Assault and other forms of Interpersonal Violence In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, and in abundance of caution, Title IX and Interpersonal Violence Prevention and Education staff began working remotely on March 16, 2020 and continuing until further notice. During this time, our office at 223 Holtzendorff will be closed to walk-ins and in person appointments. We will continue to respond to all concerns during regular business hours of 8:00 am – 4:30 pm. Our staff can be reached by the following methods: April is Sexual Assault Awareness Month. We have gathered this List of Events (PDF) happening throughout the month of April for those interested in learning more. Alesia Smith, Title IX Coordinator, alesias@clemson.edu Jennifer Goree, Deputy Title IX Coordinator — Students, goree@clemson.edu Latoya Daniels, Deputy Title IX Coordinator — Employees, lsdanie@clemson.edu Megan Fallon, Interpersonal Violence Prevention Coordinator, mrfallo@clemson.edu Paula Porter, Office Assistant, pporter@clemson.edu The office telephone number is 864-656-3181, please leave a message and someone from our staff will contact you by the end of the next business day. If you are experiencing a crisis or emergency situation, please contact the Clemson University Police Department at 864-656-2222 or dial 911. About Title IX Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 (amending the Higher Education Act of 1965) is a federal gender equity law that prohibits discrimination based on sex in education programs and activities that receive federal funding. Sexual harassment, which includes sexual violence and other forms of nonconsensual sexual misconduct, is a form of sex discrimination and is prohibited under this law. Clemson University is committed to creating and continuously fostering a caring community based on the core values of integrity, honesty and respect. Sexual discrimination which includes sexual harassment, sexual violence, stalking, domestic and/or relationship violence is unacceptable and has no place in Clemson’s community. Consistent with its Title IX obligation, the University prohibits discrimination, including sexual and gender-based harassment and violence in all of its programs and activities, including academics, employment, athletics, and other extracurricular activities. Title IX Coordinator(s) All educational institutions receiving federal financial assistance must designate at least one employee to coordinate their efforts to comply with and carry out their responsibilities under Title IX. Title IX coordinator(s) play a critical role in helping a school ensure that every person affected by its operations, including faculty, staff and students, is aware of their legal rights under Title IX and that the school and all of its employees, through its policies, procedures and practices, complies with its legal obligations. The Office of Access and Equity is responsible for the University's Title IX response, implementing policies and procedures to prevent and address sexual harassment and other forms of sex discrimination, in compliance with the federal Title IX law. OAE works with multiple stakeholders such as the Office of Community and Ethical Standards (OCES), Clemson University Police Department (CUPD), Office of General Counsel, Human Resources, Dean of Students Office, Office of Advocacy and Success, Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS), Clemson Intercollegiate Athletics, and others, to coordinate and deliver an effective Title IX response at Clemson University. Alesia Smith is the Executive Director for Equity Compliance and Title IX Coordinator. She can be reached at (864) 656-3181 or via email at alesias@clemson.edu Home Support and Resources Officials with Authority Report an Incident The Formal Complaint Process Policies Title IX - Pregnancy and Childbirth Prevention and Education FAQ Contact Us Related Links Access and Equity Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram