Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Moody Prospective Students Prospective Students Degrees Offered Graduate Admissions Guide Application Deadlines Graduate School Resources International Applicants Diversity Visit SMU Current Students Current Students Forms and Policies Graduation Graduate Writing Center Graduate Student Lounge Career Development Graduate Student Organizations Student Services Events Events Events Calendar Research and Innovation Week Orientation Professional Development Three Minute Thesis Student Life Funding Funding Meet our Ph.D. Fellows Ph.D. Health Insurance Graduate Student Travel Grant Dedman Graduate Student Assembly About About Mission and History Moody Foundation Gift Charter Administrative Handbook Dean's Office Messages from the Dean Graduate Council Graduate Student Advisory Board Contact Us Admissions Contacts Blog ☰ The Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies SMU Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies About About The Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies provides support and administrative assistance to graduate students at SMU. The Moody School performs final review of application files for Ph.D. and Dedman College Master's programs, assists in recruiting outstanding and diverse prospective students to these programs, and manages the academic progress and graduation of graduate students in these programs. We oversee University-wide initiatives for graduate students, such as SMU Research Days and the Doctoral Graduation Dinner. We foster a community of graduate students at SMU through student life activities, and we help graduate students achieve career success through professional development workshops and resources such as travel grants and the Graduate Writing Center. In the Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Dean's Office, graduate students will find help with the following: General admissions questions for Ph.D. and Dedman College Master's programs Moody, University, and Mustang Ph.D. Fellowships Moody and Dean's Dissertation Fellowships Ph.D. Health Insurance Awards Graduate student travel grants Graduate student life initiatives Professional development workshops and resources Changes in academic status, dropping/adding courses, and other forms for Ph.D. and Dedman College Master's students Dissertation submission and graduation requirements for Ph.D. and Dedman College Master's students The Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Dean's Office is located on the first floor of the Perkins Administration Building, in Suite 101. The Office is directed by Dean James E. Quick, who also supervises research-related functions at SMU as Associate Provost for Research. You can find more information about our staff and how to contact us on the tabs above. Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Org Chart About Mission and History Moody Foundation Gift Charter Administrative Handbook Dean's Office Messages from the Dean Graduate Council Graduate Student Advisory Board Contact Us Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share