Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open the search panel Open the main menu Search Go Close the search panel Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers News Events Alumni Giving About Library Login Open the Search panel Admissions Admissions Why Columbia J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics Academics J.D. Program and Curriculum LL.M. Program and Curriculum Executive LL.M. Program and Curriculum J.S.D. Program and Curriculum Dual and Joint Degrees International Programs Public Interest and Public Service Experiential Learning Courses Registration Services Academic Calendar Executive Education Areas of Study Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Criminal Justice Data Analytics Environment and Energy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Intellectual Property and Technology International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace Leadership Legal History Litigation and Dispute Resolution National Security and Privacy Social Justice and Human Rights Faculty & Scholarship Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Directory Research Centers and Programs Scholarship Archive Workshops, Lectures, and Colloquia Careers Careers Private Sector Careers Public Interest and Public Service Careers Academic Careers Judicial Clerkships Employment Statistics Employment Policies Community Life Community Life Visit Campus Dean’s Welcome Your Campus, Your City Student Life Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Strategic Initiatives Beyond “Unprecedented”: The Post-Pandemic Economy News From Columbia Law Story Archive Beyond “Unprecedented”: The Post-Pandemic Economy In Columbia Law School’s new podcast, hosted by Professor Eric Talley, hear from leading experts as they chart a course for economic recovery in the wake of the pandemic and suggest new ways of approaching law, policy, and governance. Listen to the trailer: In April, seemingly overnight, the U.S. unemployment rate spiked by more than 10 points to 14.7 percent—a level this country hadn’t experienced since the Great Depression. The pandemic shocked the global economy, sparking a crisis at every level. The word that we turned to as a descriptor? “Unprecedented.” But what does “unprecedented” really mean in a world economy so fundamentally altered? Join host Eric Talley, Isidor and Seville Sulzbacher Professor of Law and co-director of the Millstein Center for Global Markets and Corporate Ownership, as he and his colleagues explore the challenges facing small businesses, essential workers, corporate boards, and financial institutions, and discuss the solutions needed to move beyond these unprecedented times. Find all recent episodes below, and subscribe on Spotify or wherever you get your podcasts. About this Story Related Links Listen on Spotify Listen on Apple Podcasts Listen on Overcast Listen on Pocket Casts Listen on Castro Category Research and Scholarship Topics COVID-19 Eric Talley Beyond Unprecedented Podcast Published September 29, 2020 Share Introduction Go beyond “unprecedented” with host Eric Talley as he introduces the series. Download the transcript. Listen on Spotify Episode 1: Essential—and Broke (October 6) Katharina Pistor, Edwin B. Parker Professor of Comparative Law, and Michael Graetz, Columbia Alumni Professor of Tax Law, join Eric Talley to discuss wealth and income inequality. Listen and Learn More Episode 2: Can the Fed Rescue Us? (October 13) Kathryn Judge, Harvey J. Goldschmid Professor of Law, and Peter Conti-Brown, Pritzker-Pucker Family Visiting Associate Professor of Law, explore how the Federal Reserve Bank can help the U.S. economy recover from the ravages of the COVID-19 pandemic. Listen and Learn More Episode 3: A New Chapter for Bankruptcy? (October 20) Edward Morrison, Charles Evans Gerber Professor of Law, and Millstein Center research fellow Kate Waldock talk about whether bankruptcy can be a lifeline for companies rather than a death knell. Listen and Learn More Episode 4: Helping Small Businesses Survive—and Thrive (October 27) Clinical Professor of Law Lynnise E. Pantin ’03 and Tim Wu, Julius Silver Professor of Law, Science, and Technology, discuss obstacles and opportunities for entrepreneurs and small businesses. Listen and Learn More Episode 5: A Shareholder-Stakeholder Smackdown (November 2) Corporate governance experts Ira M. Millstein ’49 and Leo E. Strine Jr. discuss how companies must begin valuing their workers as highly as their shareholders in order to survive the COVID-19 pandemic. Listen and Learn More Episode 6: Pandemic Pressures on Global Trade (November 10) Anu Bradford, Henry L. Moses Professor of Law and International Organization, and Petros Mavroidis, Edwin B. Parker Professor of Foreign and Comparative Law, discuss the effects of the pandemic and political upheavals on global trade. Listen and Learn More About the Host Eric Talley, Isidor and Seville Sulzbacher Professor of Law, is an expert who works at the intersection of corporate law, governance, and finance. He also teaches and researches in the areas of mergers and acquisitions, quantitative methods, machine learning, contract and commercial law, alternative investments, game theory, and economic analysis of law. About the Series Beyond “Unprecedented”: The Post Pandemic Economy is produced by the Columbia Law School Office of Communications, Marketing, and Public Affairs in conjunction with the Millstein Center for Global Markets and Corporate Ownership. The series was recognized as a 2021 Webby Awards honoree by the International Academy of Digital Arts & Sciences. Related News and Stories Read All Stories More in The Press Research and Scholarship News Beyond Unprecedented: The Post-Pandemic Economy—Season 2 From Columbia Law School and the Millstein Center, the popular podcast returns for a second season to examine the pandemic’s lingering economic effects on workers, investors, and corporations. Co-hosts Professor Eric Talley and Research Fellow Kate Waldock ’23 are joined by experts who have a knack for explaining the complex economic phenomena unfolding in a world changed by COVID-19. All episodes now available. Research and Scholarship News Beyond Unprecedented: Nothing Ventured, Nothing Gained Research and Scholarship News Beyond Unprecedented: The Rise—and Results—of Shareholder Activism News Beyond Unprecedented: Meme Stock Mania Admissions Why Columbia Visit 435 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 212-854-2640 Contact Us Social Media (Administrative Title) Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Instagram Admissions Academics Areas of Study Faculty & Scholarship Careers Community Life Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers Login News Events Alumni Giving About Library Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Donate © Copyright 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York.