Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Biology MS You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Biology MS Apply Request More Info Biology MS Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Science in Biology Gain broad preparation in major biological research topics through a variety of advanced seminars and coursework with the Master of Science in Biology in Temple's College of Science and Technology. Graduates with this degree are prepareed for a career in scientific research or teaching. In this intensive program, graduate students will work closely with College of Science and Technology faculty members to develop a body of research. Faculty members specialize in areas including aquatic and terrestrial ecology, biochemistry, cell biology, and genetics, among others. Throughout your studies, you will be afforded the option to choose to focus on specializations and research areas including cellular and molecular neuroscience; computational biology, focusing on computational evolutionary genomics; ecology; evolutionary medicine, an interdisciplinary field that examines contemporary human disease within the larger context of evolutionary history; genetic epidemiology, an interdisciplinary field that examines the impact of genetic and environmental factors on modern human disease; molecular, cellular and developmental biology; and population genetics, a subfield of genetics and evolutionary biology which examines genetic change over time within and between populations. Learn more about core faculty members who work in each of these disciplines. You may also take advantage of interdisciplinary options for coursework and research with other Temple University departments, including Biochemistry, Computer Science, Engineering and Physics. Faculty from the Biology Department participate in special interdisciplinary programs, including the Center for Computational Genetics and Genomics and the Institute for Genomics and Evolutionary Medicine. Classes & Curriculum The Master of Science in Biology is oriented toward students who wish to deepen their knowledge of the biological sciences and pursue particular research interests. The degree can help you prepare for a career in the sciences or lay the groundwork for further academic study in a doctoral program. If you are more interested in technical training and careers in industry, you may want to consider the Biotechnology Professional Science Master's. The program is full time, and students have three years to earn a degree. Classes take place on Temple’s Main Campus, where the biology labs and facilities are located. Classes are a blend of research and seminar courses, some of which include Developmental Genetics, Genomics in Medicine, Molecular Biology and Systems Neuroscience. Learn more about required courses for the Biology MS. Related Graduate Degrees Biology PhD Biotechnology PSM Bioinformatics PSM Bioinnovation PSM Scientific Writing PSM Bioengineering PhD* *College of Engineering Related Graduate Certificates Scientific Writing Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Science offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,205.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,567.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors Faculty advisors can help you navigate your program and discuss research opportunities. There are two graduate advisors for the Department of Biology. Richard Waring is a professor and the graduate chair in the Department of Biology. Phone: 215-204-8877 Email: richard.waring@temple.edu Sandhya Verma is the graduate administrator in the Department of Biology. Phone: 215-204-8854 Email: sandhya.verma@temple.edu Program Contact Richard Waring is the faculty contact for the Department of Biology. Phone: 215-204-8877 Email: richard.waring@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations If you can find the time to participate while meeting the demands of your degree program, student clubs offer valuable opportunities to meet fellow graduate students, researchers and professionals from science- and technology-related industries. Clubs and organizations for students pursuing a Biology degree include the Alliance for Minority Participation in STEM, which works to increase opportunities for students and help them complete their undergraduate and graduate degrees in STEM. the Biology Graduate Student Society, an organization that develops professional and leadership skills in doctoral students as well as encourages them to participate in public outreach. Leadership, Education and Development in Science, an organization that empowers Philadelphia middle school students to form an interest in STEM through science experiments and mentors. the Temple University Forensics Association, which helps students form an interest in forensic science through field trips and professional networking opportunities. Explore the full list of College of Science and Technology student clubs and organizations. Study Away If the demands of your degree program allow it, consider spending a summer or semester overseas building international connections with researchers from other countries. Temple’s study abroad program offers College of Science and Technology students opportunities to spend a summer or semester studying in China, Germany, Italy, South Korea or Taiwan. Learn more about your study abroad options. Accreditation As a division within Temple University, the College of Science and Technology is accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. ST-BIOL-MS Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Biology MS Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info