Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Okta Outlook More Sign Ons... Iowa State University Graduate College Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Application Programs Contact Mission Prospective Application Application for Nondegree Application Fee / Waivers Available Programs Connect With Us Frequently Asked Questions Request more information Funding International Students International Instructions English Requirements University Resources Current Students Academic Awards & Events Academic Information Events & Deadlines Graduate College Handbook Graduation New Student Orientation New Student Checklist Program Handbooks Program of Study / Committee Theses & Dissertations You and Your Major Professor Funding Professional Development Career Services Center for Communication Excellence Graduate & Professional Student Senate Student Forms Student Tools University Resources Faculty and Staff Academic Awards & Events Academic Information Events & Deadlines Graduate Program Review Graduate College Handbook Mentoring & Advising Online & Paper Forms Funding Graduate Tools Program Contacts (DOGE List) Program Handbooks Postdoctoral Getting Started Postdoctoral Scholar Resources Principal Investigator Resources Academic Awards Benefits Policies Postdoctoral Appointments Postdoctoral Association Postdoctoral Contact People (PCP) Professional Development Career Services Center for Communication Excellence Grant Writing Diversity Faculty Funding Recruiting Practices Mentoring Student George Jackson Symposium McNair Student Associations Graduate Program Review Home > Faculty & Staff > Graduate Program Review The purpose of academic program review evaluates the status, effectiveness, and progress of academic programs and helps identify the future direction, needs, and priorities of those programs. The areas in which program quality are evaluated include, but are not limited to: Quality of educational programs, including an assessment of student outcomes. Quality of research, creative activity, or scholarly work. Contribution or service to the University, the profession, and the community. Potential and future expectations for the program. The goal of the program review should be the articulation of agreed-upon action plans for further development of the academic program. External academic review teams are invited to consider issues and challenges, and to consult with faculty and administration on future directions. The program review process should focus on improvements that can be made using resources that currently are available to the program. Consideration may also be given, however, to proposed program improvements and expansions that would require additional resources; in such cases, the need and priority for additional resources should be clearly specified. Please visit the Graduate Program pages for degree and career outcomes as well as other information. For more information on program reviews visit the Provost page. ➤ Graduate College 1137 Pearson Hall 505 Morrill Rd Ames, IA 50011 grad_college@iastate.edu 515-294-4531 phone Facebook Twitter Linkedin Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Loading...