Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Mission & Ministry Mission & Ministry Information For: Students Parents & Guardians Search BC.edu Links FYE Menu Main Nav First Year Experience Donate UMM Back Back Close About Orientation 2022 Overview Orientation Team Summer 2021 OTeam Mari Brianna A Alicia Luis Tommy Brianna C Lily Maggie Owen Taylor Mary Brooke Matthew Tyler Mo Jiu Grace Janasia Karleni Chris Jen Paco Emma M Mitzy Gianna Siobhan Serena Emma R Graceann Mikayla Megan Amy Ayana Tenniel Kelly Charlie Jose 48Hours Compass Mentoring Academic Convocation Overview Past Academic Convocations First Year Hub Donate UMM Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Mission & Ministry Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Orientation 2022 Home Orientation 2022 Orientation will help you connect with the people and resources that will help you get off to a great start on the Heights. Members of the Class of 2026 and incoming transfer students should carefully review all Orientation information included here in order to successfully register and prepare for Orientation. 2022 Orientation Sessions Session Dates Schools Session 1 June 12-14 Morrissey, Carroll, Lynch Session 2 June 19-21 Morrissey, Carroll, Connell Session 3 June 26-28 Morrissey, Carroll, Lynch Session 4 July 10-12 Morrissey, Carroll, Connell Session 5 July 17-19 Morrissey, Carroll Session 6 July 24-26 Morrissey, Carroll, Transfers Session 7 August 21-23 All Colleges Geographic restrictions apply.* Expand the section below for eligibility details. *Session 7 Eligibility Session 7 is NOT available to students from Alabama, Connecticut, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Mississippi, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Tennessee, Vermont, Virginia, Washington, D.C., West Virginia, or Wisconsin. In addition to the states indicated on the map below, Session 7 is available to all International students, including those from American Samoa, Guam, and Puerto Rico. Please be advised that this session will fill quickly and due to space limitations is available on a first-come, first-served basis only. Registration Deadline May 1, 2022 Register Through the Admitted Student Portal Orientation Information Print During your Orientation session, you will plan your academic program with a faculty adviser, register for fall courses, and become better acquainted with the people and resources that will help you get off to a great start here on the Heights. Deadlines Registration Opens April 1, 2022 Registration Deadline May 1, 2022 Registering Beginning on April 1, once you have confirmed your offer of acceptance at Boston College, you can register for Orientation via the Agora Portal or your Admitted Student Portal. Please read the important information below before you register for an Orientation session and book travel. Before You Register for Orientation Students may only register for Orientation sessions for which they are eligible. Students in the Connell School of Nursing and the Lynch School of Education and Human Development are restricted to particular Orientation sessions, due to their smaller class sizes. There are also geographic restrictions for Session 7, which is reserved for our international student population and students traveling from the western half of the country (please see the drop-down above entitled "Session 7 Eligibility"). Reservations for the Parent and Guardian program are completed by students at the same time they complete their own Orientation registration. Due to limitations on space, students may register no more than two parents or guardians for Orientation. Siblings, friends, and unregistered parents and guardians will not be able to attend. Please be aware that Orientation registration will open on April 1, 2022 and must be completed by May 1, 2022. However, we recommend you register for Orientation as soon as you can, so that you may choose from all available Orientation sessions for which you are eligible. Orientation sessions fill up quickly and we are limited in our capacity to accommodate changes throughout the summer. Once registered for a session, students will receive a confirmation email and will be notified of program updates and requirements as their session approaches. Students are eligible to switch to an alternative, open session on their own in the Orientation Portal and are able to do so until two weeks prior to the session they are currently registered for. Before You Book Travel for Orientation Before you book travel, please be aware that Check-In for Orientation will take place from 12:30 - 2:30 p.m. on Sunday. On Tuesday, the Orientation program will conclude around 2:00 p.m., at which point students will need to return to the Thomas More Apartments to collect their belongings and check out of their room. We recommend that you make travel arrangements so that you can remain on campus at least until 2:30 p.m. on Tuesday. The complexity of the program makes early departures impossible. Preparing for Orientation Wondering what you can do between now and your Orientation session? A lot! Here is a helpful list of some things you will want to do in preparation for Orientation: Download the BC Welcome app! Later this spring, the BC Welcome app will contain two Orientation guides available for download: one for the Parent Program and one for the Student Program. These guides include a comprehensive Orientation schedule, campus map, FAQs, and links to additional BC resources and opportunities. More information about how to download the guides will be communicated in May. Visit the Agora Portal to submit your BC ID photo, review the University's laptop options, and get access to many other important student-related online services. To view a helpful Student Checklist of Agora Portal to do’s provided by Student Services, please refer to the Student Checklists. Start using your new BC email account which will be activated in early May. You will access your email through BC Google Apps for Education at g.bc.edu. Your account will be your username directly followed by @bc.edu (for example, username@bc.edu). You may also access your email through the "My Services" tab at portal.bc.edu. You should begin to use this account on a regular basis, as it will be the primary way the University will contact you, beginning in early May. Review the Academic Planning Workbook. During Orientation, the Academic Planning Workbook will be used by you and your academic advisor to plan and register for fall courses. A PDF version of the workbook can be found after May 15th under Student Checklists. Disability-related accommodations. If you require disability-related accommodations at Orientation, please contact Rory Stein, Assistant Dean of Disability Services via email (steinr@bc.edu) or phone: 617-552-3470. Finally, we suggest you arrive to Orientation with the following: Easy access to your Agora Portal login info, your BC Gmail login info, as well as your Eagle ID # A personal laptop or tablet (if you cannot bring a computer or tablet, one will be provided for use during advising and registration) A backpack/bag. You will not have time to go back and forth to the residence hall during the day, so you need to carry your laptop and other registration materials with you on Monday and Tuesday. Comfortable clothing (i.e.,sneakers, sweater or rain jacket, and athletic apparel for Monday evening) Personal items (.ie., water bottle, umbrella, personal toiletries) Bed linens, a pillow, and a towel will be provided in the residence halls for those attending sessions 1-6. Sessions 1-6 We are looking forward to welcoming our incoming students and parents/guardians to Orientation this summer! Full itineraries for both the Student and Parent Orientation will be available here by the first week in June. Orientation Arrival and Check-In Orientation Check-In for students, parents, and guardians will be held on each Sunday from 12:30 - 2:30 p.m. in the lobby of the Thomas More Apartments located at 2150 Commonwealth Avenue (Brighton, MA). Check-in is a process that will last approximately 15 minutes. Please plan your day accordingly, so that you may arrive on time. If you are driving to campus, please park in the Commonwealth Ave parking garage on levels 2-6 (parents/guardians will receive validated parking passes during Check-In that can be used to exit the garage). Please note that the parking garage is a 4-5 minute walk from the Thomas More Apartments, so families may want to drop individuals with luggage at the Thomas More Apartments before proceeding to the parking garage. Students will receive their nametag and Orientation housing assignment during Check-In on Sunday. Registered parents/guardians will also receive a nametag during Check-In. The Student Program Your three-day Orientation program will keep you quite busy! You will plan your academic program with a faculty adviser, register for fall courses, and become better acquainted with the people and resources that will help you get off to a great start on the Heights. During Sessions 1-6, students will stay in a residence hall with their peers. Following Check-In on Sunday, the Orientation program will begin at 3:00 p.m. with a liturgy in the Catholic tradition. All are welcome and encouraged to attend. After the liturgy, we will walk to McElroy for dinner and welcoming remarks, followed by an introductory evening program. After the evening program, parents and guardians will leave for their respective lodging around 8 p.m. Students must remain on campus and reside in on-campus housing for the duration of the program. On Monday and Tuesday, the Student Program will run independently from the Parent Program. Students will move through much of Orientation with their assigned Orientation Leader and small group, navigating the campus, engaging in meaningful conversation, and creating connections with classmates. On Tuesday, the students and parents/guardians will continue in separate programs and will come together for a closing program at 1:00 p.m. We advise you to make travel arrangements so that you can remain on campus until at least 2:30 p.m on Tuesday. The complexity of the program makes exceptions impossible. For more information on what to know before you book travel for Orientation, please see the "Registering" box. IMPORTANT: During Sessions 1-6, students are required to stay on campus in provided housing and are not to leave campus at any time. Orientation is a mandated program and students must attend all components of the three-day program. Session 7 We are looking forward to welcoming our incoming students and parents/guardians to Orientation Session 7 in late August! Full itineraries for both the Student and Parent Orientation will be available here by the first week in June. Session 7 Orientation Arrival and Check-In Students attending Session 7 will be granted access to their 2022-2023 academic year housing assignment beginning Saturday, August 20, 2022 at 10 a.m. We highly recommend that international students and those traveling a long distance arrange their travel so that they may move-in on Saturday. Arriving on Saturday will provide you time to get settled and travel to local stores to acquire dormitory necessities and personal items, prior to the start of Orientation on Sunday afternoon. Detailed information about Fall Move-In will be emailed to students in July by the Office of Residential Life. If you are driving to campus for Orientation, please park in the Commonwealth Ave parking garage on levels 2-6 (parents/guardians will receive validated parking passes during Check-In that can be used to exit the garage). Please note that the parking garage is a 4-5 minute walk from the Thomas More Apartments. Orientation Check-In for students, parents, and guardians will be held on will be held on Sunday, August 21 from 12:30 - 2:30 p.m. in the lobby of the Thomas More Apartments, located at 2150 Commonwealth Avenue (Brighton, MA). Check-in is a process that will last approximately 15 minutes. Please plan your day accordingly, so that you do not miss any part of the program. The Student Program Your three-day Orientation program will keep you quite busy! You will plan your academic program with a faculty adviser, register for fall courses, and become better acquainted with the people and resources that will help you get off to a great start on the Heights. During Sessions 1-6, students will stay in a residence hall with their peers. Following Check-In on Sunday, the Orientation program will begin at 3:00 p.m. with a liturgy in the Catholic tradition. All are welcome and encouraged to attend. After the liturgy, we will walk to McElroy for dinner and welcoming remarks, followed by an evening program featuring an esteemed member of the Boston College faculty. After the evening program, parents and guardians will leave for their respective lodging. Students must remain on campus and reside in on-campus housing for the duration of the program. On Monday and Tuesday, the Student Program will run independently from the Parent Program. Students will move through much of Orientation with their assigned Orientation Leader and small group, navigating the campus, engaging in meaningful conversation, and creating connections with classmates. On Tuesday, the students and parents/guardians will continue in separate programs and will come together for a closing program at 1:00 p.m. IMPORTANT: During Sessions 7, students are required to stay in their fall housing assignment and are not to leave campus at any time. Orientation is a mandated program and students must attend all components of the three-day program. International Students As international students, we realize that many of you will be traveling a great distance to get here. That is why we highly recommend that you arrive on campus on Saturday, August 20, before University Orientation begins on Sunday, August 21. Arriving on Saturday will give you time to get settled into your residence hall room and catch up on jetlag. It will also provide you the opportunity to travel to local stores to purchase bedding, personal items, toiletries and anything else you may not be able to pack in your luggage. From the time Orientation begins on Sunday afternoon to its conclusion on Tuesday afternoon, you will NOT be permitted to leave campus nor will you have time to run errands. Beginning on Tuesday, immediately following the close of University Orientation, International Student Orientation will begin. It is a completely separate program run by the Office of International Students and Scholars and you will receive more information from them about the program later in the summer. Please be aware that International Student Orientation is required for all international first year, transfer students, and exchange students. For further information about coming to BC as an international student, visit the Office of International Students and Scholars. Transfers This year’s Transfer Orientation will take place July 24-26, 2022 (Session 6). All of the program details outlined above apply to the Transfer Orientation experience. Be assured that we know you are not new to college, you are just new to Boston College and we have designed your Orientation program to give you opportunities to learn about the many activities and resources available to you at the University. During Transfer Orientation, transfer students will live on campus in University housing. This offers a great opportunity to meet and socialize with other new transfer students. You will meet with academic advisors who will be able to help you determine the courses you need to enroll in to fulfill University requirements, based on your previous academic transcript. And you will spend time with current Boston College students who have transferred from other institutions and with our Orientation Leaders. Please be advised that Transfer Orientation is a mandatory program. You can register for Orientation Session 6 via the Agora Portal or your Admitted Student Portal. The Parent Program At each Orientation Session, a three-day Parent Orientation will run concurrently with the Student Orientation program. The Parent Program is designed to support the adjustment process that occurs when a student leaves home for college and to familiarize parents and guardians with the resources that are available within the University community. Parents and guardians will hear from Boston College students, faculty, and administrators about this exciting and challenging transition. In panels, discussions, and informal conversations, you will have the opportunity to share your thoughts and learn more about important issues like academic expectations and community standards. During this time, offices and services across campus will be open for consultation. The Parent Program is not required, and parents and guardians are welcome to come and go from the program as they wish or require. On Sunday of Orientation, the Parent Program and Student Programs will operate together. Following Check-In , the Orientation will officially begin at 3:00 p.m. with a liturgy in the Catholic tradition. All are welcome and encouraged to attend. After the liturgy, we will walk to McElroy for dinner and welcoming remarks, followed by an introductory evening program. After the conclusion of the evening program around 8:00 p.m., parents and guardians will leave for their respective lodging, while the Student Program will continue on into the evening. Beginning Monday morning, the Parent Program will run independently from the Student Program. On Monday evening, parents and guardians will have the evening free for dinner and exploring Boston. The Parent Program will rejoin the Student Program for the closing session beginning at 1:00 p.m. on Tuesday afternoon. Upon its conclusion, students attending Sessions 1-6 will need to return to their residence hall at 2150 Commonwealth Avenue to pick up their bags and drop off their room cards before leaving campus. We advise you to make travel arrangements so that you can remain on campus until at least 3:00 p.m. on Tuesday. For more information on the Parent Program, please download the BC Welcome App by searching “Boston College Welcome” in your app store, or by clicking here for the iTunes download or here for the Google Play download. Once downloaded and installed, please select and download the "BC Parent Orientation" guide within the app. This guide will be available as of June 1. IMPORTANT: Please be advised that lodging is not provided for attendees of the Parent Program. A list of nearby hotels and accommodations is available here. We are happy to provide a space to store luggage during the program on Sunday and Tuesday, if needed. FAQ Q: When can I register for Orientation? A: Orientation registration will open on April 1, 2022 and must be completed by May 1, 2022. However, we recommend you register for Orientation as soon as you can, so that you may choose from all available Orientation sessions for which you are eligible. Orientation sessions fill up quickly and we are limited in our capacity to accommodate changes throughout the summer. Q: What happens at Orientation? A: Orientation is a busy and engaging three day program designed to introduce incoming students and their families to the people and resources that can best support your transition to the Boston College community. During the Student Program, you will learn to navigate campus, plan your academic program with a faculty adviser, register for fall courses, and engage in meaningful conversation with your peers and Orientation Leaders. At each Orientation session, a three-day Parent Program will run concurrently with the Student Program.. The Parent Program is designed to support the adjustment process that occurs when a student leaves home for college and to familiarize parents and guardians with the broad array of resources and supports that exist within the University community. Full itineraries for both the Student and Parent Orientation will be available on the Orientation website by the first week in June. Q: What should I bring to Orientation? A: Please see the "Preparing for Orientation" box. Q: Where do students reside during Orientation? A: During Sessions 1-6 students will stay in one of our residence halls on Lower Campus. Students attending Session 7 will move into their Fall housing assignment upon arrival to campus. Q: I am attending Session 7 (August 21-23, 2022). When can I move into my residence hall? A: Students attending Session 7 will be granted access to their 2022 - 2023 academic year housing placement beginning Saturday, August 20, 2022 at 10 a.m. We highly recommend that international students and those flying or driving a long distance arrange their travel so that they may move-in on Saturday, as opposed to the Sunday morning prior to Orientation Check-In. Arriving on Saturday will provide you time to get settled and travel to local stores to acquire dormitory necessities or personal items, should you need to. Q: Where do parents/guardians reside during Orientation? A: Lodging is not provided for attendees of the Parent Program. A list of nearby hotels and accommodations is available here. We are happy to provide a space to store luggage during the program on Sunday and Tuesday, if needed. Q: Can I bring my siblings to Orientation? Unfortunately, no. Due to limitations on space, students may register no more than two parents or guardians for Orientation. Siblings, friends, and unregistered parents and guardians will not be able to attend. Q: How does academic advising and registration work at Orientation? A: You will register for your first semester of courses on Tuesday of Orientation alongside a faculty member who has guided you through a personalized and thorough group-based academic advising process the day prior. Questions about the academic advising or course registration processes can be directed to your undergraduate college: Morrissey College of Arts & Sciences: mcasorientation@bc.edu Carroll School of Management: carrollug@bc.edu Connell School of Nursing: ugnurse@bc.edu Lynch School of Education and Human Development: lsehdungrd@bc.edu Q: Will I be able to see my parent(s)/guardian(s) or leave campus during Orientation? A: The Student and Parent Orientation Programs operate together on Sunday until approximately 8 p.m., at which point parents and guardians will leave for their respective lodging, while the Student Program will continue on into the evening. The two programs do not reunite until the conclusion of Orientation on Tuesday. Ultimately, Orientation is designed to give students and parents separate, but complementary, experiences. Students may not leave campus during Orientation and must attend all components of the program. Parents and guardians may come and go as they wish or require. Q: I have special dietary restrictions. Can I be accommodated at Orientation? A: Absolutely. All meals served during Orientation are buffet style and the included options are meant to satisfy a variety of palettes, allergies, and restrictions. If you find that the options in the buffet are not suitable during any Orientation meal, please find a representative from Dining Services who staff each meal. They will be able to accommodate any need within minutes. Should you have a medical condition that requires special nutritional accommodations, we encourage you to contact the University Nutritionist, Kate Sweeney: sweenekz@bc.edu. Q: How do I get to BC from Logan International Airport? A: There are two easy ways to travel between Boston College and Logan International Airport. By taxi or rideshare service, the trip costs approximately $40 and takes about 30 minutes without traffic. Alternatively, using the "T" (short for the MBTA, Boston's public transportation system) costs approximately $5 and takes about an hour. To take the “T” from Logan Airport, take the Silver Line to South Station and then take the Red Line to Park Street. Then, take the Boston College Green Line outbound train (Line B to “Boston College”). Stay on the train until the last stop. For a faster route, you can pay $5 for a Logan Express bus from the airport to Hynes Convention Center. At Hynes, take Green Line B to Boston College Station. It will cost $2.65 for a one way trip on the “T.” For more information, visit the MBTA website. Q: How much does Orientation cost? A: There is no registration cost for Orientation, however there is a mandatory Orientation fee set by the Board of Trustees, which will be charged to your fall semester bill. For questions regarding your bill, please contact Student Service at (617) 552-3300. Back To Top Back To Top First Year Experience Rahner House, 96 College Road bcfye@bc.edu 617-552-3281 About Orientation 48hours Compass Mentoring Academic Convocation First Year Resources Give to Mission & Ministry Division of Mission & Ministry Mission and Ministry Campus Ministry Center for Ignatian Spirituality Center for Student Formation First Year Experience Intersections Montserrat Pastoral Support The Volunteer and Service Learning Center University of Mission and Ministry Service Center Facebook Instagram Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College