Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Student Affairs About News Events Calendar SMU Research Bush Center Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Undergraduate Admission Apply Visit Financial Aid Menu Search Scholarships and Financial Aid You’re bright and hardworking. We want you here. That’s why we are passionate about matching our rigorous academics, powerful opportunities and incredible classroom-to-career experiences with access to outstanding financial resources – so that you can become who you want to be, regardless of your financial need. Also in Scholarships and Financial Aid Costs and Estimates Deadlines Types of Assistance SMU Monthly Payment Plan Options SMU Net Price Calculator Mustang Scholars Robert H. Dedman Scholarship for North Dallas High School En Español FAQ Contact Us Find an Excellent Return on Your College Investment But don’t just take our word for it. Forbes counts us among the “schools with the highest quality and best financial outcomes” in its 2019 “Best Value Colleges” ranking. We are among only 300 institutions nationwide that are worth the investment based on: quality, net price, net debt, alumni earnings, timely graduation and access for low-income students. Top 5% SMU alumni among the top 5% of highest-paid graduates across a range of fields. College Factual 2021 #1 DFW ranked best metro area for STEM jobs according to the American Enterprise Institute. 72% 72% of students graduate without any student debt at all. 3 out of 4 First-year students are awarded grants and/or scholarships. #11 Ranked 11th in merit aid in Money’s “2019 Best Colleges.” #2 Dallas ranked #2 nationally among the best places for business and careers. Forbes 2019 How we help you afford an outstanding SMU education We reward academic achievement We will also consider your family’s financial situation. Our financial packages combine academic awards and need-based financial aid. We automatically consider you for academic awards, many of which can be combined When you apply to SMU, you will be automatically considered for SMU awards when you apply by your chosen application deadline: November 1 for Early Decision I and Early Action or January 15 for Early Decision II and Regular Decision. We work hard to meet your needs We provide need-based aid for your unique financial circumstances and partner with you to explore a combination of federal, state and SMU-funded awards, including grants, loans and work-study options. SMU’s Most Distinguished Awards President’s Scholars Nancy Ann and Ray L. Hunt Leadership Scholars (separate essay required) Academic achievement scholarships Academic school and departmental scholarships National Merit Scholarships International Baccalaureate Scholars Learn more How to Apply Simply submit two forms by your chosen application deadline: November 1 for Early Decision I and Early Action or January 15 for Early Decision II or Regular Decision. These are priority deadlines for scholarship and financial aid consideration. Both forms will be available October 1. The Free Application for Federal Student Aid For federal and state aid. U.S. and dual citizens and permanent residents seeking eligibility for federal and state sources of aid must submit the FAFSA each year. Visit fafsa.gov to file the FAFSA. Use SMU school code 003613. The CSS Profile™ For institutional aid. For SMU-funded opportunity awards, you must submit a CSS Profile™ financial aid application each year. This will give our financial aid advisors more information to further assess your financial need. There is a $25 cost for submitting the CSS Profile™. Visit cssprofile.org to file the CSS Profile™. Use SMU school code 6660. FAQs How do I apply for academic awards and when will I be notified? Our academic awards reward hard work. If you apply by your chosen application deadline – November 1 for Early Decision I and Early Action or January 15 for Early Decision II and Regular Decision – you will be automatically considered for SMU academic awards. If you applied by November 1, you will be notified in early January. If you applied by January 15, you will be notified by mid-March. How do I apply for financial aid and when will I be notified? The priority deadline to apply for financial aid corresponds with your chosen application deadline: November 1 for Early Decision I and Early Action or January 15 for Early Decision II and Regular Decision. You must file the FAFSA (for federal need-based consideration) and the CSS Profile™ (for SMU-funded opportunity awards) by these priority deadlines. If you applied by November 1, you will be notified in early January. If you applied by January 15, you will be notified by mid-March. What kind of aid is available? SMU offers academic scholarships, grants, loans and work-study awards. How does SMU determine the amount of financial assistance? FAFSA and CSS Profile™ information is sent to SMU, which compares the cost of attending SMU with the Expected Family Contribution (EFC)* for the student’s college education. *According to the office of Federal Student Aid, the Expected Family Contribution (EFC) is not the amount of money your family will have to pay for college or the amount of federal student aid you will receive. It is a number used by your school to calculate the amount of federal student aid you are eligible to receive. Will I have a financial advisor at SMU? SMU assigns a financial aid advisor to all students. For more information about the academic award and financial aid process, call us at 214-768-2058 or 1-800-323-0672 or visit us smu.edu/value. Apply NowVisit Us Back to top Academics Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Science Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education & Human Development SMU CAPE SMU Libraries The Guildhall Audience Links Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Media Parents Quick Links SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Bush Center SMU Store Academic Calendar Events Calendar Employment Giving to SMU Virtual Tour Get in Touch Contact Us Maps Directions Compliance Legal Disclosures Report Sexual Harassment Reporting a BIAS Incident HEERF Reporting Emergency Preparedness Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Apply First-Year Domestic Student* Application First-Year International Student* Application Transfer Forms and Applications Readmission to SMU Graduate Studies FAQs | Undergraduate Temporary Test-Optional Policy Visit Virtual Campus Experience In-Person Visit Virtual Tour Admission Events Maps and Directions Residential Commons Tour Where to Stay Academics Majors and Minors Schools Faculty Virtual Connections Support and Resources Honors and Scholars Tips SMU Abroad SMU-in-Taos FAQs | Academics Campus Life SMU and Dallas Residence Life Dining Health and Safety Spirit and Traditions Diversity At SMU Activities and Organizations Fitness and Recreation Sports Spiritual Life En Espanol FAQs | Living on Campus FAQs | Student Life Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Types of Aid Access SMU Financial Aid Process Payment Plan Options SMU Net Price Calculator Mustang Scholars Robert H. Dedman Scholarship for North Dallas High School En Español Contact Us Deadlines FAQs FAQs | Financial Aid FAQs | Tuition, Fees, and Deadlines Scholarships and Assistance Connect Meet Your Admission Counselor School Contacts Request Information High School Counselor Information Parent Information Social Media and Zoom Backgrounds Frequently Asked Questions Publications Student Ambassadors Coronavirus (COVID-19) Updates Incoming and Current Students Prospective Student Publications Wallpapers International How to Apply Visit SMU Life in Dallas Living at SMU International Student Events Intercultural Engagement Athletics at SMU Spirit and Traditions Immigration Information Obtaining an I-20 Transfer Benefits of an SMU Education Transfer Scholarships Transfer Admission Application Process Transfer Dates and Deadlines Transfer Pathway Guides Transfer Equivalency Tool Meadows Auditions and Portfolios Transfer Forms and Applications International Transfer Students FAQs Congratulations on your admission to SMU! How Credits Transfer Partnership Programs Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Apply Academics Campus Life Majors and Minors Visit Financial Aid Did you know? SMU's main campus is located in the nation's fourth largest metropolitan area, Dallas-Fort Worth, with 7.4 million people and more than 20 Fortune 500 headquarters.Learn More Menu Search