Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Leadership About Programs Faculty\Staff Students Center for Higher Ed News Contact Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact You should be here. You could be here. Learn about the degrees you can earn with the Department of Leadership Join the Department of Leadership! View Student Resources in the Department of Leadership We are Educational Leadership! Meet our dynamic faculty and learn about our programs. PreviousNext Take Action Apply Now Need Help? Contact Us! Follow Us Online FacebookYoutube Nationally Ranked # 17 CollegeValuesOnline.com Best Online Doctorate in Educational Leadership View All Rankings Home Department of Leadership Training Leaders for Schools, Colleges and Community Organizations Welcome to the Department of Leadership! The department is comprised of two academic programs— Leadership and Policy Studies (LDPS) and Higher Ed/Adult Education (HIAD). Both programs prepare current and aspiring leaders with the necessary skills to excel in a variety of leadership positions, including K-12 school administrators, district superintendents, higher education administrators, and leaders of government agencies, nongovernmental organizations, and industry. <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> Our faculty provides outstanding instruction on strategic planning, human resource management, accreditation, financial management, policy analysis, and program evaluation. Members of our faculty have received national and international recognition for their work, obtained a wide range of research grants, engaged in national and international outreach and service projects, and have won a number of research, teaching, and advising awards. Want to begin your path to leadership with the Department of Leadership? If you would like to apply for Higher Education, our deadline is April 1st, and your classes will start in the Fall of that year. Apply Now > News University of Memphis named a top school for online master’s in educational leadership The online master’s degree program in Educational Leadership from the department of leadership has been named one of the best online master’s degree programs in educational leadership by Online MastersDegrees.org. Only six percent of postsecondary institutions earned a ranking position in 2022. You can see the full ranking here >. OnlineMastersDegrees.org researched and analyzed more than 7,700 accredited schools using data from the Integrated Postsecondary Education Data System and from the schools themselves. The website’s data science team then applied a proprietary algorithm to rank all qualifying educational leadership programs. Primary data points include: number of online master’s programs in subject area, number of online students, online program tuition and fees, percentage of students offered institutional aid and amount of institutional aid awarded per student. Dr. Eric Platt, Chair of the Department of the Leadership, said, “I am so proud of the faculty, staff and students who have worked to make this program excel. Our department has prioritized online access to the educational leadership program. Students across the State of Tennessee can engage in this quality program that is nationally ranked and centered on student success.” Questions? Have questions about the Leadership program or degrees? We're here to help. Give us a call at 901.678.2369 or email leadership@memphis.edu. If you are a current student that needs to set up an advising appointment, please contact Ms. Whitney Horton whorton@memphis.edu Email us> Award Winning Programs Our HIAD program is ranked #23 Most Affordable Online Doctor of Education Programs by Eddprograms.org. Learn more about the award here. Our Doctorate of Education in Higher and Adult Education: Higher Education Concentration was ranked #13 in Best Doctorate in Education (Ed.D) Degrees in 2020 by Best Value Schools read more on bestvalueschools.org. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/15/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.