Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index International Affairs Menu Search TTU International Affairs Scholarships Continuing TTU Students Scholarships Presidential Merit scholarship chart for 2019-2020 Proven Achiever scholarship chart for 2019-2020 Al-Andalus Mágico Scholarship Chair: Dr. Joan Goodman-Williamson Eligibility: An award of $1350 will be made available to a TTU undergraduate student accepted to pursue study abroad at the TTU Center in Sevilla, Spain. The award will be available for study during the Fall term and another award of $1350 will be available for students studying at the Center in Sevilla during the Spring term. The Scholarships will be awarded with preference for underrepresented minority students who demonstrate financial need through FAFSA or other documentation. Students should nominate themselves through the Study Abroad scholarship website program by writing an essay of no more than one page describing what culture immersion means to them prior to going to Spain. Within one month of their return from study abroad in Sevilla they should submit a short response describing how or if their perception has changed. The essays should be sent to the Office of International Affairs at Texas Tech University. Timing: The deadline for applications is 1 May for Fall Study Abroad and 1 October for study abroad in Spring Semester. Application procedure: Apply Online - Start Application Continue Your Application Award: The award(s) of $1350 each term will announced as soon as possible after the deadline(s) and the review of all applications. It will be disbursed as a scholarship, paying tuition and fees first, with any remaining balance issued to the student by Student Business Services (SBS). In addition, this award is expected to waive out-of-state tuition for the award year and does not require any service to the University. Winners may be profiled on the OIA web pages. American-Mexican Friendship Waterman Scholarship Committee Chair: Graduate School coordinates acceptance of applications. OIA Scholarship Chair: Dr. Joan Goodman-Williamson Application: www.depts.ttu.edu/gradschool/financial/GeneralFellowships.php. The graduate school coordinates applications and awarding for the Waterman Scholarship. Deadlines: www.depts.ttu.edu/gradschool/financial/GeneralFellowships.php Eligibility Criteria: Previously attended a Mexican University Award: $4,000 per year for Master's students for two years $4,000 per year for Doctoral students for four years Anne and Bill Fisher Memorial Endowed Scholarship OIA Scholarship Chair: Dr. Joan Goodman-Williamson Eligibility: Awards is for students attending Texas Tech who were born outside of the United States, have a keen interest in international affairs, and who are fluent in at least two languages. Undergraduate and graduate students who have at least a 3.0 GPA, demonstrate financial need, and who have lived a minimum of five years outside of the United States are eligible. Timing: The deadline for applications is 1 March for the following Fall Semester. The Anne and Bill Fisher Memorial Scholarship will be announced once a year, in the Spring Semester for the following Fall Term. It may not be offered during years when sufficiently meritorious candidates are not proposed. Application procedure: Apply Online Start Application Continue Your Application Award: The award(s) of up to $1000 each will announced prior to the end of the Spring term. It will be disbursed as a scholarship, paying tuition and fees first, with any remaining balance issued to the student by Student Business Services (SBS). In addition, this award is expected to waive out-of-state tuition for the award year and does not require any service to the University. Winners may be profiled on the OIA web pages. Cameroonians of Lubbock Endowed Scholarship Eligibility: The endowment will fund scholarships for students at both Texas Tech University and Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center who show strong support of the Cameroonian population in West Texas. Students must be in good academic standing. Preference will be given to students with strong ties to Cameroonian Heritage, and students who are members of the Cameroonians of Lubbock. Unless there are only eligible students at one university for an academic year, scholarships should be split between TTUSHC and TTU each annually. Questions: Please email any question about this scholarship to: ia.forms@ttu.edu Committee: Texas Tech University System Advancement Deadline: April 1st Award: Dependent on available funds Application Procedure: Apply Online; TTUHSC students will need to create application form as a non-TTU student Start Application Continue Your Application Current Students - University Application Current Students - University Application Florence and Terry Griswold Scholarship OIA Scholarship Chair: Dr. Joan Goodman-Williamson Submit applications to: Yolanda Calley 4350 Ocean Drive, Apt. 403 Corpus Christi, TX. 78412 Website: www.partt.org/scholarships_details.html FTG Scholarship 1: $2500 FTG Scholarship 2: $2000 Eligibility Criteria: Major: Any; Foreign language/Linguistics Scholarship for female citizen of a Pan-American country (other than the United States) who is pursuing a graduate degree at a state-supported college/university in Texas. More than $2500 may be awarded in years when funds are available. Scholarship 1: Applicants must complete an application form found on website link, and provide two letters of recommendation, one from student's academic advisor and one from another professor at the state –supported institution in which she is currently enrolled. Applicants must be female students with a bachelor's or equivalent from a non-United States, Pan American country who wishes to further her education in Texas. Scholarship 2: Applicants must be female graduate students or faculty members who are a U.S. native and legal resident of Texas wishing to pursue her education of foreign language or language studies in a Pan American country. Applicants for this application must fill out and complete an appropriate application form and provide letters of recommendation either from the dean of the graduate school or head of the academic department, or if they are still a student, from two professors from her field of study in the graduate school in which she is enrolled. For both applications, applicants must provide a written statement, as well as copies of official transcripts provided to the scholarship committee. For more information, please visit the linked website. Georgia Dingus Endowed Memorial Scholarship OIA Scholarship Chair: Dr. Joan Goodman-Williamson Eligibility: Awarded annually to an undergraduate or graduate student at TTU who has demonstrated scholastic ability, has a GPA of 3.0 or higher, and has made contributions in the general area of international relations through involvement in activities and career planning. Candidates must believe in the general principles embodied in the United Nations Charter, have financial need, and be majoring in one of the following areas: Political Science, History, Mass Communications, Germanic & Slavic Languages, Classical and Romance Languages or Law. The Scholarship funds may be used for tuition at TTU or for costs associated with attending a professional conference or meeting. Timing: The Dingus Scholarship has an open deadline and will be awarded based on the availability of funds. Applications must be received at least 30 days prior to date funding is needed. Application procedure: Apply Online Start Application Continue Your Application Evaluation procedure: Applications and award amounts between ($500 up to $2,000) will be reviewed by a Faculty Committee consisting of members of the following areas: (Political Science, History, Mass Communications, Germanic & Slavic Languages, Classical and Romance Languages or Law). Winners may be profiled on the OIA and other relevant web pages. Good Neighbor Scholarship OIA Scholarship Chair: Dr. Joan Goodman-Williamson Applicants: International students from countries in the Caribbean and North, Central, and South America. Deadline: March 10, 2021 Apply Online: Start Application Continue Your Application This state of Texas scholarship provides a complete waiver of tuition to eligible international students from countries in the Caribbean and North, Central, and South America. Scholarship winners must still pay all applicable university fees. Applicants compete with other international students from their home countries throughout the state of Texas for a limited number of awards that are given to a certain number of students from each country. Awards are based on academic merit. Competition is intense for these scholarships and final award decisions are made by the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board(THECB), not Texas Tech University. The number and amount of scholarships vary based on the number of applicants and funding available. Awards are based on academic merit. Eligibility Criteria: Student must be enrolled in the semester in which the scholarship is awarded; Full-time enrollment at TTU in a degree-seeking program; Native-born citizen and current resident of a nation of the Western Hemisphere other than Cuba or U.S.; Resident for at least five years of one of these nations; Hold a non-immigrant Visa (F-1, J-1) and must plan to return to home country upon the completion of academic program; Must be in good academic standing in the program currently enrolled in at TTU; Undergrad must have a minimum GPA of 2.0; Graduate must have a minimum GPA of 3.0; Must have completed at least one full academic semester at TTU not including current semester; May not be a member of the Communist Party; The recipient of the Good Neighbor Scholarship shall be exempt from paying tuition for the academic year (Fall, Spring, Summer semesters); Recipient will still be required to pay any fees and/or housing/meal plan expenses. India Student Association and India Association of West Texas Scholarship Committee Chair: Dr. Ravi Vadapalli OIA Scholarship Chair: Dr. Joan Goodman-Williamson Application: www.depts.ttu.edu/gradschool/financial/GeneralFellowships.php Deadlines: www.depts.ttu.edu/gradschool/financial/GeneralFellowships.php Eligibility Criteria: Previous degree awarded from an Indian University Award: $1,000/year for one year- Master's or Doctoral International Peace Scholarship Fund OIA Scholarship Chair: Dr. Joan Goodman-Williamson The International Peace Scholarship Fund, established in 1949, is a program, which provides scholarships for selected women from other countries for graduate study in the United States and Canada. Members of P.E.O. believe that education is fundamental to world peace and understanding. The scholarship is based upon demonstrated need; however, the award is not intended to cover all academic or personal expenses. At the time of application, the applicant is required to indicate additional financial resources adequate to meet her estimated expenses. Examples of additional resources are personal and family funds, tuition waivers, work scholarships, teaching assistantships, study grants and other scholarships. Eligibility Criteria An applicant must be qualified for admission to full-time graduate study and working toward a graduate degree in an accredited college or university in the United States or; A student who is a citizen or permanent resident of the United States or Canada is not eligible. Note: A student with residency for tax purposes only is permitted. Scholarships are not given for online courses, research, internships or for practical training if not combined with coursework. In order to qualify for her first scholarship, an applicant must have a full year of coursework remaining, be enrolled and in residence for the entire school year. Doctoral students who have completed coursework and are working only on dissertations are not eligible as first-time applicants. Eligibility Requirements: www.peointernational.org/ips-eligibility-requirements Deadlines: 2018-2019 Calendar Award: The maximum amount awarded to a student is $12,500. Lesser amounts may be awarded according to individual needs. Additional Information or Questions: Lubbock Chapter of PEO- Chapter FJ. Contact: Jo Anne Newman hvnewman@aol.com Sarah Weaver Sarah.weaver60@nts.online.net Dr. June Hogue, Wayland Baptist Hoguej.@wbu.edu Mary Dregne ICASALS Endowed Scholarship OIA Scholarship Chair: Dr. Joan Goodman-Williamson Eligibility: Awards are for TTU students pursuing a degree with an international emphasis. Undergraduates (junior level or above, GPA 3.0 or above) Graduate students - need to have identified and been accepted by a primary advisor at TTU Preference given to foreign students and participants in the Master of Science in Arid Land Studies (MSALS) administered by ICASALS. Students can use scholarship for Study Abroad. Deadline for application: 30 May (award begins in Fall of following academic year) Application procedure: Apply Online Start Application Continue Your Application Award: The amount of the scholarship is up to $1200 for one year beginning in the Fall term of the academic year for which it is awarded. It will be disbursed in equal amounts for the academic terms in which the student is enrolled (can include summer term) as a scholarship, paying tuition and fees first, with any remaining balance issued to the student by Student Business Services (SBS). In addition, this award is expected to waive out-of-state tuition for the award year and does not require any service to the University. Winners may be profiled on the ICASALS and OIA web pages. Office of International Affairs Undergraduate Scholarship Eligibility: For full-time undergraduate students born outside the United States, regardless of citizenship, residency or national origin who have demonstrable financial need. The scholarship is for one academic year, but it may be renewable subject to continued academic achievement and financial need. For current TTU students: must have at least a 3.0 GPA; 15 earned credit hours per semester; Entering or Transfer students: curriculum, test scores, and class ranking to be considered; Timing: Applications are due by 1 May Application procedure: Apply Online Start Application Continue Your Application Award: The amount of the scholarship is up to $1000 for the academic year. It will be disbursed as a scholarship, paying tuition and fees first, with any remaining balance issued to the student by Student Business Services (SBS). In addition, this award is expected to waive out-of-state tuition for the award year and does not require any service to the University. Study Abroad Competitive Scholarship (SACS) OIA Scholarship Chair: Adrianna Ward A committee of faculty and former study abroad students makes the determination of who will receive a scholarship. OIA /Study Abroad staff have no input in the award decision. Application information can be found on the Office of International Affairs / Study Abroad website: www.depts.ttu.edu/international/studyabroad/financial/scholarships/sacs.php Eligibility criteria:GPA 2.7 for undergraduate students 3.0 for graduate students 2.0 for Law students Enrolled as a full-time TTU student Participating in a credit-bearing TTU Study Abroad program OR studying at TTU as an international student on an F-1 visa Students who are currently studying at TTU as an international student on an F-1 visa may apply for the SACS each term that they are enrolled at TTU, including summer sessions. SACS awards are determined by the number of applicants. (In general, approximately 70% of applicants are awarded scholarship funds with smaller awards for short-term experiences, and larger awards for semesters.) Short-term: $300-$500 Semesters: $1,000-$6,000 TTU domestic and international degree-seeking students who will study abroad on Texas Tech approved programs, or international students seeking a degree at Texas Tech are eligible to apply. Students may apply and be awarded in more than one term. A committee of faculty and former study abroad students makes the determination of who will receive a scholarship. Study Abroad staff have no input in the award decision. Texas Public Educational Grant (TPEG) The Texas Public Education Grant (TPEG) is for very special situations where there is a critical and compelling need to assist a student who has had a sudden and major financial problem. PLEASE NOTE THE FOLLOWING APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS: Only current TTU International students may be awarded. International students must be enrolled full time during the semester they apply. International student must have completed a year of study to be eligible. TPEG grant applications are open from the 1st through the 10th of that award cycle month. Applications submitted after that date (10th) will not normally be considered. TPEG funds will be awarded on or before the 24th every month between September-December and February-April. The TPEG Committee will notify award winners by the 23rd of the month for that cycle. The Texas Public Education Grant (TPEG) is for very special situations where there is a critical and compelling need to assist a student who has had a sudden and major financial problem. It is not for chronic financial mismanagement, neglect, and abuse. TPEG funding is limited and awards are usually very modest at best. Awards are normally not made during a student's first year as a student at Texas Tech. Examples of important issues might be, but are not limited to, currency fluctuations in one's home country, or a natural disaster in one's home country which affects the economy and the financial services sector and, thus, a student's ability to receive enough funds from his native country to pay his financial obligations here in the United States. A TPEG is not meant to be used to pay required student fees. It is not a scholarship and does not waive out of state tuition. Any application for a TPEG must be correctly, rigorously, and timely documented. Without satisfactory documentation, an application will not be considered. If you desire to schedule an appointment with Ms. Beth Mora, the International Student TPEG Coordinator (beth.mora@ttu.edu), please email her to schedule an appointment prior to reviewal by the committee, which will take place 7 days after the application due date. TPEG Application Please complete the TPEG Application via Terradotta. If you have questions or concerns, email beth.mora@ttu.edu. Tuition Assistance for Students of Mexico OIA Scholarship Chair: Dr. Joan Goodman-Williamson Applicants: For Citizens or permanent residents of Mexico Eligibility Criteria: Students must be planning to return to Mexico after completion of their program; Students must be enrolled full-time; and must demonstrate financial need. Tuition assistance allows Mexican nationals to pay in-state tuition and to WAIVE out-of-state tuition (Note: This assistance is, therefore, not relevant/applicable to students already receiving a waiver of the non-resident tuition rate.) Deadline: Ten days before the beginning of the semester. Start or continue your application by clicking the links below: Start Your Application Continue Your Application International Affairs Like International Affairs on FacebookLike International Affairs on Facebook Follow International Affairs on twitterFollow International Affairs on twitter Subscribe to International Affairs on YouTubeSubscribe to International Affairs on YouTube Follow International Affairs on FlickrFollow International Affairs on Flickr Follow International Affairs on InstagramFollow International Affairs on Instagram Address 601 Indiana Avenue, Lubbock, TX 79409-5004 Phone 806.742.3667 Email oia.reception@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech University May 26, 2022 8:09 AM International Affairs International Students International Affairs International Students Back Admitted international students International Affairs International Students Admitted international students Back Visa Process Housing Health Insurance Pre-Arrival Guide Post-Arrival Checklist Immigration Information International Affairs International Students Immigration Information Back Immigration and Scam Alerts Make an Appointment F1 - Health Insurance F1 - Travel F1 - Employment Your F-1 Student Counselor Other F-1 Services and Processes OPT STEM OPT CPT J1 - Health Insurance J1 - Travel J1 - Employment J1 - Dependents International Student Life International Affairs International Students International Student Life Back Our Services to Incoming Students International Orientation Life in Lubbock Lubbock housing options Events hosted by ISL Get Involved Advice from current students Financial Aid for International Students Scams Against International Student FAQ's Study Abroad International Faculty, Scholars & Alumni International Affairs International Faculty, Scholars & Alumni Back J-1 Exchange Visitors International Affairs International Faculty, Scholars & Alumni J-1 Exchange Visitors Back J-1 Program Information Hosting Department Information International Scholar Resources Make an Appointment/ISSS International Partnerships/Export Control Insurance Requirements Travel Dependents Help with Taxes International Alumni International Affairs International Faculty, Scholars & Alumni International Alumni Back International Alumni Networks Give to Office of International Affairs Update Contact Information Contact Office of International Affairs Employing International Visitors International Affairs International Faculty, Scholars & Alumni Employing International Visitors Back H-1B Work Visa Information Permanent Residency Information Labor Certification for Non-Teaching Faculty Hosting Department Information Visitor Visas Paying International Visitors Fullbright Scholars & Students Make an Appointment International Scholar Resources J-1 Student Intern Information International Partnerships/Exports Help with Taxes Community Outreach & Events International Affairs Community Outreach & Events Back Community Outreach International Affairs Community Outreach & Events Community Outreach Back Art Exhibits Signature Events K-12 Global Education Outreach International Affairs Community Outreach & Events K-12 Global Education Outreach Back Mission Program Options Program Reservations K-12 Geo FAQ's Pre/Post Activities Give to K-12 ICC Facility Rental International Affairs Community Outreach & Events ICC Facility Rental Back Room Rental Information ICC Rules & Regulations Directions Passport Office International Affairs Community Outreach & Events Passport Office Back Passport Office Information Faculty/Staff Resources International Affairs Faculty/Staff Resources Back Faculty/Staff Resources International Affairs Faculty/Staff Resources Faculty/Staff Resources Back Center for Global Communication International Research and Development International Center for Arid and Semi-Arid Land Studies International Partnerships and Export Control Global Roundup Fulbright International Travel Information International Seed Funding Hosting International Students Scholarships International Affairs Scholarships Back First Year & Transfer Students Continuing Students Study Abroad Students National and International Scholarships & Fellowships About Office International Affairs About Office Back The Office of International Affairs International Affairs About Office The Office of International Affairs Back About Us Vice Provost OIA Services and Contact Information Directory Strategic Plan Organizational Chart OIA Year in Review Visitors Guide Visitors Guide - Español News and Events International Affairs About Office News and Events Back International Digest OIA News OIA Events Recent Newsletter Newsletter Archive Media Gallery International Affairs About Office Media Gallery Back Photos Videos Give to OIA International Affairs About Office Give to OIA Back Appeal from the Vice Provost International Affairs Fund for Excellence International Affairs Student Scholarship OIA Committees International Affairs About Office OIA Committees Back Scholarships International Affairs Council Fulbright Information Special Initiatives International Affairs About Office Special Initiatives Back Global Vision Awards Leadership, Management and Governance Program Texas Tech Costa Rica Campus Texas Tech Global Bridge program Mandela Washington Fellowship Ambassadors Forum Contact Us Additional Resources TTU Home Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index