COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW School of Music Section Menu School of Music Calendar of Events Future Students Audition Information Current Students Graduate Students Areas of Study Ensembles Scholarships Music Faculty Faculty Forms Community/Alumni Rie Bloomfield Organ Series Faculty Visit Form Kodály Certification Stop Video Welcome to the School of Music Be a Music Major Audition for an Ensemble Event Schedule Contact Us Dare to Dream with Us To study the humanities is to study humans. Every time we learn a piece of music, we're trying on a new worldview, gaining understanding of the shifting needs, anxieties, and interests of its authors and listeners, which is what makes studying music so critical. It gives students rigorous and tangible frameworks for evaluating the health of a community and the skills, discipline, and cooperation to serve it. Contact Us: 1845 Fairmount St. Wichita, KS 67260 Phone: (316) 978-3103 Email: schoolofmusic@wichita.edu Apply to Wichita State If you're a high school student or a community member with a high school degree, you can click here to apply to Wichita State! If you're about to graduate from college, or you're a community member with a college degree, you can click here to apply to Wichita State's graduate school! Whether you're joining us as an undergraduate or graduate student, you'll need to audition. Check out our next section for more information! Audition for the School of Music Undergrad Auditions Thank you for your interest in the School of Music at Wichita State University! We currently plan to hold in-person audition days (see below for dates) but might need to adjust our plans based on Wichita State's Covid response. Feel free to contact our Coordinator of Music Outreach, Jesse Koza, with any questions or if you have concerns about audition in-person due to the pandemic. These are our planned, in-person audition dates for a Fall '22 start: November 20, 2021 February 5, 2022 April 16, 2022 Scholarships are awarded after each audition date, but priority will be given to those auditioning on the first two audition dates. Undergrad Audition Form The audition form is the first step in the process to becoming a music major at Wichita State. Finishing the form - it takes around 5 minutes - gets you into our system and allows us to schedule a time on your chosen audition date. It also helps our faculty members reach out to you to make your audition experience even more tailored to your needs! Non-music majors do not need to audition before Fall 2022. You are absolutely welcome to play in an ensemble and/or take private lessons! Please contact the appropriate faculty member for further information. Please follow this link to fill out our audition form and reserve your spot today! Undergrad Audition Requirements by Area Please note, students interested in studying Music Education and Music Composition need to be accepted on a primary instrument. Brass Jazz (includes Guitar, Jazz Piano, and Jazz Drums) Music Composition Music Education (General Info) Percussion Piano and Organ Strings Voice and Opera Woodwinds Graduate Auditions After applying to the graduate school, we recommend Graduate Students contact their respective music faculty member for more information and to schedule an audition on their instrument. Please see our graduate student page for more information about our available assistantships. Graduate Audition Requirements by Area Brass Conducting (Catalog link) Jazz Music Composition Music Education (General Info) Organ Percussion Piano Strings Voice and Opera Woodwinds Scholarships Scholarships Every student who auditions with the WSU School of Music will be considered for one of our general scholarships. Please see the above section for audition information. We give out half a million dollars in scholarship money every year. A prospective student must major in music in order to be considered. Supplemental scholarships are available for current students after the fourth week of classes each semester. Students may also consider applying for an award from the Sam Ramey Professional Development Fund. For more information about our additional scholarship competition, the Konrad Wolff-Isle Bing Chamber Music Scholarship, please follow the link at the bottom of this section. The College of Fine Arts offers Buck Scholarships for students meeting the following requirements: Demonstrates financial need Is enrolled full time and employed at least eight hours off campus Has a GPA between 2.5 and 3.5 at the time of first award Learn more about the Buck Scholarships here. We also highly recommend potential students make sure their FAFSA information is as up-to-date as possible. Konrad Wolff-Isle Bing Areas of Study Arts Administration Brass Graduate Conducting Jazz Music Composition Music Education Piano and Organ Percussion Strings Voice and Opera Woodwinds Ensembles Bands - Athletic Bands - Concert Choirs Impulse Percussion Jazz Arts Opera Symphony Orchestra Get More Information Future Students Interested in joining us for the upcoming semester or school year? Want to learn more about what we offer? Click here! You can also follow this link to schedule an audition or learn more about our scholarship process. Current Students Looking for a form? Need to find out when ensemble auditions are coming or the requested musical selections? That - and more - is here! Faculty Head here to see our faculty organized by area. If you're a faculty member looking for a particular form, you'll find those here. Community/Alumni Looking for Calendar information? Want to find out how to support the School of Music or purchase WSU School of Music merchandise? We've also got a form so Alumni can keep us in the loop regarding their successes and Shocker Sounds, our yearly school magazine! Specific Links Auditions Scholarship Info Areas of Study Ensembles Music Associates Contact Us (316) 978-3103 • schoolofmusic@wichita.edu facebook twitter instagram 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©