Skip to main content Skip to main content Apply Give Trigger Search Search this Site Go Menu Trigger Menu Close Search this Site Go Primary Header Navigation ARHU Home Home About Facilities Degrees Bachelor of Arts Bachelor of Music Bachelor of Music Education Music Performance Minor Music & Culture Minor Arts Leadership Minor Master of Arts Master of Music Doctor of Musical Arts Doctor of Philosophy Admissions Undergraduate Graduate Graduate Fellowship Ensembles Auditions Undergraduate Auditions Graduate Auditions & Program Requirements Tuition, Scholarships & Financial Aid Visit & Explore College Fairs & Other Events Areas of Study Jazz Studies Piano Strings Voice & Opera Winds & Percussion Conducting Music Education Music Theory & Composition Musicology & Ethnomusicology Ensembles Asian Music Bands Chamber Music Choral Activities Jazz Ensembles Maryland Opera Studio Performances Curriculum Faculty Orchestras Research & Creative Activities Community Engagement Engagement Programs Summer Programs & Camps Terrapin Music Camp UMD Summer Chorus Secondary Header Navigation Directory News Calendar Give Contact Us Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Board of Visitors University of Maryland School of Music Home Creating Change: Nina Yoshida Nelsen Watch the archived discussion the mezzo-soprano led on multi-cultural accessibility and DEI initiatives. Read More about Creating Change: Nina Yoshida Nelsen A Peek Inside … Music Education Assistant Professor Robin Giebelhausen’s Office Colorful puppets, ukuleles create inviting space for songs and learning. Read More about A Peek Inside … Music Education Assistant Professor Robin Giebelhausen’s Office Alumnus Jason Max Ferdinand Returns to UMD as Director of Choral Activities The accomplished choral conductor said he’s eager to continue to grow the School of Music’s strong program. Read More about Alumnus Jason Max Ferdinand Returns to UMD as Director of Choral Activities Preparing for a 'Sustainable Career in the Arts' Marlia Nash ’24, a trombone performance major with a minor in arts leadership, is taking advantage of multiple opportunities at UMD. Read More about Preparing for a 'Sustainable Career in the Arts' Take a Virtual Tour Visit School of Music spaces from the comfort of your home. Read More about Virtual Tour of the School of Music The University of Maryland School of Music provides an exceptional professional musical education within the context of a college of arts and humanities and a major research university. Resources For Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Prospective Students Prospective Students Learn how to apply, access audition information and view program requirements for our undergraduate and graduate programs in music. Apply Today Quicklinks for Prospective Students: AboutDegreesAreas of StudyFind Faculty Current Students Current Students Students have access to a range of online and in-person resources. Current music students can access student services, sign up for advising, schedule a degree recital and learn about musician health and safety. Find Information Quicklinks for Current Students: Share Your NewsAdvisingAcademic HandbooksMusician Health & Safety Faculty & Staff Faculty & Staff Faculty and staff have access to a range of online and in-person resources. Find commonly used forms, calendars, directories and learn more about musician health and safety. Find Information Quicklinks for Faculty & Staff: Share Your NewsMusician Health & SafetyOur Faculty Alumni Alumni Alumni play a vital role in our success. Stay connected, share your news and help support current students! Stay Connected Quicklinks for Alumni: Share Your NewsMake a GiftJoin the NewsletterAttend an Event Research & Creative Activities Our faculty and students engage in research and creative work that ranges from performances at the Kennedy Center to masterclasses in local schools, and from international conferences to community-centered workshops. Our scholarship results in recordings, articles, books and editions that reveal music’s beauty and complexity. Explore Community Engagement We facilitate robust relationships between our students and the greater community to create global, service minded artist-citizens. By sharing their music education, our students provide underserved and under-resourced communities with meaningful access to and inclusion in the arts. Engage With Us News & Announcements View All News May 9, 2022 School of Music Creating Change: Nina Yoshida Nelsen April 19, 2022 American Studies, Art, Art History and Archaeology, Classics, Communication, English, History, Joseph and Rebecca Meyerhoff Program and Center for Jewish Studies, Linguistics, School of Languages, Literatures, and Cultures, School of Music, School of Theatre, Dance, and Performance Studies, Philosophy, The Harriet Tubman Department of Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies Mizzou Administrator, Professor of Music and Black Studies Named ARHU Dean April 13, 2022 School of Music, College of Arts and Humanities A Peek Inside … Music Education Assistant Professor Robin Giebelhausen’s Office April 1, 2022 College of Arts and Humanities, School of Music Alumnus Jason Max Ferdinand Returns to UMD as Director of Choral Activities March 9, 2022 School of Music, College of Arts and Humanities Professor and Director of Choral Activities Edward Maclary to Retire After Two Decades of Service February 25, 2022 School of Music An Operatic Star Who Raised Others’ Voices February 23, 2022 School of Music, College of Arts and Humanities Five Moments in Mahler’s "Resurrection" Symphony to Look Forward to February 17, 2022 School of Music Discovering Something New in the Medieval January 31, 2022 School of Music Drum Roll for Latest Discovery District Arrival /news Events & Performances View All Events Sorry, no events currently present. /calendar Connect With Us terpsmusic View more on Instagram The Boulanger Initiative is hosting their annual music festival WoCo Fest 2022: AMAZE this Friday & Saturday (May 27-28th)! This exciting two-day event features alumni performers and even GRAMMY-Award winners including but not limited to District 5, Whistling Hens, Attacca Quartet and Caroline Shaw. Events will take place at Church of the Epiphany on Friday and AMP by Strathmore on Saturday. Discounted student tickets are still available so be sure to secure one soon. 🎶🌟🎟 Here are some of our favorite moments from today's music commencement ceremony. Congrats again to all of the graduates and a big thank you to alumna @GreenViolinist D.M.A. ’17 for giving such an inspirational commencement speech. 🎓 🎶 🎉 🐢 #UMDGrad #HearTheTurtle #IAmARHU #AlwaysATerp #UMD 📷 David Andrews Congratulations to our 2021 & 2022 Presser Undergraduate Scholar Award recipients Maggie Johns B.M. ’22 & Lauratu Bah B.M.E. ’23 who were both celebrated at today's in-person commencement ceremony. 🎉 #HearTheTurtle #UMDGrad Today is the day you've worked so hard for! Congratulations to the classes of 2020, 2021 and 2022, who were all invited to walk at today's @TerpsMusic commencement. 🎓 🎶 🎉 🐢 The ceremony begins at 9:30 a.m. and will feature alumna @greenviolinist D.M.A. ’17 as the speaker. Attend in person (masks are strongly recommended) or watch the livestream. More info on our website. Music graduates are encouraged to share your celebratory photos and videos on social media channels today using the hashtags #UMDGrad and #HearTheTurtle for the chance to have your post shared by us! Photo taken by David Andrews in 2019. #AlwaysATerp #IamARHU #UMD Tweets by @TerpsMusic School of Music 2110 The Clarice Smith Performing Arts Center University of Maryland College Park, MD 20742 301.405.5549 Primary Footer Navigation ARHU Home Home About Degrees Admissions Areas of Study Ensembles Research & Creative Activities Community Engagement Secondary Footer Navigation Calendar Contact Us Directory Facilities Give News Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Flickr Soundcloud © 2022 University of Maryland Log In Privacy Policy Web Accessibility