Skip navigation Find: A to Z Index People Directory Learn More: About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Transportation Office Site Navigation Home Applications & Forms Biking Brown University Shuttle Brown Daytime Shuttle Brown Evening Shuttle Shuttle Tracker Website Shuttle Tracker Mobile Application Access Shuttle Brown onCall Carpooling Contact Electric Vehicle Charging Stations Parking RIPTA UPass Transportation Management Plan Zipcar B.U.S. Tracker Real-Time Locations Print this Page Share this Page Transportation Office Brown University Box 1865 69 Brown Street Page Robinson Hall, Suite 511 Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3157 Fax 401-863-1233 [email protected] Brown About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory m.Brown.edu News Events Visit Campus Life Map Directory Brown Apps Safety About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Transportation Office Brown University Shuttle Brown onCall Program Brown onCall Program OnCall Service PDFThe Brown onCall service is available to all Brown community members without pre-registration for point-to-point transportation. Please see below for more information about our Brown onCall service. Please find the Brown onCall schedule here. Brown onCall is available to Brown faculty, students and staff with a valid Brown ID, as well as RISD students enrolled in the Brown/RISD Dual Degree Program. Dual Degree Program participants also have valid Brown IDs, which will be required to use the onCall service. onCall service is available to valid Brown ID holders on a space available basis, including one guest. Service is point-to-point anywhere in the onCall coverage area. However, members of the community should continue to utilize the Brown Evening Shuttle for travel between all on-campus destinations on that fixed-route. Community members traveling late at night should plan accordingly to ensure they can get to their final destination before the onCall service ends. Increased utilization of the service by the community could lead to increased wait times. Keep in mind that onCall is intended to promote a safe and secure campus environment for Brown community members. It is not a taxi service and should not be used as such. Rhode Island, Hasbro, Women and Infants, and Miriam Hospitals are all including in the onCall coverage area. Request a ride No pre-registration is required. To request a ride, either call (401) 863-1778 or visit http://shuttle.brown.edu/. Be sure to have your Brown ID available when the shuttle arrives. When requesting a pickup, please have the following items available: Brown ID number (not the banner number) Cell phone number Pick up and drop off location Additional Information When requesting a ride via phone or online, you must provide your Brown ID number. If you have a guest, you must request their ride at the same time. When requesting a ride online, please check the box to receive a text message with an approximate time when the vehicle will arrive. If you DO NOT wish to receive a text, DO NOT check the box and you will receive a call back from the dispatcher. When you call for a ride, you will be asked if you want a text message or a call back with an estimate as to when you will be picked up. Wait times are generally 10 – 15 minutes, but this may vary depending on weather conditions, traffic, and call volume at a particular time. You are responsible for being at the designated pickup point when the vehicle arrives. If you decide not to use onCall after you have reserved a ride, please select the cancel ride request option online, or call back to cancel the request. If you abuse the service by repeatedly calling for a ride and failing to be at the pickup point, you may be denied future service. Guests You may bring one guest with you under these conditions: You are a Brown Faculty, Staff or student in possession of a Brown ID. You may request the ride for your guest only at the time you make your reservation, not at the time of pickup. The guest must present a valid photo ID to shuttle driver. You accompany your guest on the ride. Related Files 149100_TRANS_Shuttle-Map_On-Call_final.pdf Related Links Request a ride online Also in Transportation Office Site Navigation Home Applications & Forms Biking Brown University Shuttle Brown Daytime Shuttle Brown Evening Shuttle Shuttle Tracker Website Shuttle Tracker Mobile Application Access Shuttle Brown onCall Carpooling Contact Electric Vehicle Charging Stations Parking RIPTA UPass Transportation Management Plan Zipcar B.U.S. Tracker Real-Time Locations Print this Page Share this Page Transportation Office Brown University Box 1865 69 Brown Street Page Robinson Hall, Suite 511 Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3157 Fax 401-863-1233 [email protected] Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Quick Links Brown University Shuttle Tracker [email protected] RIDOT Traffic Updates Zipcar Brown Card Services Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn RSS Futurity