Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. University Honors Program UHP right arrow down arrow About UHP right arrow down arrow Inclusive Excellence Competencies right arrow down arrow Community Engagement Creativity Global Studies Leadership Research News Directions Contact Us right arrow down arrow Raj Mehta Debbie Brawn Marcell Crawford Bria Howard Bene Khoury Neil Choudhury Ashley Webber Kyle Key Jason Autry Tricia Yee Claire Minton Yale Miller Shawna Obregon Danny Hagedorn Vikki Kowalczyk Current UHP Students right arrow down arrow UHP Student Database UHP Framework & Benefits Requirements Honors Experiences right arrow down arrow Honors Seminars right arrow down arrow Fall 2022 Honors Seminars Spring 2023 Honors Seminars Summer 2022 Honors Seminars Pre-Approved Experiences Self-Designed Experiences Study Abroad and Study Tours International Travel Biomedical Research and Mentoring Program right arrow down arrow RaMP Publications RaMP Project Descriptions How to Apply Matching and Participation Frequently Asked Questions Tips and Testimonials UHP Discover right arrow down arrow Students: Learn More Faculty: Get Involved 2022 UHP Discover Projects Past Honors Seminars right arrow down arrow Summer 2021 Seminars Fall 2021 Honors Seminars Spring 2022 Honors Seminars Summer 2022 Honors Seminars Welcome Experience Leaders UHP Ambassador Leadership Team Grants for Honors Experiences Learning Portfolios right arrow down arrow Reflection Structure and Content Showcase Guide Protected Information Featured Portfolios Year-in-Review Get Involved right arrow down arrow UHP Ambassadors right arrow down arrow Meet the Team Ambassador Application Honor Societies First Year in UHP right arrow down arrow Welcome Experience right arrow down arrow Welcome Experience Registration HNRS 1010: Gateway to the UHP Advising right arrow down arrow Scheduling Advising Meetings via My Bearcat Network Presidential Leadership Medal of Excellence Prospective Students right arrow down arrow High School Students Current UC Students right arrow down arrow Join our Outreach List and Teams University Honors Application Transfer Students University Honors Housing Faculty and Campus Partners right arrow down arrow Honors Seminar Call for Proposals right arrow down arrow Guidelines, Pedagogy and Structure Study Tour Guidelines Submission Process Required Documents Proposal Form Review and Notification Funding Resources Seminar Development Workshops Creating and Ordering Honors Seminars Home » Campus Life » University Honors Program » Current UHP Students » Get Involved » Honor Societies Set Navigation title in component UHP Student Database UHP Framework & Benefits Requirements Honors Experiences Honors Seminars Fall 2022 Honors Seminars Spring 2023 Honors Seminars Summer 2022 Honors Seminars Pre-Approved Experiences Self-Designed Experiences Study Abroad and Study Tours International Travel Biomedical Research and Mentoring Program RaMP Publications RaMP Project Descriptions How to Apply Matching and Participation Frequently Asked Questions Tips and Testimonials UHP Discover Students: Learn More Faculty: Get Involved 2022 UHP Discover Projects Past Honors Seminars Summer 2021 Seminars Fall 2021 Honors Seminars Spring 2022 Honors Seminars Summer 2022 Honors Seminars Welcome Experience Leaders UHP Ambassador Leadership Team Grants for Honors Experiences Learning Portfolios Reflection Structure and Content Showcase Guide Protected Information Featured Portfolios Year-in-Review Get Involved UHP Ambassadors Meet the Team Madalyn O'Dea Somya Sharma Zakaria Bodiford Ambassador Application Honor Societies First Year in UHP Welcome Experience Welcome Experience Registration HNRS 1010: Gateway to the UHP Advising Scheduling Advising Meetings via My Bearcat Network Presidential Leadership Medal of Excellence Honor Societies Congratulations on being invited to join an academic honor society! There are dozens if not hundreds of different honor societies acknowledging accomplishments for everythign like academics, service, contributions to your field, and leadership opportunities. While University Honors is not involved in any other programs or associations, we hope to help you navigate the numerous options to discern which is worth your time, talent, and sometimes money. Have you received a letter of invitation for a collegiate honor society and wonder if the organization is legitimate or if it is a worthwhile opportunity? As a member of an honor society, you can benefit in many ways: connect with other campus scholars get involved in the university community develop leadership skills affiliate with a nationally-recognized organization But, because payment of dues are often required for membership, it is wise to thoughtfully consider your decision to join. You should know what you will receive in return for membership dues. Below are some ways to get started. Association of College Honor Societies - A good measure of quality To decide if membership in a particular society is right for you, start by visiting the Association of College Honor Societies (ACHS) online. This independent agency certifies college and university honor societies and sets standards for organizational excellence. Use their standards guidelines to see how the organization in question measures up. Organizations on the member societies list with ACHS are guaranteed to meet the ACHS standards guidelines and are academically and fiscally credible. Organizations not on the ACHS list should be carefully scrutinized. Consider other quality factors Even if a particular honor society is legitimate, the individual student must still decide whether joining the organization is a good decision for him or her. Some questions to consider: Does this organization have an active chapter on my campus? See all active groups at UC on the Student Activities and Leadership Development office's student organization listing. Will I be able to participate in meetings and activities? Or, will it just be a line on my resume? Students will benefit most from organizations that allow them to be actively involved. Think about this: If a prospective employer asks you about ______ Honor Society, will you have something substantial to talk about? Are there other honor organizations that I may have the chance to join later? If you want to use your money wisely, you do not need to join every honor society that invites you to be a member—although you are certainly welcome to do so. If you maintain an outstanding academic record you will likely be invited to join other societies, including those within your chosen field of study, as you progress through your education. Links to some honor societies that are active at UC Visit honor societies' websites to get a better feel for what they are all about. Below are some of the societies that have been active at UC (note that this does not guarantee that they are currently active; be sure to look into this yourself). Alpha Lambda Delta Golden Key Mortar Board National Society of Collegiate Scholars Omicron Delta Kappa Phi Beta Kappa Still unsure of what to do? If you are still undecided about whether or not to join a particular honor society, call the phone number listed on the invitation letter or on the organization's website. Ask questions until you receive the answers that you need to make an informed decision. University Honors Program 700 Swift Hall PO Box 210007 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0007 honors@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University Honors Program 700 Swift Hall PO Box 210007 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0007 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top