By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Academics Syracuse Abroad London More from this Section Semester Programs Why Syracuse Abroad? Contact Us or Request More Information Program Selector Tool FAQs Affording Study Abroad Information for Accepted Students Requirements and Deadlines Short-Term Programs: Summer and Academic Breaks London, England Come study abroad in London, a global megacity with unsurpassed social and ethnic diversity. The art, theater, music and fashion scenes in London influence trends and set global standards, and the City—shorthand for the financial district—is one of the world’s great economic and business hubs. While in London, take courses toward your major along with unique classes that take full advantage of the city’s rich cultural and historical resources. Yes, you will see this stunning city from an iconic double-decker red bus and the London Eye, but you’ll delve deeper, too. Study in London opens a gateway to the world. Begin Your Application Syracuse London Courses Syracuse London classes are based in the academic heart of the city at Faraday House. You can expect a curriculum that is rigorous, innovative and distinguished by the same exceptional standards that apply in every other aspect of a Syracuse University academic experience. Your courses may fulfill curricular requirements so you can stay on track to graduate on time. Explore a range of topics across disciplines at the center. Study in Depth Each Syracuse Abroad center offers depth in particular areas of study. At Syracuse London, these include: British and global media Architecture Creative industries; visual and performing arts International business Information management Computer science Design Urban history and globalism Diversity and cultural identity Psychology Sport management Gender and sexuality Wondering if Syracuse London is the right fit for you? Refine your Syracuse Abroad options to discover the program that best fits your academic goals. Semester Programs Link Syracuse London course offerings include fine arts, political science, and women’s and gender studies, among many other options. Or take part in a Syracuse London program tailored to your area of study in architecture, design, drama or computer science. Summer Programs Link Customize your summer program in London by choosing from an array of courses. To take full advantage of the city, most of your courses will feature field trips and excursions. (3-6 credits) Travel with Purpose Link The Syracuse London program includes one of three seminars that allow you to travel to neighboring countries and gain in-depth understanding of cultural, political and environmental issues through experiential learning, reflection and discussion. At Home in London Link Your Syracuse Abroad experience is enhanced through your housing options. In London, you will live in a flat set up by the Syracuse London program, which gives you the chance to be part of a community and share experiences with new friends. World Ready. Career Ready. Link Interested in an internship in London? Use this as an opportunity to apply classroom lessons to real work situations, explore career options and develop professional skills. Our on-site internship coordinator will work with you to find the placement that best suits your interests and qualifications through established relationships in many business sectors of London. Can I Afford to Study Abroad? Link Yes! We work with you to make studying abroad within reach. Your financial aid package may apply to study abroad, plus there are other assistance options, including scholarships, grants and awards. Connect with Syracuse Abroad through general advising sessions or program appointments. Drop-in or schedule a virtual or in-person advising session at SyracuseAbroad@Bird Monday-Friday from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Or, schedule an appointment to meet with a Syracuse Abroad program advisor. View all advising options View all advising options. Related Pages Why Syracuse Abroad? Students from all over the world choose Syracuse Abroad for its academic excellence, unique programming and dedicated faculty and staff. Syracuse Abroad offers flexible study options and generous financial aid so you can build the knowledge and skills that will help you succeed anywhere. Requirements and Deadlines Ready to apply? Learn more about requirements, deadlines and what you need to begin your application. Information for Accepted Students Have you already been accepted into a study abroad program? Learn what steps you need to take next! Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy