Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation College of Computing Main navigation About Advisory Board Awards Community Contact Facts and Rankings Leadership Techlanta Faculty Position Opportunities College Administration Website Feedback Form Future Students Degree Programs Graduate Degrees Minors Threads Undergraduate Degrees Online Education Tuition and Financial Aid Funding Sources Current Students Academic Resources Advising Program Advising Undergraduate Advising Career Fair International Study Tutoring Assistance Career Services Entrepreneurship Mentoring Program Office of Outreach, Enrollment and Community FASET 2022 Schools Division of Computing Instruction School of Computational Science and Engineering School of Computer Science School of Cybersecurity and Privacy School of Interactive Computing News & Events News Upcoming Events Calendar Press Contacts The Compiler People Directory Faculty Staff PhD Students Alumni Research Facilities Interdisciplinary Research Institutes Research Areas Research Centers About Research Centers Constellations Center for Equity in Computing Undergrad Research Industry Corporate Affiliates Program Corporate Recruiting Support the College Open Search Search Search Breadcrumb Home News Quiz Bowl Team Wins Nationals Tuesday, May 24, 2022 Connor White College of ComputingDivision of Computing Instruction Every year, Georgia Tech’s academic quiz bowl team competes in two national tournaments. This year, their top team won first among 51 of the best teams in the country in the Academic Competition Federation's Nationals Tournament. In some ways, quiz bowl is similar to Jeopardy!. Topics range from fine arts to sciences. Rather than competing as individuals, though, teams of four compete together. “People are often put into bins by majors, but their other interests are reflected by the questions,” said S.A. Shenoy, a computer science major and member of the winning team (as well as a former Jeopardy! contestant). Image Georgia Tech CS major S.A. Shenoy Quiz bowl participants must learn about a wider range of topics and fields than what they learn in their coursework. Any source of knowledge could prove crucial to a win — one participant knew an answer from a conversation they had with someone about music. That kind of community has helped many Tech students find a home in this club that goes beyond the buzzer. Aside from the joy of winning, there is a more meaningful reason this win was so special to the team. “Robert Meredith was a professor at Tech. He popularized quiz bowl in the Southeast, and the trophy we won is named in his honor,” said Hari Parameswaran, president of the club and an electrical and computer engineering major, and another Jeopardy! alum. Meredith kept the spirit of quiz bowl alive, and this was the first time since 1996 that a Georgia Tech team was able to bring home the trophy. Above all, the club is a place in which people can feel safe learning with their peers. “We never put winning above well-being, because it is important to cultivate positive mindsets,” said Rodrigo Rose, an aerospace engineering major. The club wants to win, but that never outweighs the need for everyone to feel included and accepted. Academic quiz bowl is always seeking new members. The club meets every Monday and Thursday, and everyone is welcome, even if they do not want to compete. There are many ways to be involved, including volunteering, competing, and planning tournaments. Recent Stories Quiz Bowl Team Wins Nationals Tuesday, May 24, 2022 Faculty Receives New GPUs for Fluid Dynamics and… Thursday, May 19, 2022 Rising Stars: Georgia Tech Cyber Students Recognized… Wednesday, May 11, 2022 Tweets by gtcomputing Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Resources GT Footer menu 0 Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum GT Footer menu 1 Colleges, Instructional Sites & Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research College of Computing Resources Menu College of Computing Resources Intranet GT Footer menu 2 Student & Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Co-ops & Internships Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships & Financial Aid News Feed Quiz Bowl Team Wins Nationals Every year, Georgia Tech’s academic quiz bowl team competes in two… Faculty Receives New GPUs for Fluid Dynamics and Machine Learning Research Scientific computing and simulation require lots of power. This means… Rising Stars: Georgia Tech Cyber Students Recognized as RSA Scholars Two Ph.D. students studying in the School of Cybersecurity and Privacy…