Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links UW In Your Community Contact us Office of External Affairs State Relations State Relations Menu UW In Your Community Contact us Office of External Affairs State Relations Home State Relations Governor and higher education leaders celebrate session successes at UW Tacoma May 12, 2022 Governor and higher education leaders celebrate session successes at UW Tacoma Governor Jay Inslee, legislators, students, and higher education advocates gathered at UW Tacoma yesterday for Bridge to the Future, an event celebrating the post-secondary successes of the 2022 legislative session. In recent years, the state has made considerable investments in higher education, including student financial aid and increased funding for faculty and staff compensation. UW… Read more March 22, 2022 Extraordinary number of state legislators not seeking reelection Since October, twenty-two state lawmakers have announced their retirement from the Washington Legislature or their decision to run for the Senate instead of the House. Turnover in the legislature is common, especially in an election year, but the considerable number of state lawmakers not seeking reelection is sure to shake up the upcoming election season… Read more March 11, 2022 Session news: Final budget includes best compensation funding for the UW in a decade The 2022 legislative session adjourned on time yesterday after the House and Senate passed the supplemental operating, capital, and transportation budgets. Due to improved state revenue and the availability of one-time federal COVID-19 relief funds, the supplemental operating budget includes significant investments in housing, social supports, health care and behavioral health, and climate policy, in… Read more February 22, 2022 Session news: Supplemental budget proposals released with UW investments Over the past week, the House and Senate each released their 2022 operating and capital supplemental budget proposals. The proposals fully fund the University of Washington’s legislative requests and include significant support for student financial aid. Major investments for the UW in the operating budget proposals include: $14.6M (Senate) | $11.2M (House) for compensation increases… Read more February 16, 2022 State revenue projected to increase by more than $1.4 billion in the 2021-23 biennium Washington state revenue projections for the current 2021-23 budget cycle have increased by more than $1.4 billion since November, according to the Washington State Economic Revenue Forecast Council’s February revenue report. The state’s Near General Fund revenues are now projected at $61.7 billion for the biennium ending June 30, 2023. High inflation rates, along with… Read more February 7, 2022 Session news: Floor action begins; Regents & trustees champion higher education Tomorrow marks the halfway point of the 60-day legislative session. House and Senate fiscal committees met over the weekend to hear bills and move them out of committee prior to fiscal cutoff today. Bills that did not pass out of fiscal committee are now “dead” unless considered necessary to implement the budget. The House and… Read more January 28, 2022 Session news: UW leadership meets with legislators as policy cutoff approaches It’s day 19 of the 2022 legislative session. The last day for bills to pass out of the policy committee in their house of origin is Feb. 3, with fiscal committee cutoff shortly thereafter on Feb. 7. If bills do not move out of their house of origin committees by the Feb. 7 deadline, they… Read more January 14, 2022 Session news: 2022 legislative session begins virtually, again The 2022 legislative session took off at a breakneck speed on Monday, Jan. 10, once again in a virtual format. This short 60-day session is focused on the supplemental budgets, which usually make modest adjustments to the biennial budgets passed last session. However, due to improved revenue forecasts since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic… Read more December 17, 2021 Governor releases 2022 supplemental budget proposal with UW investments The 2022 legislative session begins Jan. 10 and will focus on the supplemental budget, which will modify the biennial budget passed last session. Gov. Jay Inslee unveiled his 2022 operating and capital budget proposals today, as a first step in the state budget process. The Governor’s proposed operating budget emphasizes climate action and poverty reduction…. Read more December 8, 2021 House College & Workforce Dev. Chair meets with UW students and President Cauce Yesterday, the House College & Workforce Development Chair Vandana Slatter visited the UW Seattle campus to hear from students, faculty, and leadership and to learn more about the UW’s 2022 legislative requests. First, she participated in a roundtable with students in the Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering (CSE) to learn more… Read more Next page Office of State Relations About Contact Public Agency Lobbying 2022 Legislative Agenda Learn about the UW’s top legislative priorities in our state legislative agenda. 2021 Legislative Outcomes Learn about the state’s recent investments in the UW in the Office of Planning & Budgeting’s brief. For information about legislative impacts to WA’s public four-year higher education sector, see the Council of President’s 2021 legislative report. Stay Connected Follow @UWGOV on Twitter Like UWGOV on Facebook Statewide Engagement Government Relations External Affairs Federal Relations Regional Relations Spokane and Eastern Washington Relations State Relations State Government State Legislature Governor’s Office Access Washington UW Alumni Elected Officials University Resources UW Fast Facts UW Budget Overview UW Office of Planning & Budgeting OPBlog: Higher Ed Junction Blog Council of Presidents WA Student Achievement Council UWGOV on Twitter @UWGOV The University of Washington is closed Monday, May 30, in honor of Memorial Day. We hope you will take a moment today to recognize those who made the ultimate sacrifice as well as the families and friends they left behind. https://t.co/3QfLZeCvDN @UW On Memorial Day, we recognize those who made the ultimate sacrifice in service to our country. These monuments on the UW campus in Seattle, many of which are located along Memorial Way, honor their memory. #MemorialDay https://t.co/mBEEpMFqib Retweeted by @UWGOV @uwnews Did you know if you are Black, you are 50% less likely to find a bone marrow match than if you are white? @UW Prof @AlexesHarris shares her story and why it's so important for people of color to join the bone marrow registry. https://t.co/MUoB4tFBLo https://t.co/LuRKGZQLdf Retweeted by @UWGOV @UWGOV Huskies, don’t forget! The #UdistrictStreetFair is this weekend, May 21 - May 22, in Seattle’s U District. Find unique artist and craft booths, great food and more. Times: Sat, 11am-7pm; Sun, 11am-6pm. Brought to you by @udistrictpartnership @udstreetfair #udistrictseattle https://t.co/YOHiiROpk0 @amcauce As we grieve for the families who lost loved ones in Buffalo, let us ask honestly what we all can do to turn the tide against racist violence. https://t.co/EiAOvnRCdS Retweeted by @UWGOVMore University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA