Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu City and Regional Planning About Programs People Research/Outreach Giving Design Collaborative Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact About Mission and News What is City Planning? Where do Planners work? What kind of work do Planners do? Annual Report 2019/202018/192017201620152014 Program Statistics Take Action Apply to Our Master's Program Assistantships and Financial Support Contact Us! SUAPP Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Home Planning About The Department of City & Regional Planning The 48 hour Master's degree in City & Regional Planning prepares students for careers concerned with the physical development of communities, and the interaction of that development with the social, economic, and environmental well-being of communities. The program is fully accredited by the Planning Accreditation Board. Our Mission Educate the next generation of inspired urban planners and scholars, conduct research that influences planning policy and knowledge, and engage in community partnerships to affect local change. Our Motto Our motto – Dream of a City – evokes Daniel Burnham's exhortation to make big plans and reflects Dr. Martin Luther King's hope for justice, unity, and opportunity. Dream of a City is our call for students of planning to be visionary – to think beyond planning as a technical exercise and engage in planning as a creative and just endeavor. We seek to inspire students, community partners, and planners alike to recognize that we don't have to settle for the faults, shortcomings, and injustices of our neighborhoods and places – that change is possible where there is vision. Our Strengths Interdisciplinary Connections The Department of City & Regional Planning is one of four academic departments within the School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy (SUAPP) – along with Public & Nonprofit Administration, Social Work, and Criminology & Criminal Justice. SUAPP provides a hub for collaboration with the diverse range of resources and disciplinary perspectives necessary for effective, comprehensive metropolitan action. The Department of City & Regional Planning also hosts the University of Memphis Design Collaborative (UMDC). As an interdisciplinary outreach center, the Design Collaborative seeks to make the relationship between citizens and the city (as a physical, social, and economic entity) work better. Community Engagement Our curriculum emphasis practice and we structure our classes and research to support long-term community engagement projects. This means that our students work with community members to address real challenges – and have the opportunity to see planning solutions reach implementation. Memphis is a city of history – landmark structures, iconic moments in the Civil Rights movement, and important contributions to American music and culture. It is a city with deep scars, but a city of authenticity that is experiencing revitalization through development projects and a renewed interest in public planning. Our students are steeped in the culture of Memphis while experiencing its rebirth and searching for ways to make development just and equitable. International Opportunities The department offers an annual two-week summer study abroad program in Sicily, Italy. First launched in 2012, the Community Planning and Environmental Design (CoPED) Summer School works to advance economic and community development projects identified by grassroots and local government partners in the breathtaking Simeto River Valley. Strategic Plan Click on the image below to view our current Strategic Plan Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 9/2/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.