Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Center for Children’s Environmental Health Home About Research Education & Training CCEH Seminar Series EH Courses at Brown People News Site Navigation Home About Vision & Mission Contact Career Opportunites Research Interventions to Reduce Chemical Exposures Health Effects of Environmental Exposures Modifiable Determinants of Environmental Exposures Molecular Epidemiology of Environmental Exposures Education & Training CCEH Seminar Series EH Courses at Brown People Core Faculty Affiliated Faculty Trainees Key Partners Staff Past Trainees News EH Courses Brown University offers a wide range of courses relevant to training and research in environmental health. Those courses most relevant to environmental health are listed below. Note that not all classes are offered every year. See [email protected] for a complete list of available courses and the official schedule. EH Courses PHP 1700: Current Topics in Environmental Health Dr. Karl Kelsey, Fall Term This course is designed to introduce students to the field of environmental health, and demonstrate how environmental health is integrated into various aspects of our lives, both directly and indirectly. Topics to be covered include: toxic metals, vector-borne disease, food safety, water quality, radiation, pesticides, air quality, hazardous waste, risk assessment, and the role of the community in environmental health. Guest speakers will present several topics so that students can learn from the expertise of professionals active in the field. PHP 1964: Cancer Epidemiology and Prevention Dr. Tongzhang Zheng, Spring Term This course is aimed at enhancing the knowledge and skills central to the application of epidemiologic methods to cancer screening, prevention, and control. We will exam cancer incidence and trends in the U.S. and globally, interpret their implication for cancer etiology, and critically analyze current evidence regarding the role of various major risk factors on human cancer risks. The class will focus on the impact of major environmental, occupational, and lifestyle risk factors on cancers of high public health significance. PHP 2220E: Topics in Environmental and Occupational Epidemiology Dr. Joseph Braun, Spring Term This course introduces students to the epidemiological study of historical and contemporary environmental/occupational agents, focusing on study design, biases, and methodological tools used to evaluate and extend the evidence linking exposures to human disease. The course will discuss applications, strengths, and limitations of different study designs and their use in studying specific environmental agents. Didactic lectures and student-led discussions will be used to provide students with a basic understanding of and the tools to apply/extend their knowledge of specific environmental agents (endocrine disruptors) and special topics (children's neurodevelopment). Other Courses of relevance to Environmental Health include: PHP2325: Place Matters: Exploring Community-Level Contexts on Health Behaviors, Outcomes and Disparities BIOL1820: Environmental Health and Disease BIOL2860: Molecular Mechanisms of Disease ENVS1105: Introduction to Environmental GIS ENVS1350: Environmental Economics and Policy ENVS1400: Sustainable Design in the Built Environment ENVS1575: Engaged Climate Policy at the UN Climate Change Talks ENVS1580: Environmental Stewardship and Resilience in Urban Systems ENVS1910: The Anthropocene: The Past and Present of Environmental Change GEOL1330: Global Environmental Remote Sensing GEOL1320: Introduction to GIS for Environmental Applications Education & Training CCEH Seminar Series EH Courses at Brown Center for Children’s Environmental Health Center for Children’s Environmental Health Brown University Box G-S121-2 121 South Main Street Room 213 Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-5397 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top