Skip to main content Skip to main content My Account My Account Give Give Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content SMU Libraries Find & Borrow Research & Teaching Locations & Collections Visit SMU Libraries About Get Help Find & Borrow Find Books Journals & Newspapers Articles Films Music Scores & Recordings Borrow & Request Checkout & Renew Interlibrary Loan Request a Purchase Guest Services Alumni Services Research Card Research & Teaching Scholarship & Publishing GIS@SMU SMU Scholar Research Data Digital Scholarship Scholarly Impact & Publishing Copyright Teaching Support Library Materials for Courses Classroom Instruction Assignment Design Online Guides & Tutorials Locations & Collections Libraries Bridwell Library Business Library DeGolyer Library Fondren Library Hamon Arts Library Underwood Law Library Fort Burgwin Library Exhibits & Digital Collections Campus Exhibits Online Exhibits Digital Collections Special Collections & Archives Visit Visit Hours Maps & Parking Technology & Printing Policies Accessibility Spaces Places to Study Graduate Student Spaces Lockers Class & Event Spaces About About Us Staff Directory Dean's Office Equity, Diversity, Inclusion & Accessibility Faculty & Student Awards Join Us Staff & Student Employment Internships Student Advisory Board Friends of SMU Libraries Connect with Us News Events Social Media Contact Us Get Help Ask Us (email, chat, text, call) Research Guides by Discipline How Do I . . . ? Guides Find Your Librarian Attend Workshops Writing Support ☰ Libraries Join Us SMU Libraries Internships SMU Libraries Internships Internships for SMU Students  All internships are unpaid, offered year-round, and available to advanced undergraduate and graduate students. They can be for academic credit or not.   Bridwell Library Digital Collections Internship Receive training on research, digitization, Photoshop editing, and metadata creation in Excel and CONTENTdm Have the opportunity to plan, execute, and market a project from beginning to publication Work with materials that include historical manuscripts, early printed material, literature, and archaeology To apply: Send your resume and a brief cover letter describing your qualifications and interest in the program to bhowdeshell@smu.edu. Norwick Center Digital Humanities Internship Receive training in the digitization and cataloging of primary materials for use in academic research Have the opportunity to design a Digital Humanities project based on interests and time commitment Work with materials from across SMU Libraries   To apply: Send your resume and a brief cover letter describing your qualifications and interest in the program to ncds@smu.edu.  Internships for Library & Information Science Graduate Students Priority deadlines for applications:  Fall semester – June 15  Spring semester – October 15  Summer semester – March 15   Research and User Experience Internship The primary goal of this program is to provide future librarians with the authentic professional opportunities and support to become qualified for academic library jobs and start them on a track of leadership within the profession. Each intern is given librarian-level opportunities in: Research Support - staffing our service desk, chat service, and research consultations Classroom Instruction - teaching information literacy to first year writing students Project work and committee assignments – in areas like Collection Development, Instructional Design, Web Design and User Experience, Equity, Inclusion, Diversity, and Access, and Event Planning and Outreach This is a paid internship. The interns are a part of a diverse team that work and learn together. Applicants must be enrolled in a graduate program in Library Science. To apply: Email the Director of R-UX Intern Program, Jonathan McMichael, jmcmichael@smu.edu Digital Collections Internship This internship is hosted in Norwick Center for Digital Solution’s (nCDS) state-of-the-art digitization center. The internship: focuses on digitization, metadata creation, digital collections management, and digital preservation may also include tutorials on other areas, such as marketing and outreach, social media, documentation, specialized training in CONTENTdm software, web usage analysis, and/or digital archiving This is an unpaid position. Hours are negotiable based on number of credit hours with a maximum of 20 hours per week.   Applicants must be, at minimum, 2nd semester graduate student in LIS. To apply: Send your resume and a brief cover letter stating your interest in the practicum to ncds@smu.edu.  Cataloging and Metadata Internship Collections & Technical Services at Southern Methodist University Libraries offers a semester-long internship (about 120 hours). Each intern will gain experience in:   Fundamentals of cataloging, metadata, and authority work  Proficiency with tools such as integrated library systems, classification tools, etc.  Understanding terminologies and key resources used in the field  Successfully completing a cataloging project  This is an unpaid internship. Internship hours must be completed between the hours of 8:30 am and 5:00 pm, Monday-Friday, on-site at Fondren Library. Applicants must be graduate students in LIS who have completed two cataloging/metadata courses.   To apply: Submit a resume and letter of interest to Rahni Kennedy, at rbkennedy@smu.edu. Join Us Staff & Student Employment SMU Libraries Internships Student Advisory Board Friends of SMU Libraries Maps & Directions | Contact Us | Feedback Accessibility | Legal Disclosures © SMU Libraries, PO Box 750135, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share