Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Music Education PhD You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Music Education PhD Apply Request More Info Music Education PhD Admissions Careers & Opportunities Curriculum Ensembles & Performance Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid PhD in Music Education Develop university-level music teaching skills and research experience with the PhD in Music Education in the Boyer College of Music and Dance at Temple. This 60-credit doctoral degree is tailored to help music educators achieve advanced skills in research methods and teaching expertise. Learn to contribute to and apply research findings to the practice of music education. Graduates are well positioned to become leaders in the music education profession. You’ll specialize in music education practice and research, focusing on skills development and accountability for diverse student populations in an evolving discipline. Each Music Education PhD student chooses a specific area of specialization. The Music Education PhD curriculum is designed for students with a range of expertise and focus. Areas of Specialization The candidate, in concert with the academic advisor, will declare an area of scholarly focus. The candidate and faculty advisor then develop a course of study appropriate to the focus. Example areas of specialization for the Music Education PhD program include, but are not limited to, the following. Adult music education Alternative ensembles Arts education Community music Composition Conducting Dance and movement Digital and distance learning in music Early childhood Education in specialty areas (choral, instrumental, elementary, secondary) Educational administration Educational policy studies Gender Studies Informal (vernacular) music education Kinesiology Music history Music theory Psychology Sociology Technology Urban education Explore Boyer Faculty Faculty Discover music education faculty in the Boyer College of Music and Dance. Explore Boyer Faculty See faculty members in Boyer music education degree programs. Classes & Curriculum The course of study becomes the curriculum that guides the student and faculty advisor throughout the degree program. During the first year of study, students may opt to modify the course of study and/or focus in consultation with the advisor. Required courses you must take during your program include Music Teaching in Higher Education; Psychology of Music Learning & Behavior; Seminar in Graduate Music Education; and Supervised University Music Teaching. You must also take Doctoral Dissertation and complete an oral defense to culminate the program. Learn more about Music Education PhD courses. Related Graduate Degrees Music MA Music MS Music PhD Music Therapy PhD Piano Pedagogy MM String Pedagogy MM Related Graduate Certificates Professional Studies Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Doctor of Philosophy offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,095.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,458.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors Faculty advisors can help you navigate your program and discuss research opportunities, teaching assistantships and more. Learn more about Boyer College of Music and Dance faculty. Program Contact Alison Reynolds is the chair of the Department of Music Education and Therapy. Phone: 215-204-1660 Email: alison.reynolds@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Participating in student groups provides peer support and future professional contacts. There are more than 200 student organizations at Temple University. American Choral Directors Association provides students opportunities to experience choral conducting through guest lectures and rehearsal practice, and offers opportunities to earn practical experience through various regional and state conferences. National Association for Music Education is a conservatory chapter of the national organization of music educators. Semester activities include creating projects, presenting guest speakers and workshops, attending the PMEA All-State conference, participating in outreach activities, and learning to use various online music education resources. OWLchestra Community Orchestra is a community string orchestra composed of students and community members who want to play music together in a low-stress environment. Learn more about clubs and organizations. Accreditation The Boyer College of Music and Dance is accredited by the American Music Therapy Association, National Association of Schools of Music, National Association of Schools of Dance and Pennsylvania Department of Education. BC-MUED-PHD Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Music Education PhD Admissions Careers & Opportunities Curriculum Ensembles & Performance Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info