Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Composition-Music Certificate (Undergraduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Composition-Music Certificate (Undergraduate) Apply Request More Info Composition-Music Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Composition-Music Undergraduate Certificate Compose original works with the Composition-Music Undergraduate Certificate in Temple’s Boyer College of Music and Dance. Coursework in music theory will form the basis for your compositions. This 13-credit certificate is available to any currently enrolled Temple University student seeking to create original pieces of music and gain knowledge of both music theory and composition. The Composition-Music Undergraduate Certificate provides certificate students the opportunity to experience the excitement of Temple’s Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts in a coherent disciplinary context. Through more than 500 concerts, events, lectures and performances each year, the center offers students an inclusive educational community that affirms creativity as central to society and culture. Undergraduate students interested in the Composition-Music Undergraduate Certificate must be in good standing and have completed at least 15 credits at Temple University by the initial requested semester of certificate coursework. Classes & Curriculum The certificate will be acknowledged on your official transcript when you receive your bachelor's degree provided that you successfully complete each of the following courses with a grade of C- or better. Required courses include Composition I, Composition II, Counterpoint and Topics in Music Theory. Learn more about Composition-Music Undergraduate Certificate courses. Tuition & Fees The tuition for this Certificate Program is based on school or college of your major, program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Academic Advisors The Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts has a centralized advising office with five staff members. This advising team serves all undergraduate students in the Boyer School of Music and Dance and the School of Theater, Film and Media Arts. Advisors help students navigate the undergraduate curriculum for each degree program. The academic advising team for Music, Dance, Theater, and Film and Media Arts majors is located in Mitten Hall, Suite 200 West. To schedule an advising appointment based on your individual needs or for more help, contact the advising team. Phone: 215-204-8301 Schedule an advising appointment. Program Contact Maurice Wright, the Laura H. Carnell Professor of Music Composition in the Department of Music Studies, is the faculty contact for this program. Phone: 215-204-8016 Email: wright@temple.edu Accreditation The Boyer College of Music and Dance is accredited by the American Music Therapy Association, National Association of Schools of Music, National Association of Schools of Dance and Pennsylvania Department of Education. BC-COMP-CERT Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Composition-Music Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info