Skip Navigation Texas A&M University at Galveston Find info for: Future Students Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Former Students Visitors Veterans University Catalog Phonebook Calendar A-Z List Search MENU About TAMUG Academics Admissions Campus Life Giving Research Search Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Administration Directions A Wave of Change HOWDY Portal Select Web or People Web People Search Menu Home About Academics Administration Admissions Campus Life Giving Research Directions A Wave of Change Phonebook Calendar Info For: Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Former Students Visitors Veterans Development Office The Impact Of A Gift How to Give “Lead by Example” Campaign The George P. Mitchell Society Endowed Scholarships Texas A&M Maritime Academy Hall Academic Complex Campaigns Development Newsletter Donate Online Contact Us Giving Our campus really is a window to the sea. The Texas A&M University Galveston campus is of, for and by the sea. Our island campus is the perfect setting to study both the nature and business of the sea and adjacent coastline. By supporting the campus you ensure that we continue to grow and evolve to meet the physical and technological needs of our students. Gifts from former students, corporations, foundations, parents and other friends of TAMUG in large part determine the future of this great university. We invite you to choose exactly how your gifts will advance Texas A&M University Galveston campus. The Impact Of A Gift How to Give "Texas A&M University Galveston campus" Video An outstanding television and movie theater spot was released recently. It will make you proud to be a member of this “Sea Aggie” family. "50 Years of Sea Aggies" First viewed at the 2012 Aggie Muster in Galveston, this video is a slideshow of TAMUG photos going back 50 years. Created by William Quillen '11. "Fearless" At Texas A&M, we stand together on the front lines of society's greatest challenges to secure a healthier, more sustainable, and more livable world. We are all Aggies, and we are fearless on every front. Texas A&M University Galveston Campus's Development Office Now, more than ever, Texas A&M University Galveston Campus (TAMUG) relies on the generosity of individuals, corporations, and foundations to support the many vital programs and activities of our campus. Texas A&M University Galveston Campus's students are fortunate to be pursuing an education which stresses the importance of the ocean to our way of life. The region, state, nation, and world prosper when our graduates apply their maritime and marine knowledge, research and experiential learning. Enrollment at Texas A&M University Galveston Campus is at an all-time high. Several new buildings are either under construction or will have groundbreaking shortly. We need to continue to grow our campus by adding new infrastructure, leading faculty and innovative programs. Opportunities to support our students, faculty, programs and facilities are available to our loyal backers. Your support today will have an immediate impact on our current and future students. To discuss how you can support TAMUG, please, contact us. Contact Us Rick Kline Assistant Vice President for Development rkline@txamfoundation.com Office: (409) 741-4030 Cell: (409) 502-1181 Alice Maffay Development Business Administrator maffaya@tamug.edu Office: (409) 740-4446 Fax: (409) 740-4407 Madelaine Heaven Development Administrative Assistant mheaven@txamfoundation.com Office: (409) 740-4481 Fax: (409) 740-4407 Jason Tieman ‘97 Director of Development jtieman@txamfoundation.com Office: (409) 740-4782 Cell: (409) 256-5560 About Texas A&M ABOUT TAMUG Links TAMUG at a Glance History of TAMUG Admissions Admissions Links Office of Admissions Scholarships & Financial Aid Texas A&M Maritime Academy Marine Training & Safety Links TAMMA Links About TAMMA Apply to TAMMA Academic Resources Academic Resources Links Majors & Minors Jack K. Williams Library Faculty Resources Research at TAMUG Graduate Studies Center for Academic Learning Support Sea Camp & Outreach Sea Camp Links Sea Camp & Outreach Programs Field Trip Opportunities Administration Administration Links Vice President & Executive Team Office of Academic Affairs Administration & Auxiliary Services Information Technology Diversity at TAMUG Human Resources Make a Gift Title IX Emergency Preparedness Open Records TAMUG Facebook TAMUG Twitter TAMUG Instagram TAMUG LinkedIn TAMUG Youtube Mailing Address: P.O. Box 1675 Galveston, Texas 77553 Physical Address: 200 Seawolf Parkway Galveston, TX 77554 Shipping Address: 1001 Texas Clipper Road Galveston, TX 77554 Phone: 409.740.4400 Back to top Accessibility – Privacy – Legal Notices – Annual Security Report – Annual Fire Safety Report Campus Security Authority Form – Contact us – Contact Webmaster – Mental Health Resources – State of Texas – Texas Homeland Security Statewide Search – Texas Veterans Portal – Texas CREW – Risk, Fraud & Misconduct Hotline – Texas Veterans Commission © 2022 Texas A&M University at Galveston is a member of The Texas A&M University System