Cougar Initiative to Engage (CITE) - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Office of the Provost Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search COUGAR INITIATIVE TO ENGAGE About CITE Staff Advisory Board Contact Us Student Opportunities Co-Curricular Learning Opportunities Campus Resources for Co-Curricular Learning Faculty Grants and Programs Grants Preproposal Proposal Renewal and Extension Funded Projects Student Learning Outcomes Resources for Co-Curricular Learning Tips for Project Leaders Policies for Grant Recipients Required Grant Materials CITE Pre- and Post-Surveys Events exCITE Talks Faculty Development Internship Council University of Houston's Quality Enhancement Plan Cougar Initiative to Engage (CITE) Internships Learning Abroad Learning Away Undergraduate Research Service Learning The Cougar Initiative to Engage (CITE) is the University of Houston's Quality Enhancement Plan to increase the number of high-impact co-curricular learning activities and the number of undergraduate students participating in these activities. Co-curricular learning activities provide students with direct real-world experience, preparing them for success in their lives and careers. CITE is an opportunity to have a truly transformative impact on students and the broader university community. Students Faculty Stories Featuring CITE-Funded Programs Refugees connect with UH’s Arab community through the IRESE Fellowship The new Incubator of Racial Equity in STEM Education fellowship led by the UH College of Pharmacy is hoping to empower and inspire recent Arab refugee high school students to pursue careers in science, technology, engineering and mathematics through working with undergraduate mentors and tutors. Academic Preparation Showcased in Cougar Health Research Academy In a recent graduation ceremony, participants and organizers of the Cougar Health Research Academy celebrated the success of the inaugural four-week program aimed at exposing University of Houston undergraduate students to the diverse and rewarding field of public health. REACH: A New Undergraduate Research Program The Research for Aspiring Coogs in the Humanities (REACH) program gives undergraduate students first-hand research experience. Projects range the gamut, from community activism to the archival preservation to drafting biographies and conducting oral histories. Action Research in Communities Program to Double its Impact in 2021 Honors College students were awarded Action Research in Communities (ARC) fellowships for 2020-2021 and given the opportunity to develop projects fostered by community service or involvement in service-learning initiatives. Harris Fellows Pen Blogs Harris Fellows pen blogs for the Chronicle about their work with various Harris County government offices. Cougar Health Research Academy UH College of Pharmacy's Institute of Community Health and the Houston Health Department are teaming on a new online program to train UH undergraduate students in a range of specialty skills in the public health field. A Digital Dream Team Faculty, staff, and students worked in shared spaces with dozens of Academic Support, Instructional and Teaching Assistants sharing in responsibilities to our students and our College making sure that Bauer is ... Where Awesome Happens! Action Research in Communities Program Launches This year-long research program requires students to spend at least six to seven hours per week researching the phenomena, successes and challenges in Greater Houston and preparing to apply that new knowledge to the communities they serve. Students Get Hands-On Experience in Houston City Government Five students in the University of Houston College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences (CLASS) got the chance to work alongside some of the city’s decision-makers. This was made possible through a new partnership between Dean Antonio D. Tillis and Houston Mayor Sylvester Turner, a graduate of CLASS. Cougar Partnership Flourishing at the Smithsonian Ten students from the University of Houston arrived to begin their internships across the Smithsonian Institution. This partnership between the Smithsonian and the University of Houston began in 2015. 'Sight for Success' Partners with School District and UH Colleges The Sight for Success is part of a larger effort called the Health and Well-Being Initiative, which connects UH students to area schools to promote physical, mental and social health and well-being. UH implements new Quality Enhancement Program UH’s Quality Enhancement Plan is being put in motion, to offer students more nontraditional learning opportunities. The plan is called the Cougar Initiative to Engage, or CITE, and is intended to expand access to community and co-curricular engagement activities. ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies