Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Financial Aid Home Getting started Eligibility How need is determined Expected family contribution Net price calculator Student budgets Husky Promise Applying for aid Key dates and deadlines Application process Award process Maintain eligibility Summer quarter Types of aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Childcare Assistance Program Veterans Benefits Emergency aid Emergency Food Assistance Other assistance Receiving aid Disbursement Appeals and special circumstances Request changes to your award Satisfactory academic progress Forms & resources Forms Consumer Information Glossary of Terms for Award Notifications Loan repayment Tax benefits Withdrawal and refund Financial aid code of conduct Money management Emergency Relief Fund Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund III Washington Emergency Relief Grant Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund II CARES Act FAQs Processing and Response Timelines Contact us My Financial Aid Non-Resident Students Menu Financial Aid Home Getting started Eligibility How need is determined Expected family contribution Net price calculator Student budgets Husky Promise Applying for aid Key dates and deadlines Application process Award process Maintain eligibility Summer quarter Types of aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Childcare Assistance Program Veterans Benefits Emergency aid Emergency Food Assistance Other assistance Receiving aid Disbursement Appeals and special circumstances Request changes to your award Satisfactory academic progress Forms & resources Forms Consumer Information Glossary of Terms for Award Notifications Loan repayment Tax benefits Withdrawal and refund Financial aid code of conduct Money management Emergency Relief Fund Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund III Washington Emergency Relief Grant Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund II CARES Act FAQs Processing and Response Timelines Contact us My Financial Aid Home Student Financial Aid Non-Resident Students We recognize the cost to attend a university in another state is a significant financial investment. As a non-resident student, your financial aid award will primarily consist of federal financial aid. We realize that for many non-resident students, federal loans may make up most or all of their financial aid offer from UW so, we encourage students and their families to take that into consideration in their decision to attend the university, particularly if finances are a factor in their selection of a college. We are unable to offer state, or university grants to non-resident applicants. Our scholarship funds are limited relative to the size of our talented student population and The University of Washington-Seattle offers scholarships that cover a wide range of academic pursuits, musical and athletic talents as well as community service and research activities. Our scholarship programs are highly competitive as we have more talented students than we have scholarship funds. Many of our University scholarship programs are also restricted to Washington residents, however, there are some notable exceptions. Purple and Gold The Purple and Gold Scholarship is only for U.S. students (U.S. citizens, permanent residents, refugees, and undocumented residents) who are not residents of Washington state and who will attend the UW Seattle campus. It assumes that recipients are not, nor will become, residents of the state of Washington during the next four academic years. Selection, by the Office of Admissions, is predominately academic but also incorporates activities, achievements, leadership, and socio-economic factors. The scholarship, which is not need-based, is renewable for four years as long as the recipient maintains good academic standing. See Purple and Gold Scholarships for more details. All admitted U.S. non-resident applicants are automatically considered for the Purple and Gold Scholarship based on their admission application. No other application, including the FAFSA, is required. You will be notified by letter in mid-March from the Office of Admission if you are selected as a recipient. UW Honors Program The UW Honors Program applicants are considered for scholarships opportunities as entering freshmen. The application to the Honors Program also serves as your application for any Honors scholarships available to incoming students and you will be notified at the same time you are notified about your admission to the Honors Program (via email). Please visit the UW Honors website for more information. UW Academic Departments The University also offers scholarship programs awarded through many of our academic departments for freshmen (including non-resident students). Some of these scholarships are not need-based and do not require filing the FAFSA. If your academic department is not a department that directly admits freshmen or if you are not selected as a freshmen direct admit, you can apply in future years for scholarships your department offers. We recommend you visit Undergraduate Scholarships for more information on scholarship opportunities and links to helpful UW scholarship resources and private sources. Cost of Attendance Our student budgets will provide you with an estimate of the cost to attend the UW. Tuition for 2022-23 is an estimate until June 2022 when final rates are set. Although students can sometimes spend less on their living expenses than what we project, these figures are a good guide of what many students spend to cover their living expenses locally. Residency Requirements The requirements to receive Washington residency status are complex and can be difficult to achieve. Questions about your current status and future status can be addressed by our Residency Office. Resources Applying for Financial Aid Parent Plus Loan New Borrowers of Federal Student Loans Contact us Send us a message Visit Contact us for office location, directions and mailing address. Federal School Code Our Title IV federal school code is 003798. This code is used for Seattle, Bothell and Tacoma campuses. About us Our mission is to provide educational access and opportunity for all students. We promote participation in higher education by providing programs of assistance to help bridge the gap between the cost of attending the University and the family’s own resources. We believe students from all economic backgrounds should have the opportunity to attend the University of Washington. Finances should not be a barrier to getting a world-class education. University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA