Skip to content Project Connect Creating the Ongoing Network Needed to Engage Communities and Teachers Menu Home About Us Our Team Our Partners Apply For Scholarships! Teaching Ideas EL-Strategy Tutorials Speaking Listening Reading Writing Snapshot Showcase Authentic Interaction Scientific Skill Development Formative Assessment Language Scaffolding Personal Connection Higher Order Thinking Skills English Proficiency Features Beginning English Learners Intermediate English Learners Advanced English Learners Advanced High English Learners Sample Lessons & Anchor Charts Tech Tool Tutorials Family Engagement Advocacy and Refugee Community Outreach Contact Us Culture & Community in Education Modules Scroll down to content Home Developed and administered by SMU’s Simmons School, Project CONNECT (Creating the Ongoing Network Needed to Engage Communities and Teachers) brings together teachers, students, families, and community partners for a full school year. Our participants receive over $4000 of scholarship tuition to strengthen the net for bilingual and multi-lingual children who are learning English in our local Dallas schools. Each year, CONNECT teachers learn about instruction, culture, language, and community by becoming part of a wide web of resources. Pre-service and in-service teachers connect weekly with non-profit community partners — this year with Heart House in Vickery Meadows and the Wesley Rankin Community Center in West Dallas. Together with the supportive staff, SMU professors, and one another, teachers build relationships with children and families every week in hands-on lessons and mentorship. We invite you to explore our site with its numerous videos of teaching ideas created by our teachers! Learn how you can earn a scholarship to become part of Project CONNECT! Project CONNECT is funded by the Department of Education, Office of English Language Acquisition, Grant T365Z160106 Apply For Scholarships! APPLICATION SUBMISSION IS CURRENTLY CLOSED Are you interested in free classes at the SMU Simmons School of Education? Join the next Project CONNECT Team of Teachers to earn over $4,400 of scholarship money while earning your ESL Certification! Full-Tuition scholarships for 6 graduate credits (2 courses) are available. Do I Qualify? YES—if. . . You are a practicing teacher committed to high-quality instruction for English Language Learners AND You currently do not have Texas ESL certification OR you are a pre-service teacher enrolled in one of these programs: Masters with Certification, Hunt Residency, or Community Scholars Programs. What Is It? Full-Tuition scholarship for 2 English as a Second Language (ESL) certification courses worth up to $4,400! Certification exam prep and fees covered. Course delivery is face-to-face course with online support materials. Graduate courses are offered for students who commit to 2 consecutive terms (fall and spring): Fall 2017 and Spring 2018 Fall 2018 and Spring 2019 Fall 2019 and Spring 2020 Fall 2020 and Spring 2021 How Do I Apply? For more application information and for info session schedules, please contact Priscilla Blackburn at plara@smu.edu or (214).768.3711. Contact Us We look forward to connecting with you! Priscilla Lara Blackburn Project Director Contact: plara@smu.edu (214) 768 – 3711 office Who We Are Search for: Search Proudly powered by WordPress