Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Parents Search BC.edu Links Alumni Menu Main Nav Alumni Donate Back Back Close About Overview Alumni Association Alumni Board Alumni Association Staff Past Alumni Board Presidents Annual Report Leadership Terms of Service Join Our Team Connect Overview Volunteer Councils & Groups Chapters International Hong Kong London Germany Madrid Panama Paris Philippines Singapore Arizona Phoenix California Los Angeles Northern California Orange County Sacramento San Diego Colorado Denver Connecticut Fairfield Hartford Delaware Delaware District of Columbia Washington, D.C. Florida Fort Lauderdale Jacksonville Miami Orlando Palm Beach Sarasota Southwest Florida Tampa Georgia Atlanta Hawaii Hawaii Illinois Chicago Indiana Indianapolis Kentucky Kentucky Louisiana New Orleans Maine Maine Maryland Baltimore Massachusetts Boston Cape Cod Western Massachusetts Michigan Detroit Minnesota Minnesota Missouri Kansas City St. Louis Nebraska Omaha Nevada Las Vegas New Hampshire New Hampshire New Jersey Jersey Shore New Jersey New York Albany Buffalo Long Island New York City Rochester Westchester North Carolina Charlotte Triangle Ohio Cincinnati Cleveland Columbus Oregon Portland Pennsylvania Philadelphia Pittsburgh Puerto Rico Puerto Rico Rhode Island Rhode Island South Carolina South Carolina Tennessee Nashville Texas Austin Dallas Houston San Antonio Utah Utah Vermont Vermont Washington Seattle Wisconsin Milwaukee Class and School Engagement Spirituality On Eagles Wings Reflections Advent Reflections Lenten Reflections Reflections Reflections Social Media Pine Manor Alumni Hub Related Links Reunion BC Athletics Events Overview Reunion Weekend Pops on the Heights Family Weekend Global Days of Service Distinguished Volunteer Awards Dinner Winter Wonderland Benefits & Services Overview Career & Networking Alumni Benefits Giving Overview Gift Policy The Impact of Your Gift Give Online Gift Planning Giving Societies The 1863 Society McElroy Circle Bapst Circle Fulton Circle Gasson Circle Monan Circle The William B. Neenan, S.J., Society The Shaw Society Boston College Call Center Apply to Work at the Boston College Call Center Donate Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Alumni & Friends Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Parents BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Bapst Circle Home Giving Giving Societies The 1863 Society Bapst Circle The 1863 Society McElroy Circle Bapst Circle Fulton Circle Gasson Circle Monan Circle Bapst Circle — $2,500 to $4,999 Named for Boston College’s first president, John Bapst, SJ, the Bapst Circle honors BC donors who help generate growth. Father Bapst inherited some $150,000 in debt an unimaginable sum in 1863 when he assumed the seat of president. Launching the first-ever capital fundraising campaign, Father Bapst eliminated nearly half the debt, within a year and set BC on a trajectory to grow and flourish. Bapst Circle donors drive growth. With an annual gift of $2,500 to $4,999, donors join the Bapst Circle to take the next steps in their journey of philanthropic impact and engagement with BC. Benefits Membership in the Bapst Circle, the second donor circle of the 1863 Society, comes with many benefits: Member discounts for BC Athletics tickets (selection will change annually) Impact updates on how your giving helps thousands of students fulfill their potential Invitations to exclusive events recognizing your leadership support throughout the year Private reception with the President during your Reunion Weekend at BC How Your Donation Makes a Difference Boston College Fund Bapst gifts can help fund a grant to support faculty projects to promote scholarship and education in the liberal arts such as guest speakers or performances. *This unrestricted fund provides flexibility for fund designation to those areas in most need. William J. Flynn Fund Bapst gifts to the Flynn Fund help purchase essential gear for our varsity student-athletes, for example, a full set of cleats for our soccer teams. Student Financial Aid Bapst gifts to student financial aid enable BC to award grants and other aid totaling more than $114 million to deserving students, regardless of their economic background. BC Law School Fund Bapst gifts to the Law School Fund provide Public Interest Law Foundation (PILF) summer stipends to deserving students. “One of my favorite aspects of Boston College has always been the focus on giving back. It's a part of the BC community that I hope only continues to grow. And it's why I support the values and efforts of my alma mater. Leading by example speaks louder than words. ” Esther Chang '02, JD'07 Join Bapst ►How to Join Interested in joining or learning more about the Bapst Circle? Fill out our contact form below and a BC representative will contact you within 48 hours. Back To Top Back To Top Boston College Alumni Association Cadigan Alumni Center 140 Commonwealth Ave. Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College For updates on Boston College's reopening for fall semester visit bc.edu/reopen. Ok