Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law About Law Admissions Programs Current Students Faculty Careers Library Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Admissions Guide to Applying Comprehensive Application GuideLSAT PrepTransfer InformationTN Inst. for PreLaw (TIP)Part-Time ProgramSchedule a VisitAcademic CurriculumApply NowCheck Application Status Stats, Facts and Profile Profile and Stats OverviewClass Profile FactsheetViewbookRequest a ViewbookBragging Points Tuition, Scholarships, Financial Aid Overview of CostsTuition InformationFinancial AidScholarshipsTuition Payment Academic Curriculum 3+3 Programs Experiential Learning Life in Memphis Memphis-The CityNeighborhoodsHousingThe Arts SceneSportsThe Food SceneA Music TownDirections and MapsDowntown Vendors Recruiting Calendar Schedule a Visit Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) FAQ ListApplication InformationLSATNotification and AcceptanceCurriculumCity of Memphis Admitted Student Information Law Bookstore Take Action Event Calendars Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Alumni & Support Contact Memphis Law Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedn Home School of Law Admissions 3plus3 Legal Studies 3+3 ACCELERATED LEGAL STUDIES PROGRAM The Legal Studies 3+3 Program is a partnership between the College of Professional and Liberal Studies (CPLS) and the Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law. Its aim is to allow eligible UofM students to earn a bachelor's degree and a law degree in six years, saving a full year of time and tuition. Details: This accelerated program follows the "3+3" format that is now offered by several schools as a means of earning a bachelor's degree and a law degree in six years instead of the usual seven. Undergraduate students would enroll in the CPLS Legal Studies Program. They would complete their general education coursework and begin taking foundational Legal Studies courses during their sophomore year. Early in their junior year (or the summer before), students would take the LSAT and prepare to apply for admission to the UofM School of Law. If admitted, students would spend their senior year taking coursework at the School of Law as a first-year law student. Those 30 hours of first-year law school courses would count towards the students' law school matriculation and would also satisfy their remaining coursework for the undergraduate Legal Studies Program. If students successfully complete their first-year law school courses, they will graduate from the CPLS with a Bachelor of Professional Studies degree (Legal Studies concentration). From there, students would continue in law school with only two years remaining to complete their Juris Doctor degree. If students do not successfully complete any of their first-year law school courses, they would have to retake courses as necessary to meet degree requirements both for the School of Law and for the CPLS. Eligibility Requirements: Undergraduates participating in the program would apply for admission to the School of Law at the beginning of their junior year of undergraduate study, but they would not be guaranteed admission. Admission standards would be rigorous, to ensure that students are prepared to manage the demands of law school before completing their undergraduate studies. Law School admission under the 3+3 Program would require a minimum undergraduate GPA at or above the Law School's median for the current first-year class and an LSAT score at or above the 75th percentile. Students applying under the 3+3 program would also be subject to all other standards and criteria that apply to traditional applicants. Counting 30 Hours in Common: The Legal Studies B.P.S. degree normally requires 30 hours of core classes, 12 hours of law-related electives, 12 hours of interdisciplinary studies, six hours of thematic studies, and a three-hour senior project. In the 3+3 Program, the eleven required first-year law school classes (which includes three two-hour classes) would replace two of the LEGL core classes, all four of the law-related electives, three interdisciplinary electives, and senior project, for a total of 30 hours in common between the B.P.S. degree and the J.D. degree. (See substitutions chart below). Course Substitutions: Total Graduation Requirements (120 Hours): • 41 hours of general education courses • 16 hours of general electives • 54-Hour Coordinated Study (including 30-hour core, 12 hours of law-related electives, and 12 hours of interdisciplinary electives) • 9 Hours of CPLS Requirements (thematic studies and senior project) Substituted courses are in red (totaling 30 hours): * Law school courses marked with an asterisk are replacing courses that are considered part of the Professional Studies major (only nine hours from the major have been substituted). Legal Studies Sample Four-Year Plan: Traditional Program Legal Studies Sample Four-Year Plan: 3+3 Program Legal Studies Program Summary (with 3+3 Adjustments) Contact: College of Professional and Liberal Studies University of Memphis Debbie L. Wyatt College Academic Advisor II 901.678.2716 dwyatt@memphis.edu Law Admissions Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law 1 North Front Street Memphis, TN 38103-2189 Phone: (901) 678-5403 Email: admissions@memphis.edu Facebook: memphislawschool Twitter: @memlawschool Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/13/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.