Skip to content Search Search Close Search ILR School Institute for Workplace Studies Education Future of Work Series Gig Data Hub Digital Countryside Contact Toggle Searchers The Institute for Workplace Studies The Institute for Workplace Studies The Institute for Workplace Studies (IWS) grew out of a deep commitment to strengthening the presence of the ILR School in New York City. Established in 1999 to serve as a bridge between ILR’s on-campus research faculty and our constituents working in the greater metropolitan area, IWS emphasizes the value of collaboration between academics and practice. IWS provides opportunities for discussion and the exchange of ideas between ILR’s scholars and representatives from local academic, government, business, and labor communities in an effort to advance workplace practices, policies, and innovations. Through our educational programs and research dissemination, we hope to remind practitioners that research can inform their day-to-day work, while ensuring that academic research remains rooted in the actualities of the world. Today the Institute is primarily focused on supporting and disseminating research on the “future of work” debates, especially the gig economy and digital labor. IWS houses the MPS program in NYC, a part-time master’s program for working professionals; partners with the office of the ILR Undergraduate Credit Internship Program; hosts the Future of Work Series, a forum for leading thinkers to share research and ideas with the public; collaborates with the Aspen Institute’s Future of Work Initiative on the Gig Economy Data Hub, an online project to provide accessible, comprehensive information on the scope and nature of independent and gig work today; and supports research on the gig economy and the future of work. A Message from the Director The Institute for Workplace Studies Education Future of Work Series Gig Data Hub Digital Countryside Contact News Highlights Hyman Hosts History of E-Commerce Podcast Dec 23, 2019 Monday, December 23, 2019 Hyman Hosts History of E-Commerce Podcast Labor historian and diverse roster of guests give perspective to the past and future of e-commerce. Read more about Hyman Hosts History of E-Commerce Podcast Read more about Hyman Hosts History of E-Commerce Podcast New Dem Future of Work Panel May 24, 2017 Wednesday, May 24, 2017 New Dem Future of Work Panel Tune in to watch guest panelists discuss the Future of Work. Our... Read more about New Dem Future of Work Panel Read more about New Dem Future of Work Panel "California’s Gig Worker Law … Is Going To Fail" Sep 30, 2019 Monday, September 30, 2019 "California’s Gig Worker Law … Is Going To Fail" Read more about "California’s Gig Worker Law … Is Going To Fail" Read more about "California’s Gig Worker Law … Is Going To Fail" ILR School, Aspen Institute to develop Gig Economy Data Hub Dec 13, 2017 Wednesday, December 13, 2017 ILR School, Aspen Institute to develop Gig Economy Data Hub ... Read more about ILR School, Aspen Institute to develop Gig Economy Data Hub Read more about ILR School, Aspen Institute to develop Gig Economy Data Hub “Temp” Wins Princeton Book Award Oct 14, 2019 Monday, October 14, 2019 “Temp” Wins Princeton Book Award Associate Professor Louis Hyman’s book lauded as 2018’s most important contribution toward public policy understanding related to industrial relations and labor market operation. Read more about “Temp” Wins Princeton Book Award Read more about “Temp” Wins Princeton Book Award Data Hub Built to Impact Policy Jun 1, 2018 Friday, June 1, 2018 Data Hub Built to Impact Policy ILR and Aspen Institute providing numbers on gig economy Read more about Data Hub Built to Impact Policy Read more about Data Hub Built to Impact Policy Stay Connected Cornell University, ILR School Institute for Workplace Studies 570 Lexington Avenue, 12th Floor New York, NY 10022 News at ILR ILR Events About ILR ILRie Alumni Magazine ILR Brand Coronavirus Resources and Updates Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Privacy policy Directory Centers and Institutes Catherwood Library Conference Centers College map For faculty and staff Contact Us at ILR Web Accessibility LinkedIn Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube © 2022 Cornell University | ILR School