Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering [email protected] Information Home Tutorials Glossary of Terms Creating Events Managing Events Sharing Events Calendar-specific Tags and Locations Switching Calendars Additional Features Creating Online Events Hiding Events [email protected] Login Editor Request Site Navigation Home Tutorials Glossary of Terms Creating Events Adding Images Embedding Maps Adding an RSVP Scheduling Event Visibility Managing Events Sharing Events Calendar-specific Tags and Locations Switching Calendars Additional Features Creating Online Events Hiding Events [email protected] Login Editor Request Creating Online (Virtual) Events Online Events are created and managed in a manner very similar to regular events. Be sure to follow Zoom best practices if you choose to use Zoom as a venue for your virtual event. Creating an Online Event Log into [email protected] and click the Add New button. Enter data for the primary fields as you normally would: Title, Date and time, Event Sponsor, Event Description, Event Type, and Contact Information. Locate and tick the box labeled "This is an online event" Ticking the box will expand to display additional fields. Note that when the event is displayed on [email protected], the first two fields combine to create a button linking to the virtual event. "Event web address" — Enter the publicly accessible URL assigned to your event from the hosting platform (e.g. Zoom). Be sure to enter the full URL including https://. "Join Event button text" — You can enter custom text for the button label. If left blank, the default "Join Event" text will be used. "Special instructions?" — If applicable, enter the meeting code or other specific event identifier assigned to your event from the hosting platform. Select the appropriate button indicating whether your event is online only or a hybrid of online and in-person attendance. If you normally use Tags, upload an Image, or include Related Content you may continue to do so for Virtual Events as well. You are encouraged to continue sharing and suggesting events with other departments. The Location fields should be left blank unless your event is a hybrid of online and in-person attendance. Save the event. Note: If you are adding recurring or multi-day events, you will likely need to create a separate event for each instance, depending upon the capabilities of your hosting platform. On [email protected], Online Events will display with a "Virtual" marker on both lists and on the event detail page. Converting a regular event to an Online Event Log into [email protected], locate the event you wish to change and click it to open the edit screen. Delete the information contained in the Location fields. Modify the recurring or multi-day settings as needed, if applicable. Locate and tick the box labeled "This is an online event". Ticking the box will expand to display additional fields. Note that when the event is displayed on [email protected], the first two fields combine to create a button linking to the virtual event. (see images above) "Event web address" — Enter the publicly accessible URL assigned to your event from the hosting platform (e.g. Zoom). Be sure to enter the full URL including https://. "Join Event button text" — You can enter custom text for the button label. If left blank, the default "Join Event" text will be used. "Special instructions?" — If applicable, enter the meeting code or other specific event identifier assigned to your event from the hosting platform. Select the appropriate button indicating whether the event is online only or a hybrid of online and in-person attendance. Update other fields if needed. Save the event. Managing Online Events When logged into [email protected], Online Events appear alongside regular events in the administrative screens. Online Events can be edited, shared, canceled and archived like normal events. Displaying Online Events Online Events display alongside regular events on [email protected] as well as on the event displays in your department's website, if applicable. Having Trouble? If you encounter any issues creating, managing or display Online Events, contact [email protected] with the name of the event and the name of your department calendar.. Tutorials Glossary of Terms Creating Events Managing Events Sharing Events Calendar-specific Tags and Locations Switching Calendars Additional Features Creating Online Events Hiding Events Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top