Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Career Center Menu About Us Career Center Staff Mission and Calling Career Day Handshake Information News and Featured Articles Events FAQs Contact Us Students Career Resources Resume Resources Career Courses Interviewing Job Search Find Your Career Success Professional Graduate School Planning Parents Supporting Your Student Parent Guide Newsletter Employers Why Hire a Baylor Student Handshake for Employers Success Data Baylor>Career Center>Employers>Handshake for Employers Handshake for Employers Employer Recruiting Policies and Procedures Handshake Login The Baylor University Career Center utilizes the on-line career platform Handshake. Handshake allows employers to search the entire database of Baylor students with public profiles. Employers can search through résumés and find potential hires, request an interview with students, create and schedule career events, and post internship and job opportunities. All recruitment strategies begin with actively posting on Handshake, which is your one-stop-shop for engaging with Baylor students both undergraduate and graduate. Follow the steps listed below to create an account or start listing jobs and events: Access the Handshake login page here: https://baylor.joinhandshake.com/ If you do not already have an account with Handshake, click “Sign up for an Account” on the left, then select “Employer.” Fill out the required information to create your account and confirm your email address. After the introduction, you will see the “Connect with Schools” page. Baylor should already be selected, but if not just search for “Baylor” in the search box at the top of the page and click “Request to Connect.” On the “Find your Company” page, you will have the opportunity to “Join” a company that already has a profile in Handshake, or create a company profile if one has not been created previously. Contact Laurie Gentry (254) 710-2975 or Amanda Kuehl (254) 710-3771 for information and assistance. Employers Why Hire a Baylor Student Handshake for Employers Baylor University Career Center The Baylor Career Center has three locations. Sid Rich, West Wing (254) 710-3771 Foster, Suite 150 (254) 710-2975 Rogers, Suite 311 (254) 710-7516 careercenter@baylor.edu Make an Appointment On Campus Student Employment Recruit Baylor Students Work in Waco General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Us Career Center Staff Mission and Calling Career Day Handshake Information News and Featured Articles Events FAQs Contact Us Students Career Resources Resume Resources Career Courses Interviewing Job Search Find Your Career Success Professional Graduate School Planning Parents Supporting Your Student Parent Guide Newsletter Employers Why Hire a Baylor Student Handshake for Employers Success Data