[^] Menu Close Menu Skip to content Information For: Clinicians EHS Professionals Academics Executives Gov Employees More FAQs Search for: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Attendee Portal Login Harvard Chan Home Division of Policy Translation and Leadership Development Programs for Individuals Programs for Organizations News & Resources Request Information About ECPE Executive and Continuing Professional Education > Custom Programs for Organizations Programs for Individuals Custom Programs for Organizations Creating High Impact Tools to Improve Clinical Effectiveness Improving Health Care Performance Using Lean and the Theory of Constraints Optimizing Value Based Care: Advanced Strategies for Population Health Management Using Evidence-Based Nutrition Science: Achieving Healthier Organizations and Communities Frequently Asked Questions Faculty Directory Custom Programs for Organizations Our dynamic skill-based custom programs are specifically tailored to enhance your team’s performance and advance your organization’s priorities. Informed by cutting edge knowledge and world class faculty, we help you meet today’s challenges and develop tomorrow’s leaders. To learn more, please contact Rebecca Moore at 617.432.2207 or rmoore@hsph.harvard.edu. Value Process Sample Topics Results Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Value Faculty from the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health and from across Harvard University, complemented by other subject matter experts, offer a customized, practical learning experience based on research, practical applications, and active engagement in health care delivery networks around the world. We leverage Harvard’s extensive network of leading experts to engage the best faculty for the programs we deliver. Our faculty are on the cutting edge of global research and recognized for their academic and real-world contributions in health care and public health leadership. We invite leading industry and thought leaders from outside academia to provide practical perspectives and innovative thinking. We design programs that use active teaching and learning methods combined with adult learning pedagogy including cases, exercises, multi-party negotiations and simulations, lectures, outside experts, and web-based tools. Your team will return home with: Enhanced practical knowledge and tools to better contribute to the organization’s health care delivery and administrative goals Skills to integrate across health care delivery silos, to create or influence policy, and to improve health care outcomes Improved understanding of your evolving organization’s challenges in health care and global public health An up-to-date understanding of public health informed by an integrated approach to delivery, administration and team-based collaboration A more passionate and dedicated perspective with increased skills and understanding to apply to your clinical and administrative challenges, plus an expanded internal network in your organization Collaborative Process Our custom programs are designed and tailored for organizations facing pressing challenges or preparing for new opportunities. Our collaborative process to work with you to develop learning objectives integrates industry best practices, the latest research, and extensive practical experience. World-class Harvard faculty lead the design process, creating a seamless transition from concept development through program delivery and post-program evaluation. Custom programs can be delivered on Harvard’s campus or on-site at a client’s location. We recommend cohorts of at least 50 people, and routinely work with groups 25 to 100. Given the tailored nature of custom programs, the planning process from concept to delivery typically runs seven to nine months. All participants who complete an executive education custom program receive a Harvard T.H. Chan Center for Executive and Continuing Professional Education Certificate. The Harvard Chan Center for Executive and Continuing Professional Education is accredited by the Accreditation Council for Continuing Medical Education (ACCME). Sample program topics can include: Critical Health Care Policy Decentralization and Improved Health System Performance Global Health Care Systems and Reform Pharmaceuticals in the US: Cost, Coverage and Reimbursement Policies Pharmaceutical Value-Based Payment Political Feasibility and Strategies for Policy Change Purchasing and Provider Payment Reimbursement Reform and Accountable Care Organizations Understanding Medicare Payment Reform in the US Understanding the US Health Care System and US Health System Reform US Environmental Protection Agency’s Protective Action Guides Design and Measurement in Public Health Clinical Status, Quality of Life and Functional Health: Surveys, Scales and Indices Definition of Outcomes Research, Methods and Models Effectiveness Research Using Health Care Database Analytics Epidemiology Study Designs for Outcomes Research Health Economic Outcomes: Study Design, Outcomes, Analysis and Application Leading and Managing Health Care Systems and Organizations Achieving Value from IT Investment Approaches to Cost Control and Cost Reductions Clinic and Cost Effectiveness Conflict Resolution Concepts and Principles of Transformational Leadership Critical Decision Support and Knowledge Management Difficult Conversations: Managing Others Executing a Patient Safety, Quality and Patient Satisfaction Strategy Financial Analysis, Control and Decision Making Frameworks for Managing Global Health Systems Health Financing and Reform Improving Organization Performance IT Strategy Formulation in Health Care IT Leadership in Health Care Management Control Structure, Process and Reporting Mediation and Negotiation Organizational Change Models Pharmaceutical Value-Based Payment Project Management in Health Care Technology and Patient Safety Usability and the Electronic Health Record Occupational and Environmental Health and Safety Clean Room Technology Diagnosis, Treatment and Management of Low Back Pain Guidelines for Laboratory Design Hazardous Chemical, Biological, and Radioactive Lab Waste Management Industrial Hygiene In-Place Filter Testing Integrated Workplace Approaches to Improve Sleep, Health and Safety Measurement of Airborne Contaminants Participatory Approaches to Health and Wellness Recognizing Occupational Hazards Risk Management, Communications and Emergency Planning Atomic Structure, Radioactivity and Interactions Crisis and Risk Communication Epidemiology for Risk Analysis Mercury in the Environment: Exposure Pathways and Risk Public Health Emergencies and Communication Radiological Emergency Planning: Terrorism, Security, and Communications Tools and Resources for Radiological Emergency Response …and more Recent Custom Programs We have provided custom development and training programs to a wide variety of organizations in the United States and across the globe, spanning the private, public, and non-profit sectors. These are just a few recent illustrative examples of the range of our typical clients: Custom Program #1: Client: National health system Challenge: This national health system faced increasing financial pressures, complicated bureaucratic systems, and confusing accountability. Solution: Expand the executive capacity of the most talented clinical and administrative personnel within the health system, and recruit key talent from other sectors for a four-week intensive executive development course. Results: Focus: Month-long program enabled participants to design and execute strategic change within existing healthcare delivery organizations, improve consistent quality of care, and lead organizational transformation through learning, value-creation and engaging patients as co-producers of health. Program Highlights: Systems-level healthcare performance, quality and cost analysis, strategy, leadership, political engagement, innovations and governance, collaborative partnerships, site visits, and patient and family engagement. Custom Program #2: Client: Multi-national pharmaceutical company Challenge: Senior executives would benefit from expanding their knowledge of healthcare systems, healthcare reform, and population health outcomes, and would be better able to develop solutions to meet health system and population health needs. Solution: Convene corporate executives in a three-day training focused on practical frameworks and tool-kits, building a shared language to understand national healthcare delivery systems. Results: Focus: Three-day workshop that helps country teams develop and improve their capacity to effectively engage national stakeholders to generate reforms that support sustainable, value-based care Program Highlights: Analyze system performance through new country-specific case studies focusing on the technical and political dimensions of healthcare reform in selected countries, and open discussions with former Ministers of Health representing ‘client’ perspectives. Participants also prepared ‘challenge cases’ to apply the tools learning through the program to their own unique, difficult situations. Custom Program #3: Client: Large, regional medical practice Challenge: Physicians and administrators in leadership roles must balance financial responsibilities, competitive pressures, and human resource needs while streamlining their healthcare delivery systems, improving outcomes, delivery quality, and ensuring patient satisfaction. Solution: Custom program that creates physician and administrative teams to nominate and develop solutions for key organizational challenges using leadership concepts and techniques, opportunities to practice and apply knowledge, and self-assessment feedback. Results: Focus: Two days per month, eight-day program focused on leadership theory and practice, leading teams, conflict resolution and negotiations, financial management and control, change management, and developing innovative practice improvements. Program Highlights:Teams presented to C-suite on solutions to key challenges facing the organization at the end of the program. Custom Program #4: Client: Multi-national health organization Challenge: Complex national health systems vary widely by local conditions, customs and circumstances. During health system reform initiatives, the goals and values of policy makers shape the spectrum of potential solutions. Solution: Develop shared language and frameworks for health system reform in the Middle East/North Africa region for mid- and high-level ministry of health officials working on a potential regional approach to healthcare reform. Results: Focus: Ten-day program focusing on such critical topics in health systems transformation to improve population health outcomes, health financing and universal coverage, public or private sector health care, decentralization, regulatory issues, strategy, leadership, and organizational change. Highlights: Ministry officials expanded their understanding of national health systems, system performance, key measurement issues, ethical choices underlying policy change, assessing political feasibility, and identified key leadership and management challenges and critical success factors to health system reform. Custom Program #5: Client: National professional association in Brazil Challenge: Businesses that wish to improve their employees’ health and well-being lack the tools to design and implement a systems-level approach that enables them to leverage their investment in their employees, develop stakeholder support, and assess impact. Solution: A five day program designed to help companies develop an integrated and adaptable systems approach to employee health and well-being, an impact evaluation tool, and an action plan. Results: Focus: Program focused on practical approaches to improving employee health and well-being, including integrated approaches to improving sleep, health and safety, communicating the value proposition of improved employee health, the importance of supervisor support, and creating integrated guidelines for their organizations. Highlights: The program provided participants with the rationale, evidence and case for 1) developing an integrated approach to wellness, 2) building internal support, 3)developing goals, strategies and implementation plans, and 4)designing evaluation tools. Program Topic Areas Include Architecture, Design, and Construction Culture of Health Emergency Planning and Management Environmental Health and Safety Health Information Technology Health Policy & Organizational Strategy Health, Well-being, & Nutrition Hospital and Health Care Administration Leadership & Management Occupational Health and Safety Outcomes Research Pharmaceuticals & Biotechnology Project Management Public Health Education Radiation Safety and Protection Research Improvement & Innovation Risk Communication and Analysis Uncategorized Harvard Chan Executive and Continuing Professional Education on Twitter Explore topics such as #ergonomics, ventilation, and noise reduction in Comprehensive Industrial Hygiene, taking pl… https://t.co/BdNZzmA9ty As @HarvardChanSPH celebrates its graduates this week at commencement, we wanted to share some recent photos of ECP… https://t.co/1Nmyyb0gCA Only 10 days left to enroll in Leading in Health Systems! Register today to gain the knowledge and tools needed to… https://t.co/NsXlA6vXOI Curious about Measurement, Design, and Analysis Methods for #HealthOutcomesResearch? Download the program brochure… https://t.co/nDTX26bhqf Information For: Clinicians EHS Professionals Academics Executives Gov Employees More Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Executive and Continuing Professional Education 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 617-432-2100 contedu@hsph.harvard.edu Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Harvard Chan Home Harvard University Home Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College