Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Herff College of Engineering About Future Students Students Programs Research Alumni News | Events Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Engineering Departmental Sites Biomedical Engineering Civil Engineering Electrical and Computer Engineering Engineering Technology Mechanical Engineering Take Action Visit Herff Apply to UofM Orientation 2022 Contact Us Follow Us Online FacebooktwitterLinkedIn Home Herff College of Engineering Engineering Departments Mechanical Engineering Mechanical Engineering Mechanical engineering ranges from basic research and product development to marketing launches of products that make life better every day. Transportation (trains, planes, automobiles), entertainment devices (TVs, earbuds, gameplayers), computers and various other routine daily products are things that were made possible by mechanical engineers. Are you curious about how to build safer and more efficient cars? Or how to make smaller machines than we have ever built before? Or how to replace old, polluting, expensive energy systems with clean, reliable, sustainable ones? Then mechanical engineering is for you. Mechanical engineering deals with the development of machinery and tools and provides graduates with one of the broadest skill sets in engineering. CAREER OUTLOOK Herff prepares students for careers in a variety of industries from transportation to aerospace and defense to manufacturing and processing. Mechanical engineers work in professional office settings, frequently visit worksites, work in production environments and even travel around the world. They work for companies, government and not-for-profits in a wide variety of roles, including leadership, research, development, design, testing and marketing. BY THE NUMBERS 295 Herff is home to 295 undergrad ME majors. 10 The Herff Mechanical Engineering program offers ten areas of unique emphasis: additive manufacturing, fatigue and fracture, aerosol engineering, computational fluid dynamics, biomaterials, cryogenic propellant management, computational materials science, wind energy, advanced metals and alloys. 04 Research laboratories in our ME program: Aerosol Engineering, Computational Fluid Dynamics, Fatigue and Fracture, Metal Additive Manufacturing. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/19/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.