Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Office of Student Services Menu Main Nav Office of Student Services Office of Student Services Academic Calendar Back Back Close About Overview Contact Hours Student Checklists Notices & Disclosures June Checklist Registrar Overview Academic Calendar 2022–2023 Academic Calendar 2023–2024 Academic Calendar Registration Calendar Summer 2022 Registration Spring 2023 Registration Summer 2023 Registration Fall 2023 Registration Course Information & Schedule Course Registration Undergraduate Registration Graduate Registration Summer Registration Cross Registration Final Exam Schedule Course Evaluations Enrollment Certification Transcript Requests Name Change Academic Forms & Diploma Information Financial Aid Overview Undergraduate Financial Aid How Aid Works Applying for Aid Types of Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Policies & Eligibility Graduate & Law Financial Aid Applying for Aid Types of Financial Aid After Receiving Your Award Cost of Attendance International Students Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Wellness Financial Aid Forms Contact Related Links Undergraduate Cost of Attendance Graduate & Law Cost of Attendance Billing & Student Accounts Overview Billing Tuition & Fees Loan Repayment Medical Insurance Eagle One Card MBTA Passes & Parking Permits Student Employment Overview Job Listings 21–22 Academic Year On-Campus 21–22 Academic Year Off-Campus FWS 2022 Summer On-Campus 2022 Summer Off-Campus FWS Finding a Job On Campus Finding a Job Off Campus Earned Sick Time New Hires Frequently Asked Questions Information for Employers Warning: Job Scams & Fraud Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund (HEERF) Close Academic Calendar Directory A to Z Listing Search Student Services Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Financial Aid Graduate & Law Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Graduate & Law Financial Aid Applying for Aid Types of Financial Aid After Receiving Your Award Cost of Attendance International Students Frequently Asked Questions Frequently Asked Questions Applying for Aid Award Letter Loan Repayment Student Employment Print Open All Close All What are the preferred deadlines for Federal financial aid? Summer Loan and/or Summer Work-Study Applicants: Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) submitted for processing by February 4 Academic Year Applicants: Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) submitted for processing by March 5 Applicants applying to programs with admission deadlines before February 1 are advised to submit a FAFSA electronically by February 4. Can I apply for Federal financial aid after the preferred deadline? Yes. However, those who apply first will receive their awards first. You may still apply for assistance at any time during the academic year. Please note that funding may be limited for late applicants. Please read the message to late applicants on the Applying for Aid web page, under Your Unique Situation. How soon should I submit the FAFSA for processing? You should apply as early as possible, but not before October 1. The completed and signed FAFSA is to be submitted to the federal processor as indicated in the instructions. What is Boston College's federal school code? Boston College's federal school code is 002128. Do I need to apply for aid each year? Yes. Both Boston College and the federal government require students to apply for aid each year, since it is possible that a student's financial situation may change year-to-year. What is the cost of a Boston College graduate or law school education? Tuition rates for graduate and law students can be found on the Graduate and Law Financial Aid Cost of Attendance web page. Are international students eligible to receive Federal financial aid? There is no federal financial aid for international students at the graduate level at Boston College. All international students should make arrangements for their college financial obligations prior to coming into the country. For more information visit the International Students web page. How can I apply for an institutional award? Boston College Graduate and Law Institutional funds (assistantships, fellowships, grants, scholarships, stipends, and tuition remission) are awarded by the individual graduate schools or law school. Students who wish to be considered for institutional funds should contact the appropriate graduate or law school admissions office. Notification of departmental awards are electronically forwarded to the Office of Student Services by the individual graduate schools or law school to ensure proper coordination of all University financial aid resources, as required by federal financial aid regulations. It is helpful for students to send copies of their Institutional Awards to the Office of Student Services Processing Center. Total financial aid cannot exceed total calculated federal eligibility. If your total financial aid resources, including assistantships, fellowships, grants, scholarships, non-service stipends, and tuition remission (but excluding alternative loans) exceeds your total calculated federal eligibility, an adjustment to need-based financial assistance is required. Private loan funding may be used to fill the gap between calculated federal eligibility and the total cost of attendance for the academic year. Depending on the timing of the notification from the academic department, it is very possible that adjustments to your award could be made anytime after the start of the academic year. These adjustments may require the repayment of loans that have already been disbursed. Is Federal financial aid available for the summer semester? Graduate students who enroll half-time during the summer (6 credits in most cases) may be eligible to receive federal financial aid for that period. If you are interested in being considered for summer financial aid, you must complete the 2021–2022 FAFSA. It is advised that you also complete the 2021–2022 BC Graduate and Law Student Supplemental Information Form. Print Open All Close All Do outside scholarships affect the amount of Federal financial aid I receive? It is possible that outside aid could affect the amount of federal aid a graduate student receives. Please send copies of any scholarship awards to the Office of Student Services so that your financial aid can be reevaluated. Your award will be adjusted if necessary, and you will be notified if there are any changes. What happens if my personal financial circumstances change? Our goal is to accurately review your ability to contribute to your educational costs and ensure that Boston College has awarded you the best financial aid package available based on the information provided to our office. If you feel that an error was made in what has been reported, or if your personal financial circumstances have changed, an aid award can be reconsidered. If you are requesting an increase to your Cost of Attendance due to rent or medical/dental expenses not covered by insurance, you will need to provide documentation of these expenses, along with copies of your lease and/or receipts to your Financial Aid Counselor along with a Letter of Appeal. Any request for an appeal must be submitted in writing to your Financial Aid Counselor. A written response from your Financial Aid Counselor can be expected within two weeks of the receipt of the appeal. How do I cancel or reduce the amount of a loan awarded to me? If you would like to cancel or reduce a loan, you must notify us in writing before the end of the add/drop period for the semester. Students can edit their financial aid in the Award Notification. Awards must be disbursed equally per award period and reduced equally as well. An award period is generally two concurrent semesters. If you are starting in the summer, your award period is summer and fall. Your summer and fall loan disbursements must be disbursed equally and reduced equally. Spring is an award period by itself. If you start in the fall, then fall and spring is your award period. When reducing your award any balance must be paid first so that the loan amount can be returned. Once you have changed the amounts, click the "Continue" button at the bottom of the page. You will need to enter your password in order for the changes to be sent. The changes are sent to your Financial Aid Counselor. As these changes are done manually, not electronically, please allow up to two weeks for them to be processed completely. How do I request a refund from my student account? When a student has a credit balance on their account after the bill is paid they can take the credit as a refund to use for living and educational expenses. Refunds can be processed by direct deposit into your checking or savings account. Direct deposit is free and completely secure, and it ensures you will receive your refunds faster and without the hassle of picking up and depositing checks. To enroll in direct deposit, log in to www.bc.edu/myservices. Select "My Bill," then select "Direct Deposit." Enter your account information. If you have stored a payment profile in My Bill you can use that account without having to reenter the information. Once enrolled in direct deposit, you can request your refund by selecting "Request Student Refund" from the Agora Portal. Paper checks are processed only once per week. You can consult the refund availability schedule at www.bc.edu/refunds. Print Open All Close All When do I begin repayment of my Federal Direct Loans? The Federal Direct Loan has a grace period of six months. Repayment begins six months after graduation or after a student leaves school or falls below half-time status. Can I defer payment of my undergraduate Federal Direct Loans as a graduate student? On January 1, 1995, Boston College signed a contract with the National Student Loan Clearinghouse. This organization specializes in confirming student statuses for loan guarantors and servicers. The contract mandates that all student loan deferments must be signed by an official at the Clearinghouse only. Under certain circumstances, you may qualify for a deferment for prior federal education loan(s) that you have borrowed. If you are enrolled half-time in a degree program, you may qualify for a deferment. These loans may include Direct or Guaranteed Student Loans, National Direct Loans, or Perkins Loans. A detailed description of deferment provisions is available at the United States Department of Education's website. To obtain further information about a possible deferment of your prior loans, please contact your lender or loan servicer. It will be necessary for you to provide enrollment verification to your lender before your loan(s) can be deferred. Please contact your lender to obtain a Deferment Form. If you receive repayment requests from your lender after school has begun, submit the completed Deferment Form to the Office of Student Services for processing. Although the staff of the Office of Student Services does not process the Deferment Forms themselves, they will forward the forms to the Clearinghouse. Students, themselves, should not forward the deferment forms to the Clearinghouse. Print Open All Close All Am I guaranteed a job on campus if I have been awarded Federal Work-Study? No. Federal Work-Study is an opportunity to work; it is not a guarantee of on-campus employment. Boston College also provides off-campus employment opportunities with non-profit organizations as well as with city, state, and federal government offices that contract with our University. Federal Work-Study offers a wide range of employment opportunities, including community service and reading/math tutors. Please visit the Office of Student Services' Student Employment web page to learn more about employment opportunities. Are Federal Work-Study earnings deducted from the student account? No. Students have their earnings deposited directly to their bank account or receive a paycheck. How do I find a student employment job? Students may seek student employment opportunities on the Office of Student Services' Student Employment web page. Rate of pay and hours are arranged with the employer in all cases. Back To Top Back To Top Office of Student Services Lyons Hall 103 Phone: 617-552-3300 or 800-294-0294 studentservices@bc.edu Facebook Twitter Instagram 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College