Your browser does not support iframes. Skip to main content Menu Scheller College of Business Request More Information Attend an Info Session Contact Us Directory Apply Now Search Why Scheller? Programs Executive Education Academics Centers & Initiatives News & Events Overview & History Dean's Message and Report Meet Ernest Scheller Jr. Advisory Board Accreditation Strategic Plan Business at Tech Graduates Get Hired Return on Investment Faculty and Advisors Global Perspective A Good Fit Corporate Engagement Trading Floor Georgia Tech Community Student Life Making Connections and Learning Opportunities Diversity Diversity News Career and Recruiter Services Career Services for Students Hire Our Students Giving to the College Meeting the Challenge Priorities and Needs Faculty Support Student Support Program Enrichment Unrestricted Endowment The Impact of Your Gift How to Make a Gift FAQs Scheller MBA Annual Fund Alumni Network Alumni News Alumni Resources Update Contact Information Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Full-time MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQsEvening MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Advancement Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQs Executive MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Student & Alumni Profiles FAQsMBA Programs Which Georgia Tech MBA is Right for Me? Commitment to Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Dual Degree Options Experiential Learning For Engineers For Military Community MD/MBA Option MBA Early Admission for Undergrads Rankings The Intersection Podcast Earn Your MBA in Atlanta Graduate Certificate Business Analytics Certificate Undergraduate Admissions Curriculum Career Services Student Services Student Life Scholarships & Awards Rankings & Stats Connect With Us The Intersection Podcast, Undergrad PhD Concentrations Program Milestones Faculty and Staff Funding Admissions FAQs Recruiting Events Student Bios Program News Request Program Information Interdisciplinary M.S. M.S. in Quantitative & Computational Finance (QCF) Master of Science in Analytics at Georgia Tech Lean Six Sigma Certification Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Certification Lean Six Sigma Black Belt Certification FAQs Custom Programs FAQs Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Engineering Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship International Management Management of Technology Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results Academic Speaker Series Guest Speakers in Accounting Guest Speakers in Finance Guest Speakers in Marketing Current Faculty Opportunities Business Analytics Center Engage with Us Executive Council News Research Education People Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics About Cecil B. Day The Cecil B. Day Prize Speakers and Events Faculty Support Net Impact Center for International Business Education and Research Projects Research Events Books People at CIBER Inside CIBER News and Events Archives International Management Certificate Sign Up for Future CIBER News Financial Analysis Lab Subscribe to Reports Institute for Leadership and Social Impact About Us Programs News Impact Speaker Series Leadership for Social Good Study Abroad Program Social Impact Fellows Ideas to Serve (I2S) Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Servant Leadership Programs Minor in Leadership Studies Excel Alumni Other ILSI Programs Partnerships Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business About Us Sustainable Business Insights Research Briefs Sustainable Business Events Sustainable Business News Blog Research & Thought Leadership Empowering Students Industry Engagement Newsletter Participating in the Drawdown Georgia Compact Drawdown Georgia Business Compact Meet the Team Alumni Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program Director's Message About Steven A. Denning T&M Curriculum Program Faculty & Staff Admissions T&M Corporate Affiliates Denning T&M Program News TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta Program Network TI:GER MBA & PhD FAQs News Apply Inquire Resources in Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller News & Events Home » Centers & Initiatives » Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results (TI:GER Program) » News April 15, 2022 TI:GER Ph.D. Student Sets Up Oxford Immune Algorithmics (OIA) for $7M RaiseRead more April 06, 2022 The Creative Destruction Lab at Georgia Tech Scheller Hosts Commerce Stream Session for Founders, Mentors, and MBAsRead more 2022 2021 2020 Archives April 15, 2022 TI:GER Ph.D. Student Sets Up Oxford Immune Algorithmics (OIA) for $7M Raise Through the Creative Destruction Lab at the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business, Amir Hejri contributes to biotech start-up OIA’s success, working with the company to achieve business objectives and accelerate growth as he finishes his dissertation. Read more April 06, 2022 The Creative Destruction Lab at Georgia Tech Scheller Hosts Commerce Stream Session for Founders, Mentors, and MBAs For the first time in two years, CDL-Atlanta hosted founders, mentors, and Georgia Tech Scheller MBA students in person in a Super Session for start-up companies participating in the Commerce Stream. Read more March 17, 2022 Creative Destruction Lab Launches New Global Space Stream at Georgia Tech Scheller The launch of the global Space stream of the Creative Destruction Lab at the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business unlocks a new world of possibilities for founders and students. Read more February 15, 2022 Georgia Tech MBAs Tap Into The Creative Destruction Lab What is CDL-Atlanta, operated by the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Strategy and Innovation department? And how is it integrated with the Georgia Tech TI:GER program? Read more December 02, 2021 The Intersection Podcast: TI:GER: Technology Innovation and Commercialization with Jonathan Giuliano and Kyle Winkler MBA host Leo Haigh talks with Jonathan Giuliano, director of TI:GER and academic lead of CDL-Atlanta, and second-year MBA student Kyle Winkler about the Scheller MBA TI:GER program. Read more November 11, 2021 From Georgia Tech Scheller Student to CEO: Meet Tech Industry Founders Aaron Enten, Daniel Frye, and Jean Marie Richardson Three Georgia Tech alumni discuss their journeys from the classrooms of the Scheller College of Business to success as tech industry entrepreneurs. Read more July 16, 2021 A Nurturing Ground for Startups and Founders: Creative Destruction Lab at the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Meet the Creative Destruction Lab, a nurturing ground for startups and founders at the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business. Read more July 07, 2021 Scheller’s TI:GER Program: Q&A with ISyE Ph.D. Students Jana Boerger and Emma Wu 2022 TI:GER students Jana Boerger, Georgia Tech H. Milton Stewart School of ISyE Ph.D. candidate in machine learning, and Di (Emma) Wu, ISyE Ph.D. candidate in operations research, share their experience in the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business TI:GER and Creative Destruction Lab - Atlanta program. Read more November 18, 2020 Creative Destruction Lab Kicks Off Commerce Stream at Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business CDL-Atlanta, in partnership with the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business, launched the first session of its Commerce stream, bringing together a community of experienced mentors and scientists to help founders of massively scalable science-and tech-based companies move from the lab to the market. Read more August 05, 2020 Creating Tech Solutions to Fight Covid-19: The Real-World Impact of Scheller College’s CDL-Atlanta and TI:GER Global Technology Innovation Practicum At the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business, practicums are a vital way for students to gain in-depth knowledge and insights into real-world issues. Scheller College’s TI:GER (Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results) program offers a Global Technology Innovation Practicum that is uniquely positioned to provide students with hands-on experience in tech innovation and strategy to help solve the most pressing problems companies face. Read more July 22, 2020 Creative Destruction Lab Launches Newest Stream: CDL Commerce CDL-Atlanta, a nonprofit organization based at Georgia Tech that delivers an objectives-based program for science- and technology-based companies, announces a new program focused on innovative technologies with the potential to disrupt online and offline retail. Read more July 17, 2020 Eight Scheller Community Members Honored in 2020 Georgia Tech Alumni Association 40 Under 40 Eight members of the Scheller College of Business community made the list of 40 distinguished honorees in the Georgia Tech Alumni Association’s inaugural "40 under 40" list. Read more June 25, 2020 Why Should Georgia Tech PhD Students Get Involved with TI:GER? Are you a PhD candidate working on a research project with commercialization potential? Learn how Scheller College of Business' TI:GER program can turn your innovative technology research into economic results. Read more May 29, 2020 Creative Destruction Lab Kicks Off Global Program to Address Global Crisis The Creative Destruction Lab (CDL) kicked off its new RECOVERY program yesterday which was conceived, designed, built, and launched in eight weeks to accelerate the world’s recovery from the COVID-19 crisis through information-based solutions. Read more May 05, 2020 New Practicum Pairs Georgia Tech Programs to Accelerate COVID-19 Solutions In the first educational offering of its kind, a new course titled Global Technology Innovation Practicum will build on the fundamentals of the TI:GER® (Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results) program while narrowing its focus to innovating for the COVID-19 crisis. Read more April 28, 2020 CDL Recovery: Applications Now Open The Scheller College of Business has joined the Creative Destruction Lab’s global network to launch a program that addresses public health and economic recovery challenges that are emerging in the current crisis. Applications are now being accepted from all types of innovative teams. Read more April 28, 2020 Marco Ceccagnoli, Professor of Strategy and Innovation Promoted to Brady Family in Management Professorship Marco Ceccagnoli, professor of Strategy & Innovation and area coordinator of Strategy and Innovation has been appointed to the Brady Family in Management Professorship. Read more April 15, 2020 CDL Deploys Rapid Response Effort Connecting Entrepreneurs, Scientists, and Venture Capitalists to Deliver COVID-19 Solutions CDL-Atlanta, Georgia Tech’s Creative Destruction Lab program for the commercialization of early-stage science, is pivoting to help respond to the global COVID-19 crisis. Read more March 19, 2020 App Detects Harsh Side Effect of Breast Cancer Treatment Former TI:GER MBA student and Tech colleagues publish a new study showing the success of their app for breast cancer survivors. Read more December 09, 2019 LymphaTech TI:GER team co-founders, Nate Frank and Mike Weiler, announce strategic partnership with medi®, one of the leading medical compression garment manufacturers Georgia Tech and TIGER® alumni, Nate Frank and Mike Weiler, co-founders of LymphaTech, announced their partnership with medi® to launch medi vision, a new compression garment measuring experience that creates a fast and accurate digital scan for patients affected by edema and other conditions requiring medical compression. Read more September 04, 2019 TI:GER Ph.D. Grad David Montes De Oca Zapiain with team SwiftMat Turns Machine Learning Research into Startup Ph.D. graduate David Montes De Oca Zapiain didn’t plan to be an entrepreneur, but a great experience in Georgia Tech’s TI:GER program encouraged him to turn his research into a business plan that he is pursuing while working as a postdoc at Sandia National Laboratory. In this Q&A he talks about how he ended up staying at Tech for three degrees, and how he found a surprising level of support for taking his idea to market. Read more May 17, 2019 Tech TI:GER Team Wins TiE Young Entrepreneurship University Global Pitchfest Competition for Speech Disorders Two Georgia Tech students in Scheller College of Business’ Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results (TI:GER) program recently won first place in the inaugural The Indus Entrepreneurs (TiE) Young Entrepreneurs University Global Pitchfest Competition Read more May 16, 2019 Scheller 2nd Year Students Take Second Place in Race and Case Competition The Scheller MBA Team took 2nd place at the Race and Case Competition in Denver, Colorado. The event is hosted by the Daniels College of Business (University of Denver) and provides a unique experience as a premier business ethics case competition combined with an alpine ski challenge. Read more May 03, 2019 Georgia Trend’s May Issue Features Scheller College’s Associate Dean Brian Jennings and Recent Alumnus Jamie Foss A story in Georgia Trend’s May issue titled "Mastering the Future" highlights Scheller College of Business’ experiential learning opportunities as well as the convergence of technology and business – which is perfectly aligned with Scheller College’s unique positioning at the intersection of business and technology. Read more April 03, 2019 Ideas to Serve Competition – ‘Know What You Don’t Know’ Applicants for the 2019 Ideas to Serve (I2S) competition are exploring and addressing a number of issues both locally and globally from plastic waste reduction, disaster response in low-income communities, food security, global health, prison reform, education, and more! Read more May 08, 2018 Declan Nishiyama Named as “Best & Brightest MBAs in the Class of 2018” by Poets & Quants Scheller College is proud to announce that Declan Nishiyama has been selected by Poets & Quants (P&Q) as “The Best & Brightest MBAs in the Class of 2018.” Declan, a 2018 graduate of the Full-time MBA Program, served as Class Vice President of Finance and captain of the MBA intramural soccer teams. He also co-founded the Scheller Student Speaker program and volunteered at Open Hand Atlanta and the local veteran’s hospital. Read more May 01, 2018 Countdown to Commencement: Declan Nishiyama Meet Full-time MBA student Declan Nishiyama. Declan was recently recognized in Poets & Quants 2018 Best and Brightest MBAs. As part of our Countdown to Commencement series, we spent some time with a few soon-to-be graduates from our undergraduate and MBA programs to learn about their backgrounds, why they chose Scheller College, and what they plan to do with their degrees after Spring 2018 Commencement. Read more April 27, 2018 Ernest Scheller, Jr. Visits His Namesake College From meeting with Bud Peterson to spending time with students and listening to final presentations, including Denning Technology & Management (T&M) Program, TI:GER, and Full-time MBA strategy capstone, Mr. Ernest Scheller, namesake of Scheller College of Business, spent a day on campus this Spring. Read more April 23, 2018 TI:GER Sweeps TYE Atlanta Competition Second-year TI:GER teams swept the podium claiming first, second and third place in the TiE Young Entrepreneur (TYE) competition finals held in Atlanta on April 21. Winning teams were Atramento, Oculus Prime, and Lunula Health. Read more April 17, 2018 Countdown to Commencement: Chris Bergman Meet Full-time MBA student Chris Bergman. Chris describes himself as an “experienced leader who thrives in dynamic environments” who takes pride in facilitating successful teams. As part of our Countdown to Commencement series, we spent some time with a few soon-to-be graduates from our undergraduate and MBA programs to learn about their backgrounds, why they chose Scheller College, and what they plan to do with their degrees after Spring 2018 Commencement. Read more April 13, 2018 Scheller College TI:GER Teams Win Prize Money at Rice Business Plan Competition Scheller College TI:GER teams Lunula Health and Oculus Prime recently made a big splash at the world’s richest and largest graduate-student start-up competition. Hosted by colleges and centers at Rice University, the Rice Business Plan Competition gives collegiate entrepreneurs a real-world experience to fine tune their business plans and elevator pitches to generate funding to successfully commercialize their product. Read more November 29, 2017 TI:GER teams present at Georgia Bio’s Innovation Summit Three TI:GER teams won acceptance to present at Georgia Bio’s Innovation Summit, Georgia’s premier bioscience and medtech conference. Read more May 30, 2017 TI:GER Graduation 2017 Here is a list of all of our 2017 graduates. Read more May 23, 2017 New TI:GER Teams Wrapping Up a Successful First Year The new incoming class of TI:GER students did outstanding work this year on their commercialization plans with several teams already achieving major recognition. Read more August 08, 2016 Georgia Tech Alumnus Robert Gemmell Named Executive Director of the TI:GER Program Robert Gemmell, BSEE 1979, MSEE 1980, returns to Georgia Tech as the new executive director of the Technological Innovation: Generating Economic Results (TI:GER) program. Read more April 12, 2016 Ideas to Serve Competition Honors Business Concepts Aiming to Better the World Bac-Off, a long lasting antibacterial solution for textiles that targets reducing hospital acquired infections, and Memora Health, a personalized healthcare solution, were the top teams in the 2016 Ideas to Serve (I2S) Competition at Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business. Read more April 12, 2016 TI:GER Innovation Conference: Solutions in Healthcare The inaugural TI:GER Innovation Conference: Solutions in Healthcare was held at Emory Law in January. It was an exciting forum to share current healthcare business practices, discuss the legal and economic challenges, and showcase new technology from the TI:GER teams. Read more April 12, 2016 TI:GER Welcomes Three New Board Members Three new board members have joined the TI:GER Board: David Cummings, CEO at Atlanta Ventures and founder of the Atlanta Tech Village; Blake Patton, Chairman of the Board of Pointivo and Venture Atlanta; and Al Trujillo, President and Chief Operating Officer of the Georgia Tech Foundation, Inc. Read more March 09, 2016 Technology to Help Remove Heat from Electronics Wins 2016 Startup Competition A team that can better remove heat from your electronic devices won Georgia Tech’s 2016 Startup Competition ($10,000 prize). Read more April 24, 2015 Tech TI:GER Team Wins TiE Entrepreneurship Competition for Spinal Implant Device Georgia Tech’s Viapore team recently won first place ($5,000) in the TiE Atlanta Young Entrepreneurs University Competition for its medical device to improve the outcomes of spinal surgery. Read more March 12, 2015 Technology to Monitor Diabetes in Pets Wins 2015 Startup Competition A team with technology that could help monitor the condition of cats and dogs with diabetes won Georgia Tech’s 2015 Startup Competition ($15,000, plus the Edison Prize: a $15,000 convertible note). Read more April 22, 2014 TI:GER Team LymphaTech on Winning Streak in Business Plan Competitions LymphaTech, a team that evolved in Georgia Tech's TI:GER® (Technological Innovation: Generating Economic Results) Program, is on a winning streak at national and international business plan competitions. Read more March 21, 2014 TI:GER® Team CheckDroid Wins First Place at Startup Madness CheckDroid, a team that evolved in Georgia Tech's TI:GER® (Technological Innovation: Generating Economic Results) Program, won the 4th annual ACC Startup Madness in Raleigh, NC. Read more March 08, 2013 TI:GER Team GoNow Wins Business Plan Competition for Bladder Control Technology Technology that could help spinal-cord injury sufferers control their bladder by remote control won first place ($10,000) in the 2013 Georgia Tech Business Plan Competition. Read more February 20, 2013 Full-time MBA Profile: Entrepreneurship Program Preparing Heather Y. Kim for Future Careers Second-year MBA student Heather Y. Kim credits a lot of her drive for success to her father, who brought his family to Atlanta from South Korea with only $300 in his pocket when she was four years old. Read more April 05, 2011 TI:GER Program Awarded Grant for Collaboration with German University Georgia Tech's TI:GER® (Technological Innovation: Generating Economic Results) Program recently won a grant from Georgia Tech's Fund for Innovation in Research and Innovation (GT FIRE) for an international technology commercialization project, to be conducted in collaboration with Ludwig Maximilian University (LMU) of Munich, Germany. Read more February 09, 2011 TI:GER® Team Secure InfoShare Places in the 2011 Georgia Bowl® Business Plan Competition Secure InfoShare, a company that evolved in the TI:GER® (Technological Innovation: Generating Economic Results) Program, placed third in the 2011 Georgia Bowl® Business Plan Competition on February 5. Secure InfoShare is developing security software in partnership with Children's Healthcare of Atlanta and Emory University for use in the electronic medical records market. Read more More Jun 09 12:00 pm-1:00 pm Full-time MBA Program Overview Webinar Attend this webinar to learn more about Georgia Tech's top-ranked Full-time MBA program and advancing your career. Scheller College of Business Home Why Scheller? Overview & History Business at Tech Georgia Tech Community Career and Recruiter Services Giving to the College Alumni Network Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Programs MBA Undergraduate PhD Interdisciplinary M.S. Executive Education Lean Six Sigma Certification Custom Programs Academics Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Academic Speaker Series Current Faculty Opportunities Centers & Initiatives Business Analytics Center Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics Center for International Business Education and Research Financial Analysis Lab Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta News & Events Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller LinkedIn Instagram Facebook Twitter Youtube Flickr Georgia Institute of Technology Scheller College of Business 800 W. Peachtree St. NW Atlanta, GA 30308 404.894.2600 © 2021 Georgia Institute of Technology Intranet Emergency Information Contact the College Privacy & Legal Notice Accountability Web Accessibility Resources for People with Disabilities Plugins Youtube Usage Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures