Covid-19: Get the latest updates here Apply to JTS Contact Campus Life Alumni Get Email Updates Donate Now Search About Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund Leadership History JTS and Israel Conservative Judaism Offices & Resources Policies Accreditation Visit JTS Admissions List College Admissions Davidson School Admissions Rabbinical School Admissions Gershon Kekst Graduate School Admissions H. L. Miller Cantorial School Admissions Take a Virtual Tour Academics Academics School List College The William Davidson School The Rabbinical School The Gershon Kekst Graduate School H. L. Miller Cantorial School Faculty & Scholars Faculty & Scholars Center & Institutes Center for Pastoral Education Block / Kolker Center for Spiritual Arts The Hendel Center for Ethics and Justice Milstein Center for Interreligious Dialogue Louis Finkelstein Institute for Religious & Social Studies Research Institutes Summer Programs Nishma Summer Sessions Summer Hebrew Language Courses Professional Training Professional Training CONTINUING EDUCATION FOR CLERGY The Rabbinic Training Institute (RTI) Summer Rabbinic Learning Conference Online Learning for Rabbis and Cantors FOR JEWISH EDUCATORS Day School Leadership Training Institute (DSLTI) Jewish Early Childhood Education Leadership Institute (JECELI) Ivriyon: Hebrew Immersion Institute for Day School Educators Jewish Day School Standards and Benchmarks FOR OTHER PROFESSIONALS NAASE Week of Study Community Learning Community Learning ONLINE Live Online Classes JTS Torah Online BEYOND THE CAMPUS JTS Learning in Your Community Courses and Curricula LEARNING EVENTS Public Lectures and Events FOR 8TH-12TH GRADERS Prozdor Teen Learning Library About The Library Letter from the Librarian Library Services The New JTS Library Library Programs and Events Library Online Exhibits Special Collections JTS Library Membership Email a Librarian News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Professional Training Day School Leadership Training Institute (DSLTI) Day School Leadership Training Institute (DSLTI) The Day School Leadership Training Institute (DSLTI) prepares new and aspiring heads of school for their work in Jewish day schools by providing engaging experiential learning opportunities, cutting-edge leadership development, ongoing mentoring, and the chance to collaboratively problem-solve with cohort peers. Applications for Cohort 13 will be accepted beginning in fall 2022. For inquiries, please contact dslti@jtsa.edu. DSLTI alumni provide outstanding leadership in over 75 day schools across North America and Israel, from Montreal to Hod HaSharon. “At DSLTI I have had multiple opportunities for deep and meaningful learning, ranging from budgets and marketing, to spiritual check-ins through Jewish text, and the challenges and opportunities facing the Jewish Day School movement. All this, while cultivating deep relationships with colleagues and mentors, providing a lasting impact, well beyond that of any content area.” —Debby Arzt-Mor, Director of Jewish Learning, Brandeis School of San Francisco Who It’s For DSLTI is an invaluable professional development experience for serious, motivated Jewish educators—educators who already work in their schools’ leadership or those who are working toward more advanced positions. The ideal participant: Expresses a strong commitment to Jewish values, literacy, religious purposefulness and peoplehood. Demonstrates superior collaborative skills. Is highly organized and efficient. Tackles leadership challenges strategically and creativity. A participant might be: A new head of school (one to two years in the headship). An incoming head of school. A principal of lower school, middle school, or upper school. A Judaic or general studies coordinator. An experienced educator who has a record of instructional leadership: teacher leader, grade-level chair, school leadership team member, rabbi-in-residence, or professional developer. A synagogue school director. In addition to preparing educators to take on leadership positions in day schools across North America, DSLTI generates an incredible support network for participants—program alumni continue to work and collaborate with one another long after the program ends, giving participants a strong professional community to encourage continued growth and advancement. How DSLTI Prepares Inspiring Leaders The 15-month program is highly interactive, incorporating case studies, simulations, and problem-based learning to help participants develop an advanced leadership style that combines self-reflection with Jewish values. Two three-week summer sessions—one each summer for two consecutive years—and a series of three-day retreats prepare participants to think as strategic heads of school, ask critical questions, develop problem-solving strategies, and work collaboratively with school staff and lay leaders. Our program values experimentation and self-reflection, innovation and continual assessment. DSLTI will help educators understand the intersection of their personal Jewish journeys and their professional lives by filtering instruction through three connected lenses: Judaism: We explore how a Jewish worldview informs educational theory and grounds practice and decision-making. Education: We enhance curriculum development and assessment, knowledge of learning theories and practice in contemporary society, professional development, and school culture. Leadership: We develop skills in communication, budget and finance, development, recruitment and retention, marketing, board relations, and organizational change. Applying to DSLTI Applications for Cohort 13 will be accepted beginning in fall 2022. For inquiries, please contact dslti@jtsa.edu. SHARE THIS PAGE STAY IN TOUCH SO WE CAN SHARE NEWS, OPPORTUNITIES, AND EVENTS UPDATE YOUR CONTACT INFO RESOURCES Current Students Faculty & Scholars CONNECT WITH US Get Email Updates Visit Give Social Media © The Jewish Theological Seminary All Rights Reserved | בית המדרש ללימודי יהדות 3080 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 Privacy Policy x Share This Page From Name(Required) From Email(Required) To Email(Required) Message