Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search within this section Search all sites School of Health Professions Departments Academics Career Paths Student Resources News About Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors Department of Nurse Anesthesia Education Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Department of Nurse Anesthesia Education Academics Academics Eligibility and Requirements Curriculum and Degree Requirements Case Numbers Clinical Education Costs and Financial Aid How to Apply Frequently Asked Questions Why KU Career Paths Career Paths What is a Nurse Anesthetist? Student Resources News About About Contact & Directions History Alumni Information Our Alumni Faculty & Staff Events Make a Gift Eligibility & Requirements Case Numbers Our Faculty & Staff About Our Program One of only two nurse anesthesia programs in Kansas, KU's program plays a vital role in ensuring anesthesia care is available across the state, especially in rural areas. Our graduates are eligible to take the national certification required to earn the certified registered nurse anesthetist (CRNA) credential. Doctor of Nurse Anesthesia Practice Degree KU's 36-month Doctor of Nurse Anesthesia Practice degree offers registered nurses an exceptional foundation in the academic and clinical components of nurse anesthesia. Our dynamic 36-month program offers students the latest in experience, instruction and techniques needed for success in nurse anesthesia practice. Curriculum Curriculum and Program Format With a range of clinical affiliate sites, students learn to administer anesthesia to all patient populations in a variety of clinical settings. Clinical Education Gain Clinical Experience When you graduate from our program, you join a close-knit community of clinicians, educators & leaders in the nurse anesthesia profession. Alumni Info Alumni Advantage 70% of anesthesia providers in Kansas City are CRNAs 83% of Kansas hospitals rely exclusively on CRNAs for anesthesia care 120+ anesthesiology physician-faculty at The University of Kansas Health System provide advanced clinical instruction. 10 wonderful reasons to choose KU Ready to Apply? Our program accepts applications from March 15 to July 15 each year for the class that will enter the following summer term. Learn about the steps to apply to KU's Doctor of Nurse Anesthesia degree program. How to Apply Credentials and Licensure Graduates of our doctoral degree in nurse anesthesia practice are eligible to take the national certification examination offered by the National Board of Certification and Recertification of Nurse Anesthetists. Successful completion of this exam is necessary to possess the certified registered nurse anesthetist credential required for employment in this field. National certification is recognized in all 50 U.S. states and allows graduates to apply for licensure in the state(s) in which they seek employment. The American Association of Nurse Anesthetists provides information on specific state licensure requirements. Accreditation KU's nurse anesthesia program is accredited by the Council on Accreditation of Nurse Anesthesia Educational Programs, 222 S. Prospect Ave., ParkRidge, IL 66068; (847) 655-1160 and the Kansas State Board of Nursing. The University of Kansas is a member institution of and accredited through the Higher Learning Commission. Documents relating to accreditation status are available at the department office by request. View outcome measures (PDF) from the most recent 5 years and case numbers from the most recent 3 years. KU School of Health Professions University of Kansas Medical Center Nurse Anesthesia Education Mailstop 2020 3901 Rainbow Blvd Kansas City, KS 66160 913-588-6612 • 711 TTY KU Nurse Anesthesia Facebook page Student Handbook Alumni & Community Relations KU Lawrence Make a Gift 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.