Skip to main content About SMU About SMU Maps & Directions Annual Report SMU Magazine Strategic Plan George W. Bush Presidential Center Academics Overview Majors & Minors Libraries Research Continuing & Professional Education Study Abroad International Student and Scholar Services Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education Human Development The Guildhall Admission Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Apply Now Visit SMU Financial Aid Request Information Parent Information Virtual Tour Athletics Mustangs Tickets Recreational Sports Campus Life Research Quick Links Academic Calendar Employment Events Calendar Giving to SMU SMU Store Student Affairs Bush Center Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. About SMU About SMU Maps & Directions Annual Report SMU Magazine Strategic Plan George W. Bush Presidential Center Administration A nationally ranked comprehensive research university with eight degree-granting schools, SMU is a distinguished center for teaching and research located near the heart of Dallas. SMU's more than 12,000 students benefit from small classes, research opportunities, leadership development, international study and innovative programs. The University is strengthened by its partnership with the Dallas region, a global center of commerce and culture. SMU students, faculty and alumni are changing the world through their chosen fields, civic engagement and service to society. Academics Overview Majors & Minors Libraries Research Study Abroad Continuing & Professional Education Online Learning International Student and Scholar Services Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education & Human Development The Guildhall Teaching and research fuse into breakthrough experiences in one of the brightest academic communities in the world. Our 11:1 student-to-faculty ratio means students build strong relationships with outstanding faculty who champion their ambition and drive, whether it’s for tackling climate change, fighting cancer or pursuing another passion. Admission Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Apply Now Visit SMU Financial Aid Request Information Parent Information Virtual Tour SMU's singular approach to integrating rigorous learning with hands-on experience will prepare you to achieve your educational goals and expand your world in ways you never imagined. Ours is a community of people forging their own paths. We'd like to help you shape yours. Apply Now Schedule a Visit Athletics SMU Athletics Tickets Recreational Sports SMU offers 17 Division 1 sports programs and more than 30 club and intramural sports. We prepare student-athletes for life by equipping them with the knowledge and skills required to become valuable citizens and leaders in their communities. Research Campus Life Quick Links Academic Calendar Events Calendar Employment Giving to SMU SMU Store Meadows Museum George W. Bush Presidential Center Student Affairs Virtual Tour SMU is one of the rare universities affiliated with a presidential library. The George W. Bush Presidential Center (left) offers unique learning experiences to SMU students – including free admission to museum exhibits – plus research opportunities for faculty and scholars from around the world. Bush Center Search Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. ☰ Right to Know and Other Legal Disclosures SMU Right to Know and Other Legal Disclosures Right to Know and Other Legal Disclosures Institutions of higher education that receive federal student financial assistance are required to make certain information available to current and prospective students, families of current and prospective students, current and prospective employees, and the general public. Included are key items disclosed in accordance with the Higher Education Act of 1965 (HEA), as amended by the Higher Education Opportunity Act of 2008 (HEOA), such as campus safety, cost of attendance, financial aid, graduation rates, and more. We have created this online resource to make the relevant information readily available. Note: Please check this website periodically as information will be updated regularly. Accreditation Southern Methodist University is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools, Commission on Colleges to award Bachelor's, Master's, professional, and doctoral degrees. Contact the Commission on Colleges at 1866 Southern Lane, Decatur, Georgia 30033-4097 or call 404-679-4500 for questions about the accreditation of Southern Methodist University. Please note: the Commission is to be contacted only if there is evidence that appears to support an institution's significant non-compliance with a requirement or standard. Other Accreditations Southern Methodist University is accredited by other national associations for its individual academic programs. The full list of discipline specific accreditations is available on the Office of Assessment and Accreditation webpage. Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 (FERPA) The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 (FERPA) helps protect the privacy of student education records. Learn more about FERPA and students' rights under this Act. Gainful Employment The term Gainful Employment refers to a small subset of the many programs offered by SMU such as programs that prepare teachers to take their certification exams and other certificate programs. This webpage has been created to provide prospective students with information about Southern Methodist University's programs that qualify under federal guidelines as Gainful Employment Programs. Privacy Statement Southern Methodist University respects your privacy and the privacy and security of the information you provide the University. Learn about the University's approach to your privacy. Right to Know This webpage has been created to provide access to information that current and prospective students of the University, along with their families, may need to be informed consumers. Please check this website periodically as information will be updated regularly. State Authorization When students are enrolled in the university, they may or may not be in classes within the state of Texas. Whether studying online, via other distance courses, at internships, at our campus in Taos, SMU works with all states to be in compliance with all requirements for notification, authorization or exemption from fees or other licensing. A full list of SMU's status in all states can be found here. Statement of Nondiscrimination Please visit the Office of Institutional Access and Equity webpage for more information on Southern Methodist University's nondiscrimination, equal opportunity, and affirmative action policies and procedures including Title IX. Student Complaints Southern Methodist University operates with integrity in all issues and is dedicated to preserving the rights of all members of the University community. Categories for which students may wish to reach out for advice and assistance and/or to submit an appeal or register a complaint are as follows: academics, code of conduct, discrimination, financial issues, honor code and privacy issues. An overview of the roles, responsibilities and procedures for complainants and the University is outlined in each of the areas below. Academic Appeals and Petitions Student Code of Conduct Discrimination Financial Responsibility and Confidentiality Honor Code Additionally, every student has the right under federal law to use complaint processes provided by the state in which his or her campus is located. Complaints regarding programs in Texas, contact the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board, Office of General Counsel, PO Box 12788, Austin, TX 78711-2788; email: studentcomplaints@thecb.state.tx.us. More information about the Texas student complaints process may be found at http://www.thecb.state.tx.us/ (“College Readiness and Success” link). Complaints regarding programs in New Mexico, contact the New Mexico Higher Education Department, 2048 Galisteo Street, Santa Fe, NM 85705-2300; telephone 505-476-8400. More information about the New Mexico student complaints process may be found at http://www.hed.state.nm.us/students/complaints.aspx. Terms of Use for Websites Learn about the terms of use that pertain to the access and use of the services offered and all information, content, media, printed materials and "online" or electronic documentation accessible from any website or social media account operated by or for Southern Methodist University. The official addresses for SMU are: Southern Methodist University 6425 Boaz Lane Dallas, TX 75205 Southern Methodist University PO Box 750100 Dallas, TX 75275-0100 Right to Know and Other Legal Disclosures Accreditation FERPA Privacy Statement Right to Know State Authorization Statement of Nondiscrimination Terms of Use for Websites Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share