Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Institutional Effectiveness Menu Institutional Effectiveness Accreditation Institutional Accreditation Program Accreditation Program Inventory Locations & Collaborations QEP-Global Baylor Student Achievement Student Complaints Substantive Change Policy Planning Mission Statement Pro Futuris Vision Illuminate Strategic Plan Assessment Academic Program Assessment Administrative Unit Assessment General Education Assessment Student Life/Academic Success Improvement Action Resources About Us Contact Us FAQs Featured Articles OFFICE OF Institutional Effectiveness The Office of Institutional Effectiveness provides campus-wide coordination, support and advocacy for the advancement of the Baylor University’s unique mission through institutional accreditation, planning, assessment, and improvement efforts. These processes ensure quality and promote enhancement of the university’s various programs and activities as they seek to prepare Baylor students for a lifetime of leadership and service throughout the world. Explore Accreditation Educational and institutional quality is recognized by accrediting agencies that review university programs and operations. This comprehensive peer review process allows member institutions to review and improve their practices and meet student financial aid requirements for the U.S. Department of Education. Learn More Planning Organizational changes are navigated through planning processes at the institutional, department, project, and employee levels. The institutional mission and strategic plans help provide context for annual budgeting and daily decision-making processes. Learn More Assessment Improvement areas are best identified through institutional effectiveness processes that involve planning, assessing results, and using data to inform decision-making. Annual assessment helps facilitate continuous improvement through collegial discussions of results and implementation of changes. Learn More Featured Articles Read More Articles Jan. 9, 2019 Rubrics as Formative Feedback Providing feedback to students on written assignments and athletic/artistic performances can be challenging. Assessing proficiency for this type of work often relies on the professional judgment of faculty who are taking a number of factors into consideration when they are grading or providing feedback. Read More Jan. 8, 2019 Zoom Out-Zoom In: Outcomes & Measures Good assessment hinges on determining appropriate outcomes and measures. This article uses a visual metaphor to help explain this key skill that is often challenging for those implementing assessment. Read More Jan. 7, 2019 The Architecture of Curriculum The goal of good curriculum design, is to take the broad outcomes that you desire in a graduate, and break it down into a sequence or collection of courses that can build those capabilities. Using the metaphor of a building can be helpful for understanding curriculum. Read More Jan. 4, 2019 Baylor Connections Podcast-Wes Null on Accreditation Baylor's accreditation was officially reaffirmed last month by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC) for the next decade. What factors into a successful accreditation effort, and what does it mean for the university? Dr. Wes Null, Vice Provost for Undergraduate Education and Institutional Effectiveness, explains on this Baylor Connections. Read More Office of Institutional Effectiveness Pat Neff Hall Suite #310 1320 South 7th Waco, TX 76706 One Bear Place #97014 Waco, TX 76798-7014 General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Accreditation Institutional Accreditation Program Accreditation Program Inventory Locations & Collaborations QEP-Global Baylor Student Achievement Student Complaints Substantive Change Policy Planning Mission Statement Pro Futuris Vision Illuminate Strategic Plan Assessment Academic Program Assessment Administrative Unit Assessment General Education Assessment Student Life/Academic Success Improvement Action Resources About Us Contact Us FAQs Featured Articles