Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Division of Research and Innovation About Vision, Mission, & Values Researchers Business & Partners News Facilities Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Researcher Resources Identify Interest Getting Started Common Funding Opportunities Internal Funding Opportunities Collaboration and Networking ERA Getting StartedCayuse TrainingImportant FormsSponsor News & Updates Route & Submit Getting StartedElectronic Research AdministrationPI EligibilityResearch Forms & GuidesSponsor Guidance Research Compliance Getting StartedHuman Subjects (IRB)Research Data SecurityFinancial Conflict of InterestAnimal Care (IACUC)Export Controls Award & Grants Getting StartedSponsored AgreementsAdvance AccountsNon-Financial Post-AwardReports and DeliverablesSubaward AdministrationClosing the Award Training Resources Training CalendarCurrent Training ResourcesArchive of Past TrainingFIT Training ResourcesCayuse TrainingCoRS Training How do I? Institutional Information Research Forms Take Action For Researchers For Business Strategic Goals & Tactical Plan Contact Us @UofMemphis FacebooktwitterLinkedn Home Division of Research and Innovation Researchers Research Collaborations Research Collaboration & Networking Team Science Match Maker Team Science Match Maker is a service provided by the Office of Research Development. To use this service, please fill out the form at the link below. Our team will then schedule a one-on-one session to discuss your needs and provide you with information on potential research collaborators at the University of Memphis and other institutions where appropriate. We will then arrange an introductory session to help you get your team started, and will help build timelines around proposals as needed. Get Started with Team Science Match Maker Collaborate with UofM Researchers Curious who does what around campus? Check out the following 1-page research overviews from faculty around campus. Want to add us to your profile? Email ResearchDev@memphis.edu, and we'll send you a template to use to create your own profile. Addictions Research Additive manufacturing BAM Lab Center for Research in Educational Policy (CREP) CyberSecurity Earthquake Research ESARP lab Fatigue and Fractures FISC Intelligent Systems Mobile Health Sensors ParrillLab Post Traumatic Stress Sensorium Tissue Template Lab CoRS and Cluster Leaders Present Updates Friday, January 29, 2020, The Community of Research Scholars(CoRS) project faculty/groups submitted their Mid-Implementation Reports . This report was an opportunity to share progress-to-date and solutions to challenges. Click here to access the slides from the reports. Cooperative Ecosystem Studies Unit (CESU) The Cooperative Ecosystem Studies Units (CESU) Network is a national consortium of 15 federal agencies; academic institutions; tribal, state, and local governments; nongovernmental conservation organizations; and other partners working together to support informed public trust resource stewardship. There are 17 CESUs across the nation that provide research, technical assistance, and education to federal land management, environmental, and research agencies and their partners. The partners serve the biological, physical, social, cultural, and engineering disciplines needed to address natural and cultural resource management issues at multiple scales and in an ecosystem context. The University of Memphis is a member of the Great Rivers CESU. Each CESU has its own website and manages its own funding opportunities; however, we are eligible to collaborate and submit CESU funding proposals through all of the 17 CESU's. Access funding opportunity announcements for the Great Rivers CESU at http://greatrivers-cesu.missouri.edu/currentopportunities.shtml. The Federal Agency Partners are: Bureau of Indian Affairs; Bureau of Land Management; Bureau of Reclamation; National Park Service; U.S. Geological Survey; U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service; Bureau of Ocean Energy Management; USDA Agricultural Research Service; USDA Farm Service Agency; U.S. Forest Service; Natural Resources Conservation Service; U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Civil Works; Department of Defense - Installations and Environment; National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration; and National Aeronautics and Space Administration. For more information, please contact Cody Behles (cbehles@memphis.edu), U of M's Administrative contact or Brian Waldron (bwaldron@memphis.edu) U of M's Faculty Liaison. Czech Academy of Sciences On October 25, 2018, the University of Memphis became the first university in the Unites States to sign a Research Collaboration Agreement with the Czech Academy of Sciences (CAS). Comprised of 54 research institutions, the organization is responsible for leading research in the Czech Republic across a range of natural, technical, social sciences and humanities topics. The agreement will pave the way for interactions among research faculty and students in areas of mutual interest with the goal of developing high-impact projects sustained through grant funds. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 6/2/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.