Skip to main content University of Pennsylvania School of Arts and Sciences Penn A-Z Penn Calendar COMPUTING SearchSearch ARTS & SCIENCES COMPUTING Faculty & Staff Students & Alumni Visitors & Others SearchSearch System Status Penn O365 Email Google@SAS email SAS Web Sites SAS File Servers Network GPC Cluster Canvas more... Teaching Resources: Instructional Technology & Pedagogy Support Services for Faculty Faculty & Staff Questions about technology for teaching? Contact instructional-support@sas.upenn.edu Featured Resources The Zoom web conferencing system provides an easy way to hold online meetings, office hours, or review sessions. SAS faculty and staff can get Zoom accounts at no cost. Find out how to get started with Zoom The Respondus Lockdown Browser is a special web browser that students can use when taking tests in Canvas. Once a test is started, students are locked into it until they submit it for grading; they are unable to access other web sites or programs. Learn more about the Respondus Lockdown Browser Web.SAS by CampusPress.com Teachers or students can build websites on a special version of the popular WordPress platform. Learn more about Web.SAS Students can now get Matlab and Mathematica scientific software for free for use with their Coursework. Learn more about Matlab for Students Learn more about Mathematica for Students SAS students can get Microsoft Office software free of charge Learn more about Microsoft Office for Students Polling without the clickers. PollEverywhere is a new system that lets your students respond to in-class polling with their smartphones or computers. With PollEverywhere, students don't need to buy clickers. Learn more about how to conduct in-class polls with your students. Other Important Resources for Teaching Canvas is Penn's primary online system to support teaching. With Canvas you can conduct many of the essential activities for your class. post readings, videos, powerpoint slides or other teaching materials post announcements or send messages to your students record grades and communicate them to students have students submit papers or other assignments online conduct online discussions post online quizzes or surveys Find out how to get started using Canvas Penn Libraries Weigle Information Commons and Education Commons provide many facilities and services to support teaching with technology. Small group study rooms and seminar rooms The Vitale Digital Media Lab Worskhops and technology training materials Poster printers, 3D printers and other specialized equipment Learn more about the Information Commons and Education Commons All classrooms are equipped with basic computer projection capabilites. Many include other specials features. Find a classroom with the technology you need Schedule automatic recording of your class sessions in the PCPSE Auditorium - email instructional-support@sas.upenn.edu Learn about Active Learning classrooms that support collaborative group work SAS Computing has two labs that can be reserved for class sessions. These labs are also available for walk-in access when they are not being used for classes. Other computers labs are available at Penn Reserve a computer lab for a class session The Vitale Digital Media Lab in Van Pelt Library has a full complement of hardware and software for digital media projects Other computer labs are available in Penn Libraries and Penn residences Center for Teaching and Learning Penn's Center for Teaching and Learning promotes teaching excellence at the University of Pennsylvania. For instructors at all levels — from senior faculty to teaching assistants — CTL offers individual teaching consultations, workshops, and discussions in which instructors talk with and learn from each other. Learn more about Penn's Center for Teaching and Learning SAS Computing Multi-Media Services provides a variety of digital media services Hosting online audio and video materials Record class sessions or events Live streaming Videoconferencing Media conversions and duplication Equipment loan Visit Multi-Media Services for more information Class Mailing Lists are automatically set up for all current courses. Instructors can use them to send email to their students. To manage your lists, visit the Classlist Request Menu at ISC's Class Mailing Lists site For more information about using and managing class mailing lists, see our page "Class Mailing Lists" Questions about technology for teaching? Contact instructional-support@sas.upenn.edu System Status Penn O365 Email Google@SAS email SAS Web Sites SAS File Servers Network GPC Cluster Canvas more... For Faculty & Staff Links & contacts Classroom quick links Get started with electronic resources Support & services for instructors Arts & Sciences Computing About SAS Computing Who provides my support? List of computing staff Information security For Students & Alumni Links & contacts Google@SAS SAS Computer Labs External Credit Approval (XCAT) Contact Penn Arts & Sciences Computing Penn WebLogin © 2022 The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania