Skip to main content Search: Go Search Filters: This Site Cornell Menu Search Cornell Home About Us Education Hospitals Health Topics Diagnostic Center Departments Research Impact Alumni Directions Contact Us Emergency Phone Numbers Routine and Emergency Care Companion Animal Hospital in Ithaca, NY for cats, dogs, exotics, and wildlife 607.253.3060 Directions Equine and Nemo Farm Animal Hospitals in Ithaca, NY for horses and farm animals 607.253.3100 Directions Cornell Ruffian Equine Specialists, on Long Island for every horse 516.488.4510 Directions Ambulatory and Production Medicine for service on farms within 30 miles of Ithaca, NY 607.253.3140 Directions Animal Health Diagnostic Center New York State Veterinary Diagnostic Laboratory 607.253.3900 Directions General Information Cornell University College of Veterinary Medicine Ithaca, New York 14853-6401 607.253.3000 Directions Questions? Email Us People Giving Emergencies In this section: Doctor of Veterinary Medicine Admissions Financing Your Veterinary Education Curriculum Courses Clinical Rotations & Pathways Essential skills and abilities Prospective Students Student Life Current Students Hear from our students Employers (Job Postings) Visit Us Contact Us CVM Education Doctor of Veterinary Medicine Curriculum Our innovative program provides all students with a broad biomedical and clinical foundation in the comparative aspects of each discipline. The veterinary curriculum is presented in a variety of formats that include small- and large-group exercises, lectures, laboratory exercises, and discussion. It allows students to develop clinical skills, and work with live animals beginning in the first week. Students have ample opportunities to pursue individual interests in depth, and to tailor their learning to meet specific needs. Cooperation is stressed over competition, and learning for understanding is emphasized over rote memorization. Students are viewed as future colleagues, and are encouraged to consult often with faculty experts and to explore a range of educational resources. Faculty members work together to offer the interdisciplinary Foundation courses that comprise the majority (70%) of the veterinary curriculum. Frequent interactions between faculty and students create a rich educational environment that is stimulating and intellectually vibrant. Employment Cornell students are highly successful in securing employment, and most accept offers prior to graduating. The average percentage of students in the past five years who had accepted employment at the time of graduation is 94%. While long-term career goals vary, most of our students enter clinical practice immediately following graduation, either through an internship, residency, or private practice experience. Some of our graduates pursue doctoral degrees, some enter military service, and some accept positions in private industry or with the federal government. National Boards (NAVLE) Licensing The national licensing examination for veterinary medicine is the North American Veterinary Licensing Examination, or NAVLE. Historically, Cornell students have performed very well on this exam, and they continue to pass at a high rate. Results for the past five years for Cornell students at the time of graduation are below: Pass rates for licensing based on Cornell class years Year Cornell Pass Rate Class of 2021 98% Class of 2020 97% Class of 2019 98% Class of 2018 100% Class of 2017 99% Accreditation The College of Veterinary Medicine is fully accredited by the American Veterinary Medical Association's Council on Education.The next scheduled accreditation review will be in 2024. Curriculum Footprint (a four year look) Educational Goals The Cornell DVM graduate will demonstrate: An understanding of the scientific principles underlying veterinary medicine The basic clinical skills and attitudes necessary to care for the common domestic animals and other species entrusted to our stewardship Critical thinking as evidenced by successful problem solving Sound clinical judgment and medical decision-making skills An understanding of the interactions among animals, people, and the environment A commitment to professionalism, including a commitment to animal welfare and to following the best practices in relation to ethical, cultural, global, business management, and legal issues. Self-education and lifelong learning skills to promote professional growth An understanding of the limits of one's knowledge and skills and the ability to address those limits through effective use of sources of information and expertise Cornell University College of Veterinary Medicine Contact College Careers Follow us on: Privacy Site Feedback Accessibility Land Acknowledgement Site Map Intranet Cornell University ©2016