Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of English Undergraduate Graduate People Internships News/Events Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact News and Events Recent Faculty Articles, Essays, Poems, and Short Stories What's Happening? Naseeb Shaheen Memorial Lecture Series Harry Potter Study Abroad Wordsmith Writing Olympics River City Writers' Series AboutCurrent SeriesPast SpeakersMake a Gift Student Recognition Take Action Apply Now Alumni and Friends Course Offerings Contact Us Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Home Department of English News and Events About the Pinch Journal About the Pinch Journal the pinch journal The Pinch was founded in 1980 as the Memphis State Review by William Page. In its first few years, the journal published such well-known writers as Robert Bly, Phillip Levine, Mary Oliver, Robert Penn Warren, and Margaret Atwood. In 1988, the Master of Fine Arts in Creative Writing Program was formed at The University of Memphis, and Page handed his Editor in Chief position to Sharon Bryan. Under Bryan's leadership, the Memphis State Review became River City and published notable issues such as "Where We Stand: Women Poets on Literary Tradition," which was later published as a book by W. W. Norton & Contemporary Culture. From 1998 to 2001, Editor in Chief Thomas Russell returned River City to its focus on creative and literary works. He also published a special issue for the 20th Anniversary of The River City Writers Series featuring the works of famous authors such as Donald Justice, Marvin Bell, Adrienne Rich, Lucille Clifton, Mary Gaitskill, John Updike, and Margaret Skinner, as well as the photography of William Eggleston. In 2002, Editor in Chief Mary Leader refocused the journal to an emphasis on poetry. Kristen Iversen took over as Editor in Chief in 2005. During her tenure, the journal transitioned into The Pinch and expanded its focus on creative nonfiction. In recent years, our contributors have included Linda Gregerson, Bobbie Ann Mason, Lee Gutkind, Scott Russell Sanders, George Singleton, Lee Sharkey, Ron Rash, Bob Cowser Jr., Stephen Church, Robert Root, Dinty W. Moore, Floyd Skloot, and many others. During this time, The Pinch also became notable for its logo and award-winning covers, which were designed by Gary Golightly, the Graphic Design Program Coordinator of the University of Memphis Art Department. The Pinch is a bi-annual literary journal produced entirely by students at the University of Memphis MFA Program and English Department. As always, all submissions fees and other support go toward funding our annual contest, our contributors, and our production costs. In 2021, Dr. Eric Schlich became the current Editor in Chief. a message from the editors of the pinch journal As always, The Pinch is a graduate student run journal. We are grateful for the support of our friends and alumni. Your gifts make an enormous difference in the experience we offer to our students and to the continuation of this creative effort. You can make a gift to The Pinch Journal through the University of Memphis secure online system, or by visiting the UofM Development office. You can subscribe to the printed edition of The Pinch Journal here. For more information on The Pinch Journal and direct access to featured online Pinch content (including fiction, nonfiction, poetry and art works) please visit the journal website. We do our best to honor and reflect the enthusiasm, artistry, and the eclectic voices that have marked Memphis and its historic 'Pinchgut' District for over a century within the pages of our journal, both in print and online. Questions, comments, and suggestions about our publication are welcome. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 2/2/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.