The Powerhouse is in Katy - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to University of Houston at Katy Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search University of Houston at Katy About Us History of UH of Katy Strategic Plan Programs Engineering UH/HCC Engineering Academy Nursing News & Events UH at Katy News Archive In Brief Newsletter Campus & Academic Services Parking Campus Security Student Affairs & Enrollment Services Room Reservations Printing Services Vending Services Partnerships THE POWERHOUSE IS IN KATY UH at Katy is an instructional site of the University of Houston and part of the main campus. It is located on 46 acres near the Grand Parkway & I-10 in the Katy Academic Building, which it shares with the University of Houston–Victoria and its unique programs. The three-story, 80,000-square-foot-facility is home to programs from the UH College of Nursing and the UH Cullen College of Engineering. Programs include Nursing’s traditional Bachelor of Science in Nursing, and Engineering’s prestigious Subsea Engineering program (the first in the nation) and the UH/HCC Engineering Academy. Take a Virtual Tour of UH at Katy, powered by YouVisit. Learn more about the History of UH at Katy. Semester Information General Semester Building Hours Academic Calendar Student Services Bookstore UH/HCC Engineering Academy The UH Cullen College of Engineering and Houston Community College are proud to announce a new transition partnership for students to earn a valuable Engineering degree from the University of Houston. Students admitted to the Engineering Academy are UH Cullen College of Engineering Students from the first day. Classes are taught at the HCC Katy campus and the UH at Katy instructional site at various times. Programs Cullen College of Engineering Subsea Engineering View more College of Nursing Traditional BSN Track View more Top Story Nursing Student Credits Parents, UHin4 in Reaching Graduation Goal The graduation celebration for Maria Espinoza will be a special one that acknowledges her accomplishment and the sacrifices made by her family to help her reach her college dreams. Espinoza, a first-generation student, will be graduating from the University of Houston College of Nursing. She says her parents had little education and worked several jobs to ensure their children had academic opportunities that put them on the road to a better life. Still, there were challenges. Read more… News Archive > At a glance News Release > Fall 2019Grand Opening 80,000Square Feet of Classroom/Lab/Studio Space NursingTraditional BSN Program EngineeringAcademy 22400 Grand Circle Blvd. Katy, Texas 77449 832-842-5289 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Office of the President Parking Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies