Skip to main content Toggle navigation Menu Log In/Register General Public Why are accounts needed? Southern Methodist University | Ticketing Southern Methodist University | Ticketing Ticket Office Home(current) Packages Register Log In / Register For your security, you have been logged out due to inactivity. Please log in again. General Public Why are accounts needed? Ticket Office Home(current) Packages More Close View As Bar View as Select User Type Adult Senior Citizen Student Faculty/Staff AllTicketTypes Amount Season Adult Season Senior Season Faculty/Staff Season Student Donor Ticket Comps GROUP SALE customers. Login Welcome Log In Register Registration is required so we can send your receipt and notify you of any changes to your events. Email Email Email CAPS LOCK Password password 8–30 characters Contains at least one number Contains at least one capital letter Receive email updates for upcoming events? Please select an option. Email List Yes Yes Email List No No Register Log In Email email CAPS LOCK Password password Show Password Show Password Log In Need to register? Click here. Forgot Password? Have an account? Click here. Forgot Password Email email Back to Login × Checkout Now Checkout Later Suspended Order × Complete your profile to view the suspended items in your cart. Continue Log-in Failed If you believe you should be able to login, please reach out to your commencement contact. Close Home > Packages List > 2021-2022 Season Subscription - Miminum of 8 Choose You Southern Methodist University | Ticketing 2021-2022 Season Subscription - Miminum of 8 Choose You Why Subscribe? As you review the 2021-2022 performing arts season, it will not take you long to realize that SMU Meadows School of the Arts offers the most diverse array of entertainment for the most affordable prices. Subscribers not only enjoy symphony, theatre, dance, opera and other performance genres, they also become part of the Meadows family. Our students need great audiences with whom to share their craft, and YOU are an integral part of that experience. Subscribers get a significant discount on every ticket they buy as part of their season package. Adult tickets are reduced in price from $14 to $10, Senior tickets are reduced from $11 to $8 and Students, Educators and SMU Staff tickets are reduced from $8 to $6 each. A subscription consists of a minimum of eight (8) performances, but you’ll want to attend more. You will also be first to know of special events at Meadows and have the first choice of the very best seats at Meadows at the Meyerson in March, an annual event that showcases our talented artists and scholars. Subscribers receive a $10 discount off each Meadows at the Meyerson ticket, with first choice on seating. Adult tickets are just $15 (reduced from $25), seniors $10 (reduced from $20) and educators/students just $7 (reduced from $17). There is a $12 per package service fee. The purpose of this fee is to offset the $1/ticket charge we pay for the new ticketing system. It is also easy to exchange tickets if your schedule requires flexibility. Simply call our office (214-SMU-ARTS), we're happy to help! Share Via Email Facebook Twitter Packages Package unavailable for purchase. All events in this package have taken place. Loading. Please wait. Support: 214.768.2787 meadowstickets@smu.edu AudienceView Campus AudienceView Campus Password Reset Required Password changes are required every 90 days. You are required to reset you password to login. Change Password