Skip to content Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Find People Events Global Health Donate Search About Us About Us Explore VP&S Message from the Dean VP&S History Celebrating the Leadership of Lee Goldman Facts & Statistics 2021 State of the School Explore VP&S Leadership and Administration Campus Resources and Facilities Events Community Programs Contact Us Education Education Academic Programs Residencies, Fellowships, and Training Student Resources Office of Innovation in Health Professions Education Academic Programs MD Program MD Dual Degrees and Special Programs Program in Genetic Counseling Programs in Human Nutrition Programs in Occupational Therapy Programs in Physical Therapy PhDs in Biomedical Sciences Additional Master's Degree Programs Additional Educational Opportunities MD Program Join our MD program to become a physician with compassion, a sense of self, and true grit in all medical pursuits. Explore Our Program Research Research Office for Research Areas of Research Research Faculty Honors and Awards For Researchers For Researchers Core and Shared Facilities Research Resources Funding Areas of Research VP&S continues to be a world leader across the entire spectrum of basic science, translational, and clinical research Learn About Our Research Patient Care Departments & Centers Departments & Centers Affiliated Hospitals and Institutions Basic Science Departments Centers and Initiatives Clinical Departments and Divisions Faculty Initiatives Clinical Departments and Divisions Our mission is to provide world-class patient care, foster innovative research, and train the next generation of leaders in medicine. View Clinical Departments and Divisions Programs in Occupational Therapy We see the need. We meet it. We exceed it. You are here Home > Education > Academic Programs > Programs in Occupational Therapy Programs in Occupational Therapy About the Programs Master of Science Dual Degree - MS/MPH Master of Science/Doctor of Occupational Therapy (Post-Professional) Online Doctor of Occupational Therapy (Post-Professional) Doctor of Education Programs in Occupational Therapy Programs in Occupational Therapy at Columbia University Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons are proud to be one of the oldest yet exceptionally progressive programs to prepare occupational therapists as superior clinicians, administrators, educators, and researchers. Our nationally distinguished faculty mentors students on both the masters and doctoral levels to meet the challenges of our complex health care systems. As part of the Department of Rehabilitation and Regenerative Medicine at one of the world’s most renowned health care centers, our mission is to advance practice through education and research. This is why we are consistently ranked among the top programs by U.S. News and World Report. About the Programs Programs in Occupational Therapy prepare occupational therapists to be superior clinicians, administrators, educators, and researchers. About the Programs Master of Science The Occupational Therapy Program's mission is to educate and prepare a diverse and eclectic group of occupational therapists to promote health and well-being through occupation as practitioners, consultants, educators, and researchers. Learn About Our Master of Science Degree Learn About Our Master of Science Degree Dual Degree - MS/MPH The MS/MPH program prepares students to emphasize prevention and public planning principles in conjunction with the rehabilitation process and contribute to interdisciplinary health policy. Dual Degree - MS/MPH Doctor of Education This Doctor of Education program allows students who already have a Master of Science in Occupational Therapy and clinical experience to gain from combining study in both areas. Doctor of Education Online Doctor of Occupational Therapy (Post-Professional) The Post-Professional Clinical Doctoral Program provides clinicians who wish to remain in the practice arena with knowledge and clinical skills in the area of cognition across the life course. Online Doctor of Occupational Therapy (Post-Professional) Master of Science/Doctor of Occupational Therapy (Post-Professional) The MS-OTD program is a fully online program that offers an accelerated pathway for Columbia MS in occupational therapy students to earn the Post-Professional Doctor of Occupational Therapy degree. Master of Science/Doctor of Occupational Therapy (Post-Professional) Make a Gift Your generosity will help us train and support the next generation of occupational therapists. Donate Now Donate Now Accreditation Council for Occupational Therapy Education (ACOTE) Our entry-level professional program is accredited by the Accreditation Council for Occupational Therapy Education (ACOTE®) and has been since 1943. ACOTE is part of the American Occupational Therapy Association (AOTA). Learn More About Our Accreditation Learn More About Our Accreditation Accreditation Our current ten-year accreditation period is from 2012-2013 to 2022-2023. Review the findings from our most recent review and learn more about our accreditation. Accreditation Program Outcomes The Master of Science Degree in Occupational Therapy at VP&S. Review the Student and Program outcomes for the Master of Science Degree in Occupational Therapy at VP&S. Program Outcomes Occupational Therapy Events Occupational Therapy MS Information Session Thursday, June 16, 2022 8:00 PM to 9:00 PM Venue Online View All Events Follow Occupational Therapy on Social Media Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About VP&S Careers Education Research Administration Inside VP&S Columbia University Irving Medical Center Vagelos College of Physicians & Surgeons 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Back to top