Skip to content Master of Biotechnology A Joint Program of the School of Arts and Sciences and Penn Engineering Home Penn Advantage Curriculum Versatility On-Campus Resources Location Scheduling Adaptability Student Testimonials What is Biotechnology? Recombinant DNA Producing New Crop Species Clinical Diagnostics Medical Therapy Bioinformatics and Processing Producing New Biological Molecules Program Overview Student Resources Curriculum Admissions Forms FAQs Faculty Seminars & Events Links Calendar Menu Search for: front-slider-01 front-slider-06 front-slider-05 front-slider-04 front-slider-03 front-slider-02 Welcome The Master of Biotechnology Program prepares students, both full- and part-time, for leadership in the critically important and dynamic industries of biotechnology and pharmaceuticals. Strongly interdisciplinary, this innovative professional master's program draws its faculty and courses from the School of Arts and Sciences and the School of Engineering and Applied Science. Penn's world-class biomedical research centers, renowned science departments and position at the hub of the largest pharmaceutical/biotechnology corridor in the United States, place this program at the vanguard of biotechnology education. Three parallel curriculum tracks: 1) molecular biotechnology, 2) biopharmaceutical/engineering biotechnology, 3) biomedical technologies give students flexibility to tailor their degree to their background, interests, and current career or career goals. These tracks, in combination with core courses, insure that students get a uniquely broad exposure to the entire field of biotechnology. Anyone with questions regarding the Biotechnology Program are encouraged to email the Biotechnology Office at biotech@seas.upenn.edu. Find Us Address Master of Biotechnology Program Office 220 S. 33rd Street, Rm. 311A University of Pennsylvania Philadelphia, PA 19104-6391 biotech@seas.upenn.edu Search for: © Master of Biotechnology Program Office 220 S. 33rd Street, Rm. 311A University of Pennsylvania Philadelphia, PA 19104-6391 Penn | Penn Engineering | School of Arts & Sciences A SiteOrigin Theme