Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Helen Hardin Honors College Join Honors Current Members Get Involved Opportunities Faculty News Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Get Involved Special Events Honors Orientation Honors Ambassadors Undergraduate Research National Student Exchange Honors Student Organization Internships Honors Housing Take Action Apply Online Opportunities National Student Exchange Contact Us Follow Honors Online InstagramFacebooktwitter Home Helen Hardin Honors College Get Involved National Student Exchange National Student Exchange The Honors College coordinates National Student Exchange (NSE), which provides opportunities for undergraduates to study for up to one calendar year at another NSE member college or university. With more than 150 colleges from which to choose, students can find a campus with just the right combination of courses, facilities, and environment to meet their personal academic interests. There are several funding plans for NSE study, including the opportunity to pay only UofM tuition while attending another school. Get Started Students are encouraged to select colleges and universities that will provide learning opportunities to supplement and complement those of your degree program and assist you in reaching your educational goals. It is also important to select campuses that will stimulate personal growth and development and allow you to experience the educational, geographic, and cultural diversity found among NSE's members. Search NSE Schools > Tuition & Fees NSE utilizes two options for payment of tuition and fees. When you are a student on NSE Exchange you will pay resident tuition and fees to your HOST campus or your regular tuition and fees to your HOME campus. One or the other, not both. Tuition Host Payment (Plan A) - student pays in-state (resident/provincial) tuition and fees directly to the host campus (and no tuition is paid to the home campus). Home Payment (Plan B) - student pays their normal tuition and fees to their home campus (and no tuition is paid to the host campus). Please Note: The availability of payment options depends on individual NSE schools. You can view availability on an NSE schools page under the section, "Chance of Placement". Other Fees Application Fee - $190 Payment is to be submitted at the UofM bursar's payment windows located on the first floor of Wilder Tower. The receipt is to be submitted with the NSE application form to the Honors College (see below). Miscellaneous Fees - Your host campus may have optional or mandatory fees, which are listed under the Tuition/Fees tab of their member campus profile. Course-Related Fees - Students should expect to pay the host campus for books and other course-related fees (laboratory fees, supplies, field study, etc). Consult the host campus' website and/or course catalog for this information. Maximum Course Load - Some campuses will charge additional per credit hour fees (on both A and B) beyond a certain number of credits. This information can be found under the Tuition/Fees tab of the member campus profiles. Room and Meals - Most NSE campuses have on-campus housing available. Consult the Room/Meals tab of each member campus profile for estimated costs. If you choose to live off campus, you will be responsible for securing a place to live and covering those expenses. Funding University of Memphis (UofM) students are able to use the financial aid and scholarships they normally receive toward the cost of participating in National Student Exchange. Host Payment (Plan A): Participant will receive their entire financial aid and scholarship package per the normal refund process and disbursement date and are responsible for paying the host institution tuition and fees. Home Payment (Plan B): Participant's regular financial aid and scholarship package will be applied toward their normal tuition and fees per the normal process. Excess funds will be refunded to student by direct deposit or check. Please Note: Students are not to file for financial aid (FAFSA) through their host institution. Participants are to file through the UofM per the normal process. How to Apply Eligibility Students must meet the following criteria to apply for NSE: Degree-seeking undergraduate (matriculating) student, Completed of one term of full-time attendance (12 credit hours) prior to submitting an application, Completed of one academic year (24 credit hours) prior to your exchange program, Full-time enrollment at the time of application, GPA of 2.5 (4.0 scale), Good academic standing at the time of application, No incomplete grades from previous terms, No outstanding financial obligations, No current or pending probationary status or disciplinary action due to academic dishonesty or student, civil, or criminal misconduct. Application Process Interested students must meet with a Honors advisor to ensure they are clear on NSE options, requirements, finances and policies before submitting the NSE application. Students are to meet with their regular academic advisor to ensure their preferred NSE school fits their degree program along with professional and personal goals. Complete the following NSE application form: NSE Application Form Pay the $190 NSE application fee at the UofM bursar's payment windows located on the first floor of Wilder Tower. Submit the completed application form and application fee receipt to the Honors College by the deadline. Priority Application Deadline Term Application Deadline Fall 2022 February 25, 2022 Spring 2023 February 25, 2022 Please Note: It may still be possible to apply after the deadline if the preferred host school has available slots. You can view availability on an NSE schools page under the section, "Chance of Placement". For more information and advising, please contact honors@memphis.edu. Student Testimonies Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 1/26/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.