News Contact School of Education Search Research Institute for Studies in Education Focus Team Projects About Menu Home Focus Team Projects About News Contact School of Education Search Welcome to RISE The Research Institute for Studies in Education (RISE), a unit of the School of Education, was formed in 1974 to conduct comprehensive, integrated research and evaluation studies that enhance PK-20 education locally, nationally, and globally. RISE operates as a self-supporting, nonprofit organization housed within Iowa State University, a public, research-intensive, land-grant institution. RISE promotes the integration of evaluation, research, and policy through partnerships with schools, colleges and universities, federal and state education agencies, and private agencies and foundations. RISE staff apply research and evaluation expertise to deliver a broad spectrum of services related to research, analytic inquiry, and technical consulting. Evaluation Services: Evaluation plan and budget for proposals Program and project evaluation planning and implementation Quantitative and qualitative research and evaluation design and methodology Qualitative inquiry (e.g., focus groups, interviews, observations) Survey development Data collection, management, and analysis Interpretation and presentation of results Other Research Support: Grant proposal preparation support Institutional Review Board application Publication and dissemination support RISE staff have extensive experience in a variety of research and evaluation focus areas, including projects related to climate and diversity; curriculum development; health and well-being; personal and social responsibility; social, emotional, and behavioral initiatives; STEM; student learning and development; teacher education; and technology applications. RISE has experience working with grants from NSF, NIH, USDA, Department of Education, Department of Labor, and others. Through collaborative efforts with clients, RISE supports institutional research activities, conducts evaluations of academic programs, and contributes data for institutional improvement, policy development, accreditation, and program review. If you would like to request a service or contact us, you can visit this page here: Contact Us! Projects 360° FeedbackMore Info PBISMore Info Iowa STEM EducationMore Info News RISE partners with animal science on transfer student experience study RISE to develop survey to understand transfer student expereince... RISE partners with agronomy to inform curriculum development and departmental assessment RISE to conduct 5-year study in partnership with Department of Agronomy... RISE to support initiative for global action at the William Davidson Institute RISE to assess program to provide solutions to low- and middle-income countries... Research Institute for Studies in Education • 0240 Lagomarcino Hall • 901 Stange Road • Ames, Iowa 50011-1041 Copyright © 2009-2022 • Iowa State University of Science and Technology • All rights reserved • Staff Login