Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni College of Education Academics Forward Arrow Academics Undergraduate Forward Arrow Undergraduate Agricultural Education Early Childhood Education, B.A. Elementary Education, B.A. Human Capital Education & Development, B.S. Middle Level Education, B.S. Mathematics Teaching, B.S. Modern Languages Education, B.A. Special Education, B.A. Secondary Education, B.A. Science Teaching, B.S./B.A. Athletic Leadership Minor Back Arrow Back Expressway to Tiger Town Bachelors To Masters Masters and Specialist Programs Forward Arrow Masters and Specialist Programs Athletic Leadership (Online) Counselor Education Educational Leadership Human Resource Development Literacy (Online) Middle Level Education, MAT Secondary Education, MAT Special Education (Online) Student Affairs Teaching and Learning (Online) Back Arrow Back Doctoral Programs Forward Arrow Doctoral Programs Education Systems Improvement Science Educational Leadership Learning Sciences Literacy, Language and Culture Special Education Teaching and Learning Back Arrow Back Certificates | Endorsements | Licensure Back Arrow Back Research Forward Arrow Research Start Your Proposal Resources REAL Lunches Grant Fellows Program Back Arrow Back Programs Forward Arrow Programs Educational Programs Forward Arrow Educational Programs Call Me MISTER® ClemsonLIFE Expressway To Tiger Town Human Capital Education and Development CU Teacher Learning Progression STEM - STEAM Teaching Fellows Upstate Writing Project Back Arrow Back Labs Forward Arrow Labs Arts and Creativity Lab Contexts of Learning & Development Lab CLEaR Lab Digital Media Learning Lab IDEA Lab Back Arrow Back Centers and Institutes Forward Arrow Centers and Institutes Digital Media and Learning Center Education Media Center Reading Recovery Training Center SC-CEIMS SC-CREDE Back Arrow Back Back Arrow Back Students Forward Arrow Students Student Advising Forward Arrow Student Advising Bridge & Transfer Students Change of Major FAQs Prospective Students Back Arrow Back Field Experience Forward Arrow Field Experience Cooperating Teachers and Site Mentors Teacher Education Field Experience Teacher Residency University Supervisors Back Arrow Back Student Opportunities Forward Arrow Student Opportunities Student Advisory Boards Student Organizations Study Abroad Teaching Fellows Departmental Honors Back Arrow Back Student Resources Back Arrow Back About Forward Arrow About From the Dean Administration Departments Forward Arrow Departments Education and Human Development Educational and Organizational Leadership Development Teaching and Learning Back Arrow Back Directory Forward Arrow Directory Administration and Support Centers and Programs Education and Human Development Educational and Organizational Leadership Development Teaching and Learning Back Arrow Back Alumni and Friends Forward Arrow Alumni and Friends Advancement Board About the Moore Family 2021 Masters & Doctoral Graduates Back Arrow Back Inclusive Excellence Innovation and Outreach Annual Reporting Forward Arrow Annual Reporting CAEP Reporting Back Arrow Back Employee Services Back Arrow Back Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close College of Education Academics show submenu for Academics Undergraduate show submenu for Undergraduate Agricultural Education Early Childhood Education, B.A. Elementary Education, B.A. Human Capital Education & Development, B.S. Middle Level Education, B.S. Mathematics Teaching, B.S. Modern Languages Education, B.A. Special Education, B.A. Secondary Education, B.A. Science Teaching, B.S./B.A. Athletic Leadership Minor Expressway to Tiger Town Bachelors To Masters Masters and Specialist Programs show submenu for Masters and Specialist Programs Athletic Leadership (Online) Counselor Education Educational Leadership Human Resource Development Literacy (Online) Middle Level Education, MAT Secondary Education, MAT Special Education (Online) Student Affairs Teaching and Learning (Online) Doctoral Programs show submenu for Doctoral Programs Education Systems Improvement Science Educational Leadership Learning Sciences Literacy, Language and Culture Special Education Teaching and Learning Certificates | Endorsements | Licensure Research show submenu for Research Start Your Proposal Resources REAL Lunches Grant Fellows Program Programs show submenu for Programs Educational Programs show submenu for Educational Programs Call Me MISTER® ClemsonLIFE Expressway To Tiger Town Human Capital Education and Development CU Teacher Learning Progression STEM - STEAM Teaching Fellows Upstate Writing Project Labs show submenu for Labs Arts and Creativity Lab Contexts of Learning & Development Lab CLEaR Lab Digital Media Learning Lab IDEA Lab Centers and Institutes show submenu for Centers and Institutes Digital Media and Learning Center Education Media Center Reading Recovery Training Center SC-CEIMS SC-CREDE Students show submenu for Students Student Advising show submenu for Student Advising Bridge & Transfer Students Change of Major FAQs Prospective Students Field Experience show submenu for Field Experience Cooperating Teachers and Site Mentors Teacher Education Field Experience Teacher Residency University Supervisors Student Opportunities show submenu for Student Opportunities Student Advisory Boards Student Organizations Study Abroad Teaching Fellows Departmental Honors Student Resources About show submenu for About From the Dean show submenu for From the Dean Dean's Leadership Institute Administration Departments show submenu for Departments Education and Human Development Educational and Organizational Leadership Development Teaching and Learning Directory show submenu for Directory Administration and Support Centers and Programs Education and Human Development Educational and Organizational Leadership Development Teaching and Learning Alumni and Friends show submenu for Alumni and Friends Advancement Board About the Moore Family 2021 Masters & Doctoral Graduates Inclusive Excellence Innovation and Outreach Annual Reporting show submenu for Annual Reporting CAEP Reporting Employee Services Clemson Home College of Education Academics Masters and Specialist Programs Current: Literacy (Online) Literacy, M.Ed. We now offer the same high quality program with two fewer courses, allowing students to finish our streamlined program in two years instead of three. This 30-hour program still allows our students to earn an additional add-on certification as a Literacy Teacher, Literacy Coach, ESOL Teacher or Literacy Specialist. Our literacy faculty is proud of our nationally accredited program, so we have worked hard to ensure that we offer the same level of quality with fewer courses without diminishing program expectations. Student Handbook Academic Calendar Faculty Directory Literacy Brochure Apply Now Overview The Clemson University Master of Education in Literacy is a 100% online graduate program to prepare literacy professionals who gain in-depth knowledge of literacy theories, strategies, and curriculum. Our students take coursework in two strand options leading to add-on certifications in either literacy coaching or ESOL. The rigorous, practice-based curriculum prepares our students to advance their professional standing in just 24 months. Our graduates utilize their knowledge to plan appropriate literacy practices for their classrooms, develop programs and curricula for their schools, and assume leadership positions at various levels in their districts. Program Goals All Read to Succeed coursework completed. M.Ed. degree in Literacy with two endorsements in Literacy Teacher and Literacy Coach (Coaching strand for Elementary and Secondary) or certifications in Literacy Teacher and ESOL (ESOL strand). Acquisition of in-depth knowledge about literacy teaching and instruction rather than a general program of education that will transform your literacy teaching and your students’ literacy learning. Your development as a literacy leader who can support colleagues in literacy teaching and learning, particularly in relation to learners who are at-risk. Learn how our Literacy M.Ed. students met their goals through Clemson Admission Requirements The Literacy Masters of Education program admits students for a summer entry. Only complete applications are considered for admissions. Application decisions will be made shortly following the posted deadline below. Application Deadlines All application materials must be submitted by the following deadlines: November 15, priority deadline April 15, traditional deadline Application Requirements To be considered for the program, applicants must: Have a bachelor’s degree with a minimum GPA of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale Have current teaching certificate Submit an online Graduate School application which requires: Unofficial transcripts (official transcript(s) will be required if accepted into the Program) A current resume Three recommendation forms Recommendation forms are emailed directly to recommenders via the online application process A personal statement Statement should describe applicant’s goals and teaching philosophy Official TOEFL/IELTS scores for international students Additional information concerning supporting materials Program Requirements Literacy M.Ed. (30 credit hours minimum): Literacy Coaching Strand Successful completion of the M.Ed. in Literacy/Coaching will result in the Read to Succeed endorsement, Literacy Teacher and Literacy Coach certification. EDLT 8100 – Foundations of Reading and Writing EDLT 8120 – Assessment in Reading and Writing EDLT 8130 – Instructional Strategies EDLT 8160 – Instructional Practicum: Differentiated Instruction for Literacy Learners EDLT 8170 – Content Area Reading and Writing EDLT 8180 – Organization, Administration, and Supervision in Literacy EDLT 8190 – Coaching for Literacy Education EDLT 8200 – Action Research in Coaching: Literacy Coaches as Agents of Change EDLT 8210 – Practicum in Literacy Coaching EDLT 8260- Foundations of Teaching English as a Second Language Literacy Additional requirements for certifications may include requisite years of teaching experience, PRAXIS exam, and other requirements as indicated by the SC State Department of Education. ESOL Strand Successful completion of the M.Ed. in Literacy ESOL will result in the Read to Succeed endorsement, Literacy Teacher certification, and ESOL add-on certification. EDLT 8100 – Foundations of Reading and Writing EDLT 8120 – Assessment in Reading and Writing EDLT 8130 – Instructional Strategies EDLT 8140 – Reading and Writing Instruction and Assessment for Culturally & Linguistically Diverse Students EDLT 8170 – Content Area Reading and Writing EDLT 8180 – Organization, Administration, and Supervision in Literacy EDLT 8220 – Principles and Strategies for Teaching English Speakers of Other Languages EDLT 8230 – Introduction to Linguistics EDLT 8240- Practicum in the Instruction of ESOL Elementary & Secondary Learners EDF 8250 – Cultural Diversity in the Classroom Additional requirements for certifications may include requisite years of teaching experience, PRAXIS exam, and other requirements as indicated by the SC State Department of Education. Program Schedule Year One- Summer ESOL Coaching EDLT 8100 EDLT 8100 EDLT 8250 Year One- Fall ESOL Coaching EDLT 8120 EDLT 8120 EDLT 8140 EDLT 8260 Year One- Spring ESOL Coaching EDLT 8240 EDLT 8160 EDLT 8130 EDLT 8130 Year Two- Summer ESOL Coaching EDLT 8180 EDLT 8180 EDLT 8230 Year Two- Fall ESOL Coaching EDLT 8170 EDLT 8170 EDLT 8220 EDLT 8190 Year Two- Spring ESOL Coaching N/A EDLT 8200 EDLT 8210 Program Delivery With the support of CU Online, Clemson uses the most advanced online technology to provide a rich, supportive, seamless learning environment. Courses will be asynchronous thus allowing students to access courses when and where they need. While students have great flexibility in asynchronous learning, there are key deadlines in each course when learning modules must be completed. Students will be provided with timely support from instructors and technology personnel so that learning is maximized. Canvas, a very user friendly learning management system, is used for all courses to guide the learning experiences. An orientation module will be provided before the start of the program to allow students to become comfortable with expectations and the technologies before classes formally start. Financial Information Tuition and Fees Explore information on tuition and fees using the Student Financial Services’ tuition and fee calculator (Be sure to choose the ‘Go to Online’ tab at the top of the page). S.C. Teacher Incentive The Literacy M.Ed. offers a South Carolina Teacher Incentive reducing tuition by 10% for all in-state SC K-12 teachers/leaders. Federal TEACH grant Students may qualify for the TEACH grant (High need areas of ESOL and Reading Specialist). Financial Aid For information regarding financial aid, please contact the Office of Student Financial Aid. Literacy Certificates Literacy Teacher The Literacy Teacher Certificate allows K-12 teachers to complete required coursework for the Literacy Teacher endorsement. In completing the four required courses, graduates establish a strong basis in the basic foundations literacy and are prepared to support the reading development of their K-12 classroom students. Those completing the certificate may submit their transcripts to the SC Department of Education. Literacy Coach The Literacy Coach Certificate provides coursework on the principles of coaching teachers and their students in literacy, opportunities to conduct school-based research in literacy coaching, and active engagement in school-based coaching experiences. Teachers strengthen their knowledge and skills as a literacy coach. The program of study allows K-12 teachers to complete required coursework for the Read to Succeed (R2S) Literacy Coach advanced endorsement by the SC Department of Education. Teachers may submit their transcripts to the SC Department of Education following successful completion of the course of study. Literacy Specialist The Literacy Specialist Certificate program provides content in advanced principles in literacy—theory, assessment, curriculum development and research. Completion of the certificate allows K-12 teachers to meet the requirements for the Read to Succeed (R2S) Literacy Specialist advanced endorsement by the SC Department of Education. Literacy Specialist will have developed the essential leadership skills and knowledge to address literacy needs, not just in English language art courses, but across content areas of instruction. Student may submit their transcripts to the SC Department of Education following successful completion of the course of study. The Certificate is a fully asynchronous online graduate certificate. English as a Second Language (ESOL) Certificate The ESOL Certificate courses are designed to help teachers meet the needs of students for whom English is not their dominant language. The goal is to prepare teachers to support student success in school and in society through the development of cultural awareness and English language proficiency in listening, speaking, reading, and writing. Those completing the certificate may submit their transcripts to the SC Department of Education. *Current M.Ed. students may request a discounted application fee for each of the certificates. Contact gradapp@clemson.edu for the codes. Frequently Asked Questions What is the PRAXIS examination pass rate for the Clemson University, College of Education M.Ed. Literacy program (Teaching Reading K-12: 5206; English to Speakers of Other Languages Test- Code 5362)? The Clemson College of Education’s M.Ed. in Literacy requires all students to take the Literacy PRAXIS exam Teaching Reading K-12: 5206 during their final year of the program. 100% of our literacy students passed this exam with scores exceeding the minimum passing score by 11-37 points. Students in the M.Ed. Literacy ESOL Strand also take the ESOL PRAXIS English to Speakers of Other Languages Test- Code 5362 for certification. 100% of our students in the ESOL strand passed this exam with scores exceeding the minimum passing score by 22 to 39 points. Can I work full- or part-time while completing the program? Yes. We encourage individuals to work in an education setting while completing the program to gain experience implementing strategies and interventions discussed in the courses. Does this program include required practicum experiences? Yes. All practicum experiences are completed in your current school district. You will not have to take time away from your teaching position. You will have course assignments that will require you to have access to students and recording technology (such as. Smart phone). Do I need to be online for class at a certain time? No. All coursework is asynchronous. You will have established deadlines within each course but will not have required live sessions. However, faculty will be available to assist and support students. Does program completion lead to any additional certifications? Yes. The M.Ed. Literacy program includes all requirements for the Literacy Teacher Certificate. In addition, students also complete all requirements for either the Literacy Coach Certificate or the ESOL Certification depending on their chosen program of study. Upon the Literacy Coach program completion, students can add the Literacy Specialist Certificate by completing 2 additional courses. Is the M.Ed. Literacy program accredited? Yes. Our M.Ed. Literacy program is accredited by the International Literacy Association (ILA). We received the highest rating on our program review. Achieving ILA accreditation demonstrates that our program adheres to a rigorous set of standards for preparing literacy professionals. Virtual Information Sessions & Calendar Review our College of Education Graduate Calendar to view upcoming events and information sessions. Graduate Event Calendar Find Out More For general information regarding the program, please contact Rebecca Kaminski at krebecc@clemson.edu. For questions associated with applying to this program, please contact Alison Search at alisonp@clemson.edu or (864) 250-8880. Department of Education and Human Development Copyright © Clemson University Department of Education and Human Development | 209 Gantt Circle 864-656-7645 | Email Us | Website Updates intro-arrow Engage With Us Through Facebook Twitter Instagram Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson