HOME Make a Gift Clemson Home Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift Toggle navigation MANAGE MY ACCOUNT MY.CLEMSON MAPS Campus Maps Parking Space Map Long-Term Visitor Parking Short-Term Visitor Parking FORMS BikeShare Release Form Carpool Permit Application Departmental Guest Permits Departmental Space Reservation LEV / EV Employee Permit Application Payroll Deduction Election/Termination Form Special Event Parking Request Tiger Transit Rental Request Vendor Permit Application FAQ CONTACT US Students Home Permit Rates Bike & Walk Clemson Recyclery Douthit Transit Options Summer Research Assistant Permits Obtaining a Student Parking Permit We are excited about the return to in-person classes this Fall Semester. With one exception, parking permit renewals for 2021-22 are now available online for students returning for the start classes on August 18. Please know that Graduate Assistant Commuter permits will be available starting on July 19. All parking regulations, including meters, are in effect, and you are required to purchase a parking permit to park your car on campus. Below are important considerations: Verifying and linking your vehicle’s license plate number, make, model, color and year to your permit to park on campus is required. Consider a discounted Park-N-Ride permit option for commuters. Please review the Park-N-Ride Route details carefully before ordering your permit. Payments for permits are only available online. Manage your parking account here. Two parking payment options are available: Selecting ‘Student Bill_iROAR’ to charge your fall permit to your fall student bill is highly encouraged. Only available prior to 11:59 p.m. (EST) Aug. 18, this payment option is not yet available for the spring semester. Does not apply to Bridge Students. Use Visa, MasterCard, Discover or American Express. Important Notes: Fall Semester Permits vs. Annual Permits: Purchase an Annual Parking Permit if your plans are to attend the full academic year. Fall Semester Parking Permits are reserved for students who will not be attending the Spring semester. Among this group might be candidates for graduation, co-op and student interns. Because spring permits are not sold, fall-only permit holders who return for the Spring Semester will be required to purchase prorated Annual Permits. All Resident Students are issued virtual permits based on housing assignments. This means that your vehicle's license plate serves as your permit and consequently residents will not receive a physical permit in the mail. Commuter Permits will be mailed to the shipping address you provide. The only on-campus address accepted as a shipping address is your student post office address. Permits cannot be held by Parking and Transportation Services for pick-up. All past-due citations must be paid before purchasing a parking permit. Review the back of your permit for the display placement location on your vehicle. Avoid citations by reviewing your specific permit for the specific parking guidelines. Clemson’s Carpool Program will resume in Fall 2021. Groups of 3 or more students receive a FREE parking permit. View the Clemson Carpool Program website for eligibility requirements and application process. The Parking & Transportation Services office, located on the ground level of the University Union, will operate under the following modified schedule: Monday through Thursday from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. Or contact us by phone or email Monday through Friday from 7:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. (864-656-2270/parking@clemson.edu). Notice to Users of Disability Access Parking Permits: Any student who displays a state-issued disability parking permit to park on the campus of Clemson University is required to register the permit with the Parking Services Office prior to use on campus. Students, faculty, staff and vendors are required to purchase and display a campus parking permit, even when displaying a disability access parking permit. The request to register the state-issued permits prior to use is expected to reduce the incident of unauthorized use, thereby increasing access to disability access parking space by legitimate users. Please contact the office in person, by phone at 864-656-2270 or email us at parking@clemson.edu to register your ADA permit. Parking and Transportation Services G01-C Edgar Brown Union | Clemson, SC 29634 Office Hours: Mon - Fri 7:30 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. Contact Us Copyright 2020 Webmaster