Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Undergraduate Admission Student Affairs About News Athletics Events Calendar Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Boldly Shaping Tomorrow Goals Leaders Gifts Ways to give Menu Search SMU Ignited Goals Enhance campus and community Enhance campus and community Goal: $450 million By continuing to strengthen our community engagement, nationally competitive athletics and diverse public programming, we will make a positive difference in Dallas and in communities far beyond the Hilltop. Give now SMU Ignited donors will enhance the quality of life and the global impact of Dallas by partnering with corporations, civic entities and nonprofits such as through the model Pre-K–8 STEM school in West Dallas and legal clinics that help those in need. Your support of SMU Ignited will help SMU offer students unique internships, employment and volunteer experiences, building on the vibrancy of North Texas. Investments during SMU Ignited will modernize and enhance campus facilities and student services to support our students’ personal, professional and academic ambitions. With your support, SMU Ignited will strengthen the University’s competitiveness in Division I athletics by investing in facilities, innovative programs, student-athlete success and community outreach efforts. SMU Ignited donors will meet the needs of the business and civic communities by bolstering continuing and online learning programs that help people learn the skills to succeed in a rapidly changing world, and by creating centers and institutes that provide invaluable experts to businesses. “My most memorable experiences at SMU were the times spent with my teammates, either on the road or off the court. SMU has completely shaped my path. I don’t think I would be in the situation I am in right now if I hadn’t gone to SMU.” — Avery Acker ’16, Emergency Medical Resident, UT Southwestern Medical Center Let’s stay in touch To sign up to receive updates about SMU Ignited, enter your email address below and hit “submit.” This form needs Javascript to display, which your browser doesn't support. Sign up here instead Ways to giveGive now Back to top Schools and areas Scholarships Endowed faculty positions Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Athletics Libraries Student Affairs Cox School renovation and expansion Hughes-Trigg renovation Owen Arts Center transformation Weber End Zone Complex Ways to Give Endowment giving Current-use giving Capital giving Planned giving University-wide initiatives School and unit giving Contact Us Office of the Vice President for Development and External Affairs Principal and Major Gifts School and Project Development Athletics © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Give now Contact us Goals Empower outstanding students Enhance campus and community Enrich teaching and research Leaders Message from the President Message from Campaign Leadership Council News Gifts Campaign updates Events and programs Campaign toolkit Ways to give Scholarships Endowed faculty positions Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Athletics Libraries Student Affairs Cox School renovation and expansion Hughes-Trigg renovation Owen Arts Center transformation Weber End Zone Complex Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Current Students Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Faculty & Staff Majors & Minors Alumni COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Did you know? SMU's singular approach to integrating rigorous learning with hands-on experience will prepare you to achieve your educational goals and expand your world in ways you never imagined. Ours is a community of people forging their own paths. We'd like to help you shape yours. Plan your visit Menu Search