ENGLISH ESPAñOL Quick Links Undergraduate Programs Master programs IE Foundation IEXL Contact Us IE Financial Aid Undergraduate AWARDS AND SCHOLARSHIPS How to apply Apply now Undergraduate loans Undergraduate Master’s AWARDS AND SCHOLARSHIPS How to apply Apply Now Loans and other financing options Master's Executive Education How to apply Undergraduate Masters How to apply Back MENU AT IE UNIVERSITY, TALENT IS OUR #1 INVESTMENT When it comes to choosing a university for your undergraduate and master’s studies, we know there’s a lot to consider. In our rapidly evolving and challenging world, we understand that this decision can have a decisive impact on your life. By choosing to attend a leading university like IE University, a unique institution grounded on distinctive values, always eager to purposefully transform the face of education for better serving our students and society, you can be sure we are committed to helping you reach your full potential and make your mark on the world. WELCOME TO FINANCIAL AID We strive to welcome into our community the best and most diverse talent to benefit from an education at IE University and drive innovation forwards, thanks to competitive scholarship opportunities open to candidates from all nationalities and pathways, across all programs at both undergraduate and master’s levels, as well as other financial aid avenues such as loan programs and payment plans. That is where our Financial Aid team comes in! OUR MISSION We proudly support IE University's overall purpose and vision by enabling diverse talent to join our unique community. Since every candidate's financial situation is unique, at Financial Aid we pride ourselves in offering you personalized assistance. We are ready to help you understand the range of financial aid opportunities available to you, clarify any requirement in the application processes, answer questions, and discuss any of your concerns regarding your ability to afford IE University. TALENT TAKING CARE OF TALENT ABOUT IE FOUNDATION IE Foundation has lived by the “Talent Taking Care of Talent” principle ever since its conception. It has in its DNA to take different actions to help outstanding talent overcome financial barriers to access higher education and unlock their full potential. Together with IE University, the Foundation offers financial support to talented students in every stage of their IE educational experience, from their undergraduate studies, to their master’s, doctorates and research initiatives. DISCOVER IE FOUNDATION Our site is the perfect place to explore the different resources at IE University to help you finance your education. Start on the path to your future today! START BUILDING YOUR FUTURE HERE Pursuing education in a leading university is an investment in your future. And, as any major investment, solid financial organization is an important factor. To cover their educational costs, many of our students rely on a combination of different types of financing and funding options, which could be in the form of savings, payment plans, loans, and scholarships. We know how important accessing financial aid is for a number of students and their families to cover some of the costs of an education at IE University, and that is why we offer scholarships and other financing opportunities to help make funding your education possible. For more Information about financial aid for Executive Education programsClick here! OUR AWARDS AND SCHOLARSHIPS We are committed to recognizing and encouraging talent from all over the globe through merit-based awards and application-based scholarships for all of our undergraduate and master’s programs. Discover the award and scholarship opportunities that await you at IE University: UNDERGRADUATE PROGRAMS MASTER'S PROGRAMS Student loans Different forms of loans are available to fund your studies, depending on your region, residency status, and personal circumstances. Apart from government or privately-funded loans you may qualify for based on your profile, at IE University we also have agreements with several financial institutions that provide student loan schemes with special conditions to eligible incoming students. Looking for more information regarding loans available to you? UNDERGRADUATE PROGRAMS MASTER'S PROGRAMS COST OF ATTENDANCE As you start planning for the cost of your studies at IE University and considering funding options to make it a reality, it is crucial to be aware of all tuition, fees and other costs such as living expenses, so you can estimate your student budget. UNDERGRADUATE PROGRAMS MASTER'S PROGRAMS CONTACT US In person, on the phone or online, we look forward to helping you with financial aid matters at any point in your journey towards studying at IE University. About scholarships for undergraduate programs financialaid.ieu@ie.edu +34 91 568 97 35 IE Tower, floor -2 ABOUT SCHOLARSHIPS FOR MASTER PROGRAMS financialaid@ie.edu +34 91 568 98 88 María de Molina 13, 1st floor at María de Molina, 15 About our student loan agreements loans@ie.edu +34 91 568 98 88 María de Molina 13, 1st floor at María de Molina, 15 Legal Notice Privacy Policy Cookie Policy IE Financial Aid 2022