COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Athletic Training Athletic Training All Programs College of Applied Studies Human Performance Studies Wichita State’s athletic training program prepares students for careers working with athletes in the areas of injury/illness prevention and assessment, first aid and emergency care. This comprehensive program, combining classroom and on-the-job learning, is accredited through the Commission on Accreditation for Athletic Training Education (CAATE). The Bachelor of Arts (BA) in athletic training is currently transitioning into a graduate program, which is scheduled to begin classes in summer 2023. Students interested in pursuing athletic training as a career path are encouraged to enter the Bachelor of Arts (BA) in exercise science program. Learn more about this change Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Careers A degree in athletic training will prepare you for high-demand careers in diverse settings from education and professional sports to health care and law enforcement. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Exercise Science Physical Education: PreK-12 Sport Management Sport Management (Minor) Health Science Health Science (Minor) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©