Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts Featured News Meduza: Genocide in Ukraine May 31, 2022 Erin Farrell Rosenberg, a Visiting Scholar with the Urban Morgan Institute for Human Rights at the University of Cincinnati College of Law, was one of four panelists discussing genocide with the Latvian-based news publication Meduza. Legal News Network: Delivering bad news to clients May 25, 2022 Marjorie Aaron, professor of practice and director of the Center for Practice in the UC College of Law, spoke with the Lawyerist Podcast on Legal News Network for a segment about delivering bad news to clients. Gift names new UC College of Law building atrium May 23, 2022 A University of Cincinnati alumnus has made a gift of $500,000 to the new University of Cincinnati College of Law building. H.C. Buck Niehoff, JD ’72, HON ’11, is honoring his former law firm, Peck, Shaffer & Williams LLP, by naming the two-story atrium. 1 2 Next › Last » Debug Query for this Latest News Keyword topics Select topics Answers Arts & Culture Athletics Bicentennial College bound COVID-19 Diversity Entrepreneurship Experience-based Learning Faculty Staff Health Impact In The News Insights International Must Read Next Lives Here Science & Tech Student Experience Thought Leadership colleges Select colleges College of Arts and Sciences Blue Ash College College of Allied Health Sciences College-Conservatory of Music College of Engineering and Applied Science College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services Clermont College Lindner College of Business College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing Online College of Pharmacy Meduza: Genocide in Ukraine May 31, 2022 Erin Farrell Rosenberg, a Visiting Scholar with the Urban Morgan Institute for Human Rights at the University of Cincinnati College of Law, was one of four panelists discussing genocide with the Latvian-based news publication Meduza. Legal News Network: Delivering bad news to clients May 25, 2022 Marjorie Aaron, professor of practice and director of the Center for Practice in the UC College of Law, spoke with the Lawyerist Podcast on Legal News Network for a segment about delivering bad news to clients. Gift names new UC College of Law building atrium May 23, 2022 A University of Cincinnati alumnus has made a gift of $500,000 to the new University of Cincinnati College of Law building. H.C. Buck Niehoff, JD ’72, HON ’11, is honoring his former law firm, Peck, Shaffer & Williams LLP, by naming the two-story atrium. UC names chief digital officer May 19, 2022 UC President Neville Pinto announces hiring of Bharath Prabhakaran to guide the University of Cincinnati’s digital transformation. UC Law professor speaks on panel at a United Nations conference May 17, 2022 Mark Godsey, Daniel P. and Judith L. Carmichael Professor of Law and Director of the Ohio Innocence Project, will take part in a United Nations (UN) panel seeking to address wrongful convictions under national and international law. UC Law announces new co-chairs for Women in Law alumnae group May 13, 2022 Janetta Brewer ’06 and Rebecca Zemmelman ’16 will serve as co-chairs of the Women in Law alumni group, a philanthropic group made up of College of Law alumnae that funds a spectrum of faculty and student-led programs at the College of Law. University of Cincinnati names graduate school dean May 10, 2022 Rose Marie Ward will serve as vice provost and dean of the Graduate School UC College of Law celebrates 189th Hooding Ceremony May 9, 2022 The University of Cincinnati College of Law will celebrate the accomplishments of its graduates at its 189th Hooding Ceremony at 1 p.m., Saturday, May 14, at Fifth Third Arena on the University of Cincinnati Campus. WCPO: Next battle over access to abortion will focus on pills May 9, 2022 Jenn Dye, PhD, Theodore M. Berry Director of the Nathaniel R. Jones Center for Race, Gender, and Social Justice, in the UC College of Law, discussed future access to abortion with journalist Mariel Carbone of WCPO-TV in Cincinnati. Inaugural director of Jones Center says philanthropy paved the... May 2, 2022 In July 2020, University of Cincinnati alumnus Bill Morelli, A&S ’74, JD ’78, gave $200,000 to support a center at the law school focused on race, gender, and social justice. UC Law Students Awarded Squire Patton Boggs Foundation... May 2, 2022 Two UC Law students will spend their summers working to advance social justice causes thanks to fellowships from the Squire Patton Boggs (SPB) Foundation. New faculty appointments at UC Law April 28, 2022 This fall, Cincinnati Law will welcome legal scholar and anthropologist Ryan Thoreson as an Assistant Professor, and legal clinician Kristie Bluett as Assistant Professor of Clinical Law and Director of the Domestic Violence/Civil Protection Order Clinic. The Power of Vision: 5 Years of Momentum April 28, 2022 The last five years rank among UC’s best. Take a look at some of our recent accomplishments and proudest moments since President G. Pinto began his term as UC’s 30th President. College of Law announces Grand Opening keynote speaker April 26, 2022 Ohio Supreme Court Chief Justice Maureen O'Connor will be the keynote speaker for the building's Grand Opening celebration. UC to celebrate record-breaking class at spring commencement April 25, 2022 The University of Cincinnati will recognize a record 7,080 graduates at its spring commencement during four ceremonies on Friday and Saturday at Fifth Third Arena. Load More Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top