Skip to content iastate.edu Index Directory Maps Safety Sign ons Toggle Navigation HOME ACADEMICS Undergraduate Programs Masters Programs PhD Program Faculty Research UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS Majors, Minors and Certificates Transfer Students Scholarships Undergraduate Student Services Undergraduate Career Services International Programs Writing & Speaking Center Student Organizations Hire an Ivy Graduate Start Something GRADUATE STUDENTS Masters Programs MBA Programs PhD Program Graduate Student Services Graduate Career Services Hire an Ivy Graduate Start Something ABOUT Ivy College of Business College Leadership Faculty & Staff Directory Rankings Alumni & Friends Upcoming Events Feature Stories APPLY SEARCH Loading... Supply Chain Management Join the only nationally ranked program in Iowa. Supply Chain Managementfritzn2022-05-13T11:42:35-05:00 Project Description CONNECT × We offer several ways to connect: We’re here to help answer all of your questions. We offer several ways to connect: Send us an email: choosebusiness@iastate.edu Call at 515-294-8300 any time between 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., Monday-Friday Schedule a video chat with a member of our recruitment staff. We can do this on your favorite platform. Just let us know which one you prefer: Google Hangouts, Zoom, Skype, FaceTime, or suggest another! Close VISIT SCHOLARSHIPS APPLY Supply Chain Management Iowa State University is the only university in Iowa with a nationally ranked supply chain management program. Taught by our internationally known faculty, you’ll learn about the logistics and operations of an organization, including demand planning, purchasing, inventory control, and strategic supply chain management. Our program covers every aspect of supply chain management, so you’ll be prepared no matter which field you enter after graduation. Our 2021 Graduates $0 average SCM starting salary $0 average SCM internship wage Make an Impact In this exciting field, you will see the full picture because you will be working in the heart and soul of a company. Supply chain management is an integrated program of study concerned with the efficient flow of materials, products, and information within and among organizations. It involves the integration of business processes across organizations, from material sources and suppliers through manufacturing, and processing to the final customer. The program provides you with the core knowledge related to a wide variety of supply chain activities, including demand planning, purchasing, transportation management, warehouse management, inventory control, material handling, product and service support, information technology, and strategic supply chain management The study of supply chain management prepares you for professional careers with manufacturers, retail distributors, logistics services providers, consulting firms, and others. Real-World Experience Ivy faculty are pushing the envelope every day to make your experience the best it can possibly be while providing real-world experiences every chance they get. Associate Professor of Supply Chain Management Scott Grawe developed a course that escalated into a life-changing, international experience for business students. Working with a former colleague from Target, Grawe and his students went backwards through the supply chain and followed one product on the shelf — a kitchen spatula — from Target in Ames, Iowa, to the shipping docks in Los Angeles, California, all the way to the factory in China where it was produced. All of this was done in person. This is the kind of inspiration and real-world learning you can expect at Ivy! Supply chain management is open to all Iowa State University students You can double major in supply chain management and another major You can minor in supply chain management if you are an Ivy College of Business student Current student? Look here for prior catalog year requirements × Supply Chain Management – prior catalog year requirements: 2021 Catalog 2020 Catalog 2019 Catalog 2018 Catalog 2017 Catalog 2016 Catalog Close Click here to see the supply chain management major requirements and classes (For students entering ISU fall 2022) Click here to see a sample 4-year plan 2022 Want to know more about Iowa State and the Ivy College of Business classes? General Education Requirements 2022 Curriculum Guide 2022 fritzn2021-01-12T07:01:19-06:00 Cameron Hillsman, West Des Moines, Iowa “With supply chain, it's just problem solving. It's being able to look at something super complicated, make it super simple, and apply the skills that you learned in high school to your everyday life.” CONNECT × We offer several ways to connect: We’re here to help answer all of your questions. We offer several ways to connect: Send us an email: choosebusiness@iastate.edu Call at 515-294-8300 any time between 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., Monday-Friday Schedule a video chat with a member of our recruitment staff. We can do this on your favorite platform. Just let us know which one you prefer: Google Hangouts, Zoom, Skype, FaceTime, or suggest another! Close VISIT SCHOLARSHIPS APPLY Ivy College of Business 2200 Gerdin 2167 Union Drive Ames, IA 50011-2027 CONTACT IVY VISITORS About Ivy Faculty & Staff Directory News & Events AACSB Accredited Rankings Learning Goals Facilities Alumni & Friends FOR COMPANIES Recruit a Student Post a Job CyBiz Lab Pappajohn Center SBDC Faculty Research Business Career Services Employer Services FACULTY & STAFF Iowa State Sign ons Faculty & Staff Directory News & Events Marketing Project Request Faculty Research Awards Faculty & Staff Resources Ivy A-Z Index CURRENT STUDENTS Iowa State Signs ons Faculty & Staff Directory News & Events Academic Advising Business Career Services Student Services Student Organizations CyHire Start Something FUTURE STUDENTS About Ivy Undergraduate Programs Master’s Programs MBA Programs PHD Programs International Programs Transfer Students Facilities Apply Ivy College of Business 2200 Gerdin 2167 Union Drive Ames, IA 50011-2027 CONTACT IVY VISITORS About Ivy Faculty & Staff Directory News & Events AACSB Accredited Rankings Learning Goals Facilities Alumni & Friends FOR COMPANIES Recruit a Student Post a Job CyBiz Lab Pappajohn Center SBDC Faculty Research Business Career Services Employer Services FACULTY & STAFF Iowa State Sign ons Faculty & Staff Directory News & Events Marketing Project Request Faculty Research Awards Faculty & Staff Resources Ivy A-Z Index CURRENT STUDENTS Iowa State Signs ons Faculty & Staff Directory News & Events Academic Advising Business Career Services Student Services Student Organizations CyHire Start Something FUTURE STUDENTS About Ivy Undergraduate Programs Master’s Programs MBA Programs PHD Programs International Programs Transfer Students Facilities Apply Copyright © 2022 | Iowa State University – Ivy College of Business | All rights reserved | Non-discrimination Policy | Privacy Policy | Digital Accessibility Policy | Remote Support | Iowa State Sign ons | Iowa State A-Z Index | Media Credits × Page load link Go to Top