Office of International Programs Off screen: Skip to content Off screen: Skip to search Main Menu Menu Who We Are Facts and Figures Staff Our Programs Fellowship Advising Search Fellowships Meet Your Advisers Pre-advising Form Preparing Your Application General Advice Application FAQs Resources Connect Past Fellowship Recipients Fellowships Mentoring Program In the News International Internships About IIP IIP by the Numbers Search Internships Create Your Own Meet the IIP Team How to Apply IIP Application Timeline IIP Terms and Conditions Application FAQs Financial Matters Student Stories IIP 2021 Poster Winners Returning Home Novogratz Bridge Year About Bridge Year Mission, Values, Vision Why Bridge Year? FAQs In the News Support for Bridge Year Explore Locations Bolivia China India Indonesia Senegal Meet Our Volunteers Returned Volunteers Reflections and Connections Voices Past Events How to Apply Information for Families Contact Us Admission Ambassadors Study Abroad Getting Started Why Go Abroad? Types of Programs Advice by Department and Certificate Study Abroad Requirements Academic Year Policies Summer Policies Policies FAQs Meet Your Advisers Explore Programs Explore Programs FAQs Financial Matters Academic Year Summer Dean's Fund How to Apply Academic Year Petition Summer Application FAQs Returning Home Re-entry Practical Matters What's Next? Become a Global Ambassador Connect Contact Us Events Our Students International Eye Photo Contest Previous Winners This Year's Winners Resources Contact Us Fellowship Advising International Internships Novogratz Bridge Year Study Abroad Events News My GPS Search Search Home Our Programs Novogratz Bridge Year Program Photo: Leah Bushin ’14 Study Abroad Bridge Year Fellowships International Internships Novogratz Bridge Year Program Section Menu About Bridge Year Explore Locations Meet Our Volunteers Reflections and Connections Voices How to Apply Information for Families Contact Us Information For Families Novogratz Bridge Year Program The Novogratz Bridge Year is a nine-month, tuition-free program that allows newly admitted undergraduates to begin their Princeton experience with a year of community-engaged learning at one of five international locations. Bridge Year participants study the local language, live with carefully selected homestay families, and take part in a variety of cultural enrichment activities, while learning with and from community partners through their volunteer work. Application to the Novogratz Bridge Year Program is open to all incoming first-year Princeton undergraduate students. About Bridge Year How to Apply Student Stories Apply Now Interested in Bridge Year? Learn more about our application process and timeline. Apply Photo: Michael Garcia '23 Follow Along on Instagram Footer Office of International Programs Louis A. Simpson International Building Phone: 609-258-5524 Fax: 609-258-1019 oip@princeton.edu Make an Appointment A unit of the Office of the Dean of the College Visit Us Office Hours Monday-Friday: Academic Year: 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. Summer: 8:30 a.m.- 4:30 p.m. Follow Us PrincetonOIP PrincetonBridgeYear PrincetonOIP novogratzbridgeyear Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University