Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Temple's Impact You are here Home About News & Media Temple's Impact Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Preferred Name Use Pronoun Use and Gender Identity Temple Thought Leaders Housing & Dining Health & Wellness COVID-19: Keeping Our Community Safe & Healthy COVID-19 FAQ Testing & Tracing Vaccines Academics, Tuition & Aid Temple HEERF III Grant Student Housing & On-campus Life Work-life for Faculty & Staff Faculty Teaching Information Return Scenario Planning Temple Community Health Advisory Group University Communication Vaccination Rates and Active COVID-19 Cases at Temple University International Campuses and Programs City Life Philadelphia Visiting Temple Accommodations Dining Options Religious Services Information FAQs Safety Main Campus and Philadelphia Safety FAQ Contact Temple RAVE Temple Guardian App Community Programs and Research University News Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Campus Life Arts and Culture Clubs and Organizations Housing, Dining and OWLcards Parking and Transportation Safety Student Banking Student Centers Wireless, Computers and Phone Academics Advising and Academic Support Courses and Calendars International Students Libraries Registration, Grades and Books Schools and Colleges Health and Wellness Athletics and Fitness Health and Counseling Tuition and Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition and Billing Careers and Internships Career Center Internships Student Jobs Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees Presidential Search President University Leadership Board of Trustees Updates Past Presidents 2019 State of the University History & Traditions Russell Conwell Temple Traditions Acres of Diamonds Honorary Degrees Past Honorary Degree Recipients Temple Health News & Media Media Mentions Temple University Wallpapers Temple's Impact Career in Charitable Change Fueled by Temple Experiences Advancing Breast Cancer Research Leaders in HIV Research 21st-century Learning Temple Firsts Paving the Way Medical & Community Support Student Support Contact members of Strategic Marketing and Communications Offices Public Information Facts About Temple Faculty & Staff Resources Working at Temple Calendars and Time Off Holiday Schedule Careers at Temple Human Resources Performance and Training Business Services Catering Exception Policy Double Tree Catering/ Conferences Contact Frequently Asked Questions Trademark Licensing Policy Corporate Responsibility Logo and Graphics Guide Guidelines for Trademark Use The Student, Faculty and Staff Guide to Ordering Licensed Temple Products Becoming Licensed Trademark and Licensing FAQ Where to Buy Temple Gear University-approved Hotels Club Quarters DoubleTree Hotel Hilton Garden Inn Hilton Philadelphia at Penn's Landing Loews Hotel Sonesta Philadelphia The Conwell Inn Campus Services Computers, Email and Phones Conferences and Meetings Health Sciences Center Form Main Campus Meeting Space Howard Gittis Student Center Form Documents & Insurance Facilities and Space ID Cards Parking and Transportation Faculty Resources Calendars, Schedules and Grades Courses and Curricula Instructional Resources Faculty Senate and News Research and Grants Finance and Travel Accounting and Budget Employee Banking and Finance Tuition Remission Travel and Expenses Wellness and Safety Fitness and Health Safety and Alerts Campus Development Frequently Asked Questions Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Data Integrity and Data Verification Unit In-scope Materials Quick Reference Guide Rankings Data Overview and Updates Additional Resources Frequently Asked Questions FAQ: Fox School of Business MBA rankings Enterprise Risk Management Key Terms and Definitions Helpline Frequently Asked Questions Resources Compliance With the Four Pillars Who We Are Libraries Charles Library We are united in our commitment to the greater good. Temple University rises to all challenges to adapt, grow and transform the lives of our students, our community and the world around us. We believe that learning is a lifelong process, perseverance leads to discovery and passion leads us to do great things. We initiate thoughtful, deliberate change to champion the needs of everyone. Our students are prepared to succeed and are driven to shift entire communities forward. Our faculty are thought leaders and game changers who are experts in their fields. At Temple, ideas turn into life-changing impact. Hard work isn’t for just personal gain, but with the goal of providing valuable insight that can improve lives. We seek to empower others by empowering ourselves to keep going and create a bigger, bolder future for all. /about/news-media/temples-impact/career-charitable-change Career in Charitable Change Only seven years after earning a bachelor’s degree, one graduate is in charge of managing $5 million in assets and distributing life-changing grants. Read more about Temple alumnae Erinn Corbett-Wright /about/news-media/temples-impact/fueled-temple-experiences Fueled by Temple Experiences After sports media internships with national teams in Philadelphia, this Temple grad now manages the fast-paced social media strategy for the NBA. Read more about Doug Ammon /about/news-media/temples-impact/advancing-breast-cancer-research Advancing Breast Cancer Research A bioengineering professor is pioneering research for better breast cancer diagnostic tools, supported by a National Cancer Institute award and American Cancer Society grant. Read more about the bioengineering professors studying diagnostic tools to prevent breast cancer metastasis See more of what we do and why we do it. These are just a few of the stories about how hard work and determination drive all that we do at Temple—on campus, in Philadelphia and around the world. Read more stories below and learn about our impact. Leaders in HIV Research: With their most recent breakthrough, Temple researchers are closer than ever to finding a cure for the disease that impacts tens of millions worldwide. 21st-century Learning: When the pandemic hit, this professor was determined to give her students the hands-on education they need, with the help of a telepresence robot. Temple Firsts Paving the Way: Goldwater and Knight-Hennessy scholarships are two of the most prestigious academic recognitions in the U.S., and this recent grad landed both. And, our students are surrounded every day by people who work for a more inclusive world. They propose solutions for racial disparities, break down barriers to opportunity, champion equal rights and challenge discriminatory practices. Explore these stories. About Temple Bold Action, Bright Future At Temple, everyone has opportunities to think big, achieve their dreams and lead the future. We know that if we persevere, we can accomplish anything. And when we find that success, it’s our duty to bring others with us. About Temple Read more about Temple University on our about page Community Support Temple is committed to the health and well-being of our local community including our immediate neighbors and the city at-large. Through various programs and services, we strive to improve outcomes and increase quality of life. The Office of Community Affairs and Engagement promotes personal and professional development through learning opportunities and civic partnerships, and it drives public engagement through volunteerism. Temple Health, our vast network of physicians and scientists, supports the physical and mental health of the residents in our region with an array of comprehensive medical services. Learn more about how we serve Philadelphia. Community Affairs and Engagement Community Health COVID-19 Response As the COVID-19 pandemic impacted everyone, Temple acted quickly for the health and safety of our students and entire campus community. See how we supported our communities, and then read stories about how Temple responded to provide solutions for all who were affected. Medical & Community Support Student Support Read the stories. Rising to the challenge At the height of the pandemic, Temple helped combat the spread of COVID-19. This series chronicles our universitywide efforts and its long-lasting impact in the community. Read the stories. Rising to the challenge Go back to AboutMore in Temple's Impact Temple Firsts Paving the Way 21st-century Learning Leaders in HIV Research Advancing Breast Cancer Research Fueled by Temple Experiences Career in Charitable Change Medical & Community Support Student Support Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community.