Your browser does not support iframes. Skip to main content Menu Scheller College of Business Request More Information Attend an Info Session Contact Us Directory Apply Now Search Why Scheller? Programs Executive Education Academics Centers & Initiatives News & Events Overview & History Dean's Message and Report Meet Ernest Scheller Jr. Advisory Board Accreditation Strategic Plan Business at Tech Graduates Get Hired Return on Investment Faculty and Advisors Global Perspective A Good Fit Corporate Engagement Trading Floor Georgia Tech Community Student Life Making Connections and Learning Opportunities Diversity Diversity News Career and Recruiter Services Career Services for Students Hire Our Students Giving to the College Meeting the Challenge Priorities and Needs Faculty Support Student Support Program Enrichment Unrestricted Endowment The Impact of Your Gift How to Make a Gift FAQs Scheller MBA Annual Fund Alumni Network Alumni News Alumni Resources Update Contact Information Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Full-time MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQsEvening MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Advancement Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQs Executive MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Student & Alumni Profiles FAQsMBA Programs Which Georgia Tech MBA is Right for Me? Commitment to Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Dual Degree Options Experiential Learning For Engineers For Military Community MD/MBA Option MBA Early Admission for Undergrads Rankings The Intersection Podcast Earn Your MBA in Atlanta Graduate Certificate Business Analytics Certificate Undergraduate Admissions Curriculum Career Services Student Services Student Life Scholarships & Awards Rankings & Stats Connect With Us The Intersection Podcast, Undergrad PhD Concentrations Program Milestones Faculty and Staff Funding Admissions FAQs Recruiting Events Student Bios Program News Request Program Information Interdisciplinary M.S. M.S. in Quantitative & Computational Finance (QCF) Master of Science in Analytics at Georgia Tech Lean Six Sigma Certification Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Certification Lean Six Sigma Black Belt Certification FAQs Custom Programs FAQs Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Engineering Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship International Management Management of Technology Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results Academic Speaker Series Guest Speakers in Accounting Guest Speakers in Finance Guest Speakers in Marketing Current Faculty Opportunities Business Analytics Center Engage with Us Executive Council News Research Education People Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics About Cecil B. Day The Cecil B. Day Prize Speakers and Events Faculty Support Net Impact Center for International Business Education and Research Projects Research Events Books People at CIBER Inside CIBER News and Events Archives International Management Certificate Sign Up for Future CIBER News Financial Analysis Lab Subscribe to Reports Institute for Leadership and Social Impact About Us Programs News Impact Speaker Series Leadership for Social Good Study Abroad Program Social Impact Fellows Ideas to Serve (I2S) Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Servant Leadership Programs Minor in Leadership Studies Excel Alumni Other ILSI Programs Partnerships Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business About Us Sustainable Business Insights Research Briefs Sustainable Business Events Sustainable Business News Blog Research & Thought Leadership Empowering Students Industry Engagement Newsletter Participating in the Drawdown Georgia Compact Drawdown Georgia Business Compact Meet the Team Alumni Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program Director's Message About Steven A. Denning T&M Curriculum Program Faculty & Staff Admissions T&M Corporate Affiliates Denning T&M Program News TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta Program Network TI:GER MBA & PhD FAQs News Apply Inquire Resources in Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller Giving to the College Scheller MBA Annual Fund Home » Why Scheller? » Giving to the College » Scheller MBA Annual Fund Menu Giving to the College Meeting the Challenge Priorities and Needs Faculty Support Student Support Program Enrichment Unrestricted Endowment The Impact of Your Gift How to Make a Gift FAQs Scheller MBA Annual Fund Build Scheller. Build the Future. Together, we can build Scheller and help build the future. At the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business, we're proud to attract the best and brightest who will transform the world through changing business. Your philanthropic support allows Scheller to develop and expand our programs and fulfill our mission of educating the inclusive, forward-thinking leaders of tomorrow. Your MBA Annual Fund gift provides essential resources for Full-time, Evening, and Executive MBA students, faculty, and alumni: Increased Financial Aid Help us attract promising Full-time, Evening, and Executive MBA students through tuition assistance and partial fellowship opportunities. Innovative Technologies and Programs Invest in and enhance interdisciplinary programs at the intersection of business, technology, and innovation. Funding for Case Competitions and Practicums Sponsor activities like the National Black MBA Conference participation, MBA case competitions, and practicum experiences. Student Projects Support student opportunities and passion projects like MBA Impact Investing Network and Training (MIINT) program. Your gift provides essential resources for Full-time, Evening, and Executive MBA students, faculty, and alumni. Why Alumni Give Back Scheller helped me build my technical knowledge and expand my thinking. Professors taught us to approach problems from different perspectives, ask questions and appropriately challenge, and create new ideas. Scheller helps leaders to see differently. I am so thankful for Scheller and the opportunities it afforded. Giving back will support the program and students that mean so much to me. - Emily Muhlberger, Consultant, Slalom, Full-time MBA ’09, ME ‘04 I always felt at home in the Scheller MBA program. I invest back into Scheller because the program has welcomed me into its culture and family. I want to support bright students who may not be able to attend Georgia Tech due to a lack of funding and show anyone from any background that they can go here to achieve their goals. - Tommy Lester, President, SWAN Development Partners, LLC, Evening MBA ‘11 The Scheller Executive MBA program taught me new ways of thinking and how to harness that and utilize it with every challenge that comes my way. I believe you should refill the well so that someone else has a meaningful experience.Take what you need, but you have to put it back for the next generation. - Wendy L. Neibank, SVP, Global Portfolio Management, People 2.0, Executive MBA ‘18 The Impact of Alumni Giving Philanthropic investment in education helps keep us competitive in bringing together diverse, intellectual students each year. Donations to the Scheller MBA fund support Full-time, Evening, and Executive MBA programs and students. Since its founding in 2019, The Scheller MBA Annual Fund has supported several fellowships and Turner/MIINT impact investing experience. MIINT is a yearlong experiential investing lab with the goal of training the next generation of business leaders. With help from the MBA Annual Fund and an alumni donor, Akshay Verma a Full-time MBA student and vice president of Professional Development for the Graduate Business Council (GBC), was able to coordinate the sponsorship of 10 MIINT participants who gained access to a worldwide network of students interested in impact investing. Ways to Give Online Access online giving portal By Mail Georgia Tech Foundation, Inc. 760 Spring Street NW, Suite 400 Atlanta, GA 30308 Match Your Gift Many employers sponsor matching gift programs and will match any charitable contributions made by their employees. If your company is eligible, request a matching gift form from your employer, and send it completed with your signed gift. We will ensure your gift receives the maximum impact. See if your company matches "The Scheller MBA Annual Fund ensures we are able to attract top students from across the globe to our MBA programs. The gifts we receive make all the difference in our ability to grow the MBA program and cultivate tech-savvy, business-smart leaders." John Byrne Senior Director of Development 404.291.8268 Your Gift Matters Give to the MBA Annual Fund Scheller College of Business Home Why Scheller? Overview & History Business at Tech Georgia Tech Community Career and Recruiter Services Giving to the College Alumni Network Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Programs MBA Undergraduate PhD Interdisciplinary M.S. Executive Education Lean Six Sigma Certification Custom Programs Academics Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Academic Speaker Series Current Faculty Opportunities Centers & Initiatives Business Analytics Center Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics Center for International Business Education and Research Financial Analysis Lab Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta News & Events Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller LinkedIn Instagram Facebook Twitter Youtube Flickr Georgia Institute of Technology Scheller College of Business 800 W. Peachtree St. NW Atlanta, GA 30308 404.894.2600 © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology Intranet Emergency Information Contact the College Privacy & Legal Notice Accountability Web Accessibility Resources for People with Disabilities Plugins Youtube Usage Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures