Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University Robert J. & Nancy D.Carney Institute for Brain Science Search Brown University Home Research Research Projects Where Brain Science Happens BRAINSTORM Program Centers & Core Facilities Center for Alzheimer's Disease Research Center for Computational Brain Science COBRE Center for Neuromodulation Center for the Neurobiology of Cells and Circuits Center for Translational Neuroscience Center for Vision Research COBRE Center for Central Nervous System Function Research Projects Research Cores Behavior and Neuroimaging Core Design and Analysis Core MRI Research Facility Carney Human Testing Space The Bioluminescence Hub COVID-19 Resuming Research Plan Training Undergraduate Students Concentrations Graduate Study Postdocs Executive Committee Carney Summer Scholars Training Programs ICoN - Interdisciplinary Training Interdisciplinary Vision Training Program TPCP - Training Program People Institute Team Executive Committee Affiliated Faculty Community Spotlights Center Directors Scientific Advisory Board News & Events News Upcoming Events Past Events BrainExPo Seminar Series Carney Conversations Methods Meetups Resources Funding Opportunities Research Toolbox Brain Facts Education & Outreach Research & Educational Resources About Our Impact Affiliated Units Where Brain Science Happens FAQ Partner With Us Give To Carney Give To Carney Home Research Training People News & Events Resources Funding Opportunities Research Toolbox Brain Facts Education & Outreach Research & Educational Resources About Partner With Us Search Carney Institute for Brain Science Funding Opportunities The Carney Institute for Brain Science provides funds to support summer undergraduate research experiences, graduate student training and postdoctoral training. Additionally, the Carney Institute supports interdisciplinary research through the New Frontiers awards, and highly creative research projects through the Innovation fund. Zimmerman Innovation Awards in Brain Science The call for applications is open, the deadline is June 15, 2022 The purpose of these awards is to launch innovative projects that have great potential to advance science and benefit society in ways that have major and lasting impact. Projects that are too risky and early stage to be appropriate for NIH or similar funding mechanism are strongly favored. The Carney Institute will invest up to $100,000 per project for one year, renewable for a second year on a competitive basis, to support projects that meet these criteria. Read More COBRE Center for Nervous System Function - Pilot Project Applications The call for applications is open. Pre-proposals due May 25, 2022; invited Full applications due June 24, 2022 The Carney Institute for Brain Science COBRE Center for Nervous System Function aims to increase the quantity and quality of research on the nervous system in Rhode Island. One means of attaining this goal concerns identifying and nurturing talented young investigators and enabling established investigators to create a new research line. We welcome project submissions that explore the neural basis of attention, decision-making, learning, memory, or other cognitive functions. Read More Graduate Awards in Brain Science Scientific review is underway. Results will be announced in late Spring 2022. The Carney Institute for Brain Science invites applications for Graduate Awards in Brain Science. These awards recognize outstanding and productive mid- to late-stage Ph.D. candidates conducting brain science-related research in a Brown graduate program. Awards cover full costs for two academic semesters and one summer beginning in the Fall. Read More Postdoctoral T32 Training Program in Recovery and Restoration of CNS Health and Function Applications closed. The goal of this exciting multidisciplinary, multi-institutional training program, based at Massachusetts General Hospital and the School of Engineering and the Carney Institute for Brain Science, is to enhance recovery from disabling brain injuries by filling a pressing need for clinician-scientists and neuroengineers trained to leverage the computational neurosciences and to develop and test device-based and other interventions for patients. Read More Undergraduate Teaching and Research Awards (UTRA) Applications closed The Carney Institute for Brain Science offers summer undergraduate research experiences in coordination with the Brown University Undergraduate Teaching and Research Award (UTRA) program. Each summer, Carney supports undergraduate summer research awards as funding permits. Applications that are not awarded a Carney Institute-specific UTRA will still be considered for funding through the University-wide pool of UTRA funding. Read More Resources Funding Opportunities Research Toolbox Brain Facts Education & Outreach Research & Educational Resources Robert J. & Nancy D. Carney Institute for Brain Science Robert J. & Nancy D. Carney Institute for Brain Science Brown University Box 1901 164 Angell St., 4th Floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-7421 Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top