Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Entrepreneurship and Innovation Management Certificate (Undergraduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Entrepreneurship and Innovation Management Certificate (Undergraduate) Apply Visit Request More Info Entrepreneurship and Innovation Management Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Entrepreneurship and Innovation Management Undergraduate Certificate The Entrepreneurship and Innovation Management Undergraduate Certificate in the Fox School of Business at Temple University can help you transform an idea into a viable business venture, or prepare you to work in an innovative and entrepreneurial company in your area of subject expertise. Geared exclusively toward non-business students, this nine-credit, three-course certificate program offers undergraduates a blend of comprehensive classroom instruction and real-world experience working with successful entrepreneurs through internships, workshops and other opportunities. This certificate is tailored specifically for innovative thinkers and subject matter experts looking to start new businesses; take over management or ownership of existing businesses; work as consultants or freelancers; or work in the entrepreneurial ecosystem. Enrollment in the certificate program provides students access to additional resources offerend through Fox’s Innovation and Entrepreneurship Institute, such as workshops and conferences as well as customized mentorships with both faculty and alumni entrepreneurs. You can also connect with the Temple entrepreneurial community, identify opportunities and expand your creativity by joining the student-run Entrepreneurial Students Organization. As this certificate is open only to non-Business majors, interested Business students can consider the Entrepreneurship and Innovation Management minor or a dual major instead. Classes & Curriculum Certificate students choose three courses, one from each of the following categories. Entrepreneurial thinking elective, such as Ready, Aim, Fire: Launching a Profitable Micro-venture in 100 Days. Entrepreneurial management elective, such as Becoming a Manager: Building, Leading and Managing New and Small Businesses. Entrepreneurial action elective, such as Be Your Own Boss: Planning to Start Your Own Business. Learn more about Entrepreneurship and Innovation Management Undergraduate Certificate courses. Related Graduate Degrees Business Administration MBA Innovation Management and Entrepreneurship MS Internships & Opportunities Certificate students are encouraged to enter the Be Your Own Boss Bowl, one of the nation’s most lucrative pitch competitions for aspiring entrepreneurs. It gives students the chance to discover all aspects of entrepreneurship, from networking to writing strategic business plans. Skills and Outcomes Through this robust certificate program, students learn to become “T-shaped” employees or entrepreneurs, which means they have deep, specialized skills in specific fields, as well as a broad understanding of fundamental business concepts. The advantage of this balance is that certificate holders have the tools to approach business challenges from fresh, outside-the-box perspectives. Careers Having an Entrepreneurship and Innovation Management Undergraduate Certificate on your transcript shows you're a proactive self-starter who can creatively solve problems and turn ideas into reality. Graduates go on to start their own businesses, become freelance consultants or enter positions in high-potential startups. Whether you plan to start to launch a business or work in a well-established company, this certificate shows you are able to go beyond your functional expertise, drawing inspiration from a larger strategic vision and innovating when it counts. Students of the Innovation & Entrepreneurship Institute often advance to paid internships and jobs at such firms as Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan Chase, Disney, Amazon and Marriott. Tuition & Fees The tuition for this Certificate Program is based on school or college of your major, program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. Distinguished Faculty The Innovation & Entrepreneurship Institute comprises some of the most experienced and brilliant minds in national and international business. Our professors have founded and managed multinational corporations, built for-profit and not-for-profit organizations from the ground up, and managed operations in an array of industries including hospitality, food and publishing. Among the many awards bestowed on faculty members are the Congressional Medal of Distinction and the Ronald Reagan Gold Medal for Outstanding Business Leadership. Our Academic Advisors The Center for Undergraduate Advising in the Fox School of Business is dedicated to helping students navigate their academics and make informed decisions about their career paths. Camille Fallon is the associate director at the Center for Undergraduate Advising. Phone: 215-204-1761 Email: camille.fallon@temple.edu Joy Stroman is the senior academic advisor at the Center for Undergraduate Advising. Phone: 215-204-7762 Email: joy.stroman@temple.edu See a full list of undergraduate academic advisors. Peer Advising The Center for Undergraduate Advising also offers peer advising at the Main Campus location. Undergraduate peer advisors offer the perspective of an upper-level student and assist by sharing their knowledge and personal tips for academic success. BU-EIM-CERT Additional Program Information Available as a minor. School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Entrepreneurship and Innovation Management Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info