Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu News and Events Breadcrumb Home News from Brown News Search News Archive 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 All Previous Years Subscribe to our weekly newsletter 709 Results based on your selections. News and Events $25 million gift from Shoman family advances Brown’s goal for need-blind international admission June 1, 2022 The largest gift for international financial aid in University history, from alumni Aysha and Omar Shoman, will expand Brown’s ability to educate the most exceptional international students from all socioeconomic groups. Read Article Open details for $25 million gift from Shoman family advances Brown’s goal for need-blind international admission News and Events Brown Corporation approves base budget for Fiscal Year 2023 June 1, 2022 The $1.5 billion base budget includes deep investments in student financial aid and support for faculty and staff, balancing continued advancement in academic excellence with a focus on long-term financial sustainability. Read Article Open details for Brown Corporation approves base budget for Fiscal Year 2023 News and Events Brown Corporation elects two new fellows, eight trustees June 1, 2022 Brown’s governing body elected each new member based on their commitment to the University and its mission of education and research. Read Article Open details for Brown Corporation elects two new fellows, eight trustees News and Events In three ceremonies, medical, doctoral and master’s graduates celebrate hard-earned degrees May 29, 2022 In addresses at Brown’s Commencement ceremonies on Sunday, May 29, student speakers entreated their peers to make a positive impact using lessons they had learned during the COVID-19 pandemic. Read Article Open details for In three ceremonies, medical, doctoral and master’s graduates celebrate hard-earned degrees News and Events Student voices shine as Brown commemorates Class of 2022 May 29, 2022 In a sunny, spirited celebration, three Brown graduating seniors addressed Class of 2022 members, encouraging their fellow graduates to honor their roots while forging new paths ahead. Read Article Open details for Student voices shine as Brown commemorates Class of 2022 News and Events With advice from Pelosi, Paxson and peers, Brown’s Class of 2022 celebrates Commencement May 29, 2022 A weekend packed with graduation ceremonies and alumni reunions offered a return to normalcy and a chance to experience Commencement and Reunion in-person, for both first-timers and graduates from across generations. Read Article Open details for With advice from Pelosi, Paxson and peers, Brown’s Class of 2022 celebrates Commencement News and Events Brown confers nine honorary doctorates May 29, 2022 During Commencement and Reunion Weekend, the University bestowed honorary degrees on U.S. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Dr. Seth Berkley of the Vaccine Alliance, recording artist Shaggy and six other accomplished leaders. Read Article Open details for Brown confers nine honorary doctorates News and Events At Brown’s Baccalaureate, students make room for gratitude and grief May 28, 2022 The Class of 2022 celebrated the Baccalaureate with joyful performances, reflective remarks and prayers from faith traditions across the globe — holding space for both celebration and sorrow. Read Article Open details for At Brown’s Baccalaureate, students make room for gratitude and grief News and Events Two years later, Class of 2020 undergraduate alumni reunite for ceremony, spirited celebrations May 28, 2022 Brown University welcomed back its 2020 graduates, who missed their in-person Commencement when COVID-19 arrived their senior year, for the full, traditional experience of Commencement and Reunion Weekend. Read Article Open details for Two years later, Class of 2020 undergraduate alumni reunite for ceremony, spirited celebrations News and Events In return to Brown, 2020 doctoral and master’s graduates reflect on two years of perseverance May 28, 2022 Alumni who received their doctoral and master’s degrees in 2020 experienced Commencement and Reunion the way they’d long hoped to — across multiple days, in-person and surrounded by loved ones on College Hill. Read Article Open details for In return to Brown, 2020 doctoral and master’s graduates reflect on two years of perseverance News and Events Brown to confer 2,788 degrees at 254th Commencement May 27, 2022 On Sunday, May 29, the University will confer a total of 2,788 degrees in all categories — undergraduate, graduate, medical and honorary. Read Article Open details for Brown to confer 2,788 degrees at 254th Commencement News and Events Brown names The Lindemann Performing Arts Center May 24, 2022 The name for the center, set to open in 2023, honors Brown Corporation member Frayda Lindemann and her late husband, George Lindemann Sr., a longtime University supporter, business executive and art collector. Read Article Open details for Brown names The Lindemann Performing Arts Center News and Events Brown economist named one of TIME’s 100 Most Influential People of 2022 May 23, 2022 Professor of Economics Emily Oster received the distinction for her work in translating data into simple, rational guidance for parents worldwide. Read Article Open details for Brown economist named one of TIME’s 100 Most Influential People of 2022 News and Events One-of-a-kind Brown Commencement and Reunion Weekend set for May 27 to 29 May 23, 2022 The University will celebrate its Class of 2022 graduates, members of the Class of 2020 who missed their in-person Commencement experience due to the COVID-19 pandemic, and alumni from across the generations. Read Article Open details for One-of-a-kind Brown Commencement and Reunion Weekend set for May 27 to 29 News and Events 2020 doctoral and master’s degree speakers to return to College Hill for in-person addresses May 19, 2022 Mira Nikolova and Abdullah Shihipar, who respectively earned a Ph.D. and master’s from Brown in 2020, will return to campus to address their fellow alumni during a dedicated Commencement ceremony on Saturday, May 28. Read Article Open details for 2020 doctoral and master’s degree speakers to return to College Hill for in-person addresses News and Events Graduate School speakers to embrace vulnerability, the unexpected at Commencement May 17, 2022 As Brown celebrates Commencement 2022, Jiuyang Bai and Amelia Spalter will address their peers in separate Ph.D. and master’s ceremonies on College Hill on Sunday, May 29. Read Article Open details for Graduate School speakers to embrace vulnerability, the unexpected at Commencement News and Events Two years later than planned, Class of 2020 graduates to address peers at Commencement May 12, 2022 Brown alumni Sydney Lo and Dhruv Singh will return to campus to deliver Commencement speeches to the Class of 2020 on Saturday, May 28, with a focus on the importance of community. Read Article Open details for Two years later than planned, Class of 2020 graduates to address peers at Commencement News and Events Senior orators to impart advice, bid farewell to Class of 2022 members during Commencement May 12, 2022 In keeping with a Brown tradition that dates back more than two and a half centuries, seniors Kaitlan Bui, Alexandra Ali Martínez and Michelle Liu will address their fellow graduates during Commencement 2022. Read Article Open details for Senior orators to impart advice, bid farewell to Class of 2022 members during Commencement News and Events Men's lacrosse set to host Virginia in NCAA Tournament on Saturday, May 14 May 9, 2022 Facing off in the tournament’s second round, Brown and Virginia will meet for the first time since March 2020, when Brown won a 14-13 thriller before the COVID-19 pandemic ended the 2020 season. Read Article Open details for Men&#039;s lacrosse set to host Virginia in NCAA Tournament on Saturday, May 14 News and Events Brown to confer nine honorary degrees during Commencement and Reunion Weekend May 6, 2022 The University will bestow honorary degrees on U.S. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Dr. Seth Berkley of the Vaccine Alliance, recording artist Shaggy and six other accomplished leaders. Read Article Open details for Brown to confer nine honorary degrees during Commencement and Reunion Weekend News and Events Brown providing comprehensive support for current and incoming Ukrainian students May 5, 2022 In the wake of the war in Ukraine, the University is supporting Ukrainian students with financial assistance, summer housing, counseling and more. Read Article Open details for Brown providing comprehensive support for current and incoming Ukrainian students News and Events Research Achievement Awards honor early, mid-career Brown scholars May 2, 2022 The annual awards program recognizes outstanding faculty scholarship; new this year were awards for Brown inventor and startup of the year. Read Article Open details for Research Achievement Awards honor early, mid-career Brown scholars News and Events Photos: Drumming, dancing and revelry at the 19th annual Spring Thaw Powwow April 28, 2022 The student-organized event celebrated the arrival of a new season with music, dancing, food, Native American art and workmanship, games and more. Read Article Open details for Photos: Drumming, dancing and revelry at the 19th annual Spring Thaw Powwow News and Events Former President Bill Clinton on authoritarianism: ‘They can’t win in the long run’ April 26, 2022 In a conversation with Derek Shearer, former ambassador to Finland, the 42nd U.S. president spoke about global politics as well as climate change, writing and music. Read Article Open details for Former President Bill Clinton on authoritarianism: ‘They can’t win in the long run’ News and Events Brown junior John Lin named one of the nation’s 58 Truman Scholars for 2022 April 15, 2022 With a commitment to reducing inequities in health care, Lin will use funding from the Truman Scholarship to seek degrees in medicine and health policy to drive change to the U.S. health care system. Read Article Open details for Brown junior John Lin named one of the nation’s 58 Truman Scholars for 2022 News and Events College Day at Brown gives Providence high schoolers a glimpse of academic and campus life April 14, 2022 With an eye toward fueling interest in post-secondary education, faculty, staff and students across Brown gave city students a chance to experience classes, community engagement opportunities, social activities and more. Read Article Open details for College Day at Brown gives Providence high schoolers a glimpse of academic and campus life News and Events New Kessler Scholars Program at Brown will expand support for first-gen, low-income students April 12, 2022 Building on the success of the University’s existing FLiSP program, a new five-year, $1 million grant will create the Kessler Scholars Program, a cohort-based model that bolsters support for first-generation, low-income students. Read Article Open details for New Kessler Scholars Program at Brown will expand support for first-gen, low-income students News and Events 42nd U.S. President Bill Clinton to visit Brown for public event on April 26 April 8, 2022 The former president will join Derek Shearer, former U.S. ambassador to Finland, for a conversation on leadership, global politics in the 21st century, creative writing and more. Read Article Open details for 42nd U.S. President Bill Clinton to visit Brown for public event on April 26 News and Events Brown admits 2,546 students to the undergraduate Class of 2026 March 31, 2022 The University offered admission on Thursday, March 31, to prospective members of next year’s incoming class, who were selected from Brown’s largest applicant pool to date. Read Article Open details for Brown admits 2,546 students to the undergraduate Class of 2026 News and Events Next-generation data storage start-up takes first-place Venture Prize March 24, 2022 Seven student teams vied for $50,000 in prize money at the Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship’s Venture Prize pitch night, the fifth annual event but the first held in-person since 2019. Read Article Open details for Next-generation data storage start-up takes first-place Venture Prize News and Events Federal court dismisses claims seeking additional fee refunds in class action complaint March 23, 2022 The court ruled that Brown continued to offer services for which it charged fees, even as they took on a different form than could have been anticipated before COVID-19 forced a transition to remote learning in March 2020. Read Article Open details for Federal court dismisses claims seeking additional fee refunds in class action complaint News and Events Academic innovation leader Shankar K. Prasad to lead Brown’s School of Professional Studies as dean March 22, 2022 As the next dean of the School of Professional Studies, Prasad will oversee a portfolio of master’s degree programs for executives and a suite of flexible and innovative non-degree programs for individuals and organizations. Read Article Open details for Academic innovation leader Shankar K. Prasad to lead Brown’s School of Professional Studies as dean News and Events Academic leader and scholar Leah VanWey appointed Brown’s next dean of the faculty March 18, 2022 An accomplished administrator, researcher and teacher, VanWey will lead recruitment, retention and development of Brown faculty across the humanities, social sciences and a portfolio of physical and life sciences departments. Read Article Open details for Academic leader and scholar Leah VanWey appointed Brown’s next dean of the faculty News and Events U.S. Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo at Brown: ‘We better get to work innovating’ March 15, 2022 In an Ogden lecture at Brown, the commerce secretary and former Rhode Island governor shared insights on her efforts to grow the American economy, strategically sanction Russian leadership and ease U.S. supply-chain woes. Read Article Open details for U.S. Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo at Brown: ‘We better get to work innovating’ News and Events Andrew Campbell to step down as Graduate School dean, return to Brown faculty March 11, 2022 After he finishes a six-year term in June, the accomplished leader who expanded enrollment, funding and student support at Brown’s Graduate School will return to teaching and research as a professor of medical science. Read Article Open details for Andrew Campbell to step down as Graduate School dean, return to Brown faculty News and Events Class of 2009 graduate Zack Langway to lead alumni relations at Brown March 8, 2022 With professional accomplishments in community building and more than a decade of volunteer leadership with Brown, Langway will return to College Hill to lead efforts to cultivate and sustain strong alumni relationships. Read Article Open details for Class of 2009 graduate Zack Langway to lead alumni relations at Brown News and Events Amid crisis in Ukraine, Brown community unites to provide support, host discussions March 3, 2022 Scholars and others at Brown are joining together to provide support for Ukrainian scholars and people directly affected in the country, and to convene scholarly discussions about the unfolding war with Russia. Read Article Open details for Amid crisis in Ukraine, Brown community unites to provide support, host discussions News and Events Nobel Prize-winning Class of 1991 Ph.D. alumnus returns to Brown to discuss research in causal relationships March 2, 2022 As part of the Lemley lecture series, Brown Ph.D. graduate and Nobel Laureate Guido Imbens explained how natural experiments can be used to determine cause and effect. Read Article Open details for Nobel Prize-winning Class of 1991 Ph.D. alumnus returns to Brown to discuss research in causal relationships News and Events Brown sets new $4 billion goal, extends BrownTogether fundraising campaign through 2024 March 1, 2022 Priorities for the campaign’s extension include raising funds for research and teaching in medicine, public health, engineering and the arts, as well as student financial aid, career services and Brown Athletics. Read Article Open details for Brown sets new $4 billion goal, extends BrownTogether fundraising campaign through 2024 News and Events Brown is nation’s top Fulbright-producing university, U.S. State Department data shows February 28, 2022 With 29 grants offered to students and recent alumni for the 2021-22 academic year, Brown earned the No. 1 spot as the country’s top producer of Fulbright winners, marking the fourth time the University earned the distinction. Read Article Open details for Brown is nation’s top Fulbright-producing university, U.S. State Department data shows News and Events U.S. Commerce Secretary, former R.I. governor Gina Raimondo to visit Brown on March 15 February 28, 2022 In the Ogden Memorial Lecture, Raimondo will share ideas on how the United States can continue to compete globally by creating an economy that works for all Americans. Read Article Open details for U.S. Commerce Secretary, former R.I. governor Gina Raimondo to visit Brown on March 15 News and Events $10 million gift to expand Brown scholarship on South Asia February 23, 2022 With support from Parag and Usha Saxena, the renamed Saxena Center for Contemporary South Asia at Brown’s Watson Institute will grow its research, teaching, public policy and programming. Read Article Open details for $10 million gift to expand Brown scholarship on South Asia News and Events $10 million gift from Reed Hastings, Patty Quillin to bolster 58-year-old Brown-Tougaloo Partnership February 21, 2022 The generous gift from Netflix CEO Reed Hastings and producer Patty Quillin will provide much-needed financial support to students from Tougaloo College, an HBCU in Mississippi, including many who come to Brown. Read Article Open details for $10 million gift from Reed Hastings, Patty Quillin to bolster 58-year-old Brown-Tougaloo Partnership News and Events Brown Corporation approves lowest tuition increase, highest employee salary pool in last decade February 14, 2022 Brown’s governing body approved a 2.85% increase in tuition and fees for 2022-23, a 4.25% salary increase pool for faculty and staff, and bonuses for 4,600 employees; the Corporation also elected its next vice chancellor. Read Article Open details for Brown Corporation approves lowest tuition increase, highest employee salary pool in last decade News and Events Senior history, public policy concentrator to represent Brown on ‘Jeopardy!’ college championship February 8, 2022 A nightly viewer of the iconic trivia show since childhood, Brown senior Max Niles will try his hand starting Friday, Feb. 11, competing against 35 students from across the nation. Read Article Open details for Senior history, public policy concentrator to represent Brown on ‘Jeopardy!’ college championship News and Events Forced to flee Kabul last August, 15 young Afghan women find an academic home at Brown January 27, 2022 Brown is hosting a cohort of students from the Asian University for Women and Ghalib University, all of whom left Afghanistan abruptly in the wake of the Taliban’s return to power less than six months ago. Read Article Open details for Forced to flee Kabul last August, 15 young Afghan women find an academic home at Brown News and Events Faculty at Brown earn prestigious awards, distinctions January 27, 2022 From late 2020 to early 2022, many of Brown’s faculty received prominent awards, fellowships and other recognition for their path-breaking scholarship and bold ideas. Read Article Open details for Faculty at Brown earn prestigious awards, distinctions News and Events Brown extends test-optional policy for 2022-23 undergraduate admission cycle January 26, 2022 In recognition of the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on prospective students and their families, the University has extended for the second time its policy making the submission of standardized test scores optional. Read Article Open details for Brown extends test-optional policy for 2022-23 undergraduate admission cycle News and Events Five Brown faculty elected AAAS fellows January 26, 2022 Faculty members from mathematics, neuroscience, medical science and chemistry were honored for significant and lasting contributions to their fields. Read Article Open details for Five Brown faculty elected AAAS fellows News and Events Rhode Island educators, students, parents gather to discuss pandemic’s impact on K-12 schools January 19, 2022 A virtual event hosted by the Annenberg Institute convened experts to discuss how Providence and Rhode Island can build stronger, healthier K-12 schools, both amid and following the COVID-19 pandemic. Read Article Open details for Rhode Island educators, students, parents gather to discuss pandemic’s impact on K-12 schools Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search News and Events Open details for News and Events Bookmark this Page