Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School About the Graduate School People Presidential Fellowships Graduate School Skip to Navigation Presidential Fellowships 2016-2017 Presidential FellowsBrown’s Graduate School offers Presidential Fellowships to some of the most outstanding applicants to doctoral programs across the disciplines. Awarded on a competitive basis, the honor recognizes academic promise and carries enhanced stipend support for three years. The Presidential Fellowships are an early result of Building on Distinction, the University’s strategic plan. The Graduate School announced the nomination and selection process to graduate programs in January 2014. As established in the first year of the program, nominations are due in early February and are reviewed by a committee of senior faculty and the Dean of the Graduate School. Programs should refer to admission instructions for details of the process. The primary selection criterion is the excellence of the admitted applicant. All components of a student’s application dossier are considered, including letters of recommendations, publications, past prizes, awards and recognitions, and undergraduate GPAs. In some disciplines, knowledge of languages may be considered as well. Home About the Graduate School People Dean's Message Directors of Graduate Study Governance: Graduate Council Presidential Fellows Mission & Facts Diversity and Inclusion News & Communications Academic Events & Honors Initiatives in Doctoral Education and Support Graduate Student Resources Maps & Directions Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Related Items Presidential Fellows List Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants