Skip to Content Menu Search Search Enter the terms you wish to search for. Other ways to search: Events Calendar Campus Map Close Main menu Home About Academics Admissions Research Visit COVID-19 Updates Secondary Menu Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Search Enter the terms you wish to search for. Other ways to search: Events Calendar Campus Map Mobile menu Home About Academics Admissions Research Visit COVID-19 Updates Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni COVID-19 Information Public Health Measures Masks The CU Boulder campus will become mask-optional at 6 a.m. on Monday, March 7. Note: masks will continue to be required after March 7 at the Wardenburg Health Center. While masks are becoming optional on campus, we encourage those who prefer to do so to continue wearing them. Properly fitted N95 or KN95 masks remain an effective tool for preventing transmission, especially in conjunction with vaccination. CU Boulder is providing up to two N95 or KN95 masks to students, faculty and staff. They can be picked up at various distribution points around campus. COVID-19 Vaccine Boosters To comply with CU Boulder’s updated COVID-19 guidance, members of the campus community are required to receive a vaccine booster shot by Feb. 24 or five months after receiving the final dose of the original series, whichever is later. Students, faculty and staff must upload proof of boosters or file for an exemption based on medical, ethical or moral grounds through the MyCUHealth portal. Individuals who previously submitted an exemption do not need to take further action at this time and will be considered in compliance with current university vaccine requirements. Once you have submitted all required documentation, you will receive an automated confirmation email. If you have incomplete documentation or if additional information is needed, you will not receive a confirmation email and the immunizations team will contact you directly. COVID-19 Vaccinations Only vaccines that are approved by the World Health Organization (WHO) will meet the CU vaccine requirements. Current status Boulder County Public Health (BCPH) is monitoring cases, outbreaks, hospitalization and other metrics and strongly recommends that all individuals 2+ wear masks in all indoor settings regardless of vaccination status during periods of high transmission. For more information visit Boulder County Current Status. Commencement 2022 We are excited to celebrate the accomplishments of our graduates at Folsom Field after a very challenging couple of years. Veteran journalist Tom Costello of NBC News will be this year’s speaker. Go Buffs! Spring Commencement Marshall Fire We know that many of our students, faculty and staff have been affected by the Marshall Fire, and our university will do everything we can to provide support. Fire Resources Student Emergency Fund The COVID-19 Student Emergency fund closed on March 4, 2022. Federal funding provided through the Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund (HEERF) has been exhausted and additional funding for emergencies related to COVID-19 is not expected beyond Spring 2022. Students with future emergency needs should reach out to deanofstudents@colorado.edu. HEERF Compliance Reporting information is available here. COVID-19 Vaccine Requirement CU Boulder faculty, staff and students are required to complete the COVID-19 vaccine requirement. In alignment with updated university policies, only medical and moral/ethical religious exemptions are allowed. Vaccine Requirement Public Health Guidance Learn more about contact tracing, quarantine and other guidance. It’s important to follow the official public health guidance provided by the Public Health Office or local authorities; do not create your own. Public Health Guidance Monitoring & Diagnostic Testing COVID-19 monitoring testing ended Aug. 6. Diagnostic testing is available through Medical Services. Diagnostic Testing How to Stay Informed Campus Q & A Webinar | January 12, 2022 COVID-19 By The Numbers In general, dashboard information is updated by 8 a.m. with results from the previous day of testing. There may be periodic updates at other times to reflect new information received. COVID-19 Dashboard COVID-19 Updates COVID-19 Updates are published in CU Boulder Today. The COVID-19 Updates are the main source of new information related to COVID-19 and campus operations. Archive of COVID-19 Updates Campus Announcements March 3, 2022 I COVID-19 campus updates: March 3 issue, CU Boulder Today Feb. 28, 2022 I From the Provost and COO - Campus to go mask-optional, campus email Feb. 17, 2022 I COVID-19 campus updates: Feb. 17 issue, CU Boulder Today Archive of Campus Announcements Campus Town Hall Recordings Access recordings of COVID-19 briefings university leaders have held for students, faculty, staff and the community. Town Hall Recordings Buff Info To provide the CU Boulder community a centralized point of connection and information, the campus has established Buff Info, a team of dedicated professionals to answer questions and provide connections with campus resources. The Buff Info team is available to answer questions on a wide variety of topics related to CU Boulder and help faculty, staff, students and parents connect with the appropriate campus office for additional information or assistance as needed. Buff Info liaisons can be reached at 303-492-INFO (4636), through Live Chat or via email at buffinfo@colorado.edu, 9 a.m. to 5:30 p.m., Monday through Friday. The university will extend these hours when needed. Apply for Admission Visit Campus Support CU Boulder Get Help Safety & Health Services Campus Communications Emergency Alert System New Student & Family Programs Getting Around Campus Map Campus Events Parking & Transportation Visit Information Information for Faculty & Staff Families Journalists Initiatives Business & Industry Collaborations Diversity & Community Engagement Free Speech Innovation & Entrepreneurship International Students Public & Outreach Programs Sustainability Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Pinterest University of Colorado Boulder © Regents of the University of Colorado Contact Us • Privacy • Legal & Trademarks Accessibility • Student Consumer Information • Policies • CU Boulder Jobs Download the Clery Act Annual Security & Fire safety report, or request a paper copy from the CU Boulder Police Department. Return to the top of the page