Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now College of Optics and Photonics The College of Optics and Photonics is one of the world’s foremost institutions for research and education in optical and photonic science and engineering. It is home to the Center for Research and Education in Optics and Lasers (CREOL), the Florida Photonics Center of Excellence, and the Townes Laser Institute. Learn more about our top-ranked Optical Engineering and Photonics Graduate Programs. creol.ucf.edu The college is working with MIT on “smart clothing” that embeds advanced technologies into textiles for military and commercial applications. College researchers patented the technology that makes LCD screens in smartphones, e-readers and other devices readable in bright sunlight and functional in extreme temperatures. Scientists found a way to steer beams of light — a breakthrough that could make computer chips and circuit boards thousands of times faster. Search Degrees There are many benefits to taking a more proactive approach to choosing a career. The College of Optics & Photonics has curriculum and programs to help you land your next opportunity. Or browse by: Bachelors Masters Doctorates Graduate Certificates Top College Degrees Top College Degrees Photonic Science and Engineering (BSPSE) Optics and Photonics (MS) Optics and Photonics (PhD) Applied Photonics Certificate Optical Imaging Systems Certificate Related Degrees Related Degrees Physics (BS) - Optics and Lasers Physics (MS) Physics (PhD) Admissions Info Explore admissions requirements, deadlines, tuition and financial aid, and more. Visit UCF Take a tour of the campus and see what makes UCF so amazing. Apply Now Seeking a bachelor’s degree? Interested in graduate school? Get started today. Optics and Photonics News Check out more stories Colleges & Campus 5 UCF Scholars to be Inducted into Academy of Science, Engineering and Medicine of Florida The organization’s members are top scholars and researchers from universities, public agencies, and industries statewide who are committed to addressing key issues and challenges impacting… Colleges & Campus 2022 UCF Founders’ Day Honorees The annual celebration honors the academic achievements of our faculty members and students. Research UCF Helps World Recognize Glass is Vital to Art and Technology UCF faculty help plan and execute events to mark the U.S. kickoff of the International Year of Glass in the nation’s capital this week. Using Lasers to ‘Smell’ Disease Professor Konstantin Vodopyanov’s revolutionary technology could make diagnosing disease as easy as exhaling. Read More University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida