Skip to Main Content Brown University Graduate Programs Search Menu Graduate Programs Physics Sc.M. school Graduate School department Physics Inquire All Graduate Programs Navigate This Page Navigate This Page About the Program Admission Information Financial Aid Completion Requirements Alumni Outcomes Leadership Contact and Location The Physics master's program is suitable as both a means for professional development and preparation for further graduate study. The program offers enough flexibility to allow for completion of the degree in two, three, or four semesters of full-time enrollment, depending on a student's background. The program may also be completed with part-time enrollment over a longer period. Admission Information Inquire Applicants are expected to have a strong background in physics or closely related subjects at the undergraduate level. If you have any questions regarding the application process for this program, please email masters_admissions@brown.edu. Admission Requirements GRE Subject: Not required GRE General: Not required TOEFL/IELTS: Required for any non-native English speaker who does not have a degree from an institution where English is the sole language of instruction or from a University in the following countries: Australia, Bahamas, Botswana, Cameroon, Canada (except Quebec), Ethiopia, Ghana, Ireland, Kenya, Lesotho, Liberia, Malawi, New Zealand, Nigeria, Zimbabwe, South Africa, Sierra Leone, Swaziland, Tanzania, Gambia, Uganda, United Kingdom (England, Scotland, Northern Ireland, Wales), West Indies, Zambia). The TOEFL iBT Special Home Edition and the IELTS Indicator exam are accepted. Students from mainland China may submit the TOEFL ITP Plus exam. Letters of Recommendations: Three (3) recommendations required Personal Statement: 1000-1500 word personal statement that gives your reasons to pursue graduate work in the field of your study. The statement should include examples of your past work in your chosen field, your plans for study at Brown, issues and problems you'd like to address in your field and your professional goals. Resume/CV: Required Dates/Deadlines Admission Deadline April 1, 2022 Early Admission Deadline February 1, 2022 5th Year Deadline May 1, 2022 Financial Aid Financial Aid Information (for domestic students) Completion Requirements A total of 8 credits, or courses, at the 2000 level form the main requirement for a ScM degree in Physics, including completion of a Master's thesis. Of the eight required courses, four will be selected from the six core courses of the PhD program. Preparation of a Master's thesis is highly recommended as it forms an important pillar of the professional training. Therefore, up to two of the eight courses may be Thesis Preparation. With approval of the program director, up to two credits may be 2000 level courses offered by another department. Alumni Careers Learn More Leadership Department Chair Gang Xiao gang_xiao@brown.edu Director of Graduate Studies Vesna Mitrovic vesna_mitrovic@brown.edu Contact and Location Department of Physics Mailing Address Brown University Box 1843 physics-student-affairs@brown.edu 401-863-2641 Visit the Department of Physics Resources Program Faculty Program Handbook Graduate School Handbook Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Graduate School School of Engineering School of Professional Studies School of Public Health Warren Alpert Medical School This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Physics Open details for Physics Bookmark this Page