Skip to content Partnerships in Prevention Science Institute Search News Toggle navigation Home Partnerships in Prevention Science Institute Human Development Family Studies College of Human Sciences Iowa State University About the Institute About us About PPSI Our history Projects Our research Current projects Past projects Publications Directory Translational Science Vision We strive to conduct prevention and health promotion research that positively impacts the health and well-being of youth, adults, families, and communities in Iowa and beyond. Our focus is on studying quality implementation, evaluation and dissemination of evidence-based interventions, while partnering with communities to build capacity and facilitate systems change to achieve sustainability and public health impact. Through this work we emphasize the development of implementation systems and training-technical assistance infrastructures for broader dissemination of evidence-based interventions. We believe that partnerships with communities are essential to creating positive, long-term outcomes for youth, adults, families and communities. PPSI continually builds its network of collaborating scientists and practitioners, both nationally and internationally, to support its mission. PROSPER was selected as one of two Tier 1 Comprehensive Community Initiatives based on a comprehensive review of the scientific literature showing its positive impact on a range of child, youth, and family outcomes. Read more. A November 2017 report on drug and alcohol abuse and suicide by non-partisan Trust for America’s Health champions PPSI’s PROSPER project for reducing drunkenness, smoking, substance abuse, and conduct behavior problems among high-risk youth. The reports lists PROSPER as an effective effort that could be scaled up to benefit most U.S. communities. Read more. Learn how a research-proven program can help address the opioid crisis. Read more. Partnerships in Prevention Science Institute Helping Kids PROSPER Promoting Strong Military Families Studying Tools for Teachers Institute investigators and their collaborators have secured over $80 million in grants, primarily from the National Institutes of Health, over the last 25 years. Partnerships in Prevention Science Institute The Partnerships in Prevention Science Institute is part of College of Human Sciences CONTACT Partnerships in Prevention Science Institute 2625 N. Loop Drive, Suite 2400 Ames, IA 50010-8296 Email: sherryr@iastate.edu Phone: 515-294-5383 Fax: 515-294-2870 Copyright © 2005-2022 Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility hswebmaster@iastate.edu Trouble with the website? Report a problem or provide feedback.