Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content News Contact Us Experts Latest News Latest News 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Broadcast Studio Research ☰ SMU News SMU SMU News Latest News Latest News Video game software patented for age-related macular degeneration research Machine learning software for OCT images aids in identify progression and treatment options January 18, 2022 BALANCED Media|Technology (BALANCED), in partnership with the Retina Foundation of the Southwest (RETINA) and Southern Methodist University (SMU), today announced a patent-pending medical imaging technology (U.S. Patent Application Serial No.16/538,662) that uses automated software and a video game to provide standardized, accurate, and precise identification of ocular diseases including age-related macular degeneration (AMD), the leading cause of visual impairment in the world. SMU senior awarded prestigious Marshall scholarship Isabelle Galko’s environmental activism sparked study of policy change December 17, 2021 SMU senior environmental science major Isabelle Galko is one of just 41 American university students named a Marshall Scholar for 2022, a prestigious opportunity to pursue graduate studies in the UK for distinguished young Americans with leadership potential. Which personality traits can be improved without personal motivation? Research says 'it depends' December 07, 2021 Could a company train an employee to become more conscientious, even if the worker isn’t invested in improving that trait? A new study suggests yes. But improving someone’s emotional stability without that person’s commitment is not likely to happen, says SMU psychology professor Nathan Hudson. SMU Law Dean named President of Rhodes College December 06, 2021 Jennifer Collins, Judge James Noel Dean and professor in SMU’s Dedman School of Law, has been named the new president of Rhodes College, a four-year private institution in Memphis with approximately 2,000 students. SMU’s new home for graduate education December 03, 2021 Supported by a gift from the Moody Foundation, SMU breaks ground on the new Frances Anne Moody Hall, which will house SMU’s eighth degree-granting school, the Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies. New high-resolution camera records holograms of hidden objects SMU and Northwestern collaborate on technology with defense, hazard identification and medical applications December 02, 2021 Researchers at SMU (Southern Methodist University) and Northwestern University are using new technology that enables cameras to record high-resolution images and holograms of objects that are hidden around corners, obscured from view and/or beyond the line of sight. The Dallas 100: SMU Cox Unveils Its 2021 Ranking of the Fastest-Growing Private Companies in Dallas-Fort Worth November 23, 2021 SMU Cox School of Business has named its annual list of the 100 fastest growing private companies in DFW. A Frisco tech company fueled by artificial intelligence is the big winner. SMU Lyle prof listed among most "Highly Cited Researchers" for 2021 November 23, 2021 SMU’s Jianhui Wang was named to the 2021 list of Highly Cited Researchers from Clarivate. It’s the fourth time Wang, a professor with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering in SMU’s Lyle School of Engineering, has won the award. SMU research aims to better understand how molecules interact and bond Research has broad applications for healthcare, designing new materials November 16, 2021 Researchers and students in the Computational and Theoretical Chemistry Group (CATCO) at Southern Methodist University (SMU) are using vibrational spectroscopy to gain new insights into molecules with the help of SMU’s powerful high performance computer. CATCO is led by Elfi Kraka, the Dedman Family Distinguished Professor and chair of the Department of Chemistry at SMU. Giant bottom-dwelling fish fossils in northeast Texas November 16, 2021 SMU paleontologists have helped in the analysis of fossils from an ancient fish found in Texas. SMU OFFERS FULL ROOM AND BOARD SCHOLARSHIPS TO ROTC STUDENTS November 11, 2021 SMU launches powerful new supercomputing research system with NVIDIA NVIDIA DGX SuperPOD will fuel transformational high-performance computing ecosystem for SMU and North Texas November 11, 2021 SMU is collaborating with accelerated computing leader NVIDIA to dramatically boost the University’s high-performance computing system – increasing SMU’s current supercomputer memory tenfold and setting the stage for artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning 25 times faster than current levels. SMU launches powerful new supercomputing research system with NVIDIA NVIDIA DGX SuperPOD will fuel transformational high-performance computing ecosystem for SMU and North Texas November 11, 2021 SMU is collaborating with accelerated computing leader NVIDIA to dramatically boost the University’s high-performance computing system – increasing SMU’s current supercomputer memory tenfold and setting the stage for artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning 25 times faster than current levels. SMU professor Brian Stump appointed Chair of TexNet Technical Advisory Committee November 11, 2021 Gov. Greg Abbott has named prominent SMU seismologist Brian Stump as chair of the TexNet Technical Advisory Committee, which is charged with providing oversight and advice on the operation of the Texas wide seismic network, TexNet. SMU joins forces with Children's Health to harness the power of sports to improve kids' well-being October 28, 2021 SMU and Children’s Health through its Children’s Health Andrews Institute for Orthopaedics and Sports Medicine are launching a collaboration dedicated to leveraging the transformational power of sports to improve the health, activity levels and well-being of kids. Research finds prescription drug misuse among college students most common during weekdays NIH-funded study focused on pain relievers, stimulants, sedatives, tranquilizers October 20, 2021 College students who misuse prescription drugs do so more often during the week and when they are alone at home, according to a recent study. SMU remembers Peter O’Donnell, Jr., SMU trustee and renowned Dallas humanitarian SMU mourns the loss of civic leader and philanthropist Peter O’Donnell, Jr., who passed away on October 10, 2021, at the age of 97. October 13, 2021 “Peter’s devotion to SMU and Dallas was an inspiration to us all,” said SMU President R. Gerald Turner. “His loss will be sorely felt by those who were witness to and impacted by his monumental support of the arts and education. His legacy stretches far beyond the borders of SMU and Dallas, and his memory will be honored through the cultural initiatives and improvements made possible through his work.” SMU researchers partner with CAE USA to improve pilot training October 12, 2021 Researchers at SMU’s AT&T Center for Virtualization are testing the effectiveness of an innovative approach they developed to improve pilot training and better understand what stress factors pilots may experience in the cockpit. Finding agreement about climate change in a divided world Climate scientist Katharine Hayhoe offers hope and healing at Oct. 18 SMU lecture October 12, 2021 A Conversation with Senators Kelly Ayotte & Claire McCaskill October 12, 2021 SMU mourns loss of Meadows Museum director Mark Roglán Celebrated scholar of Spanish art leaves profound global legacy October 07, 2021 Celebrated scholar of Spanish art leaves profound global legacy Fostering enterprising spirit Bill ’74 and Kim Shaddock commit $6 million to Cox School of Business October 01, 2021 A gift from Kim and William (Bill) Shaddock ’74 will establish Shaddock Hall as part of the building renovation project of the Cox School of Business. The $6 million contribution will foster educational excellence through dedicated spaces for learning, research and collaboration. New landslides on US West Coast detected by SMU scientists Team of Dallas-based university researchers use satellite radar imagery to reveal hundreds of unseen landslides occurring in western states September 27, 2021 SMU geophysicists have used satellite imagery to identify more than 600 slow-moving landslides occurring near the U.S. West Coast. Fewer than 5% of these landslides in California, Oregon and Washington state had previously been identified. SMU Launches $1.5 Billion Campaign Drive will assist more underrepresented students, enrich research and teaching, enhance campus and community September 17, 2021 New SMU grant from National Science Foundation takes math off the chalkboard and onto the streets September 14, 2021 Koshi Dhingra, founder and CEO of talkSTEM, and Candace Walkington, associate professor, SMU’s Simmons School of Education and Human Development, are co-investigators on a five-year $2.5 million National Science Foundation grant studying how STEM walks can help students see the world through the lens of math. Titan-in-a-glass experiments hint at mineral makeup of Saturn moon August 26, 2021 SMU researchers have recreated Titan's conditions in small glass cylinders, revealing fundamental properties of two organic molecules that are believed to exist as minerals on Saturn's largest moon. A New Era of Engagement Inspiring a new chapter for the Meadows Museum, Linda P. and William A. Custard commit $3 million, matched by an additional $3 million from The Meadows Foundation, to establish a new cultural institute within the Meadows Museum. August 26, 2021 The gift of $3 million gift from Linda P. Custard ’60, ’99 and William A. Custard ’57 is the largest personal contribution in the history of the Meadows Museum. With matching funds of $3 million from The Meadows Foundation, it will establish the Custard Institute for Spanish Art and Culture at the Meadows Museum. CT scan of an ancient reptile skull reveals little evolutionary change over 22 million years August 25, 2021 A CT scan of the skull of a long-necked plesiosaur shows the cranial architecture of these long-extinct marine reptiles didn’t evolve much over 22 million years that they lived during the Cretaceous time. Frosty: A micro-fabricated optical seismometer to measure minute forces in a mighty environment August 17, 2021 A NASA-sponsored team at Michigan Aerospace Corporation and Southern Methodist University (SMU) is developing a microfabricated all-optical seismometer called Frosty that can gather data in the harsh environments encountered on icy worlds such as Europa. SMU remembers Cary Maguire, Sr., community leader August 11, 2021 SMU mourns the loss of Cary M. Maguire, Sr., trustee emeritus and former SMU Board of Trustees member, who passed away on Tuesday, August 10, at the age of 93. Maguire, a long-standing leader in the community, was among some of SMU’s most active and generous donors, as well as a dedicated and innovative leader in the energy industry. Lower-dose chemotherapy can be made more effective in killing HPV-induced cervical cancer cells by inhibiting a key survival factor SMU study suggests that inhibiting the TIGAR protein is key to new treatment strategy for virus-induced cancers August 11, 2021 Researchers at SMU have found a way to make chemotherapy drugs more lethal to HPV-infected cervical cancer cells without collateral damage to normal cells, a study suggests. The science behind the medals August 04, 2021 Ever wonder how speed and distance shape how Olympians run? The New York Times sent a crew to SMU to observe and record three elite runners on the world's fastest treadmill in human speed expert Peter Weyand’s Locomotor Performance Laboratory. SMU remembers Mary Anne Sammons Cree ’51 July 26, 2021 Dallas philanthropist and civic leader Mary Anne Sammons Cree passed away July 21, 2021, leaving a legacy of leadership, generosity and nature-inspired landmarks that will delight Dallas residents for generations to come. Sparking student success The Hegi Family commits $1 million to SMU’s Hegi Family Career Development Center July 23, 2021 A $1 million gift from the Hegi Family will empower students to navigate today’s fast-changing work environment and find lifelong career success through the renovation and expansion of SMU’s Hegi Family Career Development Center. 'Smart contract' uses computer code, blockchain technology to reduce the need for a lawyer when the deceased leaves no will July 15, 2021 A recent graduate of SMU’s Dedman School of Law has written computer language for a smart contract that, if adopted by courts, could make it much easier and less expensive for someone to sort out the estate of a loved one who dies without a will. How racial bias shaped Dallas highways SMU graduate student publishes book about forgotten history, seeks infrastructure change July 13, 2021 For SMU engineering graduate student Collin Yarbrough, a classroom assignment to evaluate the design of Dallas’ Central Expressway resulted in a recently published book about the long-forgotten history of Dallas’ racist past buried beneath the city’s freeways. Pets on board: Meet the multispecies American family New book defines trend – pets really are part of the family July 13, 2021 Do you sign your pets’ names to your holiday card? Have you ever sent your dog to day care? Do you shop regularly for cat or dog toys? Welcome to a new breed of American family – the multispecies family. The American Society of Biomechanics Honors Peter Weyand with Hay Award July 13, 2021 SMU's Peter Weyand will receive the Jim Hay Memorial Award for Research in Sports and Exercise from the American Society of Biomechanics during its annual conference in August. The award recognizes “originality, quality, and depth of biomechanics research that addresses fundamental research questions relevant to extraordinary demands imposed in sport and exercise.” SMU and Air Force Academy forge agreement for mentorship, collaborative research opportunities for cadets and faculty July 12, 2021 SMU's AT&T Center for Virtualization has signed a four-year agreement with the United States Air Force Academy to collaborate on mutually beneficial projects and joint research, providing opportunities for both USAF cadets and SMU students. SMU professor awarded NSF grant for models to better aid evacuees after natural disasters like Hurricane Harvey, Katrina 'We can do better with a systems approach...instead of catching up after each hurricane' July 01, 2021 Halit Üster, an engineering professor at SMU, has been awarded a three-year National Science Foundation (NSF) grant of $315,580 to investigate integrated evacuation planning and disaster preparedness models that offer relief to evacuees in a more robust, predictive, timely and cost-effective manner than was seen in past natural disasters. Four professors named SMU 2021 Ford Research Fellows Cash prizes will support their noteworthy research June 23, 2021 Four outstanding SMU faculty researchers have been named as 2021 Ford Research Fellows. This year’s recipients are Alejandro Aceves, Joseph Camp, Heather DeShon, and Xin-Lin Gao, all of whom will be honored by the SMU Board of Trustees this fall. Juneteenth message from the Office of Diversity and Inclusion June 18, 2021 Juneteenth is a celebration of the beginning of the long march toward weaving the African American experience into the larger tapestry of American history. Ten years of ancient genome analysis has taught scientists 'what it means to be human' June 17, 2021 A ball of 4,000-year-old hair frozen in time tangled around a whalebone comb led to the first-ever reconstruction of an ancient human genome just over a decade ago. Economics professor and campus leader Tom Fomby receives SMU Faculty Career Achievement Award June 17, 2021 SMU’s Tom Fomby, Professor of Economics in Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences, is the 2021 recipient of the Faculty Career Achievement Award for his contributions to the teaching, scholarship and service missions of the University. P-glycoprotein removes Alzheimer’s-associated toxin from the brain June 16, 2021 A team of SMU biological scientists has confirmed that P-glycoprotein (P-gp) has the ability to remove a toxin from the brain that is associated with Alzheimer’s disease. Janille Smith-Colin awarded National Academies 2021 Early-Career Research Fellowship June 10, 2021 Janille Smith-Colin, assistant professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering in SMU's Lyle School of Engineering, has been named one of the seven recipients of the 2021 Early-Career Research Fellowships by the Gulf Research Program (GRP) of the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine. SMU Law's Covid-19 Helpline Recognized by State Bar of Texas for Free Pandemic-related Legal Services June 10, 2021 SMU Dedman School of Law’s COVID-19 Legal Helpline has been selected as the recipient of the 2021 State Bar of Texas’ W. Frank Newton Award for its exceptional dedication to legal services for low-income North Texans. The award, which recognizes individuals and groups whose work exemplifies a deep commitment to pro bono service, will be presented during the State Bar’s virtual Annual Meeting on Friday, June 18. SMU Student Researcher Earns Prestigious Goldwater Scholarship June 08, 2021 Carefully nurturing the cancer cells she uses in SMU biology professor Pia Vogel’s research lab is routine for SMU junior Gabrielle Gard, who has been working in sophisticated research labs since she was a junior in high school. Her dogged pursuit of hands-on research is just one of the reasons she has received a 2021-22 Goldwater Scholarship, one of the most prestigious national science awards presented to undergraduate students. SMU Student Body President Austin Hickle Sees the Road to Change Through Public Policy Receiving a prestigious Truman Scholarship will help SMU student body president fuel the journey June 08, 2021 Austin Hickle had something of an epiphany last summer: If college campuses like SMU were going to successfully return to on-campus learning in fall 2020, student engagement would be key to compliance with COVID-19 safety protocols. Remembering George Floyd May 25, 2021 SMU Law's Deason Center releases report that highlights role race plays in marijuana enforcement May 21, 2021 SMU professor receives NASA funding to study distant galaxies built around massive black holes May 18, 2021 Game. Set. Match. May 07, 2021 Jennifer ’86 and Mark Styslinger ’87 and the Altec/Styslinger Foundation commit $4 million to name the new Styslinger/Altec Tennis Complex at SMU. Not just for finding planets: Exoplanet-hunter TESS telescope spots bright gamma-ray burst April 30, 2021 SMU research provided basis for ruling on Paralympic runner Blake Leeper’s prostheses for the Tokyo Olympics April 27, 2021 SMU and Japanese paleontologists find second hadrosaurid species April 27, 2021 Dr. Turner speaks to the SMU community about the Derek Chauvin trial April 21, 2021 Death and driving: SMU statistical model predicts the odds tying behavior, other variables to car accidents April 20, 2021 SMU's ChemGen completes essential drug discovery work in days April 14, 2021 "A revolution in archaeology": SMU professor Mark D. McCoy to be honored with prestigious Society for American Archaeology book award April 13, 2021 Dallas Morning News: SMU meets the opportunities of the data-driven world with cutting-edge research and data science programs As a research and data science powerhouse, SMU helps Dallas extend its reach nationally and internationally. April 09, 2021 Energizing Business Education Sharoll and Bryan S. Sheffield ’01 commit $15 million to the Cox School of Business April 08, 2021 A $15 million gift from Sharoll and Bryan S. Sheffield ’01 to SMU’s Edwin L. Cox School of Business will empower future entrepreneurs by creating new technology-equipped collaborative spaces. Award-Winning Theatre Artist Regina Taylor Partners With SMU Meadows School of the Arts on New Initiative – the black album Taylor’s the black album mixtape invites collaborators from various fields and in a variety of media to explore and tackle questions about the current moment on a national and international scale April 07, 2021 SMU chemist and team to study how photosynthesis uses sunlight to support growth in changing environments Human Frontier Science Program grant provides more than $1 million in support April 06, 2021 Killer asteroid that deleted the dinosaurs also created the Amazon rainforest April 06, 2021 Bridwell Library to house World Methodist Museum collections April 01, 2021 Important collections from the World Methodist Museum incorporating material from the lives of John and Charles Wesley are moving to SMU's Bridwell Library. A message from Dr. Turner March 26, 2021 Dr. Turner shares a letter of support for the Asian community Researchers issue policy agenda: Texas growth depends on urban investment March 26, 2021 Whitney Wolfe Herd to speak at Commencement March 24, 2021 Bumble CEO/Founder Whitney Wolfe Herd, who began sharpening her entrepreneurial skills as a student at SMU, will deliver her alma mater's May Commencement Address. Dominique Baker recognized with Early Career Award for outstanding research in education policy March 24, 2021 Richard Duschl will join the National Academy of Education March 23, 2021 SMU remembers Ruth Prouse Morgan Ph.D., professor emerita and SMU’s first female provost March 09, 2021 SMU mourns the loss of educator, trailblazer and University leader Ruth Prouse Morgan who served as a professor of political science at SMU for 20 years and as the University’s first female provost from 1986–1993. SMU to remain test-optional for Fall ‘22 and Spring ‘23 February 25, 2021 SMU will remain test-optional for first-year undergraduate applicants seeking admission and scholarships for both fall 2022 and spring 2023. Raytheon Intelligence & Space partners with Virginia Tech and Southern Methodist University on artificial intelligence and machine learning research Harnessing AI/ML capabilities from research universities for defense systems will strengthen military capabilities in future multi-domain operations February 23, 2021 Endowing Excellence in Education and Research Mary and Rich Templeton commit $5 million to the Lyle School of Engineering February 21, 2021 A $5 million gift from longtime SMU supporters Mary and Rich Templeton will bolster student excellence and doctoral research in SMU’s Lyle School of Engineering through endowed scholarships and fellowships. Study shows enrollment of Black students at HBCUs rose in states with increased hate crime reports February 03, 2021 SMU AT&T Center for Virtualization to conduct R&D for Naval Information Warfare Center Pacific February 02, 2021 Dogs likely migrated to the Americas with humans over 15,000 years ago, study says January 26, 2021 SMU community to honor Martin Luther King, Jr. with unity circle Jan. 27 ceremony, ‘Dream Week,’ honors civil rights leader as students begin spring semester studies January 25, 2021 Jan. 26-27: Every year SMU honors Martin Luther King Jr. with Dream Week when students return to classes for the spring semester. Contribute service on Tuesday, Jan. 26 and join a Unity Circle on Wednesday, Jan. 27. When their parents fight: Autistic kids may have a harder time recognizing healthy vs. toxic arguments January 21, 2021 Honoring Martin Luther King, Jr. January 14, 2021 Every year our nation celebrates the birthday of Martin Luther King, Jr. – the only federal holiday designated as a national day of service to encourage Americans to improve our communities. But in many ways this year’s MLK Day will be very different than in years past. 'Lab on a Chip' test has potential to detect COVID-19 immune response faster than current antibody testing January 12, 2021 Message from President Turner on Violence at Capitol January 07, 2021 The violence and disruption at the U.S. Capitol yesterday were deplorable, as is any attempt to erode the rule of law, our founding principles of freedom, and the institutions and symbols of our great nation. Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share