Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Brown Real Estate Home Auxiliary Housing Undergraduate Student Housing Graduate Student Housing Listings Forms Visiting Scholar Housing Off Campus Housing Service Relocation Assistance Organizational Chart Contact Us Brown to Brown Program Properties Program Guidelines Eligibility and Allocation Appraisal Process Revised Purchase % Resources How to Express Interest Commercial About Us Site Navigation Home Auxiliary Housing Undergraduate Student Housing Listings Forms Graduate Student Housing Listings Forms Visiting Scholar Housing Listings Forms Off Campus Housing Service Guide to Off-Campus Housing Forms Relocation Assistance Organizational Chart Contact Us Brown to Brown Program Properties Program Guidelines Eligibility and Allocation Appraisal Process Revised Purchase % Resources How to Express Interest Commercial Available Properties South Street Landing Contact Contact About Us Directory Leadership Organizational chart Graduate Student Housing Graduate students are offered a limited number of apartments located on College Hill, ranging in size from efficiency apartments to four-bedroom apartments. Applications River House is actively compiling a waitlist. Please contact River House directly at 401-859-2390, for further information and to be added to the waitlist. Please note, the application process and lease periods may differ from other Auxiliary Housing properties. For all other Auxiliary Housing graduate housing, the 2022/23 application will be available under the Graduate Student Housing Heading - Forms Section of this webpage on April 15, 2022. Rental units will be offered on a first-come, first-serve basis with priority given to first-year graduate students. All other applicants will be added to the waitlist and offered any available housing beginning June 1, 2022. 5/13/22 UPDATE: All available Auxiliary Housing graduate housing for the 22/23 academic year has been filled and the application has been removed. Lease Period Lease periods are for 12 months with no exceptions. Contracts will begin June 3, July 1, or August 1, 2022. Please contact Ronni Edmonds for further details. Description of Program Brown University has established a program designed to assist graduate and medical students with housing. To be eligible for this program, an applicant must be: A graduate or medical student A matriculated student of Brown University for the term requesting housing To apply for one of these housing units, students must submit the Graduate Student Housing Application. Submission of an application does not guarantee placement in a unit. Applications for this program will be accepted until all available units have been assigned. Priority will be given to first-year graduate students. Applicants will be emailed their housing assignments as their units are assigned. After accepting the assignment, applicants will receive a lease agreement via an e-mail attachment, which must be signed and returned to Auxiliary Housing by a specified deadline. A $500 security deposit is required at this time. If the lease agreement is not returned and the security deposit is not received by the stated deadline date, the applicant will lose the assigned unit, and the top-ranking applicant on the waiting list will be assigned the unit. Students may not rent a multi-bedroom apartment in this program for occupancy by one person. Roommates will be assigned to multi-bedroom units. For this reason, it is very important to name a preferred roommate, who must also meet the program eligibility requirements and who must also apply for the program. Applicants may also state that if they are unsuccessful in obtaining a studio or one-bedroom apartment, they wish to withdraw their application. Brown University reserves the right to add, remove, or change dwelling units included in this program and also to terminate this program at any time subject to its obligations under the lease agreements executed under the program. Brown University does not discriminate on the basis of sex, race, color, religion, age handicap, status as a veteran, national or ethnic origin, or sexual orientation. Housing Options 2022/2023 Note: Rental Rate is Per Person/Per Month All accommodations subject to availability. View listings below for more information and pictures. View Listings Auxiliary Housing Undergraduate Student Housing Graduate Student Housing Listings Forms Visiting Scholar Housing Off Campus Housing Service Relocation Assistance Organizational Chart Contact Us Real Estate Office Main Office: Brown University, 350 Eddy Street, Providence, RI 02903 Mailing Address: Box 1902, Providence, RI 02912 Phone: (401) 863-5482 Fax: (401) 863-1058 Auxiliary Housing Office Phone: (401) 863-2016 Location: 125-127 Waterman Street (Rear entrance door) Mailing address: Box 1900 Providence, RI 02912 Facilities Service Response: Phone: (401) 863-7800 Brown Public Safety: Phone: (401) 863-3322 (Non-Emergency/Lockouts) Phone: (401) 863-4111 (Emergency) Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top