Skip to main content University of Nebraska–Lincoln Visit Visit Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Log In Search Search Form Search Submit Close Nebraska Menu Search Log In About News Events Maps Our Vision Leadership & Organization Diversity & Inclusion Faculty / Staff Services Admissions Undergraduate Graduate Online & Distance Education Law Global Academics Programs of Study Colleges & Departments Faculty Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Search for Classes Libraries Accounts & Services Research Office of Research & Economic Development Nebraska Innovation Campus NuTech Ventures Industry Relations Life at Nebraska Involvement & Support Living On Campus Life In Lincoln Arts & Culture Recreation & Well-Being Husker Athletics Outreach & Impact Global Nebraska Nebraska Extension Parents Association Alumni Association Entrepreneurship Visit Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Nebraska Home APIDA History Month Conversations Isha Positively Impacts Campus, Community Read More about KishaExplore Admissions Timely Links Visit Nebraska Become a Husker Cost & Aid COVID-19 Testing Chancellor Updates Husker Athletics You Can Do More at Nebraska You have the power to shape your future and impact the world. At Nebraska, the people behind our Big Ten academic programs are with you every step of the way. Let’s build on your strengths toward a career, connect you with a community of Huskers and do big things. Explore Undergraduate Admissions Explore the Office of Graduate Studies Explore the College of Law Princeton Review Best Value School Stretch Your Strengths as a Husker How do you want to create your future? Learn by doing. Develop essential career skills. Expand your connections. Give back. Dive into classes. Prepare for grad school. Whatever it is, you can do it here. We believe in you, and we’re ready to help you stretch your strengths to achieve your goals. Connect to your career path. Take your learning hands-on and develop essential career skills. Explore Career Connections Expand your community and give back. Develop meaningful 1-to-1 relationships and work together to make a difference. Explore Community Engage with Big Ten academics. Connect the classroom to your career or build a solid foundation for graduate school. Explore Academic Life Paths for Every Passion What matters most to you? Our nine academic colleges offer a broad range of options with the chance to shape your own path to a Nebraska degree. Not sure you’re ready to choose? We can help! A large number of students work one-on-one with a professional advisor in our Explore Center to make the most of each semester and to choose the best major. Find Your Major Find Your Graduate Program Find Your Law Degree Program Top Producer Student Fulbright Awards Around Campus Jacobsen headed to Nebraska Law to continue love for campus “When I did start my own business, I had this amazing community and support system. The network I’ve built, the connections I’ve made and the people I’ve met through my time here have been amazing and will last with me for a lifetime.” — Isabella Jacobsen Venegas finishes degree, marches into career Perkins sews up degree, cuts path toward fashion industry Husker's academic journey guided by mentorship Read More News at Nebraska Today Photo by Instagram user ashtonimeyer Photo by Instagram user martin.nguyenn Photo by Instagram user abbie_grimm Photo by Instagram user w_wil10 Follow @UNLincoln on Instagram I know that you don’t have to go into college with your whole future planned out. I’m feeling excited and optimistic about the rest of my time at UNL. I’m beyond grateful for my time here so far and look forward to my future as a Husker! Megan Fehr, agricultural education leadership major Read I Think I Found the One on Medium See photos from Go Big Grads on Exposure We’re here to help you shape the future. Visit Nebraska Become a Husker Contact Us Address University of Nebraska–Lincoln 1400 R Street Lincoln, NE 68588 US Phone 402-472-7211 Social Media Affiliates Alumni & Friends Emeriti and Retirees Association Husker Athletics Lied Center for Performing Arts International Quilt Museum Nebraska Innovation Campus Nebraska Public Media Parents Association Mary Riepma Ross Media Arts Center Sheldon Museum of Art State Museum University Bookstore University of Nebraska Press University of Nebraska Foundation University of Nebraska System Campus Links Directory Employment Events Libraries Maps News Office of the Chancellor Report an Incident Policies & Reports Accessibility Statement Emergency Planning and Preparedness Institutional Equity and Compliance Notice of Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Security and Fire Safety Report Student Information Disclosures UNL web framework and quality assurance provided by the Web Developer Network · QA Test University of Nebraska–Lincoln Established 1869 · Copyright 2022 Some parts of this site work best with JavaScript enabled.