Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Media and Public RelationsMenu Featured Research Announcements Accolades Hot Topics In the News Experts Expert Directory Media Kits Contact Media & PR Media & PR Staff Contact Information Baylor University Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information Media Access to Campus Policy Graduation / Award Lists Marketing and Communications Scholarship Recipient Information IRS form 990: June 2020 through May 2021 IRS form 990: June 2019 through May 2020 IRS form 990: June 2018 through May 2019 IRS form 990: June 2017 through May 2018 IRS form 990: June 2016 through May 2017 IRS form 990: June 2015 through May 2016 Report on Investigation - Willis & Pena Baylor in the News – May 15-21, 2022 May 22, 2022 Media Contact: Baylor University Media and Public Relations, 254-710-1961 Follow us on Twitter: @BaylorUMedia WACO, Texas (May 22, 2022) – Baylor University researchers and faculty experts were featured in national and local media stories as they shared their thoughts and expertise on the Declaration of Independence as a secular or religious document, an edgy advertising campaign for a popular TV series about the life of Jesus and why Baylor students are receiving more prestigious scholarships - Fulbright, Goldwater, Churchill and more – than ever before. May 15, 2022 The Dallas Morning News: Is the Declaration of Independence a Christian document? Thomas S. Kidd, Ph.D., professor at Baylor and Midwestern Baptist Seminary, and the author of “Thomas Jefferson: A Biography of Spirit and Flesh,” writes about the Declaration of Independence and the debate over the nation’s founding document as secular or religious, the real answer unsatisfying for both sides of the culture war. May 17, 2022 Convos with Clay Podcast: EP. 071: Dr. Matt Quade [Ethical Leadership, Moral Courage and Feedback Culture] AUDIO: Matt Quade, Ph.D., associate professor of management and director of Christian leadership and ethics, discusses his research on ethical leadership, behavioral ethics, bottom-line mentality and amoral management. KWTX-TV: Heroic doctor, Baylor alum remembered by loved ones after being killed in attack on California church AUDIO: Stephen Sloan, Ph.D., associate professor of history, remembers his Baylor classmate Dr. John Cheng, B.A. ’91, who was killed after he heroically confronted an active shooter inside a church in California on May 15. May 18, 2022 USA TODAY: Fact check: Bibles are allowed in schools and prisons Thomas S. Kidd, Ph.D., professor at Baylor and Midwestern Baptist Seminary, addresses the false claim that Bibles are not allowed in schools but are encouraged in prisons. "Students would always be allowed to personally possess Bibles in public or private schools," Kidd said. "Many private schools in America are religious, anyway, so it obviously would not be a problem in that context." Christianity Today: Reimagining Biblical Womanhood Part 2: Continuing the Conversation VIDEO: History professor Beth Allison Barr, Ph.D., author of “The Making of Biblical Womanhood: How the Subjugation of Women Became Gospel Truth,” joins this continued conversation about women’s journeys in the church and sharing wisdom from their personal and professional experience as women leaders. May 19, 2022 The Boston Globe: Edgy ad campaign for Christian TV series gets mixed reviews Tyrha Lindsey-Warren, clinical assistant professor of marketing, is quoted in this article about a controversial ad campaign using “defaced” billboards in Boston and other cities to draw attention to “The Chosen,” a popular TV series about the life of Jesus. KWBU-FM: Business Review: Making An About-Face in Business AUDIO: When entrepreneurs are faced with deciding when to stay the course or to pivot, Matthew Wood, Ph.D., associate professor of entrepreneurship and corporate innovation, shares data-driven predictors to inform difficult business decisions. KCEN-TV: Baylor family takes walkthrough tour through Paula and Mark Hurd Welcome Center VIDEO: On Thursday, Baylor University alumni, regents board members, donors and students went on a walkthrough tour to see the construction of the new welcome center that's soon to be entry point to Baylor University. The Mark and Paula Hurd Welcome Center is schedule to finish in the Fall of 2023. Baylor Lariat: Baylor gives sneak peek of Welcome Center In just under a year, construction on the Mark and Paula Hurd Welcome Center has progressed from an empty field to a towering structure visible from I-35. It’s anticipated to open before the fall 2023 semester. May 20, 2022 Baylor Connections: Andy Hogue AUDIO: Baylor students have set an incredible standard this year in the number of prestigious scholarships and fellowships received—Fulbright, Goldwater, Churchill and more. In this Baylor Connections, Andy Hogue, Ph.D., who serves as associate dean of engaged learning in the College of Arts & Sciences and directs Baylor’s Office of Engaged Learning, highlights the meaning and impact of these honors and examines the reasons these numbers continue to grow. Waco Tribune-Herald: Baylor regents tour $60M Hurd Center, extend Livingstone's contract by 8+ years Baylor University’s board of regents took a break from passing a budget and extending President Linda Livingstone’s contract to tour the towering steel structure wedged between Interstate 35 and the Baylor campus that will become the Mark and Paula Hurd Welcome Center. Additional coverage by KXXV-TV, KWTX-TV, KWKT-TV and the Baylor Lariat. May 21, 2022 Waco Tribune-Herald: Puppets act by proxy in 'Leonardo' production at Baylor The Young Festival Stage puppet-actor production “Leonardo and the Flying Machine” at Baylor’s Jones Theatre is the brainchild of assistant professor of set design Michael Sullivan, who uses a cast of rod puppets and actors to tell a story of Renaissance inventor Leonardo da Vinci and his dream of building a device that lets a person fly like a bird. Waco Tribune-Herald: Baylor to move Burleson statue, rename quadrangle as part of racial history effort Baylor University’s board of regents this past week approved changes to Burleson Quadrangle and Founders Mall designed to address the university’s historic ties to racism and the institution of slavery. Additional coverage in the Texas Tribune and Baptist Standard. National Catholic Register: Facing a Rise in Religious Repression in India and Elsewhere in South Asia AUDIO: Paul Marshall, The Wilson Distinguished Professor of Religious Freedom at the Institute for Studies of Religion at Baylor and a research professor in political science, is interviewed on the program “Religious Freedom Matters,” about religion and religious freedom in South and Southeast Asia. ABOUT BAYLOR MEDIA & PUBLIC RELATIONS Baylor's Office of Media and Public Relations (M&PR) supports the University's Illuminate strategic plan as a top Christian research university by focusing on faculty research and expert opinions, innovative teaching, major awards and recognition, and community involvement. Through its media training workshops, the Baylor M&PR team develops faculty experts to effectively communicate the impact of their research or speak as subject-matter experts into national trends and conversations with media outlets, through Hot Topics and on the Baylor Connections podcast. Our faculty expert directory is available on the M&PR website at www.baylor.edu/news/experts. ABOUT BAYLOR UNIVERSITY Baylor University is a private Christian University and a nationally ranked Research 1 institution. The University provides a vibrant campus community for more than 20,000 students by blending interdisciplinary research with an international reputation for educational excellence and a faculty commitment to teaching and scholarship. Chartered in 1845 by the Republic of Texas through the efforts of Baptist pioneers, Baylor is the oldest continually operating University in Texas. Located in Waco, Baylor welcomes students from all 50 states and more than 90 countries to study a broad range of degrees among its 12 nationally recognized academic divisions. More News ... News Archives Looking for more news from Baylor University? Tweets by @BaylorUMedia Contact Us mail Media and Public Relations Baylor University One Bear Place #97024 Waco, TX 76798 tel (254) 710-1961 Email mediacomm@baylor.edu More Contact Info Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Featured Research Announcements Accolades Hot Topics In the News Experts Expert Directory Media Kits Baylor University Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information Baylor Bears 2019 Sic 'em for Safety Campaign Baylor Religion Survey Baylor Research and Innovation Collaborative Detecting Biomarkers for Cancer Eye Cancer App Helps Save Lives Exhuming Immigrant Remains Fighting Tropical Diseases Higgs Boson Research iCivics Baylor Model Life Patterns in Extreme Environments Paul L. Foster Campus Leadership and Innovation Summit Paul L. Foster Campus for Business and Innovation Small Business and Community Health Research Texas Hunger Initiative Water Quality Research Whale Earplug Reveals Lifetime Contaminant Exposure and Hormone Profiles Data Privacy Day 2019 Contact Media & PR Media & PR Staff Contact Information Baylor University Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information Media Access to Campus Policy Graduation / Award Lists Dean's Academic Honor List Graduation List Academic Scholarship Awards List Marketing and Communications Scholarship Recipient Information IRS form 990: June 2020 through May 2021 IRS form 990: June 2019 through May 2020 IRS form 990: June 2018 through May 2019 IRS form 990: June 2017 through May 2018 IRS form 990: June 2016 through May 2017 IRS form 990: June 2015 through May 2016 Report on Investigation - Willis & Pena