Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University Trademark Licensing Office Menu Toggle Search Main navigation Home About Policies & Guidelines ISU Style Guide FAQs Mission Statement In 1984, Iowa State University became one of the first universities in the nation to establish a trademark licensing program. Iowa State University's Trademark Licensing Office exists to protect, promote and market the indicia (names, symbols, graphics, marks, etc.) owned by the University. Our mission is to ensure proper use and application of Iowa State University's trademarks, to strengthen the trademarks through relationships with retailers, licensees, campus units, student organizations, alumni, and fans and, to generate revenue that funds athletic and academic programs. Licensed vendors make a valuable difference in the education of our students as 100% of the NET revenue generated flows directly back to the univeristy. Due to continuing supply chain issues our licensed vendors are facing, please build a minimum of 3 weeks into your timeline for ordering products for your internal unit or student organization. If you are ordering for an event on short notice (within 3 weeks), please be aware of potential delays. Get Licensed Click here to learn how to apply for a standard, internal, and crafter license Internal Forms Click here to submit athletics, internal, and organization submissions Licensees Click here for a list of all officially licensed Iowa State University vendors. Retailers Click here for a map of retailers carrying Iowa State merchandise. Internal Units & Athletics Are you part of an internal unit or the athletics department? Click here. Organizations Are you part of a student group and want to use ISU logos for your org? Click here. Bakery Requests Need an ISU cake for the big day? Click here! 4-H Projects Click here to request permission to use Iowa State trademarks for your 4-H exhibit at the fair. Follow us on Facebook and Instagram View this profile on Instagram Cy Style (@iowastatecystyle) • Instagram photos and videos Iowa State University Trademark Licensing Office Contact Trademark Licensing Office 2420 Lincoln Way, Suite 201 Ames, IA 50014-8340 trademark@iastate.edu 515-294-4402 Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information Loading...