Skip to main content Menu Audiences Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Research About Hazardous Weather Procedure When local weather forecasts begin to include predictions of snow flurries in the mountains or ice on local roads, it's time to brush up on the university's hazardous weather procedures. Clemson University does not expect you to jeopardize your safety to get to work. When Plan A is announced, you should report to work as soon as it is safe to travel, and you may use accrued annual or compensatory leave or take leave without pay. Under Plan A, you may not make up the time later. When Plan B is announced, the governor has declared a weather emergency and offices are closed. (However, all essential services will be maintained and essential employees will report to work.) You may use accrued annual or compensatory leave, take leave without pay, or arrange with your supervisor to make up the time at a future date. University officials monitor local weather conditions before making decisions to cancel classes, close offices or delay openings. For updates on the status of Clemson classes and office closings: Check the Clemson University homepage for messages about closings or delays; Check the CU Safety page for detailed messages and weather advisories; Check your Clemson University e-mail for CU Safe Alerts or Inside Clemson messages; Check your cell phone if you have signed up to receive CU Safe Alert text messages (See the CU Safety page for sign-up instructions); Follow the CU Safe Twitter account @cusafety Call the Clemson University switchboard at 656-3311 for recorded updates between 8 p.m. and 8 a.m. Monday-Friday and on weekends (recorded messages provide closure information, not weather forecasts); and Tune in to local TV and radio stations or log on to their Web sites. Local TV and radio stations do not always use the terminology specified by Clemson's media relations office. Stations being bombarded with hundreds of calls from schools, churches, businesses and day-care centers seem to say only that the university is closed or classes are cancelled or delayed. The problem is compounded by the fact that Clemson has students and employees and different instructions may apply for each group. Nevertheless, Plan A and Plan B really have more to do with how the missed time is satisfied than whether you come to work. Here are some important things to remember: Only the governor can forgive time lost, so any part of your usual workday missed due to hazardous weather must be satisfied. Even though classes are occasionally cancelled, Clemson rarely closes the entire university. Any announcement on TV or radio most likely applies to classes and students. A little further investigation may be in order. Clemson University is a state agency, so if TV and radio stations announce that the governor has declared all state agencies closed, Clemson will be closed (except for essential personnel). Sometimes the announcement is made for specific counties when weather conditions do not affect the entire state. The bottom line is that all employees must take responsibility for: Knowing and understanding the procedure; Getting information on weather conditions and pertinent announcements about the university; Determining the safety of their own personal travel arrangements; Working with their supervisors to satisfy any time missed. Review the Clemson University Hazardous Weather and Emergency Leave Policy. Audiences Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram