Skip to Navigation Skip to Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links For information about COVID-19 policies and restrictions on campus, please visit the UCLA COVID-19 resources website. Events Newsroom Magazine Alumni Arts Give About About About Overview General Info Facts & Figures Rankings Leadership History Mission & Values Mission & Values Strategic Plan Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Impact Contributions & Discoveries Global Engagement Recognition Awards & Honors Athletic Championships & Medals Notable Alumni UCLA Ranked No. 1 Public University UCLA tops all public universities in the 2021 U.S. News & World Report rankings. Admission Admission Admission Overview Undergraduate Undergraduate Admission Undergraduate Tuition & Fees Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Tours Graduate Graduate Admission Graduate Tuition & Fees Graduate Funding Graduate Tours Additional Information International Applicants Extension Program Summer Sessions Academics Academics Academics Overview Explore Degree Programs & Majors College & Professional Schools Education Undergraduate Education Graduate & Professional Education Extension Courses & Certificates Summer Sessions Study Abroad Continuing Education Support Career Preparation Academic Advising First Generation New Student Programs Honors & Advanced Study Resources Libraries Academic Calendar Course Schedule Course Catalogue Research Research Research Campus Resources Research Across Campus Technology & Innovation Investments & Partnerships Libraries Student Research Graduate Research Undergraduate Research Campus Life Campus Life Campus Life Overview Campus Housing Residential Life Dining Health & Wellness Sustainability Student Life Clubs & Organizations Sports & Recreation Arts & Performance Volunteering & Service Directory Academic Calendar Maps & Directions Parking Campus Shuttles Public Transit Newsroom Magazine Alumni Arts Give Open Search Home Admission International Student First-Year Application International Applicants A diverse campus community, located in the vibrant, global city of Los Angeles, makes UCLA an ideal destination for international students. In fact, more than 12,000 international students call UCLA home. With accomplished faculty and extensive resources, we offer world-class academic opportunities. And UCLA is a university that truly understands the needs of international students, with a range of dedicated programs and services to ensure that you get the most out of your education abroad. Applying to the University of California In addition to standard application requirements, incoming freshmen are required to take the University of California Analytical Writing Placement Exam, unless exempted by high test scores on the ACT, SAT, AP or IB. All international students may be required to take the English as a Second Language Proficiency Exam. This is dependent on your IELTS (International English Language Testing System) or TOEFL (Test of English as a Foreign Language) scores. Continue to International Undergraduate Admission Continue to International Graduate Admission Resources for International Students Dashew Center for International Students and Scholars The Dashew Center is the ultimate resource for international students at UCLA. The Center’s staff advises, counsels and ensures that your time here is filled with opportunities. The Dashew Center sponsors outings around Southern California, provides on-campus cultural and language immersion events, and gives workshops and tours of campus facilities and resources, all designed to enrich your educational experience while attending UCLA. Explore International Student Support Undergraduate Orientation and Transition Programs The first step for international undergraduate students begins with New Student Orientation. International students can opt for a session in September to minimize travel or enroll in an online and in-person orientation program. Incoming freshmen can also enroll in our College Summer Institute program. This seven-week residence program allows students to get acclimated to UCLA and the university experience before the rigor of classes begins. Other Educational Programs Students from all over the world, including high school students, can join our educational community through a variety of programs, including summer courses and institutes, longer-term certificate programs and language immersion programs. Explore Summer Programs Explore Language and Certificate Programs Important Information Visa Services The supportive staff at the Dashew Center will help you obtain and maintain your F-1 visa throughout your attendance at UCLA. We can also offer expert assistance in helping you obtain an I-20 form that you must present to the U.S. Consulate to receive your student visa. Health Insurance All students (international included) must be covered by health insurance. Most students will be automatically enrolled in the UC Student Health Insurance Plan (UC SHIP). This fee will appear on your tuition statement. You may waive this fee if you can prove you have equivalent private insurance. Please note: The United States does not have a national health-care plan, which means each individual is responsible for his or her own health-care coverage. Sign up for news, stories, and events from UCLA Strategic Communications Email First Name Last Name Zip Code Your email was submitted. Please check your inbox to complete your registration. You may unsubscribe at any time. Zip code is used to improve the content we share. Refer to our Terms of Use for more information on how we store and protect your data. Los Angeles 90095(310) 825-4321 Contact Directory Academic Calendar Careers Contact Us Media & Journalists Campus Campus Map Parking Campus Shuttles Public Transit Community Alumni Parents & Families Faculty Staff Emeriti & Retirees Venue & Events Conference Center & Hotel Film Production Event Planning Related Sites Athletics Extension Health Store Giving Centennial The Arts Arts Gateway Hammer Museum Fowler Museum Center for the Art of Performance Facebook Instagram Linked Twitter Youtube TikTok Snapchat © 2022 Regents of the University of California Emergency Accessibility Report Misconduct Privacy & Terms of Use Cookie Policy We use cookies to understand how you use our site and to improve your experience, including personalizing content and to store your content preferences. If you would prefer, you may set your browser to refuse cookies or alert you when cookies are being sent; however, it is possible that some parts of our sites will not function properly if you do so. By continuing to use our sites, you accept our use of cookies and revised Privacy Policy. I Accept