Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Financial Analysis MS You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Financial Analysis MS Apply Events Request More Info Financial Analysis MS Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Science in Financial Analysis With the Master of Science in Financial Analysis from Temple University’s Fox School of Business, you will use project-based applications of today’s best financial theory and technology practices, including data science for finance, to build a skill set that has value in the workplace. Make strides toward achieving certification as a Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) during your program studies. Connect with senior leaders and industry experts through a distinguished guest speaker series as well as visits to Greater Philadelphia region and Wall Street firms. The Master of Science in Financial Analysis prepares you for career roles in corporate finance, investments, and global banking and markets. Deepen your understanding of industry trends, develop global market insights and hone relevant skills including asset valuation, investment management, corporate value management, leveraged buyout and merger and acquisition transaction analysis, risk measurement, and data-driven decision-making. Endowing students with broad financial knowledge, the Financial Analysis MS raises the benchmark for programs supporting the Chartered Financial Analyst designation with interdisciplinary studies in behavioral finance, corporate finance, data science for finance, financial modeling, global markets, investment management and quantitative methods. Through one-on-one advising and career coaching, dedicated professional development seminars and access to resources through the Center for Student Professional Development, you will craft a unique professional future, tailored specifically to your long-term career goals. Learn more about career coaching and other development opportunities. Request Information Learn more about the Financial Analysis MS program. Apply Now Ready to apply? Submit your graduate application. Learn More Explore all of the specialized master's programs at Fox. Request Information Apply Learn More Specialized Master's in Finance Programs Temple offers a suite of master’s degree programs dedicated to producing the next generation of finance professionals. Apart from the Master of Science in Financial Analysis, Fox also offers the following finance-related programs. Quantitative Finance and Risk Management MS Quantitative Finance and Risk Management MS Quantitative Finance and Risk Management MS Financial Analysis and Quantitative Risk Management MS Financial Analysis and Quantitative Risk Management MS Financial Analysis and Quantitative Risk Management MS Your Path to the CFA The Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) certification offered by the independent CFA Institute ranks among the highest distinctions in the investment management profession. Pursuing your Financial Analysis MS degree from the Fox School of Business and the CFA designation will set you apart and enhance your career opportunities. To prepare students for the CFA exams, the Financial Analysis MS program offers classes that end at least two weeks prior to exam dates for concentrated study time; dedicated modules and industry study packages to pursue the CFA Exam Levels I and II during your graduate studies; and specialized curriculum accounting for the complete CFA Body of Knowledge, supporting sitting for the CFA Exam Level III the year after graduation. Demonstrate your expertise in financial analysis and gain a competitive advantage in your career with the Chartered Financial Analyst designation. Learn more about the CFA program. Classes & Curriculum An innovative, 30-credit curriculum structure featuring one- to 1.5-credit classes offers the opportunity to sit for multiple CFA exams during your graduate studies and the flexibility to complete the Financial Analysis MS program in a variety of formats. Full-time 10-month path Immersive 22-month full-time path Part-time two-year path All courses take place in person on Temple's Main Campus or at the Temple University Center City campus. The program's location in Philadelphia provides students with access to the benefits of city life and connections to leading organizations. Courses you will take as part of the Financial Analysis MS curriculum include Behavioral Finance, Corporate Value Management, Financial Accounting, Global Economy, Investment Management, Quantitative Portfolios and Risk Measurement. Learn more about the Financial Analysis MS required courses. Related Graduate Degrees Financial Analysis and Quantitative Risk Management MS Quantitative Finance and Risk Management MS Bolun Deng Senior Relationship Manager, S&P Global Market Intelligence "Without the Fox School, I never would have gotten into the company where I work. The finance knowledge I gained has enabled me to be more confident and professional. It has also made my manager confident in expanding my responsibilities." Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Science offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,142.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,142.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. See additional fees and costs associated with the Financial Analysis MS program. Program Contact For more information about the Financial Analysis MS degree program, contact the following faculty member. Cailin DiGiacomo is the assistant director of graduate enrollment. Phone: 215-204-0314 Email: c.digiacomo@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Joining student clubs and organizations is a great way to meet like-minded students; connect with local, national and international businesses; and enhance the skills you use in your professional career. Fox offers more than 30 student professional organizations. Supplement your academic experience by participating in a club related to your major or interests. The following clubs and organizations are available to students in Fox. The Fox Graduate Student Association connects students and alumni with the greater Fox community, providing professional development, networking and volunteer opportunities for graduate students. The mission of Net Impact is to grow and strengthen a network of leaders who use the power of business to make a positive economic, environmental and social impact. It brings together students seeking to network and to use the power of business to create a better world. The International Business Association brings together students from all over the world to learn about foreign business and the global economy, and offers an array of professional development opportunities. Fox Professional Speakers invites students to practice their communication, presentation and leadership skills in a supportive and positive environment. Those with dreams of starting their own business may be interested in the Entrepreneurial Students Association, which aims to support, inspire and encourage students to pursue their entrepreneurial goals. The association is open to students of all majors. See a full list of student clubs and organizations. Global Immersions Fox graduate students can participate in Global Immersions. They are destination-focused learning experiences that allow graduate students to engage with a different country's culture, language and business practices. Global Immersions expose students to comparative business environments, global business in emerging markets, global companies working to solve crucial problems, intensive and diverse learning experiences, and international innovation and entrepreneurship. Previous destinations include China, India, Latin America and South Africa. Recent participating companies include Black and Decker, BMW, Deloitte, Microsoft and SanDisk. Learn more about Global Immersion Programs. Temple also offers interested students a variety of options for pursuing internship, teaching and volunteer opportunities abroad through the Center for International Business and Research. Learn more about your options for studying or working abroad. Accreditation The Fox School of Business is accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB). The school has maintained AACSB accreditation since 1934. BU-FIAN-MS Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Financial Analysis MS Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Events Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Events Request More Info