Skip to main content Office OfEngagement & Community Affairs Toggle navigation About Us Newsletter Sign-up Volunteerism Scholarship Commitments Engagement Map Community Impact IMP Dashboard Use this for to search the site. Search Community Partnering with Pitt strengthens communities Through academics, research and outreach programs—as well as the volunteerism of its students, faculty and staff—Pitt provides health and wellness services, technology support, arts programs, business assistance, sustainability collaborations and much more. About Us Volunteerism and Public Service Neighborhood Commitments Community-Engaged Scholarship Engagement and Outreach Map Community Impact Community Support From fighting food insecurity to serving residents during the COVID-19 pandemic, Pitt is committed to being a strong partner, a good neighbor and a powerful community asset. We take pride in being a University of the community. Resources & Support » Share ways Pitt can volunteer » COMMUNITY IMPACT Pitt’s 157 engagement projects involved 270 unique partners last year. Pitt engagement projects helped 4,000 families and 37,400 young people. Some 166 Pitt engagement programs focus on health and wellness. Pitt’s Community Engagement Center offers 41 ongoing programs. Community Impact Report » Community Engagement Report » Pitt Engagement Map There are no borders or boundaries when it comes to learning from each other and using that knowledge to address community challenges. Find Pitt in your community by searching our Engagement and Outreach Map. Search the Outreach Map » Home News View All News Christmas Day at Pitt fulfills 16th year of providing hot meals, gifts for families Mission of Mercy dental clinic brought smiles to hundreds in the Pittsburgh region Plenty of ways to get involved with the community Facilities apprenticeship program brings new levels of Hill District community partnership and collaboration Extremism prevention experts gather in Pittsburgh to ‘Eradicate Hate’ View All News Events View All Events Office Of Engagement & Community Affairs 4227 Fifth Avenue 710 Alumni Hall Pittsburgh, PA 15260 412-383-5600 communityinfo@pitt.edu Revised 03/29/22Copyright 2022