Skip navigation Columbia University Faculty & Staff Students Info for - Choose - Faculty & Staff Students News Events Forums Alumni Give Experience SIPA Dean's Messages About SIPA Why SIPA? SIPA Stories Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Centers & Institutes Columbia & New York City Global & UN Connections Student Organizations Ideas Lab Dean's Public Policy Challenge Grant Tech & Policy @ SIPA Entrepreneurship & Policy @ SIPA Central Banking and Financial Policy @ SIPA Kent Global Leadership Program on Conflict Resolution Academics Degree Programs Concentrations & Specializations International Fellows Program Dual Degree Programs Courses Capstone Workshops Executive Education Admissions What We Look For How to Apply Financial Aid Application Status Accept Your Offer Connect with SIPA Admissions FAQs Meet a Current Student Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research & Publications Libraries & Campus Resources Careers Career Education Career Resources Internship Program Job & Internship Postings Employment Statistics Career FAQs For Employers Experience SIPA Dean's Messages About SIPA Why SIPA? SIPA Stories Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Centers & Institutes Columbia & New York City Global & UN Connections Student Organizations Ideas Lab Dean's Public Policy Challenge Grant Tech & Policy @ SIPA Entrepreneurship & Policy @ SIPA Central Banking and Financial Policy @ SIPA Kent Global Leadership Program on Conflict Resolution Academics Degree Programs Concentrations & Specializations International Fellows Program Dual Degree Programs Courses Capstone Workshops Executive Education Admissions What We Look For How to Apply Financial Aid Application Status Accept Your Offer Connect with SIPA Admissions FAQs Meet a Current Student Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research & Publications Libraries & Campus Resources Careers Career Education Career Resources Internship Program Job & Internship Postings Employment Statistics Career FAQs For Employers Search form Search You are here Home Experience SIPA You are here Home Welcome to SIPA—A message from Interim Dean Thomas J. Christensen Video of Welcome to SIPA—A message from Interim Dean Thomas J. Christensen Tom_Christensen_Headshot_Spring2019sml.png Messages from the Dean Significant communications from Interim Dean Thomas J. Christensen to SIPA community sipa-flag.jpg About SIPA For more than 70 years, Columbia University’s School of International and Public Affairs has been educating professionals who work in public, private and nonprofit organizations to make a difference in the world. Test: Columbia Statue Why SIPA? Be part of a distinctive community of students and scholars from around the globe. Take advantage of the resources of a premier urban university in the world's most exciting city. Enjoy hands-on learning opportunities both inside and outside the classroom. sipa_students_DiVito.jpg SIPA Stories Meet the people who exemplify the SIPA difference. Our extraordinary faculty, alumni, and students are devoted to addressing the critical public policy challenges of today and tomorrow. 180418_hamerman_0408-sm.jpg Diversity and Inclusion at SIPA At SIPA and throughout Columbia University, matters of diversity, equity, and inclusion are central and critical components of our enduring commitment to academic excellence and global engagement. iStock-494545485_reduced.jpg Columbia & New York City Our hometown gives you access to incomparable career opportunities alongside a flourishing cultural and commercial life. Come and experience for yourself what makes Manhattan "the island at the center of the world." Test: Human Rights Protest Global & UN Connections SIPA is the world’s most global public policy school. Our scholars, students, and alumni focus on issues of critical importance around the world. We prepare future leaders to handle transnational challenges of global finance, public health, climate change, energy, development, sustainability, and other issues that demand collective action. student_groups_DiVito.jpg Student Organizations Embrace life beyond the classroom! We have dozens of student organizations that provide social, professional, and educational activities to meet your diverse interests. Explore SIPA Stories SIPA’s faculty, staff, alumni, and students come form an international and diverse community. Explore Stories Connect with SIPA Attend an Information Session Request Information Meet a Current Student Share This SIPA Alumni: Stories of Impact - John Porter '83 Video of SIPA Alumni: Stories of Impact - John Porter &amp;#039;83 Alumni Spotlight Because developing countries can’t borrow in capital markets, the World Bank plays a key role in helping them to implement reforms. John Porter MIA 83 Principal Mercator Financial Advisors Full Profile Top Connect with Us Facebook LinkedIn YouTube Twitter Instagram Twitter June 1, 2022 RT @ColumbiaUEnergy: "There are going to be tipping points with this transition and tipping points in technology, and I have no doubt th… https://t.co/Kl0BvFY4gk June 1, 2022 RT @Columbia: Explore the rich history of the LGBTQ+ movement at Columbia, the scholarship of our faculty on related issues, even… https://t.co/SQC3HllMcz COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY School of International and Public Affairs Main Address 420 West 118th Street New York, NY 10027 Non-Discrimination Statement and Policy Office of Admissions and Financial Aid 514 West 113th Street New York, NY 10025 SIPA Admission Tel (212) 854-6216