Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Alumni Association Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Alumni Clubs Alumni Community Benefits CAA Arts Access Career Resources Events Get Involved News Columbia Alumni Association You are here: Home CAA Belgium | The future of nuclear energy in Belgium and beyond Events Past Event CAA Belgium | The future of nuclear energy in Belgium and beyond Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo March 30, 2022 7:30 PM - 9:30 PM Europe/Brussels Off-campus Dear Alumni and Friends of Harvard, During this Harvard Club event we will specifically focus on the very current topic of nuclear energy. With recent innovations such as the Small Modular Reactor (SMR), and with the current energy crisis, we are entering a decisive phase in the development and use of nuclear energy. Is this a pivotal moment? Are we heading towards a new phase and a different understanding and use of nuclear energy? A common presentation by the Deputy Director General of the Belgian Nuclear Research Centre (SCK CEN) in Mol, prof. dr. Hamid Aït Abderrahim, and expert Anicet Touré of Tractebel, will shed light on the current day and future developments. Introduction by the Chairman of the Belgian Nuclear Research Centre (SCK CEN) in Mol, baron Derrick-Philippe Gosselin. This seated dinner event will take place on: Wednesday, March 30th, 2022 at 07:30 pm at La Fondation Universitaire, room Félicien Cattier Egmontstraat 11 1000 Brussels If you would like to attend, please confirm your participation before March 21st. The fee for this event will be €65 for members and €85 for non-members (guests and non-member alumni), to be paid on Eventbrite or on our Club’s account before the deadline date. As always, please note that we do not reimburse in case of cancellation after the deadline above. We hope that you will be able to join us and look forward to seeing you on March 30th, 2022. Warm regards, Jens Van Nieuwenborgh - President, Harvard Club of Belgium Werner-Édouard de Saeger van Nattenhaesdonck - Board Member, Harvard Club of Belgium RSVP: https://www.eventbrite.com/e/the-future-of-nuclear-energy-in-belgium-and-beyond-tickets-293000862467 Contact Information CAA Belgium [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Alumni Center 622 West 113th Street, Mail Code 4525 · New York, NY 10025 Phone 212-851-7800 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close