Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Alumni Association Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Alumni Clubs Alumni Community Benefits CAA Arts Access Career Resources Events Get Involved News Columbia Alumni Association You are here: Home CAA Naples | Talk with Jeclynn Faffer, Naples Senior Center CEO Events Past Event CAA Naples | Talk with Jeclynn Faffer, Naples Senior Center CEO Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo March 23, 2022 11:30 AM - 1:00 PM America/New_York Off-campus Naples is a tale of two cities. We read headlines where Forbes ranked Naples among the 25 happiest cities in the US and US News ranked Naples as #2 among the best places to retire. What is rarely written about are the challenges our seniors are facing in increasing numbers, across all socioeconomic lines. It is estimated that 1 out of 3 seniors in our country experience isolation or loneliness. Additionally, in large senior populations such as Naples, a number of seniors, and their caregivers, are struggling with dementia. In 2014, Naples Senior Center opened the first senior center in Collier County to address the needs of seniors with comprehensive, evidence-based programs and services. The needs were so great that an initial membership of 80 increased to a membership of 1400. In December 2021, Naples Senior Center broke ground for a 30, 000 sq. ft., state of the art center and will enable the professional staff at Naples Senior Center to provide the level of services required by our increasing senior population. Dr. Jaclynn Faffer will present an in-depth discussion of issues facing today's seniors, and how the New Naples Senior Center will help our community by providing tools and resources to address these challenges. Contact Information Nancy Barbounis (239) 848-6956 [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Alumni Center 622 West 113th Street, Mail Code 4525 · New York, NY 10025 Phone 212-851-7800 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close