Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information CUIMC Update Sharing news for the faculty, staff, and trainees of Columbia University Irving Medical Center. View previous issues of CUIMC Update. Topics Campus News Research Medical School Public Health Cancer Mental Health Infectious Diseases Neurology Neuroscience Education Heart Health Pediatrics View All Topics Search All News Keywords News Top Stories CUIMC Update - June 1, 2022 View the CUIMC Update, a weekly e-newsletter featuring medical center news and the accomplishments of our faculty, staff, and trainees. Topic Campus News Neighborhood Corner Co-Named Coogan's Way Coogan's bar and restaurant, the now-closed beloved fixture in Washington Heights, was celebrated with the co-naming of the corner of Broadway and 169th Street as Coogan's Way. Topic Campus News Hepatitis Outbreak Among Kids: What Parents Should Know Health authorities around the world are investigating rare cases of children with severe hepatitis of unknown cause. Mercedes Martinez, MD, explains. Topic Pediatrics 3 Myths About Celiac Disease The nutritionists at Columbia University’s Celiac Disease Center have heard every myth about celiac disease, even from their own patients. Topic Campus News Latest News CUIMC Update - Aug. 31, 2020 August 31, 2020 View the CUIMC Update, a weekly e-newsletter featuring medical center news and the accomplishments of our faculty, staff, and trainees. Topic Campus News Coping in Crisis: Program Offers Free Resources for CUIMC Faculty and Staff August 31, 2020 Dr. Lourival Baptista-Neto speaks about CopeColumbia, where CUIMC employees can access psychological support and other support services. Topic Psychiatry Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center Earns National Cancer Institute Renewal August 26, 2020 The Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center has been redesignated as a Comprehensive Cancer Center by the NCI, the federal government’s principal agency for cancer research, care, and training. Topic Campus News CUIMC Update - Aug. 24, 2020 August 24, 2020 View the CUIMC Update, a weekly e-newsletter featuring medical center news and the accomplishments of our faculty, staff, and trainees. Topic Campus News CUIMC Enhances Facilities and Operations to Keep Campus Community Safe August 22, 2020 Safety is CUIMC's top priority as our community starts to return to campus. Read up on revised procedures, self-checkpoints, and other changes to operations designed to keep our community healthy. Topic Campus News CUIMC Update - Aug. 17, 2020 August 17, 2020 View the CUIMC Update, a weekly e-newsletter featuring medical center news and the accomplishments of our faculty, staff, and trainees. Topic Campus News Leadership Message from Interim Dean Anil K. Rustgi about the Fall 2020 Semester August 17, 2020 Dr. Rustgi provides an update on medical center operations for the fall semester and shares his gratitude to the medical center community. Topic Campus News CUIMC Women Leaders Convene Panel on Aug. 19 August 14, 2020 Panelists Lorraine Frazier, Linda Fried, and Donna Lynne will discuss career growth, leadership challenges, and ways to balance priorities. Topic Campus News Five Teams Receive Pilot Awards to Advance Precision Medicine Research August 10, 2020 Precision Medicine Pilot Awards underscore Columbia’s commitment to supporting research targeting the promise of precision medicine across multiple diseases. Topic Campus News CUIMC Update - Aug. 10, 2020 August 10, 2020 View the CUIMC Update, a weekly e-newsletter featuring medical center news and the accomplishments of our faculty, staff, and trainees. Topic Campus News Pages first previous … 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 next last Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top