Distance education news and events for TTU Faculty and Staff. Do you have an idea for a story about online learning? Let us know. May 2022 News & Events Texas Tech Celebrates 20 Years in Hill Country Texas Tech University at Fredericksburg and Texas Tech University at Highland Lakes celebrated 20 years of academic service in April. Texas Tech University at Jefferson Official Ribbon Cutting Will Take Place in June The Texas Tech University Jefferson Professional Education & Academic Advising site will have its official ribbon cutting ceremony on June 25. For Faculty Get Paid to Become a Certified Online Course Developer! In support of President Schovanec’s initiative to grow Texas Tech’s footprint across the state and nation, TTU Worldwide eLearning is requesting applications for the 2022 Online Course Design Grant Program. If selected, you will participate in a two-week intensive training on course design in Blackboard following the OSCQR course quality rubric and be assisted in course development by a team of eLearning instructional designers. Each participant will receive a $2,500 stipend upon completion and review of the course. Half the stipend will be paid on completion of the Summer Academy and the other half upon successful completion and certification of the course. Each course will be reviewed using the OSCQR rubric, and the stipend will not be paid until all areas are satisfactorily present. Upon successful completion of this grant program, your course will be certified as a quality online course, and you will be certified as a quality online course developer. Hurry! The deadline for applications is May 20. Don't miss out on this great opportunity! Regional Sites Outdoor Learning Center at Junction Hosts Grady ISD for the Science in the Sun Event Texas Tech Outdoor Learning Center at Junction had the pleasure of welcoming the Grady ISD fifth graders this month. They attended a three-day academy at the OLC to help cure their nature deficit. DFW-area Regional Sites Celebrate Graduates Red Raiders in the DFW area were honored recently with a commencement celebration! From Anywhere is a monthly electronic newsletter produced by Texas Tech University Worldwide eLearning. All TTU faculty and staff are automatically subscribed to this email. 1901 University Ave., Suite 513 | Lubbock, TX 79410 Mailing: Box 45095 | Lubbock, TX 79409-5095 (806) 742-7227 | elearning@ttu.edu | eLearning.ttu.edu Like us on Facebook