Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Department of Biostatistics Home About Academics Research People News Site Navigation Home Statistics Seminars Series Seminar Archive About Job Postings Our Partners Academics Doctoral Program Ph.D. FAQs Master's Program Sc.M. Degree 5th Year (A.M.)/OGE NextGen Scholars Program in Biostatistics Welcome from the chair Master's FAQs Undergraduate Concentration Career Information Series Resources Dissertation Spotlight Courses Introductory Biostatistics Courses Research People Administration Faculty Students Current Doctoral Students Current Master’s Students Alumni News News Item Submission Congratulations to Professor Alice Paul for receiving the 2022 Dean's Award for Excellence in Classroom Teaching! Apr 15, 2022 Each year the Brown University School of Public Health honors outstanding faculty members for excellence in teaching, mentoring, research collaboration, and community engagement. The excellence in teaching award honors outstanding contributions in teaching of undergraduate and graduate students in the School of Public Health. The award recognizes faculty leaders who demonstrate a commitment to excellence in teaching that goes above and beyond the usual call of duty. Paul teaches several large, required biostatistics courses, including Practical Data Analysis, R Programming, Big Data, and Data Science, to diverse students including first-year PhD Students, Master’s students, undergraduate statistics concentrators, and data science students. Her students appreciate her teaching methods, including flipped classrooms, group discussions, innovative final projects and fun topics (like solving murder mysteries involving data). Paul has implemented many of the techniques she learned as a Sheridan Scholar and puts in considerable work into staying abreast of the latest teaching techniques. Students praise her accessibility, respectful teaching philosophy, challenging homework assignments, and her encouragement. A course TA said, “As her TA, I saw that she was dedicated to making the course great. She is knowledgeable, engaging, and has strong communication skills. She implemented a lot of ideas to motivate and interest students.” A faculty colleague said of Paul, "Alice makes time for students outside of office hours and is always willing to spend extra time with students struggling with material. Students recognize that she cares about their learning and mastery of the subject, and they also appreciate the connections she makes between the class material and its application to real world problems and careers." Paul will be recognized at the University Awards Ceremony taking place in May. To read more about the other winners, click here. Department of Biostatistics Department of Biostatistics Brown University Box G-S121-7 121 S Main St, 7th Floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-9831 Fax: 401-863-9182 Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top