Skip to main content Search Global dropdown menu Research Support Subject Librarians Reach out to a librarian for specialized help in a discipline. Library Catalog Find books, audio and video, music scores, maps and more. Research Guides Use the best resources we have, picked by librarians. Databases There's a wealth of information to be found through our database subscriptions. Collections Print and digital collections serve as extensions of our teaching and research facilities. Research ServicesWe're available throughout all stages of your research. Quick Links Library Search JSTOR PubMed Make an Appointment Newspapers Journals Collections Program Borrow & Renew Library Catalog Find books, audio and video, music scores, maps and more in the catalog. Borrowing & Requesting Learn how to borrow materials at Dartmouth and from other libraries via BorrowDirect or DartDoc. Tech Loans We've got everything from chargers to a professional portable recording studio. Alumni Access and Resources How to access resources, on and off-campus. Media Discover an extensive range of movies, television series, documentaries, educational programs, audio and more. Off-Campus Access Students, staff, and faculty can access most of our electronic resources off-campus. Quick Links BorrowDirect DartDoc Course Reserves for Faculty Course Reserves for Students Libraries & Spaces Study and Meeting Spaces Book a meeting room for a group or sign up to use a private study room. Hours and Locations Our hours, holiday closings, street addresses and contact information. Baker-Berry Library Our main library houses the humanities and social sciences collections. Biomedical Libraries The Dana and Matthews-Fuller libraries support the disciplines of health and life sciences. Evans Map Room Houses thousands of sheet maps, mapping software, atlases, globes & more. Feldberg Business & Engineering Library Offers support for the Tuck School of Business & Thayer School of Engineering. Jones Media Center Provides facilities & collections for researching, viewing & producing media. Rauner Special Collections Library Includes rare books, manuscripts & more. Sherman Art Library Supports the departments of Art History, Studio Art, as well as the Hood Museum of Art. About Us Accessibility Events Latest News Privacy Policy Dean's Council for Equiy and Inclusion Strategic Objectives Visiting & Exhibits Help Library Search Learn about signing into your account, search options and tips, getting to resources and working with citations. Research Support We're committed to partnering with you to enhance and showcase your research. Publishing Support We provide consultation focusing on opportunities in digital publishing and scholarship. Subject Librarians We have a subject librarian for your major or course who wants to help! Teaching Support Working together with faculty, we can help design and implement effective research experiences for students. Workshops & Events We offer a variety of events to assist you in developing skills ranging from research to programming. Quick Links Contact Us FAQs Off-Campus Access Send Us Feedback Staff Directory Login Students, Faculty & Staff DHMC & Guests Alumni BorrowDirect DartDoc Toggle navigation Search Global dropdown menu Library Exhibits Baker-Berry Library Current Exhibits Past Exhibits Dartmouth Authors Science Exhibits Case Biomedical Libraries Rauner Library Sherman Library Digital Exhibits Produced by Library Staff Dartmouth Student Course Exhibits Curators' Guide Berry South Guidelines (pdf) Permanent Installations Orozco Murals Sculptures Theodor Seuss Geisel Room Research Support Borrow & Renew Libraries & Spaces Help Login Students, Faculty & Staff DHMC & Guests Alumni BorrowDirect DartDoc Baker-Berry Current Exhibits Blacks @ Dartmouth, 1828 to 1960 - Celebrating a Legacy on the 50th Anniversary of the Black Alumni of Dartmouth Association In the nineteenth century, forty Black men entered Dartmouth to gain a classical education and to learn the practice of medicine. Another 140 followed in the first half of the twentieth century. In their stories, we find early examples of Black Americans’ passion for education. Dartmouth encouraged their aspirations four decades ahead of the other colleges later known as the Ivy League. To credit Dartmouth with having “thrown open its doors to the colored man,” as was once said, would be generous given the small numbers who were able to breach racial barriers and century-long Jim Crow norms. But in its isolation and self-governance, Dartmouth did establish a notable legacy of educating America’s first Black collegians. In this exhibit, we present highlights of their story. A fuller version is available on a companion website. Be sure to visit the companion exhibition, Finding Community: The Life of Edward Mitchell 1828 in Rauner Special Collections Library's Class of 1965 Galleries from April 8, 2022, until June 17, 2022. This exhibit was sponsored by the Class of 1968 and curated by Forrester “Woody” Lee ’68, with assistance from John Pfeiffer ’68, Christian Dawkins ’22, and Eileen Cave ’76. The project was overseen by Jay Satterfield, Head of Special Collections and Laura Barret, Head of Teaching and Learning, with input from Professors Deborah King and Monica Ndounou, and the Black Alumni of Dartmouth Association. Generous donations were received from Natalie Boll and Steve Casey. Exhibit design by Dennis Grady. Baker-Berry Library, Reiss Hall, April 25 – August 16, 2022 File Under Easy Listening file under easy listening is an exhibit in which eighteen courageous Dartmouth Library staff reveal their musical preferences and recommend music you can check out from the Jones Media Center collection. With contributions from Daniel Abosso, Laura Barrett, Wes Benash, Laura Braunstein, Jentry Campbell, Wendel Cox, Lizzie Curran, John DeSantis, Dennis Grady, Caro Langenbucher, Lora Leligdon, Este Pope, Jay Satterfield, Sarah Smith, Barbara Sterling, Penny Stevenson, Sarah Thompson, and Eric Ticehurst. Curated and designed by Dennis Grady. Baker-Berry Library, Berry Main Street, May 2 – June 3, 2022 Poster image: “The noise instrument laboratory in Milan, Luigi Russolo on the left, Ugo Piatti on the right.” From Luigi Russolo, L’Arte dei Rumori. Milan, Edizioni Futuriste Di “Poesia,” 1916. Department or section navigation Library Exhibits Baker-Berry Library Current Exhibits Past Exhibits Dartmouth Authors Science Exhibits Case Biomedical Libraries Rauner Library Sherman Library Digital Exhibits Produced by Library Staff Dartmouth Student Course Exhibits Curators' Guide Berry South Guidelines (pdf) Permanent Installations Orozco Murals Sculptures Theodor Seuss Geisel Room Dartmouth Library Baker-Berry Library Book Arts Workshop Evans Map Room Jones Media Center Biomedical Libraries Feldberg Business & Engineering Library Rauner Special Collections Library Records Management Sherman Art Library About Us Strategic Objectives Staff & Departments Subject Librarians Faculty Services Alumni Services Visiting & History Accessibility Library Catalog Careers Friends of the Library More About Us Contact Us 25 North Main Street Hanover, NH, USA 03755 Phone: 603-646-2567 Contact Us Give Us Feedback Connect with Us Facebook Instagram YouTube Footer copyright Dartmouth Copyright © 2020 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy Last Updated: 5/3/22