Skip to main content Boise State News Home Search Menu Boise Global Navigation Apply Visit Give Menu Ready to take the next step? Plan your virtual visit. Search Search All Boise State Boise State News Only Boise State News Podcasts Contact Us More section menu items Boise State News News Share This Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Share through Email News for the Campus Community Tod Colegrove is the new dean of the Albertsons Library May 20, 2022 Boise State University has named Dr. Tod Colegrove as the new dean of the Albertsons Library. “After meeting an impressive group of candidates with a range of different talents, I was delighted to see Tod Colegrove chosen by his colleagues and our provost,” said Dr. Marlene Tromp, Boise State president. “His experience in library innovation and in advocating for the value of libraries and their critical work, both locally and at a state level, will be an incredible asset to the university going forward. I look forward to seeing how our library faculty and staff will work with Dr. Colegrove to evolve Albertsons library and its services to prepare us for the bright future of Boise State, its faculty, and its students.” Colegrove is currently executive director of the Carson City Public Library system, and former Nevada state librarian and administrator of the Nevada State Library, Archives, and Public Records division. “I am thrilled to be joining Boise State, one of the most innovative universities in the country. I look forward to being part of the team that helps take the University to the next level,” Colegrove said. “The Albertsons Library can be a force multiplier to everything we do at the university. Libraries as vibrant hubs of learning and discovery can play a key role in support of innovation and collaboration across disciplines.” Colegrove holds a master of library and information science degree, with concentration in competitive intelligence and knowledge management from Drexel University, as well as doctorate and master of science degrees in physics. He has fourteen years of entrepreneurial experience in high-tech private industry and taught physics and astronomy courses at the University of Nevada, Reno for a number of years before joining that campus’s DeLaMare Science and Engineering Library, leading the team which helped advance the library to international recognition. “I am excited to have Dr. Colegrove join our institution. Dr. Colegrove’s unique background and vision will be a tremendous asset as Boise State University advances its teaching, research and service mission,” Provost John Buckwalter said. “I would also like to express my sincere thanks to Ms. Michelle Armstrong for her service and steady leadership as interim dean.” Michelle Armstrong has served as interim dean of the Albertsons Library since August 2021. Colegrove is a recognized thought leader in libraries and his work is acclaimed internationally, with invitations ranging from TEDx presentations and congressional panels in Washington, DC, to service abroad that has included work with the International Baccalaureate program in The Hague, service under the U.S. Speaker Program of the Department of State with libraries across Belarus, and work with the top colleges and libraries in China. Working at the intersection of libraries, innovation, entrepreneurship and design, Colegrove has a record of successful innovation and implementation of leading-edge technology. His libraries have achieved notable firsts that include recognition as the first academic library in the United States to offer 3D printing and scanning services, being named one of the Most Interesting Makerspaces in America, and pioneering the rollout of virtual reality equipment in libraries to support career exploration and workforce development. Share This Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Share through Email Newer Posts Older Posts Office of Communications and Marketing communications@boisestate.edu (208) 426-1577 Alumni and Friends Center Secondary Navigation myBoiseState Safety, Security and Support Career Opportunities Boise State Public Radio Albertsons Library Transportation and Parking Partner with Us Morrison Center Alumni Bronco Shop and Bookstore University Administration ExtraMile Arena Broncos Logo Athletics Follow us on Facebook Follow us on Instagram Follow us on Twitter Follow us on Youtube Accessibility Privacy Classroom Concerns Policies Contact Boise State © 2022 All Rights Reserved. Boise State University