Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts UC celebrates first CTAP graduates Newly credentialed graduate, Ronald Lewis, offered co-op opportunity By Susan Ramsay Email SusanEmail Susan 513 556 9197 January 28, 2022 Share on facebook Share on Twitter Pin Story Print Story Like The University of Cincinnati's first cohort for the Cincinnati Talent Acceleration Program graduated in December in an uplifting ceremony in the Nippert Stadium West Pavillion. Graduates received their certificates of completion after fifteen immersive weeks of training in IT combined with career education and academic skills training necessary for college and entrance to the workforce. The program, which goes by CTAP, is providing nontraditional students with training in tech and a path to higher education. CTAP is a 15-week adult education and training program that’s tailored for unemployed and underemployed workers who want to continue their education while also learning practical tech skills. Student Ronald Lewis was the first to receive his certification in CompTIA A+ and was hired by assistant professor adjunct Tonkia Bridges to support the continuing CTAP program. Lewis described the accelerated program as one in which even the challenges are a blessing in disguise because they reveal new opportunities for careers in tech. “There’s so many variations — you can go into working for a help desk, you can go into security management, you can go on to an array of different things. There’s a big umbrella of fields,” he said. The next CTAP cohort is now in full swing at UC's 1819 Innovation Hub and a virtual spring session begins soon. For more information on the program, please visit the website Cincinnati Talent Acceleration Program. Featured photo at top: UC student Ronald Lewis was among UC's first CTAP graduates. Photo/Provided Tags Student Experience Experience-based Learning Continuing Education Related Stories Local 12 News: ‘It’s changing my life’: Ten students awarded... May 30, 2022 Benya Coleman, a recent graduate of Hughes STEM High School, spoke with Local 12 News reporter Jenna Cisneros about her award of the Marian Spencer Scholarship to attend the University of Cincinnati this fall. Ohio recognizes UC's efforts to welcome veterans May 27, 2022 The University of Cincinnati this week was among the first universities to be recognized by Ohio Gov. Mike DeWine for its efforts to support students with military backgrounds. Who wants to go for a ride? May 27, 2022 When volunteers at the nonprofit 4 Paws for Ability in Xenia, Ohio, are looking for enrichment experiences for their puppies, they turn to a toy that has entertained millions of toddlers around the world. With sales of 500,000 per year, Little Tikes’ Cozy Coupe is considered the best-selling car in America. And it was the 1979 creation of a former University of Cincinnati industrial design student Jim Mariol. Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top