Alert By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University Skip to Content Toggle menu Search the University Search the University Game Changers Tomorrow's Leaders Real-World Experience Opportunities for All Orange Community Game Changers Tomorrow's Leaders Real-World Experience Opportunities for All Orange Community Home Where Game Changers Rise Creating Opportunities for All Creating Opportunities for All We believe that every student should have the resources to explore, discover and realize their full potential. of InclusiveU graduates found jobs in 2019, reflecting the impact of a true campus experience for students with intellectual and developmental disabilities. of Syracuse University students received some form of financial support totaling more than $414 million in 2019-20. new, interdisciplinary areas of study range from social justice to artificial intelligence and autonomous systems to quantum information science. Embracing Inclusivity For more than 30 years, the Our Time Has Come Scholarship program has honored outstanding Black and Latino students like Taylor John ’22 for their academic achievements. To date, more than 1,300 scholarships have been awarded. The Newhouse School of Public Communications is a leader in placing women in the broadcast booth, launching the first female-forward ACC Network Extra broadcast during the 2019-20 season. Our Center for Teaching and Learning Excellence guides faculty in teaching methods that facilitate academic achievement for all students by creating a classroom climate where students feel safe, understood and connected. Expanding Access Our Office of Undergraduate Research and Creative Engagement awards grants that foster and support diverse undergraduate participation in faculty-guided scholarly research and creative inquiry. Post-traditional students like Jackieleen Verdejo find a rich array of online and part-time programs that empower them to fulfill their goals with the flexibility to achieve a healthy work-life balance. Make a Difference Developing the Leaders of Tomorrow Discover Our Impact Providing Real-World Experience Explore Immersive Experiences Connecting a Proud Community Get to Know Our Network PopularToggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-ZToggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search ContactToggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift LoginToggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Like Syracuse on Facebook Follow Syracuse on Twitter Subscribe to Syracuse on YouTube Follow Syracuse on Instagram © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy