Skip To Top Navigation Skip To Main Content Skip To Footer search Loading... Careers Ask-HR Current Employees Search Menu Clemson Main Site Index Events Calendar Campus Map CU Safety Phonebook Careers AskHR Current Employees HR Self Service Kronos Login COVID-19 Resources Employee Assistance Program Benefits and Well-being Tigers at Work Payroll Training and Development Performance Management Staff and Faculty Relations Transition and Separation International Employment Talent Acquisition Employment Verification HR Resource Library HR Policies and Procedures HR Service Teams Clemson Main Site Index Events Calendar Campus Map CU Safety Phonebook Clemson Home page HR Home Student Workers Student Worker Resources Kronos Information Time Capture System Instructions UPIC ClemsonJobLink Center for Career and Professional Development Student Health Insurance Plan (SHIP) International Employee Hiring Instructions Student Workers Clemson University offers employment opportunities for eligible undergraduate and graduate students through hourly part-time jobs, assistantships and the University Professional Internship and Co-op (UPIC) Programs. The Center for Career and Professional Development offers a variety of services to help students identify job and internship opportunities on and off campus. International Students International students must maintain satisfactory academic progress and have an F-1 visa, J-1 visa or Employment Authorization Document (EAD Card, I-94 or DHS Approval Notice I-797A) to be eligible for on-campus employment. On-campus employment is secondary to the pursuit of a degree at Clemson University, therefore, international students must maintain full-time enrollment to be employed on campus. To work off campus, international students must obtain work authorization (OPT, CPT, EAD, Academic Training) through the sponsor institution (Clemson University) and/or DHS/USCIS. Contact International Services at is@clemson.edu for more information. Work Hour Limitations All student workers at Clemson University are subject to work hour limitations. Graduate and undergraduate student workers are limited to a cumulative total of 28 paid service hours per week. Federal law limits international student workers on F-1 and J-1 visas to a maximum of 20 cumulative (all paid service hours + volunteer hours) working hours per week while classes are in session. During holidays and summer, international students may work up to 28 hours per week. The dates of undergraduate and graduate international student worker work periods are located on the International Student Work Calendar. Students may occupy multiple jobs with the University provided that the cumulative total of working hours does not exceed the applicable (28/20) cap per week and the secondary hiring department has received approval from the primary hiring department prior to assigning work. It is the shared responsibility of the hiring department(s) and the student workers to ensure that their cumulative working hours are accurately reported and do not exceed the applicable cap (28/20). Exceeding the hourly cap or inaccurately reporting hours may result in disciplinary action, up to and including termination, for the student worker and/or the student worker’s supervisor. Employment Options Part-Time Student Employment (Undergraduate and Graduate Students) Clemson University offers part-time employment opportunities for eligible undergraduate and graduate students. Part-Time Employment Requirements: Students must be enrolled as a full-time or part-time student. Students must maintain a cumulative GPA of 2.0. Students must abide by the student work hour limitations. Students must abide by the student worker policies. Undergraduate Student Workers Policy Graduate Student Workers Policy Ready to Apply? Students looking for part-time on-campus jobs can locate available positions at ClemsonJobLink and through the Center for Career and Professional Development located on the third floor of the Hendrix Student Center. UPIC (Undergraduate Students) The University Professional Internship and Co-op (UPIC) program offers over 900 paid internship positions annually, where undergraduate students work alongside Clemson University faculty and staff while partaking in internships/Co-ops directly related to their major or field of interest. All UPIC internships are documented on student transcripts as INT and are only available to undergraduate students. UPIC Requirements: Students must have completed at least one full semester at Clemson. Students must register for an INT course during the registration period. Part-time interns (working 12-15 hours/week) must be enrolled full-time (12+ credit hours) during both fall and spring semesters while obtaining a minimum cumulative GPA of 2.0 throughout the duration of internship. Full-time interns (working 28 hours/week) are NOT required to be enrolled full-time (12+ credit hours), but they must maintain a minimum cumulative GPA of 2.0 and be enrolled in the INT course for their specific internship. Ready to Apply? Students interested in applying to UPIC internship/Co-op positions or hourly on-campus/off-campus jobs can locate current job openings through ClemsonJobLink. UPIC opportunities are typically posted in mid-October (spring internships) and mid-March (summer and fall internships). Undergraduate Resident Assistants Undergraduate students at Clemson University have the opportunity to serve students in residential communities by functioning as leaders, role models, critical thinkers, peer educators and community builders. Undergraduate Resident Assistant Requirements: Students must be enrolled full-time (12+ credit hours) at the time of application and start of employment. Students must maintain satisfactory academic progress. Students must take EDSA 3900: Student Development, Leadership, and Counseling for the University Paraprofessional and earn a C or better as a pre-service requirement of employment. In addition to recording paid service hours, undergraduate resident assistants must also record their time off through the Time Capture System every week. For more information on the importance of recording working hours and instructions, please review the Undergraduate Student Workers Policy. For more information on undergraduate resident assistants, please visit the RA homepage. Ready to Apply? Undergraduate students interested in applying to be a resident assistant should visit the RA homepage. Graduate Assistantships Students pursuing a graduate degree at Clemson University have the opportunity to participate in assistantship positions (PDF) pertaining to their field of study. Students can work a 9-month appointment (academic year) or a 12-month appointment (annual year). Graduate Assistantship Requirements: Graduate assistants must maintain full-time enrollment (9 graduate credit hours during each fall and spring semester). Students must not be employed in full-time positions inside or outside the University. In addition to recording paid service hours, graduate assistants must also record their time off through the Time Capture System every week. For more information on the importance of recording working hours and instructions, please review the Graduate Student Workers Policy. For information on graduate assistantship eligibility for international students, please visit the International Services webpage. For more information on graduate student employment, please reference the Graduate School Policies and Procedures Handbook. Ready to Apply? Graduate students interested in applying for an assistantship should make direct contact with the department, college, or unit of interest for specific requirements and application deadlines. Federal Work-Study (Undergraduate and Graduate Students) The Federal Work-Study (FWS) program provides jobs for undergraduate and graduate students who have established financial need through the submission of the FAFSA. FWS assistance will be awarded first to those with the greatest amount of financial need if demand exceeds available funds. FWS Requirements: Students must be enrolled full-time (9 graduate credit hours/12+ undergraduate credit hours) for each fall and spring semester. Students must maintain satisfactory academic progress. Students who wish to continue as FWS employees must reapply annually. Ready to Apply? Students interested in applying to the FWS program can locate current job listings through Clemson’s Federal Work Study Job Board. To receive priority consideration, the federal processor must receive the student’s FAFSA by January 2 for freshmen and April 1 for upperclassmen and graduate students. For information on pay, please visit Clemson’s Student Employment and Financial Aid webpage. New Student Worker Forms I-9 Form All new employees must complete an I-9 Form and provide acceptable identification and documentation such as a valid U.S. passport or an official copy of a birth certificate and photo ID to verify their identity and authorization to work in the United States. An original Social Security Card is also required for all employees. International students complete the I-9 Form during the hiring approval process by the International Employment Unit. Visit the International Employee Hiring Instructions for more information. Individuals who have previously submitted an I-9 Form to Clemson University (i.e., rehires) are not required to submit a new I-9 Form when continuing their position or beginning a new one at Clemson University if there has been no break in service. For more information on the I-9 Form, visit the I-9 Employment Eligibility Verification webpage. Additional information on completing the I-9 will be provided by your department. Direct Deposit All new student workers must enroll in direct deposit through Employee Self Service. For instructions on setting up direct deposit information and how to navigate Employee Self Service, visit the Payroll Direct Deposit webpage. It is the employee’s responsibility to accurately add their account information and maintain their accounts (edits, changes, deletes). Employees may use their Employee Self Service portal to locate pay stubs and W-2 forms. Form W-4 New student workers must complete a W-4 form for tax purposes. Instructions on completing the W-4 Form can be found on the W-4 Link & Instructions webpage. International students complete the W-4 forms during the hiring approval process through the International Employment Unit. Visit the International Employee Hiring Instructions for more information. Form W-2 and IRS Form 1095-C New student workers will not complete the W-2 form or IRS Form 1095-C upon hiring; instead, these forms will be provided at the end of the working year for tax purposes. However, new student employees should access the Tax Documents tab in their Employee Self Service portal upon hiring to consent to later receive these forms electronically. Current and Former Student Worker Forms Forms for Current and Former Student Workers Form W-2 Information Updating Your Information IRS Form 1095-C Student Worker FAQs Can I hold multiple jobs with the University? Students may occupy multiple jobs with the University provided that the cumulative total of working hours does not exceed the applicable (28/20) cap per week and the secondary hiring department has received approval from the primary hiring department prior to assigning work. How many hours are student workers permitted to work per week? Graduate and undergraduate students are limited to a cumulative total of 28 working hours per week. Undergraduate and graduate international student workers on F-1 and J-1 visas may work a maximum of 20 hours per week while classes are in session. During holidays and summer, international students may work up to 28 hours per week. How do I record my working hours and/or time off? Graduate assistants and resident assistants must record their hours worked and time off through the Time Capture System every week. Other student workers should meet with their supervisor to determine the best way to record their working hours and/or time off. How will I be paid? Student workers are paid through direct deposit. For instructions on setting up direct deposit, visit the Payroll Direct Deposit webpage. As a student employee with more than one job, will I get separate W-2s? No, W-2s are issued as one document from one employer, so all jobs for that employer are on one form. Resources for Hiring Managers and Supervisors Undergraduate Student Workers Policy Graduate Student Workers Policy UPIC Information for Departments and Mentors ClemsonJobLink for Employers New Supervisor Orientation Student Worker Resources Kronos Information Time Capture System Instructions UPIC ClemsonJobLink Center for Career and Professional Development Student Health Insurance Plan (SHIP) International Employee Hiring Instructions CLEMSON HR Administrative Services Building 108 Perimeter Road Clemson, SC 29634-5337 864.656.2000 RESOURCES Careers Benefits Forms Training Security and Safety Report Quick Links Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Contact HR Clemson, SC Ask-HR Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Copyright © Clemson University. All rights reserved. Clemson University is an AA/EEO employer. Scroll To Top