UHCoAD Newsroom  - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Gerald D. Hines College of Architecture and Design Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Gerald D. Hines College of Architecture and Design About About Gerald D. Hines College Culture Academic Programs Accreditation Administration and Staff Faculty & Staff Directory College Committees, Representatives, & Task Forces Leadership Council Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion DEI Report 2020 DEI Action Task Force Events and Statements UH DEI Website Building Better Communities Faculty and Staff Information Job Opportunities Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Bachelor of Architecture Bachelor of Science in Interior Architecture Bachelor of Science in Industrial Design Bachelor of Science in Environmental Design Minors Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Programs Master of Architecture (MARCH +3) Master of Architecture (MARCH +2) Master of Arts in Architectural Studies [MAAS] Master of Science in Architecture Master of Science in Industrial Design Graduate Catalog STEM Designated Programs Future Students Undergraduate Studies Information Sessions Learn More Undergraduate Admissions Undergraduate Orientation Helpful Links Graduate Studies Domestic Graduate Admissions International Graduate Admission Prospective Graduate Student FAQs Current Students Student Services and Resources CoAD Student Services Office Student Life and Leadership Academic Resources Student Grievance Policy Readmission Procedures for the College of Architecture and Design Undergraduate Student FAQs Graduate Student FAQs Student Organizations Career & Internship Resources Career Fair Students Employers Alumni Financial Resources Texas Tuition Rebate UH in 4 Scholarships and Financial Aid Graduation UHCOAD ConneXion Special Programs Community Design Resource Center (CDRC) Design/Build Studios DesignLAB International Programs Design Experience Summer Programs Student Resources Computer Lab Jenkins Architecture, Design, and Art Library Keeland Design Laboratory Materials Research Collaborative (MRC) Hines Stream Channel Zoom Background Download Zone Apply Now Undergraduate Graduate Alumni Board Members Alumni Spotlights Connect With Us CoogsConnect Alumni Awards 2022 Awards Information 2021 Award Recipients 2020 Award Recipients Resources News & Events Latest News Events Calendar Lecture Series Faculty Experts Photo Gallery Video Gallery Marketing & Communications Team Giving Make a Gift Strategic Priorities Construction Robotics and Fabrication Technology Lab Sally Walsh Endowed Professorship Bill Kendall Memorial Endowed Professorship Contact Us Driving Directions News & Events Page contents: News Release Archive Latest News News Archive Alumni Spotlight: Shaya Attaei '15 "Learning to develop my visions and making them into a reality is something I am thankful to the College for teaching me," says Shaya Attaei. Read on to see why the CEO of ARIA Signs & Design + Architectural Products knows the definition of hard work after earning two degrees from the Hines College, and how the lessons he learned helped him build his business from the ground up. Alumni Spotlight: Ledia Osmani Valdez '06 "My education taught me to look at a project holistically, from the very initial schematic stage and through construction, to make sure the end-product is successful for all parties involved." - Ledia Osmani Valdez '06 gives insight into her career, and how the Hines College made her the architect she is today. Architecture Students Win AIA Fort Worth Merit Award for "Homecoming" Recognized project highlights late congressman John Lewis and Civil Right Movement while fostering the notion of “grounding” and communal integration. Alumni Spotlight: Sebastian Ramos '10 "I fell in love with the idea of shaping the lives of so many people positively through my creations." Currently working at the Naval Facilities Engineering Command (NAVFAC) - Department of the Navy, Alumnus Sebastian Ramos '10 looks back on this time at the Hines College and how it has shaped his outlook and career. Hines Professor Elected to the Class of 2022 NAI Senior Members Associate Professor Jeff Feng’s success in the commercialization and production of impactful technologies recognized by the National Academy of Inventors (NAI). Alumni Spotlight: Crystal Y. Granger '04 “We all have biases. However, those biases can render an injustice if not examined through an objective multi-perspective lens.” Alumna Crystal Granger shares how she expanded upon her experience to strengthen the integrity of design. Kirksey and Gensler Executives Join College Leadership Council Benito Guerrier, AIA ’91 and Dean Strombom, FAIA ’80 bring experience as alumni and industry leaders to advisory board Alumna Appointed to the Houston National Organization of Minority Architects Advisory Board The Houston National Organization of Minority Architects (HNOMA) recently appointed Hines College Alumna Maria Gonzalez ‘09 as Treasurer on the Advisory Board. Professor M. Rodriguez Publishes New Book in Spain Hines College Professor highlights the influence of Charlotte Perriand and Kazuyo Sejima on architecture and the transnational connections between Japan and France in the 1920s and 1980s. Hines College and Valenti School of Communication Join to Develop Cutting-edge Technology Collaboration brings about the new AutoBox Mobile Digital Display, a portable venue for the digital screening of students' work with the ability to be deployed both inside and outside. Alumni Spotlight: Dr. Bernardo Pohl '97 "My proudest moments are watching my students become star teachers on their merit, and witnessing how they make a difference in their student’s life." Hines College alumnus Dr. Bernardo Pohl '97 shares how his undergraduate architecture experience prepared him for an impactful career in education. AIRSCAPES #1 Reimagines Iconic Johnson and Burgee Architecture Building Hines College debuts 380,000 cubic feet floating structure at 75th anniversary gala challenging values of the past by through the ecology of air. Alumni Spotlight: Kristen Griffiths '08 "Perhaps the most valuable lesson I learned was to detach myself emotionally from my designs/ideas. The ability to listen to and accept criticism without taking it personally is a skill serving me well in many facets of life." Alumna Kristen Griffiths '08 shares her journey after graduation and starting her own company. Hines College Project Selected for Green New Deal Superstudio UH students highlighted in curated project showcase forming policy by translating the core goals of decarbonization, justice, and jobs into place-specific design and projects. Habitat Project Receives Texas APA Resilience Award Professor Bruce Race's habitat project demonstrates the power of design thinking through partnership with Houston Habitat for Humanity. Hines College Celebrates Historic 75th Anniversary Alumni, industry partners, and friends gathered on October 9th for an extraordinary gala event remembering the late Gerald D. Hines and honoring the Hines Family. Industrial Design Professor Named 2021 IDSA Young Educator Professor George Chow awarded for his impact on industrial design education Jamie Newcomb ‘17 “Arm yourself with as much information as possible and then design.” Alumna Jamie Newcomb ’17 discusses how she grew as a designer at the Hines College and her work at Kirksey Architecture. Architecture Students Honored with AIA Houston Conceptual Design Award UH students awarded for their social justice-focused project re-envisioning The National Memorial Peace and Justice in Montgomery, Alabama. Developing Strategies to Increase Access to Electric Vehicles A pilot program, led by UH to increase access to electric vehicles, targets ownership in low-income communities in Houston and brings together METRO, commercial EV charging companies, rideshare partners, and the community. Architecture Student Elected to NAAB Board of Directors Hines College Student Nyx Valerdy chosen to represent AIAS and architecture students nationally for two-year term on influential board. Alumni Spotlight: Margaret Wallace Brown '83 “We all believed we could change the world with architecture. Years later, I remain convinced just how right we were.” Alumna Margaret Wallace Brown ’83 reflects on her time at the Hines College and how it prepared her for her dream job at the City of Houston. College Network Jumpstarts Alumnus’ Career in California Hines Leadership Council connects alumnus Josh Probst to top product design firm and engineering development company Alumni Spotlight: Oswald Estrada ’20 “Remember, you can always reach your goal no matter what design field you aim to pursue. Every completed project, learned skill, and internship counts towards making it a reality.” Alumnus Oswald Estrada ’20 speaks to the valuable lessons he gained during his time at the Hines College of Architecture and Design. History, Theory, and Criticism Program Grows with New Faculty New Tenure-Track HistorianDeepa Ramaswamy and Emerging Scholar Fellow Tania Gutiérrez-Monroy join the Hines College this August, expanding the College’s HTC program. Mapping Air Pollution Learn how The University of Houston is tracking the air quality in Houston. Alumni Spotlight: Ricardo Martinez ’01 “While I learned many lessons during my time at the College, the most valuable skills that have been critical to my success in college, career, and personal life have been critical thinking and resourcefulness.” Alumnus Ricardo Martinez ’01 reflects on his UH education’s impact and the decision to pursue his firm, Martinez Architects. Industrial Design Program Bids Farewell to EunSook Kwon As Kwon prepares to begin a new position at the Georgia Institute of Technology, the Hines College community takes a look back on her impact as the program's visionary and leader. Industrial Design Student Awarded a Summer Undergrad Research Fellowship Hines’ student’s Summer Undergrad Research Fellowship focuses on recycling plastic Hines College Mourns Passing of Joe Mashburn ’78 The former dean served at the College from August 1998 to December 2009 and established its industrial design program and the Keeland Design Laboratory. Alumni Spotlight: UltraBarrio Hines College alumni and professors Amna Ansari '03 and Marcus Martinez '04 speak to what sparked their interests in exploring design, the start of their careers, and ultimately creating their studio UltraBarrio. Hines College Professor Nora Laos, Ph.D. Retires After 26 Years Laos’ retirement marks an end to an era of architectural history at UH. Hines College Honors AAPI Heritage Month Highlighting the importance of Asian American and Pacific Islander (AAPI) within the College and design community. Black Hair Inspires Architecture Embodying Black Identity Professor Sheryl Tucker de Vazquez receives Graham Foundation grant to explore how Black hair natural texture and skills translate to architecture through computational methods. Alumni Spotlight: Very Handsome Studio Interior Architecture alumni Vy Truong ’17 and Han Dang ’18 share how their Hines College experience brought them together and what inspired them to start their own design firm – Very Handsome Studio. Super Jury Designs and Winners Top designs from graduating Architecture students recognized in annual Super Jury Hines' Students Top 4 Finalist in ULI Hines Competition Multidisciplinary team's EAVIRO District Development Plan envisions state-of-the-art baseball stadium as economic driver. Alumni Spotlight: Aubrey “Brey” Tucker ’07 “There is nothing easy about architecture or design – recognize and love that.” Alumnus Aubrey “Brey” Tucker ’07, Senior Industry Manager of Project Delivery at Autodesk, shares his experience at the Hines College and in his professional career. Professor Kubo Receives 2021 SAH Exhibition Catalogue Award “Imagining the Modern: Architecture and Urbanism of the Pittsburgh Renaissance” recognized by the Society of Architectural Historians. Industrial Design Student Earns First Place Award in Bienenstock Competition Born from Professor Jeff Feng and Aaron McEuen’s studio assignment to design a chair interconnecting with students’ personal interests, this design creates a unique blend of tradition and modernity. Hines College Alumni Come Together for New Scholarship “I have always been mindful of where I have been, what I have accomplished, and where I plan to go. Now I want to shift my focus to what I leave behind.” – Franco Albarran ‘99 Kubo Receives Houston Endowment Directed Program Grant Architecture history, theory, and criticism professor proposes research exploring temporal phenomena in architecture and urbanism. Alumni Spotlight: Chudi Abajue ‘10 "I value when I can participate in projects positively affecting communities, such as working on a new women's shelter or renovating a school in a lower-income neighborhood." Check out this month's spotlight with alumnus Chudi Abajue '10 of IBI Group Texas. Architecture Students Win AIA Fort Worth Merit Award for "Lewis Center" Born from Professor Emily Moore's studio assignment to design a social justice center that would revitalize a community, this project highlights the late congressman John Lewis and Civil Rights Movement. February 22nd Roundtable Turns Spotlight to Sally Walsh Hines College launches initiative exploring Walsh’s impact on Houston modernism. The roundtable event features Alan Bruton, Stephen Fox, Lois Farfel Stark, and many others who worked with and knew Sally Walsh. Discover more and register. Alumni Spotlight: Andre Pierre DeJean ‘05 "I firmly believe the best modern architecture out there still honors classical proportions, even when splitting with tradition." Learn more about DeJean in this month's alumni spotlight. Interior Architecture Professor Honored with International Design Awards Bruton’s social engagement project highlights egalitarian social interaction. Kyropoulou Receives New Faculty Research Award Architecture design and environmental systems professor proposes research highlighting the parametric design of outdoor adaptive classroom space. Hines Alumni Honored at the 7th Annual Cougar 100 This year’s virtual event recognized the successes of UH alumni owned business, and also teased the launch of UH’s new alumni and student engagement platform CoogsConnect. Hines College In The News Houston Public Media Bail bond reform measures fail, and electric vehicles in Houston  ABC13 Texas Company Leading 3D Home Printing Innovation  Houston Public Media New study looks at how to make electric vehicles more accessible in Houston ABC 13 Building collapses are rare, but there are warning signs to look for KPRC Channel 2 Structural engineer says no cause for high-rise dwellers to panic following Florida building collapse Houston Matters University of Houston structural engineer Joe Colaco discusses how buildings are inspected for their structural soundness Bisnow Houston Is Growing Without A Comprehensive Road Map   E-Architect Winners of the ACSA and Buell Center 2021 Course Development Prize Houston Press Architects Expects Big Design Shifts Thanks to COVID-19 Texas Architect Learning in the Time of Coronavirus Rice Design Alliance Gerald D. Hines, 1925–2020 CoStar News Hines' Architectural Legacy to Live On in New Robotics Research Lab Faculty Experts Faculty Expert List Vera Adams World Cities, Development, Urban Planning, Affordable and Sustainable Housing, Healthy Communities, City Design and Cultural Impact Gail Peter Borden Materiality and Architecture in Contemporary Culture Geoffrey Brune Historic Preservation Jesse Hager Affordable and Sustainable Housing Donna Kacmar Materials Research, Sustainable Building Materials, Affordable and Sustainable Housing Mark Kimbrough Product Design, Design Strategy Development Michael Kubo History, Theory, and Criticism of the Built Environment Andrew Kudless Design Technologies, Digital Fabrication, Construction Robotics, AR/VR in Architecture Rafael Longoria Economic Determinants of Urban Form, Cities of the American Southwest and Mexico, Sustainable Design, Cultural Hybridity, Public Spaces Design Patrick Peters Sustainable Design, Climate Responsive design, Public Spaces Design Bruce Race Sustainable Design, Urban Resilience Planning, Transportation Deepa Ramaswamy History, Theory, and Criticism Susan Rogers Community Design, Urban Planning, Affordable and Sustainable Housing Sheryl Tucker de Vazquez Interior Architecture, Computational Design, Diversity in Design Peter Zweig Urban Infrastructure and Design Strategy, Virtual Reality, Fabrication Featured Events Jun 23 7:00 pm AIA Conference Alumni Reception Join us at this year’s AIA Conference on Architecture in Chicago! We’re joining The Block Party event with an alumni reception on Thursday, June 23rd, at the Sheraton Grand Chicago. RSVP here! Marketing & Communications Information Stephen Schad Executive Director, Communications Gerald D. Hines College of Architecture & Design saschad@central.uh.edu 713-743-2539 Nicholas Nguyen Digital Media Program Manager, Communications Gerald D. Hines College of Architecture & Design ndnguy32@central.uh.edu 713-743-9466 Symone Daniels Graduate Assistant, Communications Gerald D. Hines College of Architecture & Design sdaniel8@cougarnet.uh.edu Gerald D. Hines College of Architecture & Design 4200 Elgin St Houston, TX 77204-4000 713-743-2400 A - Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Maps Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library MySafeCampus Parking Title IX - Sexual Misconduct Tuition & Fees UH System ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies