Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Search Type Faculty & Staff Event Featured Profile News Opportunity Resource Student Research Project Videos Search Menu Info for… [Select an Audience] [Select An Audience] Prospective Undergraduate Students Current Undergraduate Students Prospective Graduate Students Current Graduate Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Employers Admissions» Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics» Undergraduate Degree Programs Graduate Degree Programs Online Learning Non-Degree & Special Programs Academic Policies Departments» Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics Biomedical Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering and Engineering Mechanics Computer Science Earth and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering Industrial Engineering and Operations Research Mechanical Engineering Research» Faculty and Research Staff Institutes, Centers & Initiatives Department Research Research Areas Undergraduate Research Opportunities University and School Research Resources Innovation, Design & Entrepreneurship» Student Life» Undergraduate Student Life Graduate Student Life Living in New York City Commencement Student Profiles About» Dean of Columbia Engineering At A Glance Engineering for Humanity Mission & Vision Supporting the Vision History Plan A Visit Board of Visitors Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion People News Columbia Engineering Magazine Strategic Collaborations Get Involved Bulletin Make a Gift Contact Home Admissions Columbia Engineering offers world-class academic programs steeped in history and committed to innovation—in one of the world’s most exciting and cosmopolitan cities. Students at Columbia Engineering learn to think creatively, analytically, and globally about some of the greatest challenges facing humanity, and gain a foundational degree that prepares them for the most in-demand careers of today and for fields not yet imagined. We believe that engineers are creative problem solvers uniquely suited to address a variety of social needs, from assuring clean air and water to discovering more effective remedies for disease, and developing and securing systems that connect people with greater efficiency. We hope you’ll join us. Undergraduate Admissions Our undergraduate program provides a rigorous grounding in math and fundamental and applied science, as well as the humanities, as part of Columbia’s famed Core Curriculum. MORE Graduate Admissions Columbia Engineering offers Master’s and doctoral degree programs in over twenty different engineering and applied science areas of study. MORE Undergraduate Program Start your application here. Apply Now MASTER’S DEGREE & NON-DEGREE Programs – APPLY NOW See the list of master’s degree areas of study and go to our online application for degree and non-degree programs. Apply to Graduate School Doctoral Degrees Learn more about requirements and the application process for doctoral degree candidates. Doctoral Degrees 500 W. 120th Street #510 New York, NY 10027 Tel (212) 854-2993 Google Maps Plan a Visit Directory Columbia Engineering Columbia University Privacy Policy Terms of Use Faculty Job Opportunities Make a Gift Contact