Skip to main content Search form Search Search Toggle navigation About Equity & Diversity Advisory Council Contact Giving Join Email List Log In Academic Programs Undergraduate Prospective Students Pre-Princeton Undergraduate Overview Performance Programs Royal College of Music Program Current Students Certificate Programs Jazz at Princeton University Majoring in Music Royal College of Music Program Graduate: Composition Prospective Students Current Students Graduate: Musicology Prospective Students Current Students Performance & Community Performance Programs Certificates in Performance Departmental Ensembles Jazz at Princeton University Studio Lessons Masterclasses & Competitions Royal College of Music Program Peking Opera Immersion Program (Summer) Imola Piano Academy Exchange Public Performances Calendar of Events Departmental Ensembles Princeton Sound Kitchen Richardson Chamber Players Princeton University Concerts Edward T. Cone Performers-in-Residence: Sō Percussion Trenton Arts at Princeton People News & Events News Calendar of Events Resources Courses Funding Live Streams Mendel Music Library Opera Draw & Student Tickets PRACTICE ROOMS, LOCKERS, & INSTRUMENTS Photos & Videos Printing Services Sharepoint Toggle navigation Academic Programs Undergraduate Prospective Students Pre-Princeton Undergraduate Overview Performance Programs Royal College of Music Program Current Students Certificate Programs Jazz at Princeton University Majoring in Music Royal College of Music Program Graduate: Composition Prospective Students Current Students Graduate: Musicology Prospective Students Current Students Performance & Community Performance Programs Certificates in Performance Departmental Ensembles Jazz at Princeton University Studio Lessons Masterclasses & Competitions Royal College of Music Program Peking Opera Immersion Program (Summer) Imola Piano Academy Exchange Public Performances Calendar of Events Departmental Ensembles Princeton Sound Kitchen Richardson Chamber Players Princeton University Concerts Edward T. Cone Performers-in-Residence: Sō Percussion Trenton Arts at Princeton People News & Events Calendar of Events News Resources Courses Funding Live Streams Mendel Music Library Opera Draw & Student Tickets PRACTICE ROOMS, LOCKERS, & INSTRUMENTS Photos & Videos Printing Services Sharepoint About Equity & Diversity Advisory Council Contact Giving Join Email List Log In 2021-2022 Information Hub:Check out our information hub for 2021-2022 policiesRead more Welcome to the Department of Music! Princeton University fully embraces the performing arts as an essential part of its educational mission, and music is at its core. Welcome to the Department of Music! Princeton University fully embraces the performing arts as an essential part of its educational mission, and music is at its core. Welcome to the Department of Music! Princeton University fully embraces the performing arts as an essential part of its educational mission, and music is at its core. Welcome to the Department of Music! Princeton University fully embraces the performing arts as an essential part of its educational mission, and music is at its core. Welcome to the Department of Music! Princeton University fully embraces the performing arts as an essential part of its educational mission, and music is at its core. Welcome to the Department of Music! Princeton University fully embraces the performing arts as an essential part of its educational mission, and music is at its core. • • • • • • Previous Pause Next Composition Scholarship Performance "The history of music is the history of all that is best within us." Wendy Heller, Department Chair Scheide Professor of Music History News Faculty Appointments: Tyondai Braxton & Nathalie Joachim Donnacha Dennehy Awarded 2021 Guggenheim Fellowship Responding to Atlanta Shootings Students Participate in Creation of Virtual Opera Book Announcement: Prof. Simon Morrison Jazz Director Rudresh Mahanthappa DownBeat Critics Poll Winner © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Woolworth Center of Music Studies Administrative Office 310 Princeton, NJ 08544-1007 Telephone: (609) 258-4241 Fax: (609) 258-6793 Last Updated: Jun 1, 2022, 8:53 AM