Skip to content Search Site: Powered by Search Campus: Powered by Search Campus University of Utah COVID-19 Updates The University of Utah Main Title Sub Title Admissions Office of Admissions Apply Prospective Students Request information Campus Tours Events Undergraduate Graduate International Students Asia Campus New Students Freshman Confirm/Deposit Financial Aid & Scholarships New Student Orientation Registrar Housing Academic Calendar Student Life Student Affairs Housing The MUSS The Union Student Life Center Student Leadership & Involvement SafeU Academics Academic Resources Catalogs, Schedules & Calendar Colleges & Departments Majors Graduate School Student Success Libraries Global U Research Arts The Arts on Campus Upcoming Events Academic Programs Professional Arts Youth Arts U of U Health Education Research Patient Care Athletics Utah Athletics Buy Tickets Schedule Crimson Club Shop Utah Gear Donate SearchReveal Menu Reveal Menu Main Navigation Main Menu Home Admissions Office of Admissions Apply Prospective Students Request information Campus Tours Events Undergraduate Graduate International Students Asia Campus New Students Freshman Confirm/Deposit Financial Aid & Scholarships New Student Orientation Registrar Housing Academic Calendar Student Life Student Affairs Housing The MUSS The Union Student Life Center Student Leadership & Involvement SafeU Academics Academic Resources Catalogs, Schedules & Calendar Colleges & Departments Majors Graduate School Student Success Libraries Global U Research Arts The Arts on Campus Upcoming Events Academic Programs Professional Arts Youth Arts U of U Health Education Research Patient Care Athletics Utah Athletics Buy Tickets Schedule Crimson Club Shop Utah Gear Donate U of U Health Education Research Patient Care U Quick Links A-Z Index Campus Directory Campus Map Shuttle Tracker CIS UMail @ The U Apply Visit Give Home Current Page: Students Students Academics are only part of the story—you're coming to college for the whole student experience! At the U, this ranges far and wide. Whether you join one of the 400 clubs and student organizations, cheer on our team with the MUSS at a Pac-12 game, enjoy the downtown Salt Lake City nightlife, spend the weekends skiing and biking in the mountains, or just hang out with friends in the residence halls, you'll find the perfect way to balance your day and take a break from the books. Advising & Majors Make the most of your college experience with the help of our academic advisors, and discover the various majors available at the U. LEARN MORE ABOUT ADVISING & MAJORS Classes & Registration Explore the expansive list of courses taught at the U, and find out about important registration dates. LEARN MORE ABOUT CLASSES & REGISTRATION Housing Situated in the historic Ft. Douglas district, with the Bonneville Shoreline Trail in your backyard and sweeping vistas of the Great Salt Lake and downtown Salt Lake City out your front door, University of Utah housing is set in one of the most idyllic settings in the world. Learn More About Housing Learning Opportunities From community engagement to field work, there are numerous learning opportunities that occur outside the classroom at the U. Learn More About Learning Opportunities Research Opportunities You don't have to be a graduate student to conduct high-level research at the U. Learn More About Research Opportunitites Student Success You’re in. You made it. Congrats. Now what? How do you get a scholarship? Where are you going to live? No idea? No worries. We’ve got your back. All the resources you need are in one place called Student Success. Learn More About Student Success Campus Links U Mail Campus Information Services My Classes Academic Calendar Student Services U Card Student Events More Events Get Involved at the U One great resource for this is the U's student government, ASUU, which sponsors an array of events and student groups and organizations. Learn More About Getting Involved Sustainability The Sustainability Office engages our campus and community through programs to create action toward a healthy future. Get Involved The University's Independent Student Voice since 1890 Veterans Support Center Staffed by student Veterans committed to help fellow Veterans transition to college life. Learn More The University of Utah 201 Presidents Circle Salt Lake City, UT 84112 801.581.7200 Resources Future Students Students Parents & Families Faculty Staff Visitors Alumni Initiatives Research Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Sustainability Employment U Leadership University Safety About the U Information Office of the President Give to the U Media Contacts Ute Proud Campus Events Community Contact - Feedback Quick Links A-Z Index Campus Directory Campus Map Shuttle Tracker CIS UMail @ The U © 2022 The University of Utah Nondiscrimination & Accessibility Disclaimer Privacy Credits & Attributions Media Contacts Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Last Updated: 10/5/21