Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Data Science Initiative Home About Executive Committee Faculty Postdocs Staff Campus Advisory Board Affiliated Faculty Jobs @ DSI Academics Research Resources News Events Site Navigation Home About Executive Committee Faculty Postdocs Staff Campus Advisory Board Affiliated Faculty Jobs @ DSI Academics Master's Degree Apply Curriculum Student Experience Career Outcomes FAQ Doctoral Certificate Fifth-Year Master's Degree Certificate in Data Fluency Data Science Fellows Research DSI-Funded Research Data Science Research @ Brown TRIPODS Programs People Resources Activities & Opportunities Learning Resources Data Science and COVID-19 News Events Fair February Data Science Research Seminar Series Faculty for Faculty Research Talks Decoding Pandemic Data: A Series of Interactive Seminars Past Events Jobs @ DSI Postdoctoral Research Assistant in Data Science The Data Science Initiative at Brown University seeks applications for one-year renewable postdoctoral fellowship positions in the area of data science with a start date of July 1, 2022 (flexible). Candidates are required to have received a Ph.D. degree or equivalent by the start of this appointment and have a strong research record consistent with their level of experience. We seek candidates working in any area of data science, including geometry and topology of data, causal and model based inference, data analysis on massive graphs and networks, or others. Attention to the societal impacts of data science and issues of equity and social justice are desirable. Teaching opportunities are available but teaching is not required. The DSI values diversity and inclusion as essential to achieving excellence. Candidates are encouraged to address their own experiences and/or activities in this area in their application materials. To apply for these positions, please submit the relevant materials (cover letter, curriculum vitae, concise research statement, and three letters of recommendation) to Interfolio. Inquiries about these positions should be addressed to [email protected]. We will begin reading applications March 1, 2022, and we will continue to review applications until the positions are filled. Student Jobs DSI hires undergraduate TAs for classes in the Master's in Data Science program. Find them on the Student Employment website, or contact us. About Executive Committee Faculty Postdocs Staff Campus Advisory Board Affiliated Faculty Jobs @ DSI Donate to DSI Inquire about our Master's Program Sign Up for Our Newsletter Data Science Initiative Data Science Initiative Brown University Box 1891 164 Angell Street 3rd Floor Providence, RI 02912-1891 Phone: 401-863-6959 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top