Skip to the main content United States Air Force Academy Go to home page image/svg+xml Page 1 Go to home page Link to home page Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Menu Search the Site Academics A rigorous academic program that balances STEM with the arts and humanities. Academics Core Curriculum Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Registrar Faculty and Staff Directory Academic Success Center Request a Transcript Investigator or Verifications Admissions News Research Learn more about cutting-edge research that supports the Air Force and our global society. Research Office of Research Research Centers Cadet Summer Research STEM Outreach Future Conflict Cadet Life Take a peek into the life of a United States Air Force Academy cadet. Cadet Life Dormitories & Dining Cadet Clubs Cadet Support Services Day in the Life Frequently Asked Questions Military With a focus on innovation and adaptation to the changing world of warfare, we’re setting higher expectations for what it means to serve. Military Basic Cadet Training Squadrons Airmanship Military Careers Wings of Blue Athletics About There’s no limit to what you will achieve here. Academics. Athletics. Military training. We deliver the future leaders of modern warfare. About Leadership Character Development History Awards Traditions Educational Innovation More Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Back To Facilities Visitor Center Planetarium Cadet Chapel Polaris Hall Arnold Hall Fairchild Hall Library Mitchell Hall Sijan Hall Vandenberg Hall Davis Airfield Jacks Valley The Terrazzo REFERENCE, RESEARCH, AND READING MCDERMOTT LIBRARY There are two libraries at the United States Air Force Academy that support faculty, staff, cadets, and other patrons. The McDermott Library is in the cadet area with limited access. The base library is available to the base community and services the Preparatory School. See below for hours, locations and more. Take a 360-degree virtual tour Explore the virtual Library The McDermott Library, located in the cadet area, provides collegiate and professional-level reference, research and reading collections that support the academic and mission needs of the Academy. The Clark Special Collections, located on the 6th floor, houses a wealth of historical materials related to manned flight, air warfare, falconry, and the U.S. Air Force. McDermott Library’s online system provides access to the library catalog as well as to thousands of electronic resources. Note: For security reasons, access to this library is restricted to Academy cadets, faculty and staff. To arrange an escorted visit, contact the Administrative Offices, listed below. CONTACT US McDermott Library 2354 Fairchild Drive, Suite 3A10 United States Air Force Academy, CO 80840 Administrative Offices (719) 333-2590 mail.dflib@usafa.edu Reference / Information (719) 333-4406 libinfo@usafa.edu HOURS Monday – Thursday, 7:00 am to 10:30 pm Friday, 7:00 am to 5:00 pm Saturday, closed Sunday, 2:00 pm to 10:30 pm BASE LIBRARY The Base Library, located in the Community Center, supports the Preparatory School and provides services and resources for Academy staff and their families, including audio books, children’s story time, computers, reading materials and more. Base Library 5136 Redtail Drive, Suite H103 United States Air Force Academy, CO 80840 (719) 333-4665 HOURS Monday – Thursday, 8:30 am to 8:00 pm Friday and Saturday, 9:00 am to 5:00 pm Sunday, closed Closed on Federal Holidays EXPLORE MORE Registrar Majors & Minors Departments Academic Calendar ACADEMICS Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Research Centers Faculty and Staff Directory CAMPUS Events Employment Emergency Weather Helping Agencies Apps COMMUNITY AF CyberWorx USAFA Band Force Support Wings of Blue VISIT Visitors Campus Map Facilities Cadet Chapel Planetarium Base Access Contact Us Social Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Flickr © 2022 United States Air Force Academy, All Rights Reserved The appearance of hyperlinks does not constitute endorsement by the Department of the Air Force or the information, products, or services contained therein. For other than authorized activities such as military exchanges and morale, welfare and recreation sites, the Department of the Air Force does not exercise any editorial control over the information you may find at these locations. Such links provided are consistent with the stated purpose of this DOD Web site.