Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Office of Postdoctoral Affairs Welcome to Clemson University Office of Postdoctoral Affairs About Us The Clemson University Office of Postdoctoral Affairs strives to continue efforts to better understand the training and development environment needed to enhance the learning experience of our postdoctoral appointees. With this in mind, the VPR and ADGRS offices wanted to invest in the culture of postdoctoral scholars and help build their skills so they can move on to rewarding permanent positions. Our mission is to support and enhance postdoctoral training and career development, to establish and build a sense of community among all postdoctoral scholars, and to serve as a resource to the larger Clemson University community. We collaborate with the Clemson University Postdoctoral Association and across the campus to identify and address the needs of our postdoctoral scholars. Meet some of our Post-Doctoral Students here. About Clemson Ranked as the 24th best national public university by U.S. News & World Report, Clemson is a science- and engineering-oriented college dedicated to teaching, research and service. Founded in 1889, we remain committed both to world-class research and a high quality of life. Our beautiful college campus sits on 1,400 acres in the foothills of the Blue Ridge Mountains, along the shores of Hartwell Lake. But we also have research facilities and economic development hubs throughout the state of South Carolina — in Greenville, Greenwood, Columbia and Charleston. Through the GRAD 360° program, the Clemson University Graduate School (in conjunction with other institutional entities) provides comprehensive resources dedicated to educating and developing the necessary skills for future professionals and leaders in the global economy. GRAD 360° will provide trainees with a structured way to develop and track their proficiency in the academic, personal, and professional focus areas known as "The Tiger 9." Each trainee's development program can be tailored to meet their unique needs and interests. Trainees can: Identify their interests, skills, and values throughout their Clemson experience; Engage their advisors in holistic advising and mentoring; Acquire and develop specific skills necessary for postgraduate professional practice; Track their transformation by recording their experience in an online portfolio. Postdoctoral Association Clemson Postdocs Subscribe Join the PostDocs Mailing list We send out emails and are working on a newsletter that includes information about events, fellowships, and other opportunities of interest to postdocs. Members of the Clemson University community are welcome to subscribe. Home Postdoc Resources Faculty and Staff Resources News and Events Contact Us Related Links Research at Clemson Colleges, Schools and Departments Research and Graduate Studies Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram