Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Advanced Core Science Studies Certificate (Professional) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Advanced Core Science Studies Certificate (Professional) Advanced Core Science Studies Certificate (Professional) Admissions Postbaccalaureate Certificate in Advanced Core Science Studies Strengthen your academic profile and prepare for professional school admissions with Temple University’s Postbaccalaureate Certificate in Advanced Core Science Studies in the College of Science and Technology. This 37–38-credit program is designed for college graduates who wish to expand their scientific studies to pursue a career as a healthcare professional. Improve your academic credentials through a rigorous and structured suite of advanced science courses and customized standardized test preparation for the Dental Admission Test (DAT), Graduate Record Examination (GRE), Medical College Admission Test (MCAT), Physician Assistant College Admission Test (PA-CAT) and Pharmacy College Admission Test (PCAT). The interdisciplinary Advanced Core Science Studies Certificate program draws scholars from across the university and its health system to provide advanced science coursework in the following subjects. General, organic and biological chemistry Introductory and advanced biology (anatomy, biochemistry, genetics, immunology, microbiology, pathology and physiology) Physics Develop critical analysis, communication and problem-solving skills through a variety of educational activities including a seminar series covering science and non-science topics, and an introduction to the review of scientific literature. Program Benefits Take advantage of small learning cohorts and enhance classroom instruction with professional development opportunities. The following services are specialized to help guide and support student success throughout the duration of the program. Advising Application support including committee letters, personal statement review and mock interviews Clinical enrichment opportunities Customized standardized test preparation Integrated tutoring Learning skills specialists Professional School Admissions Prepare for professional school with the Advanced Core Science Studies Certificate (Professional) program’s innovative curriculum and real-world clinical experiences with the following healthcare facilities. Cooper/Rowan’s Physician Assistant Department Philadelphia Fight Temple University Hospital Temple University School of Podiatric Medicine Choosing the right postbaccalaureate certificate program. Students in the Basic Core Science Postbaccalaureate Certificate Program complete coursework in the basic core sciences, which is required before applying to professional school. Students in the Advanced Postbaccalaureate Certificate Program have already completed coursework in the basic core sciences and are seeking more challenging coursework. Classes & Curriculum This is a rigorous full-time program that will take 10 months to complete. All classes are held on Temple’s Main Campus. Students learn in small cohorts composed exclusively of postbaccalaureate students. Classes, labs and recitations are customized to include topics covered in standardized tests. Students choose one of three possible tracks of study. The following requirements apply to all students regardless of which track they choose unless they receive a waiver from the program director. Attend mandatory advising sessions throughout the 10-month program. Attend the appropriate standardized test preparatory courses. Complete all course work in the 10-month timeline of the program. Participate in clinical enhancement and/or volunteer opportunities. All certificate program students are required to take the following core courses in addition to the required coursework for their individual tracks. Fundamentals of Medical Biochemistry Fundamentals of Physiology Human Anatomy for Pre-Medical Post-Baccalaureates Introduction to Problem Solving and Logical Thinking for Pre-Medical Postbaccalaureates The Practice of Health Care: Competencies and Current Topics Principles of Medical Genetics for Pre-Medical Postbaccalaureates Track 1 Students who wish to pursue a Doctor of Medicine (MD), Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine (DO), Doctor of Pharmacy (PharmD), Doctor of Podiatric Medicine (DPM) or Doctor of Optometry (OD) complete the following courses. Cellular and Molecular Basis of Immunology and Microbiology Fundamentals of Cell and Cancer Biology for Pre-Medical Postbaccalaureates Track 2 Students who wish to pursue a Doctor of Medicine in Dentistry (DMD) or Doctor of Dental Surgery (DDS) complete the following courses. Cellular and Molecular Basis of Immunology and Microbiology Fundamentals of Cell and Cancer Biology for Pre-Medical Postbaccalaureates Practice and Development of Spatial Visualization Skills Track 3 Students who wish to pursue a career as physician assistant (PA) complete the following courses. Clinical Microbiology Elements of Statistics Fundamentals of Physiology Lab Human Anatomy Lab for Pre-Medical Postbaccalaureates Medical Terminology for Pre-Medical Postbaccalaureates Learn more about Advanced Core Science Studies Certificate (Professional) courses. Careers Program graduates are prepared for admission to the following types of professional schools. Allopathic and/or osteopathic medical Dental Optometry Pharmacy Physician assistant Podiatry Tuition & Fees The tuition for the Advanced Core Science Studies Postbaccalaureate Certificate Program is $28,850 for Pennsylvania residents and $35,590 for nonresidents. Learn more about our tuition and fees. Program Contacts For general questions regarding the Postbaccalaureate Pre-Health Program, email cst.postbac@temple.edu or call 215-204-0621. Please contact the following the staff members regarding the Postbaccalaureate Pre-Health Program. Deneen Ciancaglini is the enrollment specialist. Email: d.cian@temple.edu Caleb Marsh is the admissons director. Email: caleb.marsh@temple.edu Robert-André F. Rarig is an associate professor of instruction and senior associate director. Email: rarig@temple.edu Grace Hershman is an associate vice dean and executive director. Email: grace.hershman@temple.edu Accreditation As a division within Temple University, the College of Science and Technology is accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. ST-ACSS-CRPB Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Advanced Core Science Studies Certificate (Professional) Admissions Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community.