Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School Financing & Support Student Loans Graduate School Skip to Navigation Student Loans To supplement the other forms of support they receive from Brown, students may also be eligible for federal direct student loans and other alternative loans. Student loans for graduate students are administered through the Office of Financial Aid. To be considered for any federal student loans, domestic students are required to submit a FAFSA (Free Application for Federal Student Aid). The FAFSA must be submitted on line at www.fafsa.ed.gov. (Brown University's graduate code for the FAFSA is: E00058). The Federal Direct Student Loan program provides Graduate Unsubsidized loans in amounts up to $20,500 per year to eligible applicants in most degree programs. Students who are eligible for federal student loans and complete the FAFSA may also qualify for the credit-based Federal Graduate PLUS loan. International students are not eligible for these loans. More details are available on the Loan Office’s Federal Loans page and through the Office of Financial Aid. Should ineligible international or domestic graduate student who require additional loans beyond the Federal Student Loan Program, various alternative loans may be available by private commercial lenders or state loan authorities for the purpose of financing college costs. Eligibility is based on credit and both U.S. citizens and international students (with an eligible U.S. citizen co-borrower) may apply. More details regarding private loans can be found on the Office of Financial Aid’s Private Loan's page. To learn more about loan-borrowing options, please visit the Office of Financial Aid's website for graduate students or write to the Graduate School Financial Aid counselors at: [email protected]. Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Financing & Support Tuition & Fees Health and Dental Insurance Financial Considerations Master's Funding Ph.D. Funding Internal Funding & Appointments Student Loans Student Employment Student Payroll Procedures Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Related Items Office of Financial Aid Withdrawal & Refund Policy Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants