Home Home Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni School of Public Health Environmental and Occupational Health Sciences F461 Magnuson Health Sciences Center F 206-543-6991 Website Faculty Website ehug@uw.edu Environmental health focuses on identifying, evaluating, and controlling environmental conditions that may have an adverse impact on human health. Examples of problem areas requiring environmental health expertise are assuring adequate quality and quantity of food and drinking water, safe treatment and disposal of domestic and industrial waste materials, limiting or reducing air and noise pollution, limiting occupational exposure to hazardous substances and unsafe conditions, assuring safe and healthful housing, controlling the spread of insect- and rodent-borne illness, proper selection and use of pesticides, and understanding the effects of global changes in climate and the atmosphere on human health. Undergraduate Programs Program of Study: Major: Environmental Health Bachelor of Science degree with a major in Environmental Health Program of Study: Minor: Environmental Health Minor in Environmental Health Graduate Programs Program of Study: Doctor Of Philosophy (Environmental Health) Doctor Of Philosophy (Environmental Health: Environmental And Occupational Hygiene) Doctor Of Philosophy (Environmental Health: Environmental Toxicology) Program of Study: Master Of Public Health (Environmental And Occupational Health) Master Of Public Health (Environmental And Occupational Health) Master Of Public Health (Environmental And Occupational Health: Occupational And Environmental Medicine) Master Of Public Health (Environmental And Occupational Health: One Health) Program of Study: Master Of Science (Environmental Health) Master Of Science (Environmental Health) Master Of Science (Environmental Health: Applied Occupational Hygiene) Master Of Science (Environmental Health: Applied Toxicology) Master Of Science (Environmental Health: Environmental Toxicology) Master Of Science (Environmental Health: Exposure Science) Master Of Science (Environmental Health: Occupational Hygiene) Undergraduate Programs Environmental and Occupational Health Sciences F461D Magnuson Health Sciences Center F 206-543-4207 ehug@uw.edu Program of Study: Major: Environmental Health Program Overview The Bachelor of Science in Environmental Health is a great fit for students who love science, and who are passionate about using their scientific skills to address human health issues related to the built and natural environments. From water quality to workplace safety, environmental health majors are engaged in problem solving to keep communities safe and healthy. In the Bachelor of Science in Environmental Health, students learn to identify, prevent, and control environmental factors that can threaten human health. The coursework introduces students to basic principles of environmental health regulation, environmental sampling, microbiology, epidemiology, toxicology and risk assessment. This program of study leads to the following credential: Bachelor of Science degree with a major in Environmental Health Recommended Preparation Suggested First- and Second-Year College Courses: chemistry, organic chemistry, biology, calculus, statistics, English composition Admission Requirements Minimum requirements major. First- and second-year students complete early admission prerequisites (shown below). Third-year students complete upper-division admission prerequisites (shown below). Prospective students apply the quarter they plan to complete prerequisites for entry the following quarter. Students are admitted all quarters. Applications, due the second Friday of each quarter, may be downloaded from the Environmental Health website. Applicants who meet stated requirements are admitted in time to register the following quarter as majors. Students should meet with an adviser before applying. Transfer students may use transferable equivalent course(s) for prerequisite coursework. Early Admission Prerequisites Minimum cumulative 3.00 GPA, with a minimum 2.0 grade in each individual course below 5 credits English composition CHEM 142, CHEM 152 MATH 124 or Q SCI 291 Upper-Division Admission Prerequisites Minimum cumulative 2.50 GPA, with a minimum 2.0 grade in each individual course below 5 credits English composition MATH 124 or Q SCI 291 BIOL 180, BIOL 200, BIOL 220 One of the following general and organic chemistry sequences CHEM 142, CHEM 152, CHEM 162, CHEM 237, CHEM 238, CHEM 241 CHEM 142, CHEM 152, CHEM 223, CHEM 224, CHEM 241 CHEM 142, CHEM 152, CHEM 220 Bachelor of Science degree with a major in Environmental Health Credential Overview The Bachelor of Science in Environmental Health is a great fit for students who love science, and who are passionate about using their scientific skills to address human health issues related to the built and natural environments. From water quality to workplace safety, environmental health majors are engaged in problem solving to keep communities safe and healthy. In the Bachelor of Science in Environmental Health, students learn to identify, prevent, and control environmental factors that can threaten human health. The coursework introduces students to basic principles of environmental health regulation, environmental sampling, microbiology, epidemiology, toxicology and risk assessment. Completion Requirements 119-132 credits Environmental Health Supporting Science (49-61 credits): Either MATH 124 or Q SCI 291 ( 5 credits) Either BIOST 310 (recommended), STAT 220, STAT 311, or Q SCI 381 (4-5 credits) BIOL 180, BIOL 200, BIOL 220 (15 credits) One of the following general and organic chemistry sequences CHEM 142, CHEM 152, CHEM 162, CHEM 237, CHEM 238, CHEM 241 (26 credits) CHEM 142, CHEM 152, CHEM 223, CHEM 224, CHEM 241 (21 credits) CHEM 142, CHEM 152, CHEM 220 (15 credits) PHYS 114/PHYS 117, PHYS 115/PHYS 118 (10 credits) Environmental Health Core (minimum 37 credits): ENV H 311, ENV H 320, ENV H 405, ENV H 432, ENV H 433, ENV H 472, ENV H 473, ENV H 480, ENV H 482 (2 credits minimum), EPI 320, MICROM 301, MICROM 302 Environmental Health Selectives (12-13 credits): Minimum four courses chosen from ENV H 310, ENV H 406, ENV H 417, ENV H 418, ENV H 439, ENV 440, ENV H 441, ENV H 442, ENV H 443, ENV H 444, ENV H 445, ENV H 446, ENV H 447, ENV H 448, ENV H 451, ENV H 452, ENV H 453, ENV H 460, and ENV H 462 21 additional credits of approved electives. See adviser for approved list. Minimum 2.0 grade in each course required for the major Back to Top Program of Study: Minor: Environmental Health Program Overview The Environmental Health minor is designed to help students understand the influences and impact of environmental factors on human health. Students take one required introductory course and choose from a broad range of selectives and electives covering topics such as air pollution, hazardous waste, water quality, climate change, and green chemistry. Students can declare the Environmental Health Minor with their major adviser. This program of study leads to the following credential: Minor in Environmental Health Minor in Environmental Health Credential Overview The Environmental Health minor is designed to help students understand the influences and impact of environmental factors on human health. Students take one required introductory course and choose from a broad range of selectives and electives covering topics such as air pollution, hazardous waste, water quality, climate change, and green chemistry. Students can declare the Environmental Health Minor with their major adviser. Completion Requirements Minimum 27 credits Core (3 credits): either ENV H 111 or ENV H 311. Approved Selectives (9 credits): three courses chosen from ENV H 431, ENV H 440, ENV H 445, ENV H 448, ENV H 451, ENV H 453, ENV H 472 Minimum 15 credits of approved ENV H electives Minimum 14 credits in upper-division courses Back to Top Additional Information Student Outcomes and Opportunities Learning Objectives and Expected Outcomes: In the Bachelor of Science program in environmental health, students learn to utilize tools of scientific inquiry to identify, prevent, and control environmental factors that can damage human health. As part of their training, students are introduced to basic principles of risk assessment, microbiology, epidemiology, sampling, and toxicology, and can choose to focus in one of three interest areas: biomedical sciences, health and environmental science, and environmental public health practice. Instructional and Research Facilities: The department houses thirteen centers and institutes and twenty labs. Honors Options Available: With College Honors (Completion of Honors Core Curriculum and Departmental Honors); With Honors (Completion of Departmental Honors requirements in the major). See adviser for requirements. Research, Internships, and Service Learning: The department operates an internship program in cooperation with government agencies and private employers throughout the state. Each student intern works under the supervision of an experienced employee, with guidance from a faculty member. Internship placements are available throughout the year for variable amounts of academic credit. Department Scholarships: None offered. Student Organizations/Associations: UW Student Environmental Health Association Graduate Programs Environmental and Occupational Health Sciences Program of Study: Doctor Of Philosophy (Environmental Health) This program of study leads to the following credentials: Doctor Of Philosophy (Environmental Health: Environmental And Occupational Hygiene) Doctor Of Philosophy (Environmental Health: Environmental Toxicology) Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Doctor Of Philosophy (Environmental Health: Environmental And Occupational Hygiene) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Doctor Of Philosophy (Environmental Health: Environmental Toxicology) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Program of Study: Master Of Public Health (Environmental And Occupational Health) This program of study leads to the following credentials: Master Of Public Health (Environmental And Occupational Health) Master Of Public Health (Environmental And Occupational Health: Occupational And Environmental Medicine) Master Of Public Health (Environmental And Occupational Health: One Health) Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Master Of Public Health (Environmental And Occupational Health) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Master Of Public Health (Environmental And Occupational Health: Occupational And Environmental Medicine) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Master Of Public Health (Environmental And Occupational Health: One Health) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Program of Study: Master Of Science (Environmental Health) This program of study leads to the following credentials: Master Of Science (Environmental Health) Master Of Science (Environmental Health: Applied Occupational Hygiene) Master Of Science (Environmental Health: Applied Toxicology) Master Of Science (Environmental Health: Environmental Toxicology) Master Of Science (Environmental Health: Exposure Science) Master Of Science (Environmental Health: Occupational Hygiene) Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Master Of Science (Environmental Health) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Master Of Science (Environmental Health: Applied Occupational Hygiene) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Master Of Science (Environmental Health: Applied Toxicology) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Master Of Science (Environmental Health: Environmental Toxicology) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Master Of Science (Environmental Health: Exposure Science) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Master Of Science (Environmental Health: Occupational Hygiene) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © University of Washington | Seattle, WA