COVID-19 Vaccination Required for in-person classes and services. Click here to learn more. For information about campus access, please click here Home MyRCC Directory Email RCC Media Arts Center Employment Select LanguageEnglishFrenchSpanish Home About Us Welcome from the Director History Directions and Parking Contact Us Enabling Legislation page Virtual Tour of Reggie Lewis Track & Field Summary of Track Schedule Facility Records American Records World Records High School Records All-State Records (MIAA) Athletics Overview Coaches Awards & Honors Men's Basketball Schedule Roster Photos Women's Basketball Schedule Roster Photos Indoor Track & Field Schedule Roster Photos Outdoor Track & Field Schedule Roster Photos Soccer Schedule Roster Coaches & Staff Programs Virtual Fitness Classes Senior Programs Fitness & Wellness Event & Space Rental Events Space Rental Policies & Procedures Space Rental Application Search Welcome to the Reggie Lewis Track & Athletic Center! The Reggie Lewis Track and Athletic Center, which opened in 1995, was built by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, is the culmination of 30+years of struggles by the Massachusetts State Track Coaches Association (MSTCA) to build a facility dedicated to Massachusetts public high schools track and field meets statewide. It also serves as the home for the Roxbury Community College’s powerful intercollegiate and intramural athletics. Known as the “Reggie” and one of the fastest tracks in the World; in 24 years of existence, thirty-nine (39) World or American records have been established on this fast Mondo track – a feat that cannot be matched by any other facility in the country. The “Reggie” hosts over ninety high schools, collegiate and national track meets annually and some have included meets such as the USA Track and Field Championships, Boston Indoor Games, Northeast 10 Championships, NCAA Division II Championships and the High School National Championships. In addition to accommodating a wide variety of athletic activities, the Center has facilities for meetings and conferences, and a gymnasium, which are available for rent to the public. Events News May 11Field House Closed for RCC Commencement Set-Up May 12Field House Closed for RCC Commencement Set-Up May 13RCC Commencement Ceremony May 13RCC Commencement Reception May 23Field House and Gym closed for Harvard Commencement Set-Up May 24Field House and Gym closed for Harvard Commencement Set-Up May 25Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Commencement May 26Roxbury Prep Senior Signing Day, Field House Jun 04Caribbean American Heritage Festival, Gym Jun 14Roxbury Prep 8th Grade Graduation, Gym View More.. The Pathway Forward Committee for the Reggie Lewis Center Apr 19 B Together Policy – Reggie Lewis Center Jan 11 Reggie Lewis Center Update – July 2021 Jul 28 Reggie Lewis Track and Athletic Center to be Used as COVID-19 Vaccination Site Jan 28 Virtual Fitness Classes Coming Soon! Dec 22 More news... Community Reggie Lewis Track & Athletic Center Media Arts Center RCC Foundation Space Rental Information Timothy Smith Computer Lab Policies & Procedures Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy Annual Security Report Public Records Campus Safety Emergency Notification Affirmative Action & EEO Policy Financial Aid Disclosures Student Assistance Advising Student Accessibility Services Financial Aid Project Access at RCC Testing Veteran Services Knowledge. Enrichment. Engagement. (K.E.E.) Student Resources Library Project Access at RCC Bookstore Athletics Career Gateway Dining Services (Cafeteria) Tutoring Privacy Policy Annual Security Report Clery CSAs Sitemap Affirmative Action / EEO Statement of Non-discrimination © 2016 Roxbury Community College. 1234 Columbus Avenue, Roxbury Crossing, MA 02120. Phone (617) 427-0060 | TTY/TDD users: Massachusetts Relay Service or dial 711