COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Physics Section Menu Physics main page Faculty And Staff Physics #SLACK Research Seminar series Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Course Descriptions Physics at WSU Thesis Defense Schedule Weekly Physics Chat Society Of Physics Students Scholarships and Fellowships Diversity and Inclusion Physics Help Room PSIT Training Thesis Template Physics is the fundamental science: the study of matter, energy, and their interactions. Physics is the basis for all science and for all applied science and engineering. Physicists study everything from elementary particles to galaxies, semiconductors to chaos. Undergraduate Degrees Master of Science Research Areas Experimental Condensed Matter Experimental Particle Physics Theoretical Particle Physics Computational Astrophysics Quantum Computing and Information Theory For Students Physics majors have many career alternatives. Many continue their education at graduate and professional schools -- in physics or in chemistry, biology, geology, engineering, medicine law, or business. Those who enter the job market find their skills in problem solving, modeling, computers and electronics, to be strong selling points. Physics at Wichita State affords close personal interaction among undergraduate students, graduate students and professsors. Many students take advantage of the opportunities for research. » Learn more about Physics at WSU. For Visitors Physics at WSU is located in Jabara Hall. Some teaching labs and class rooms are on the first floor. The main physics office, most faculty offices, graduate student offices, advanced teaching labs, and research labs are in the basement. Call Connie Adamek in the physics office if you need information on parking or the shuttle bus system, to set up appointments, or for any accomodations you may need. The physics seminar talks are usually Wednesdays at 2:00 in Jabara Hall room 128 and are open to the public. All are welcome. We also host special events. For example the SPS annual pumpkin drop usually draws a crowd. For Alumni Stay in Touch! We use slack and have a channel just for WSU physics alumni. Also, please donate if you are able to. You can contribute to the Evelyn Schall fund for physics graduate student summer research or help send undergraduates to conferences, contribute to the general fund or talk to Prof. Solomey about donating toward any other target you would like to support. Here are some of your stories. Follow us on Twitter Find us on YouTube Our Instagram page 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©