Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager For Faculty and Staff For Alumni For Students For Potential Students Biomed A-Z People Directory Warren Alpert Physician-Scientist MD/PhD and Advanced Training Program Show/Hide PhD Programs Curriculum Current Students Alumni How to Apply Leadership PhD Programs MD/PhD students may undertake the graduate portion of their education in any of the graduate programs within the Division of Biology and Medicine. Therapeutic Sciences The Therapeutic Sciences Graduate Program offers advanced training appropriate for academic and research careers in the fields of biology and medical sciences with a focus on determining disease mechanisms and drug actions and developing novel therapies Program Details Pathobiology Pathobiology is an interdisciplinary field devoted to basic research into the mechanisms of disease. PhD students can choose from four research and concentration themes: cancer biology, infection and immunity, toxicology and environmental pathology; and aging. Interdisciplinary work is encouraged with other graduate programs in the Division as well as other University departments. Program Details Neuroscience The Neuroscience PhD program promotes interdisciplinary research that crosses traditional discipline and department boundaries, while at the same time providing a strong foundation in the core concepts of neuroscience. Research in the program employs an impressive array of techniques and encompasses multiple levels of investigation from genes, molecules, and cells to neural networks, systems, and behavior. The program is affiliated with the Robert J. and Nancy D. Carney Institute for Brain Science at Brown, a world-renowned research center focused on accelerating discovery and finding cures for brain-related diseases. Program Details Molecular Biology, Cell Biology and Biochemistry The PhD program in Molecular Biology, Cell Biology and Biochemistry is an interdisciplinary, interdepartmental course of study that offers excellent preparation for a career that includes research in biological and medical sciences. Program Details Ecology and Evolutionary Biology The PhD in Ecology and Evolutionary Biology is for students who plan to pursue a career that includes research in the fields of ecology and environmental science, organismal biology, and/or evolutionary biology. Students may choose from an array of training partnerships that include computational molecular biology and biomedical engineering. Program Details Computational Molecular Biology The PhD program in Computational Biology is training the next generation of scientists who will develop and apply novel computational, mathematical, and statistical techniques to problems in the life sciences. The program is based within Brown's Center for Computational Molecular Biology, which is composed of scholars drawn from computer science, evolutionary biology, mathematics, and molecular and cellular biology. Program Details Biotechnology The Biotechnology PhD program is designed for students interested in a range of topics including drug and gene delivery, drug discovery and cell therapy. The educational objectives are to promote an understanding of the designs and materials used in novel cell and drug delivery systems; the molecular, cellular, and animal sciences of drug discovery and drug development; and the development and testing of cell-based therapies for the treatment of diseases. Students have opportunities to intern at regional biotech companies and are prepared for career success in academia or industry. Program Details Biomedical Engineering The PhD in Biomedical Engineering is a joint venture by the Division of Biology and Medicine and the School of Engineering. The Program provides cutting-edge, interdisciplinary, graduate-level education at the interface of engineering, biology, and medicine appropriate for careers in academia, government, or industry. Students engage in broad opportunities across the Brown community, from the engineering/physical sciences through the life sciences on campus to the Warren Alpert Medical School and affiliated teaching hospitals. Program Details Brown Biology and Medicine Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Warren Alpert Medical School Program in Biology Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty and Staff Potential Students Alumni Giving to Brown Division of Biology and Medicine Brown University Box G-A1, Providence, RI 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-3330 Maps / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram LinkedIn SnapChat