Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information Cancer Topics Campus News Research Medical School Public Health Cancer Mental Health Infectious Diseases Neurology Neuroscience Education Heart Health Pediatrics View All Topics Search All News Keywords News Subtopics: Brain Cancer Breast Cancer Cervical Cancer Colon Cancer Immunotherapy Prostate Cancer Radiation Skin Cancer Top Stories Lung Cancer Screening Program Launches at Columbia and NewYork-Presbyterian The program brings together physicians and nurse practitioners from multiple disciplines to provide care for smokers and ex-smokers who are at high risk for lung cancer and other complications. Topic Campus News Let’s Talk About Sex… and Cancer Sexual dysfunction is common among female cancer patients but infrequently addressed. Columbia oncologist Christine Chin is working to change that. Wendy Chung on Genetics and Cancer Columbia geneticist Wendy Chung reflects on the progress made in cancer genetics and discusses the next frontier of using genetic information to design personalized cancer prevention strategies. Clinical Trial Finds Combination Therapy Has Promise for Gastric Adenocarcinoma Columbia cancer researchers estimate that 60% of patients in a phase 2 clinical trial will have no sign of their cancer two years after treatment with combination therapy. Latest News Columbia University and Pfizer to Establish Clinical Trials Diversity Initiative September 9, 2021 With $10 million from Pfizer, the Initiative aims to increase the participation of underrepresented minorities in clinical trials and enhance the diversity of clinical researchers. Topic Research Sam Yoon Appointed Chief of New Surgical Oncology Division September 3, 2021 Yoon, a surgical oncologist expert in the treatment of gastric cancer, sarcoma, and melanoma, is also the new vice chair of surgical oncology research and education in the Department of Surgery. Topic Campus News Sunscreen and Sun Safety Fact Check August 11, 2021 Columbia dermatologist Larisa Geskin, MD, explains who needs to use sunscreen, the difference between sunscreen and sunblock, and other questions about protecting the skin from the sun. Topic Dermatology Robotic Neck Brace Can Help Analyze Impact of Cancer Treatment July 26, 2021 A new robotic device from researchers at VP&S and Columbia Engineering could help guide recovery after treatment for head and neck cancer. Opening the Blood-Brain Barrier with Focused Ultrasound July 9, 2021 A new brain cancer study is testing an ultrasound technology developed at Columbia to determine if the technology can open the blood-brain barrier and improve delivery of chemotherapy. The Dangers of Persistent Use of Controlled Substances After Surgery July 1, 2021 Even a brief exposure to addictive medications for surgery-related pain or anxiety can lead to long-term use, a study by Columbia researchers has found. Topic Research Colon Cancer Screening at 45: What You Should Know June 22, 2021 New guidelines encourage initial screening for colorectal cancer at 45 instead of 50, because younger people are increasingly being diagnosed with the disease, says Columbia's James Church, MD. “Stage Zero” Breast Cancer: What’s the Optimal Treatment for DCIS? June 9, 2021 Opinions vary about how to treat DCIS (ductal carcinoma in situ), but a new study suggests the optimal treatment for most women with this non-invasive breast cancer is surgery plus radiation. Topic Breast Cancer Therapy Shows Promise for Aggressive Form of Uterine Sarcoma June 8, 2021 Results from a phase 2 clinical trial led by Columbia cancer researchers suggest that a combination of two drugs has potential to improve treatment of uterine leiomyosarcoma. In Doctor and Senate Offices, Columbia Dermatologist Urges Action Against Skin Cancer June 1, 2021 Larisa Geskin's first lobbying success led New York state to prohibit indoor tanning for children. Now she's urging Medicaid to help low-income families access sunscreen. Topic Dermatology Pages first previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … next last Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top