Skip to main content Jump to main navigation Search content University of Pennsylvania | Penn University Life Search query Search Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Site Search VPUL Home Activities Fraternity and Sorority Life Naval ROTC Office of Student Affairs Platt Student Performing Arts House VPUL Events Calendar Cultural Centers Greenfield Intercultural Center La Casa Latina LGBTC Center Makuu The Black Cultural Center Pan-Asian American Community House Penn Women Center Student Supports Career Services First Generation Low Income Program Penn Violence Prevention Student Affairs Leadership Team Student Intervention Services Weingarten Learning Resource Center Student Disabilities Services Office of Learning Resources Tutoring Center About Leadership Team Give to University Life Strategic Priorities VPUL Facilities at Perelman Quadrangle VPUL Technology Services Programs Supporting Parents at Penn Penn Women’s Center Alumni Network Affiliated Groups PennGenEq Pre-Orientation Program Resources Support Services Space Reservations & Co-sponsorship Requests PWC PEEK Kitchen & Sustainability Library Voices of Change Project Make a Gift About Us Who We Are Contact Us Our Team What We Do Our Spaces PWC Home We are one of the nation’s oldest Women’s Centers, founded in 1973, and we work with students, staff and faculty of all genders and identities. The Penn Women’s Center’s mission is to promote gender justice, and to empower, support, and advance personal and professional development. The Penn Women’s Center was founded in April, 1973, after protestors occupied College Hall for four days to protest a series of rapes on campus. We moved to our current location on Locust Walk in the early 1990s, following the “Diversify Locust Walk” movement that sought to make Penn safer for minorities and female students. For over 40 years, the center has been active in promoting the rights of women on campus and beyond. We strive to include voices of gender, sexual, and racial minorities, acknowledging that feminism has historically been white and cis-centered. Come visit us to walk through a timeline of our history! Penn Women's Center Events Calendar We sponsor a number of events throughout the year that highlight issues of gender justice and promote women writers, activists, artists and political and professional leaders. These include conferences, trainings, and workshops, with topics ranging from restorative justice, to healthy relationships, to men and masculinities. Major sponsored events, co-produced with student groups, include the Penn Monologues, the OWN IT Summit, Penn Women’s Week and Take Back the Night. Explore Events Eco Kitchen Make a Gift About Us PWC Newsletter The Penn Women's Center newsletter is sent electronically to over 2,500 subscribers every Monday during the academic year and highlights educational, artistic, networking, outreach and/or civic engagement programs that promote gender equity at Penn or beyond. Subscribe to our Newsletter Advertise in our Newsletter Voices of Change Project Made as part of our 40th Anniversary Voices of Change Project, these voices celebrate our past and present. We hope it will inspire you to become part of our future. Read More » Penn Women’s Center Director makes history as first Black woman to hold post Sherisse Laud-Hammond is a modern-day pioneer at the University of Pennsylvania. She’s the first Black woman to lead the Penn Women’s Center, one of the oldest women’s centers in the country. Read More » 2021 Women of Color at Penn Awards On March 19, the Women of Color at Penn honored the award winners whose work has promoted education, cultural diversity, and positive change on campus and in the world. The Staff award went to Sherisse Laud-Hammond from the Penn Women’s Center. Read More » Facebook Twitter Youtube Instagram Primary Footer Athletics Diversity Health & Wellness Libraries Online Learning Penn Global Resources University Life Calendar Student Jobs Help Contact Us Maps Parking University of Pennsylvania Address Philadelphia, PA 19104 Telephone: (215) 898-6081 Legal Copyright Disclaimer Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Skip to content Open toolbar Accessibility Tools Increase Text Decrease Text Grayscale High Contrast Negative Contrast Light Background Links Underline Readable Font Reset