Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Philosophy Undergraduate Graduate People Research News & Events Resources Contact Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Undergraduate Program Resources About Undergrad Courses The Online B.A. Advising Philosophy and Law Minor in Legal Thought and Liberal Arts Philosophy Circle Awards and Activities Take Action Apply to the Graduate Program Online B.A. 3+3 Accelerated BA/JD Program Minor in Legal Thought and Liberal Arts Support the Department Follow Us Online Facebook Home Philosophy Undergraduate Pre-Law Advising Pre-Law Advising The Philosophy Department at the University of Memphis offers various resources for students interested in a career in law: The 3+3 accelerated BA/JD program in partnership with the Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law An internal pre-law track for students who want to complete their BA in the usual four years Pre-law advising for all students interested in a legal career The 3+3 Accelerated BA/JD Program The 3+3 Accelerated BA/JD program allows students to complete their Bachelor of Arts (BA) degree in Philosophy and juris doctor (JD) degree in six years instead of the typical seven. Undergraduate scholarships will apply to the senior year of the BA/first year of the JD program. Eligibility Philosophy majors who have completed the required sequence of courses and meet the Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law admissions criteria. You can find more information at this link: ACCELERATED BA/JD. Pre-Law Track Students who are interested in a career in the legal field but who wish to complete their undergraduate degree in four years can complete a pre-law track in the Philosophy Department. This track familiarizes students with philosophical traditions and topics relevant to a career in law. Students who complete the recommended sequence of courses will receive a letter of recognition from the Director of Undergraduate Studies. You can download the advising sheet for our pre-law track at this link: PRE-LAW TRACK. Pre-Law Advising While a number of majors will prepare students for the study of law, Philosophy courses, as well as the Philosophy major, offer excellent preparation for students interested in a career in the legal profession. Students who wish to prepare for Law School should, therefore, strongly consider a major in Philosophy. Alternatively, they may pursue a major in another discipline with a minor in Philosophy. The University of Memphis also offers a Minor in Legal Thought and Liberal Arts. In any case, students pursuing a career in law are well advised to supplement whatever course of study they choose with a number of Philosophy courses (notably Critical Thinking and a number of logic courses such as Elementary Logic, Intermediate Logic, or Advanced Logic). This is for two main reasons: First, Philosophy provides training in analytic and logical thinking, which are essential components of both the Law School Admissions Test (LSAT) and the practice of law. The American Bar Association recommends that students looking to pursue a career in law acquire the following skills: Analytic and problem solving skills Critical reading skills Writing skills Oral communication and listening abilities General research skills Task organization and management skills Public service and promotion of justice Students acquire many of these skills in Philosophy courses: they are trained to read difficult texts, assess arguments, conduct research, develop arguments of their own, and present them clearly in speech and writing. Moreover, Philosophy majors consistently outperform other majors on the LSAT. They also have the highest scores on both the Verbal Reasoning and the Analytic Writing sections of the GRE. As a consequence, it comes as no surprise that acceptance rates of Philosophy majors applying to Law School are higher than those of applicants majoring in most other disciplines, including Economics, Political Science, History, Psychology, and Business Management. Second, many Philosophy courses explore contemporary legal, political, and moral issues that are pertinent to legal professionals. For example, courses such as Philosophy of Law, Contemporary Moral Problems, Ethics, and Issues in Political Philosophy allow students to understand the philosophical background to issues that are of interest to lawyers, judges, and other legal professionals. Courses such as Environmental Ethics or Business Ethics will benefit those who wish to pursue careers in environmental law or corporate law. Students interested in legal concerns in the context of medicine and technology may wish to take courses in Biomedical Ethics, Philosophy of Science, or Science, Technology, and Human Values. Philosophical issues relevant to criminal law are covered in Philosophy of Law as well as Nature, Mind, and Knowledge, and Philosophy of Mind. If you are interested in Pre-Law Advising, please contact Philosophy Department Pre-Law Faculty Affiliate Advisor, Salman Khawaja and Rob Marczynski J.D., Director, Interdisciplinary Programs and Pre Law Advisor. If you are interested in taking Philosophy courses or pursuing a major or minor in Philosophy, please contact either the Director of Undergraduate Studies, Prof. James Bahoh or the Philosophy Department Undergraduate Advisor, Amit Sen, 339B Clement Hall (amitsen@memphis.edu). Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 9/3/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.