Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu School of Communication Sciences and Disorders About Programs People Research Areas Student Orgs Resources News Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Programs MA in SLP AdmissionsCurriculumNon-CSD CourseworkClinical EducationAdditional InformationApply NowSLP Program DescriptionSLP Program Goals AuD in Audiology AdmissionsCurriculumNon-CSD CourseworkClinical EducationAdditional InformationApply NowAuD Program DescriptionAuD Program GoalsAuD Specialization TracksAuD-PhD ProgramDual AuD-MPH Program PhD in CSD AdmissionsApply Now Program DescriptionPhD Program Goals American Sign Language ASL and Deaf StudiesASL CoursesASL as World LanguageASL MinorASL Placement and CreditWhy ASL? Graduate Certificates AAC Population Hearing Health Vocology Continuing Education Walt Fritz Seminar Diversity Take Action Apply Now Support the School Memphis Speech and Hearing Center Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitter Home School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Programs AAC Graduate Certificate Augmentative and Alternative Communication (AAC) Graduate Certificate Program Description The purpose of the "Augmentative and Alternative Communication (AAC)" certificate is to provide training to pre-service and in-service [practicing] SLPs and teachers on supporting the language development of children with significant language disabilities. The certificate requires a firm background in typical language development as well as language disorders and then moves on to applying this knowledge to the specialized area of AAC. Once these prerequisites are complete, the certificate allows for an elective in a related field. The majority of the courses in the AAC certificate program are only available on campus at the University of Memphis and the certificate cannot be completed online at this time. According to the 2016 Schools Survey data from ASHA, 55.1% of practicing SLPs have students who have complex communication needs and require AAC on their caseloads. And yet, according to a 2012 survey by Anderson and colleagues, 85% of SLPs don't feel they have the knowledge of AAC to meet the needs of their caseload. This certificate offers these clinicians the opportunity to enhance their knowledge and experience working with individuals with complex communication needs and apply this information to their daily work demands. Admission Requirements To be eligible for the Graduate Certificate Program in Augmentative and Alternative Communication: Applicants must enroll as a graduate student at the University of Memphis or have a completed Master's degree in Speech Language Pathology or a related field with a GPA of at least 3.00. Applicants who do not speak English as their primary language are required to meet the University's minimum TOEFL score. To apply, current students in the MA SLP program at the University of Memphis must complete a program update form and submit a one-page letter of intent to the School of Communication Sciences and Disorders. Letters of intent should describe reasons for pursuing the certificate, relevant background and experiences, and/or professional goals or plans. Individuals not currently affiliated with the University of Memphis must complete the application materials in UniCAS for the AAC Certificate. Admission to this certificate program does not imply acceptance into any graduate program at the School of Communication Sciences and Disorders or within the university. Program Requirements Students are required to take the 3 required courses listed below along with one 3-hour elective. If the student has two years of experience working as a speech-language pathologist, AUSP 7006/8006 and AUSP 7300/8300 can be waived, and these students would be required to complete a total of 9 instead of 12 credits. These credits will include AUSP 7308/8308 (required), one elective related to Autism, and any other elective from the list below: Required Courses (9 credit hours): AUSP 7006/8006 Language and Speech Development* AUSP 7300/8300 Language Disorders in Children AUSP 7308/8308 Augmentative and Alternative Communication * A course substitution may be considered on the basis of alternative graduate level coursework such as Language Learning Disabilities or Language Disorders in Adults. Electives (3 credit hours): AUSP 6205 American Sign Language for Speech Pathologists, Audiologists, and Educators AUSP 6300 Autism: Communication & Socialization AUSP 7212 Autism Spectrum Disorder/Related Disabilities AUSP 7302 & 7303 Language Disorders in Adults PSYC 7802-8802 Child Disability and Family SPED 6111 Introduction to Applied Behavioral Analysis Retention/Graduation Requirements Students must complete all three of the required courses (9 credits) and one elective (3 credits) for a total of 12 credits with a minimum grade of B (GPA = 3.00) in each course. In the semester of graduation, the student must submit an Intent to Graduate form to the Graduate School and a Graduate Certificate Candidacy form to the Director of Graduate Studies by the deadline specified by the Graduate School. For additional information contact Vicki Haddix, MS, CCC-SLP 901.678.5800 vhaddix@memphis.edu Additional References American Speech-Language-Hearing Association. (2016). 2016 Schools Survey report: SLP caseload characteristics. Available from www.asha.org/research/memberdata/schoolssurvey/. Anderson, A. (2012). ATIA Survey Data. Presented at the annual convention of the Assistive Technology Industry Association; January 26 –28; Orlando, FL. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/29/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.