<form runat="server"></form>
<WebPartPages:SPWebPartManager runat="server"/>
 Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions MBA FAQ Introduce Yourself Blog Visit Apply Academic Experience Entrepreneurship Student Life Career Path Admissions Financial Aid …→ Harvard Business School→ MBA→ Student Life Student Life Activities, Government & Clubs Campus People Community Values The First-Year Experience The Second Year Experience The HBS Community → People→ Perspectives Perspectives Nassima Belkadi MBA 2022 Video Video Home Region Taza, Morocco Undergrad Education Ecole Mohammadia d’Ingénieurs, MS, 2017 Previous Experience McKinsey “It's very rare for women from my background to have access to basic education let alone go to HBS.” Why did you choose this path at this point in time? An MBA was a natural next step for me after 3 years of consulting and Harvard Business School was the best I could hope for. Coming to HBS is like... ...winning the lottery! It's very rare for women from my background to have access to basic education let alone go to Harvard Business School. The HBS YES was a very proud moment of my life. Being part of the HBS community is like... ...finding a new home filled with love and support. I'm so grateful for the amazing friends that I met at HBS and looking forward to more adventures with them beyond the 2 years. As a kid, what did you want to be when you grew up? So many things! From being a detective fighting crime to being an astronaut in space, I often changed my mind based off my favorite characters in the cartoons I watched. What is your favorite childhood memory? Running up and down the mountains with my friends, trying to win an endless race until one of us fell and started crying. Who is one person from your life that you admire the most today? A previous manager from McKinsey. I admire her leadership style and how she makes everyone in the team feel. What’s the best thing about your home town? The flowering almond trees, the smell of flowers everywhere, and the sounds of singing birds in the spring. Topics Consulting Home Region Taza, Morocco Undergrad Education Ecole Mohammadia d’Ingénieurs, MS, 2017 Previous Experience McKinsey Topics Consulting ǁ MBA Admissions Harvard Business School Spangler Welcome Center (Spangler 107) Boston, MA 02163 Phone: 1.617.495.6128 Email: admissions@hbs.edu →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College