Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Music Technology Certificate (Undergraduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Music Technology Certificate (Undergraduate) Apply Request More Info Music Technology Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Music Technology Undergraduate Certificate Learn to create, edit and record multimedia audio files using the latest digital composing, editing, mixing and recording tools with the Music Technology Undergraduate Certificate in Temple University’s Boyer College of Music of Dance. Explore your musical interests and skills or potential career paths in the digital world of creating and editing music. The program comprises four courses focused on audio production and editing, as well as one course in film analysis. You’ll broaden your knowledge of the electronic and software programs used in the music industry, as well as acoustics, digital audio workstations, microphones and sound production. You’ll also learn about sound for apps, concerts, films, television and video. Courses are taught by Boyer’s award-winning faculty members, and students will work in Temple’s industry-level, state-of-the-art digital audio workstations. This four-course, 12-credit certification is open to any non-Music major at Temple who has completed at least 15 credit hours of coursework. Classes & Curriculum The Music Technology Undergraduate Certificate curriculum comprises four required courses. These are Advanced Audio Production, Introduction to Film and Video Analysis, Sound Editing, and Sound Recording. Learn more about required courses for the Music Technology Undergraduate Certificate. Tuition & Fees The tuition for this Certificate Program is based on school or college of your major, program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. Additional Information Our Academic Advisors The Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts has a centralized advising office with five staff members. This advising team serves all undergraduate students in the Boyer School of Music and Dance and the School of Theater, Film and Media Arts. Advisors help students navigate the undergraduate curriculum for each degree program. The academic advising team for Music, Dance, Theater, and Film and Media Arts majors is located in Mitten Hall, Suite 200 West. To schedule an advising appointment based on your individual needs or for more help, contact the advising team. Phone: 215-204-8301 Schedule an advising appointment. Program Contact Steven Kreinberg is the director of music technology. Email: kreinberg@temple.edu Phone: 215-204-8098 Accreditation The Boyer College of Music and Dance is accredited by the American Music Therapy Association, National Association of Schools of Music, National Association of Schools of Dance and Pennsylvania Department of Education. BC-MUTE-CERT Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Music Technology Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info