Skip to main content A to Z Listing Campus Map Find People News UCR Home Skip to main content MARLAN AND ROSEMARY BOURNS COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING Search BCOE Departments & Programs MARLAN AND ROSEMARY BOURNS COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING Bioengineering Chemical and Environmental Engineering Computer Engineering Computer Science and Engineering Data Science Electrical and Computer Engineering Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Online M.S. in Engineering UC Riverside Nanofabrication Facility We Engineer Excellence Search About About People News History Facility Equipment Lab Capabilities User Policies Overview General Safety Safety Presentation Cleanroom Protocol Lab Usage Fees Reservation System Policy Reservations Reservation System Reservation System Policy UCR Home BCOE Departments & Programs MARLAN AND ROSEMARY BOURNS COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING Bioengineering Chemical and Environmental Engineering Computer Engineering Computer Science and Engineering Data Science Electrical and Computer Engineering Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Online M.S. in Engineering Previous Next Breadcrumb About The UCR Nanofabrication Facility currently operates two Nanofabrication Cleanroom facilities on the UCR campus. The first is located in the lower level of the B wing of Bourns Hall. It is a state-of-the-art Nanofabrication Research facility available 24/7 to qualified users. The facility is approximately 2,000 square feet and includes significant safety and operational monitoring capabilities. Our second Cleanroom is located in the new Materials Science and Engineering building on the lower level. The class 100/1000 space occupies approximately 8,000 square feet and currently two small bays are functional with the initial few tools installed. At present, the Bourns Hall Cleanroom is fully operational and certified at Class 100 in the Photolithography bay, Class 1000 in the Thin Film/Etch bay and the environment is being controlled and monitored. There is a trained staff of 3 full-time engineers available to users at no charge from 9-5p.m. weekdays. There are currently over 100 trained users conducting research in various fields of engineering and sciences from Physics, Chemistry, Environmental, Chemical, Mechanical and Electrical Engineering. The facility is also available to industrial users for research projects in other fields. Nanofabrication Facility Mission UCR Nanofabrication Facility • Enables the world-class research and graduate student training in all areas of nanotechnology • Fosters interdisciplinary research and cooperation among scientists and engineers • Provides a state-of-the-art environment for graduate students, postdoctoral researchers and professors from all countries • Ensures the highest international academic standards, integrity, equality and diversity, as well as respect and recognition for all • Maintains the highest level of safety • Serves as the framework and precursor for future externally funded multi-PI projects and research centers at UCR • Facilitates cooperation with the high-tech industry in the Inland Empire and California The following tools are presently available for training and/or use: E-beam Lithography Systems Focused Ion Beam System EBSD EDAX STEM Plasma Enhanced CVD System Rapid Thermal Anealer STS Reactive Ion etcher Atomic Layer Deposition E-beam Evaporation Sputtering Thermal Evaporation Dektak Profilometer C/V Plotter I/V Probe Station Plasma Asher Ellipsometer Filmetrics Thickness Measurement Atomic Force Microscope Quintel Mask Aligner Suss MA-6 Mask Aligner Photoresist Spin Coat Station Wire Bonding Base Development Wet Bench Solvent Wet Bench U/V Ozone Cleaning Scanning Electron Microscope (SEM) Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR Bourns College of Engineering Bourns B120B 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 tel: (951) 827-2551 fax: (951) 827-2233 Find Us Related Links Tool Reservation System Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search Cancel