Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions Global Regional Activities Regional Activities Africa Asia-Pacific California Europe Japan Latin America Mid-US Middle East & North Africa South Asia About Faculty & Research MBA Experience Executive Education Alumni …→ Harvard Business School→ Global→ About About Africa Asia Pacific California Europe Japan Latin America Mid-US Middle East & North Africa South Asia Fast Facts → Asia Pacific Asia Pacific Hong Kong, Shanghai, Singapore HBS established the first of the School's international research centers in Hong Kong in 1999, the Asia-Pacific Research Center (APRC). In 2010, the Harvard Center Shanghai (HSC) opened, home to a 90-seat HBS classroom, and more recent expansion has added an office in Singapore to more broadly support HBS faculty in this region. The three locations work in strong partnership with one another not only to support faculty research, but a full range of MBA and Executive Education student programming. Through their ongoing work they have developed important links with governments, academic institutions, and corporations within a region that is assuming an increasingly vital role in the world economy. Enabled by its local presence, the School has been able to enhance the breadth and depth of faculty research and case studies in the Asia-Pacific region. Locations Asia-Pacific Research Center 10 Pottinger Street, 24th Floor Hong Kong Tel: +852 2289 9988 Fax: +852 2521 1427 Harvard Center Shanghai 5/F, Shanghai IFC-HSBC Building No. 8 Century Avenue Pudong, Shanghai Tel: +86 21 3852 3800 Fax: +86 21 3852 3820 http://shanghaicenter.harvard.edu/ Singapore Office MYP Centre 9 Battery Road, 11F/12F Singapore 049910 Tel: +65 6422 7969 Fax: +65 6597 7099 News & Highlights March 2022 Events Webinar on Behind-the-Scenes: A Glimpse into Case Writing at the Asia-Pacific Research Center Harvard Business School Publishing and the Asia-Pacific Research Center co-organized an event this March to celebrate the HBS Case Centennial. APRC researchers delivered a presentation on case writing at HBS, using examples from their previous cases, providing useful tips and best practices, and highlighting recently published cases from the region. Participants had the opportunity to share their case writing experiences and challenges, suggest current topics in their region, and offer ideas for future sessions. The webinar aimed to build community and facilitate interaction and exchange of ideas among fellow educators. Event participants comprised of faculty members from various institutions in the Asia-Pacific region who are interested in writing and/or teaching cases. February 2022 Events New Venture Competition: Alumni Track Asia-Pacific Final This February the HBS Club of Shanghai hosted the 2022 HBS New Venture Competition (NVC) Alumni Track Asia-Pacific Final on Zoom. Eight new venture teams from China, Hong Kong, Australia, India, and Singapore pitched their business ideas to the HBS Asia-Pacific panel of judges and ran for the championship of NVC Asia-Pacific. BeSingular, an international tech education academy that aims to prepare the next generation with the skills necessary to create a real and responsible impact in the world, won the Asia Pacific Champion and will represent the region at the Global Finals. The New Venture Competition Alumni Track serves as a launchpad for innovative new ventures from HBS alumni, providing access and exposure to potential investors, mentors, and advisors. The annual event is Rock Center for Entrepreneurship and Alumni Clubs & Associations. The competition is open to alumni with early-stage ventures, and the winner receives an invitation to the Global Finals Round and the NVC Finale. January 2022 Events Webinar with Professor Arthur Brooks: From Strength to Strength This January, the Asia-Pacific Research Center and Harvard Center Shanghai organized a webinar with Professor Arthur C. Brooks where he discussed his happiness philosophy from his new book, From Strength to Strength: Finding Success, Happiness and Deep Purpose in the Second Half of Life. Jaime Augusto Zobel de Ayala, Chair of the HBS Asia-Pacific Advisory Board and Chairman of Ayala Corporation, facilitated the conversation with Professor Brooks and moderated a Q&A from the audience. Professor Brooks revealed how effectiveness and wellbeing at all stages of life come not from holding onto past achievements, but from cultivating new habits and a different understanding of success and fulfillment. Mr. Zobel de Ayala also shared his experience and insights on happiness and leadership as a profound business leader in Asia-Pacific. NOVEMBER - DECEMBER 2021 EVENTS 14th HBS Alumni Club of Shanghai Annual Entrepreneurship Forum The 14th HBS Alumni Club of Shanghai Annual Entrepreneurship Forum took place this November and December. The theme of this year’s forum was Entrepreneurial Empowerment. During the first event, representatives from the HBS Club of Shanghai moderated four discussions with distinguished keynote speakers, including Professor Willy Shih on Global Supply Chain, Mr. Lihong Qin (Co-Founder and President of NIO) on Electric Vehicles, Paul Yang (Partner and CEO of KKR Greater China) on Investment in China, and Professor Forest Reinhardt on Updates from HBS. The second part of the forum featured an in-person conference that took place at Harvard Center Shanghai and included panel discussions with HBS founders, entrepreneurs, and investors. Fifteen panelists discussed topics including Healthy Living, Re-defining “Made in China”, and Why Startups Fail. The third part of the forum was a social gathering to celebrate entrepreneurship and friendship with HBS local community. New Research on the Region Article Harvard Business Review Digital Articles Capture New Value from Your Existing Tech Infrastructure By: Stefan Thomke and Anthony Rodrigo When senior managers think about how to respond to the threats and opportunities of technological change, they often dream of the same thing: If they just could start a new company or division that isn’t held back by conventional thinking or outdated business models. But what if they asked themselves instead how they might extract the real value of their technology assets? That’s what Axiata Group, a Malaysia-based telecommunications conglomerate that operates in emerging Asian economies and has annual revenues of $6 billion, did. It leveraged its network assets to help small businesses, including startups, launch over 90,000 services in Sri Lanka and Bangladesh that generated revenues of more than $100 million in 2021 for Axiata. April 2022 Case NIO: A Chinese EV Company's Global Strategy By: William C. Kirby, Shu Lin and Noah B. Truwit Founded in November 2014 and based in Shanghai, NIO designed, jointly manufactured, and sold premium “smart” EVs. Its mission was to “shape a joyful lifestyle by offering high-performance smart electric vehicles and being the best user enterprise. At NIO Day 2021, Founder William Li shared plans for the company to expand to 25 different countries and regions by 2025, including the automobile juggernaut nation of Germany. Would users in other markets and cultures embrace his user enterprise and high-touch model? NIO faced tough competition ahead in the race for EV supremacy. April 2022 Article Comparative Politics Going Out or Opting Out? Capital, Political Vulnerability, and the State in China's Outward Investment By: Meg Rithmire How do state-business relations interact with outward investment in authoritarian regimes? This paper examines this question in the context of China’s rapid transformation into a major capital exporter. While most political economy scholarship focuses on firms’ economic profiles to discern preferences toward international openness, this paper shows the importance of domestic political status and specifically business’s vulnerability to the state in explaining the behavior of firms as they invest abroad and the state’s reaction. I present three types of domestic capital that differ in economic and political logic as they go abroad: tactical capital pursues political power and prestige, competitive capital pursues commercial goals, and crony capital seeks refuge from the state and asset expatriation. The Chinese regime’s approach to outward investment, which I characterize as mobilization campaigns adjusted over time and combined with targeted domestic regulation, endeavors to treat these different kinds of capital differently, deploying and disciplining tactical capital, enabling competitive capital, and constraining crony capital. See more research Hong Kong Staff Billy Chan Researcher Kitty Chow Executive Secretary Dawn Lau Associate Director Connie Yeung Office Manager Shanghai Staff Nancy Dai Managing Director and Executive Director, Harvard Center Shanghai; Executive Director, Asia-Pacific Research Center → Biography Nancy Dai Managing Director and Executive Director, Harvard Center Shanghai; Executive Director, Asia-Pacific Research Center Nancy Dai has 15 years of experience in doing business and management research in China. She has led a team of researchers to conduct research and develop cases in the Asia-Pacific region for HBS in addition to writing over 30 cases about companies in China. From November 2018 to March 2020, she worked at TencentX University and led the development and execution of executive education programs for start-up founders and Chairman/CEOs of well-established companies in China. She was a co-author of two books: “Gains and Pains: Globalization of Chinese Firms” and “Winning by Talent”. Nancy has an MBA from the Richard Ivey School of Business in Canada and an M.A. in English Language & Literature from Shanghai International Studies University. Contact Informationndai@hbs.edu Bonnie Cao Researcher Shu Lin Researcher Vina Tang Program Manager Tracy Qin Assistant Manager for Administration Sia Zhou Senior Program Coordinator Singapore Staff Adina Wong Senior Researcher ǁ Global Initiative Harvard Business School Boston, MA 02163 Email: global@hbs.edu →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College