Skip to main content Skip to main content SMU Home Giving Giving Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Simmons About Dean's Message Programs, Degrees, and Certifications Faculty and Staff Directory Simmons Governance Simmons School History Executive Board Simmons Luminary Award XPRIZE Honor Code Simmons Resources Travel-Study Programs Simmons Lecture Series AERA 2022 Graduation Ceremony May 2022 Paving the Way to Inclusion Conference Simmons Graduate Council Faculty and Administrative Position Openings Simmons Blogs and Social Media Hub Annette Caldwell Simmons Hall Harold Clark Simmons Hall Photo Tour Contact Us Academic Departments & Areas of Study Applied Physiology & Wellness B.S. | Applied Physiology & Sport Mgmt. Undergraduate Specializations Applied Physiology and Health Management Sport Management Sport Performance Leadership M.S. | Health Promotion Management M.S. | Sport Management Non-Degree | Wellness Dispute Resolution & Counseling M.S. | Counseling Specialties Clinical Mental Health Marriage, Couple and Family School Counseling M.A. | Dispute Resolution Non-Degree | Dispute Resolution Specialties Executive Coaching Education Policy & Leadership M.Ed. | PK-12 School Leadership M.Ed. | Higher Education Ed.D. | PK-12 School Leadership Ed.D. | Higher Education Graduate Liberal Studies MLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities DLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities Non-Degree | Science, Arts, & Humanities Ph.D. in Education Teaching & Learning B.S. | M.Ed | MBE | Ph.D. Graduate Specializations Bilingual Special Ed ESL Gifted Literacy Math STEM Urban Education Research Research A comprehensive list of Simmons research projects Faculty Research Publications & Presentations Recent research publications and presentations Center on Research & Evaluation (CORE) Offers comprehensive program evaluation services, largely in the non-profit sector, and performs education research Research in Mathematics Education Conducts research in mathematics education and disseminates findings Integrative Physiology Laboratory Investigates autonomic function and thermoregulation in healthy and clinical populations Locomotor Performance Laboratory Studies terrestrial locomotion and the relationship of muscle function to metabolic energy expenditure and performance Center for VR Learning Innovation Investigates the use of virtual, augmented and mixed reality for education and human development Youth Sports Impact Partnership SMU and the Children’s Health Andrews Institute have launched a collaboration dedicated to improving the health, activity levels, and well-being of kids. Research Resources for Simmons Faculty and Staff Technology and Education Cluster Our Faculty Community Engagement Advanced Placement Summer Institute Summer Institute for AP and Pre-AP Teachers The Budd Center Partners with community agencies to offer educational opportunities for disadvantaged children Center for Family Counseling Counseling services in Plano for individuals and families College Access Programs Programs and workshops that help students advance academically Institute for Leadership Impact Leaders in education, health and social enterprise enhance skills to lead organizations and solve real-world problems Project Connect A repository of ideas, activities and videos for educators interested in improving instruction for English Language Learners West Dallas STEM-Focused School Preparing students for the next generation of STEM jobs Alumni Search Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Teacher Education Undergraduate Undergraduate Undergraduate Programs UG Academic Records and Advising The Charles Butt Scholarship Graduate Graduate Admission Master of Education Program Master of Bilingual Education Master of Education: Educator Preparation Master of Education in Special Education Tuition Graduate Specializations Graduate Specializations Admission Tuition Bilingual Education Specialization Program English as a Second Language (ESL) Supplemental Specialization Gifted & Talented Specialization Learning Therapy Specialization Literacy Studies Mathematics Specialization Special Education Specialization STEM Specialization Urban Education Specialization Ph.D. Admission Course Descriptions ☰ Master of Bilingual Education SMU Simmons: Ranked among the top 12 private graduate schools of education nationally and among the top 3 public & private schools in Texas. Teacher Education Graduate Master of Bilingual Education Apply Now Request More Information Course Descriptions The Master of Bilingual Education (M.B.E.) degree at Southern Methodist University is designed to meet the needs of practicing teachers. Honoring human diversity in a multilingual and multicultural society Program Structure The Master of Bilingual Education degree program offers an interdisciplinary curriculum that prepares specialists in the field of bilingual education and master teachers of students who do not speak English as their primary language. Designed for in-service and pre-service teachers, the program includes requirements in bilingual education such as literacy, second language teaching, bilingual math and science instruction, linguistics, culture/multicultural education, and community-based research. The program meets the requirements of the Texas Education Agency for master's level programs in bilingual education. The faculty is drawn from the various academic disciplines represented in the University as well as professors from the Bilingual Education program. Visiting professors and lecturers also contribute to the offerings of the program. The program consists of 36 graduate-level course hours. The required courses in methodology, linguistics, culture, research, and the history and rationale of bilingual education offer maximum flexibility to those who are interested in broadening both their academic preparation and classroom skills. This degree program is designed for completion within two years. All program requirements for the graduate degree must be completed within six years. Requirements for Admission The program is intended for Spanish/English bilingual educators who have a near native or native command of Spanish and English. All MBE specialization courses integrate the language and culture of students in the Spanish-speaking world, particularly of students of Hispanic heritage living in the United States. Additional requirements can be viewed at Graduate Admission Process. Scholarship Information Generous need-based and program-based scholarships are available. Transfer Credit Applicants should not expect to receive more than six hours of transfer credit from other institutions. Students will need to submit a letter requesting transfer credit describing the course content along with an official transcript with these hours during the first semester of enrollment. Only courses with a grade of B or above can be transferred. Generally, no credit will be allowed toward the Master's degree for courses taken more than six years before acceptance into the program. Any exceptions to the requirements and policies stated above must have approval. Graduate Admission Master of Education Program Master of Bilingual Education Master of Education: Educator Preparation Master of Education in Special Education Tuition and Scholarships Request Information Upcoming Events Request info Contact the Department of Teaching & Learning Contact Us 214-768-2346 teacher@smu.edu Request Information Visit Us Harold Clark Simmons Hall 6401 Airline Rd., Suite 301 Dallas, TX 75205 Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 facebook twitter