COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW The Flats Apartments Section Menu Home Apply For Housing Shocker Hall The Flats The Suites Housing Rate Information Prospective Students Parents About Us Employment Opportunities Dining Services Summer Lodging FAQs COVID-19 & WSU Housing The Flats: Independent Living for Upperclassmen Students Built in 2017, The Flats is a state-of-the-art apartment complex and the newest housing option at Wichita State. The Flats is located in the heart of the Innovation Campus and consists of 1, 2, 3, & 4 bedroom apartments. Each apartment is fully furnished and comes with a full kitchen, washer & dryer, and a large common space with furniture. Each apartment consists of a combination of single and double room spaces. Each room within the apartment has its own bathroom and walk-in closet. Residents at The Flats experience the best of both worlds. They enjoy the perks of apartment living combined with the support and resources of a residence hall. Residential Curriculum Learning Outcomes: Learning Outcomes for Returning Residents Self-Discovery Residents will be able to analyze how their identity impacts their interactions with their fellow residents Residents will be able identify and compare 2 or more co-curricular opportunities within their chosen major Residents will be able to establish 3 goals for desired growth in themselves Life Skills Residents will be able to proactively reconcile personal standards of cleanliness with roommate’s standards of cleanliness Residents will be able to identify their conflict management style Residents will be able to reflect on how their choices impact others Community Engagement Residents will be able to utilize 2 campus resources Residents will be able to form meaningful relationships with at least 3 people Residents will be able utilize at least one academic resource Global Citizenship Residents will be able to participate in at least one civic activity Residents will be able to articulate positive aspects of perspectives that are different than their own Residents will be able to have at least 3 positive, intentional interactions with at least 5 different people from a different culture than their own. Floor Plans Rates Flats Arrival Guide Virtual Tours 360 Views Around The Flats Image Gallery Furniture Measurements: *Note: not all of these pieces are in each Flats apartment. Some variation may take place. Piece of Furniture Height Width Depth TV Stand (main area only) 16 inches 39 inches 21 inches Three Person Couch (main area only) 17 inches (from floor to seat) 67 inches Lounge Chair (main area only) 18 inches (from floor to seat) 23.5 inches Coffee table (main area only) 18 inches 18 inches 24 inches Desk (bedroom only) 24 inches 41.75 inches 29 inches Dresser (bedroom only) 24 inches 29 inches 30 inches Twin Bed Note: *some rooms in the flats have a full bed* 79 inches (can be higher if lofted) 37 inches Desk Chair (bedroom only) 17 inches (from floor to seat) The Flats also features... A large lobby area that includes: Ping Pong, Pool table, and Shuffleboard Large TVs and plenty of seating for programs Full kitchen Vending machines Study spaces near elevators throughout the building Contact Information Flats residents should visit the Suites information desk for mail, resources, and other needs. Suites Info Desk: 316-978-6600 Suites Regular Desk Hours: 6 AM - 10 PM RA On Duty Number 316-210-5912 Area Coordinator Terrence Jones Phone: 316-978-5843 Email: terrence.jones@wichita.edu Flats Mailing Address Resident's Name 2011 N. Innovation Blvd, Room # ____ Wichita, KS 67208 Flats Physical Address (for food deliveries, rideshare pick-up etc.) 4105 Mike Oatman Drive Wichita, KS 67208 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©