COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Certification Requests Section Menu Registrar Home Links for Faculty and Staff Links for Students Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) University Catalog Semester & Academic Calendars Schedule of Courses Residency Registration Final Exam Schedule Reactivation Transcripts Certifications Degree Works (degree audit) FAQ Diplomas Granting Student Record Access to Others (Proxy) Transfer to WSU Degree Certification Degree certifications are available through myWSU, which allows current, degree-seeking students to print their own verifications at no additional cost. These certifications can be presented to health insurance agencies, loan companies, car dealerships, housing authorities, consumer product companies, banks, etc., as official evidence of your degree earned at Wichita State University. Degree certifications are considered valid, certified documents. Detailed instructions Enrollment Certification Enrollment certifications are available through myWSU, which allows current, degree-seeking students to print their own verifications at no additional cost. These certifications can be presented to health insurance agencies, loan companies, car dealerships, housing authorities, consumer product companies, banks, etc., as official evidence of your enrollment at Wichita State University. Enrollment certifications are considered valid, certified documents. Detailed instructions Good Student Discount Certificate The National Student Clearinghouse can provide a Good Student Discount Certificate to be used for an auto insurer or other company that requests proof of status as a Good Student for the current term. WSU defines a GOOD STUDENT as one who is no older than 25, is enrolled fulltime, had a 3.0 GPA the last semester enrolled FT (within the last 12 months), and has an overall GPA of 2.500 or better. Detailed instructions International Scholarship Certification International students with scholarships requiring specific enrollment verifications or special requests should download the certification form and mail it to the Registrar's Office or drop it off at 117 Jardine Hall. $ Third Party Requests To conveniently serve our students, Wichita State has authorized the National Student Clearinghouse to act as its agent for verification of student enrollment status. Third parties wishing to verify student degrees or past/current enrollment MUST do so through the National Student Clearinghouse. The Registrar's Office will not verify this information directly over the phone or via email. Contact the National Student Clearinghouse at: National Student Clearinghouse 13454 Sunrise Valley Drive, Suite 300 Herndon, VA 20171 Telephone: (703) 742-4200 Fax: (703) 742-4239 Email: service@studentclearinghouse.org Former students and those with special requests should download the certification form and mail it to the Registrar's Office or drop it off at 117 Jardine Hall. $ Former Students or Special Requests Former students and those with special requests should download the certification form and mail it to the Registrar's Office or drop it off at 117 Jardine Hall. $ $ - Denotes there is a cost involved. See form for details. Contact Wichita State University Registrar's Office 1845 Fairmount St Wichita, KS 67260-0058 Phone: (316) 978-3055 Fax: (316) 978-3795 Email: student.verification@wichita.edu Visit us: Jardine Hall, Room 117 Monday - Tuesday 8 a.m.-6 p.m. and Wednesday - Fridays 8 a.m.-5 p.m. 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©