Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation About About Georgia Tech History & Traditions Rankings Mission & Vision Our Values Ethics Visitor Information Institute Leadership Office and Department Directory Student, Staff, and Faculty Directory Careers at Tech Academics Academic Environment Majors and Degrees Colleges and Schools Continuing and Professional Education Georgia Tech Online Academic Calendar Admissions Prospective Students Admissions Overview Campus Tours Tuition and Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Digital Swag Campus Life Explore the Main Campus Student Activities Athletics Georgia Tech Yellow Jackets Tickets Ramblin Wreck Store Research Research Areas Research News News & Events News Center Experts Guide Feature Stories Campus Calendar Media Contacts Apply Give Search Search form Enter your keywords Get the latest Covid-19 health information, operational status updates, and campus guidelines. You are here: GT Home Bachelor of Science in Mathematics Undergraduate Math Degree Overview A degree in Math at Georgia Tech includes technology-focused curriculum and state-of-the-art laboratories. The Bachelor's in Mathematics program offers these key advantages as well: Flexible degree options. Customize your degree to fit your specific interests and career goals. Undergraduate research. From research courses to international research trips, internships, and co-op positions, the possibilities are endless. Atlanta location. Atlanta, Georgia is one of the most tech-savvy cities in the U.S. and home to some of the world’s biggest companies. As a Mathematics major, you will develop a basic competence and knowledge of mathematical techniques. You will develop a strong understanding of quantitative thinking and know how to apply a systems approach to solve real-life situations. Mathematics Degree Concentrations and Options Concentrations Customize your curriculum plan to match your specific interests and career plans. Applied Mathematics Discrete Mathematics Probability and Statistics Pure Mathematics Options Increase your competitiveness for jobs and graduate school by adding a designation to your degree. Build a business perspective into your degree without adding the hours required for a minor. Learn about the Business Option. Pursue an in-depth, long-term research experience that culminates in a final paper or thesis. Learn more about the Research Option. Mathematics Major Requirements The Mathematics degree curriculum requirements include general core classes; technical courses that provide a strong background in mathematics; technical electives to explore areas in greater depth; courses involving undergraduate research, and free electives. Download a typical eight-semester schedule (pdf) Mathematics Undergraduate Courses Solid set of basic and advance core courses that all students take. Individualized set of courses according to the student interest. Research and internship opportunities. View all of the BS in Mathematics requirements and course descriptions Rankings and Awards Georgia Tech’s School of Mathematics faculty members are frequently recognized for their outstanding contributions to their fields, including: 12 American Mathematical Society Fellows Recognition of those who have made outstanding contributions to the creation, exposition, advancement, communication, and utilization of mathematics. 12 Sloan Research Fellowships Awarded for distinguished performance and a unique potential to make substantial contributions to their field. 19 National Science Foundation CAREER Award winners The NSF’s most prestigious award for early-career teacher-scholars who most effectively integrate research and education within the context of the mission of their organization. See more external awards and recipients Mathematics Degree Careers Mathematics jobs and career paths span a range of occupational fields that value problem-solving and analytical skills, such as: Business Statistics Actuarial science Computing Teaching Industrial research Academia What Are Georgia Tech Graduates Doing Now? Software Engineers Data Scientists Professors at prestigious universities Ph.D. students, Postdoctoral fellows and instructors at highly-ranked U.S. universities Retired Chairman/Chief Executive Officer Common Job Titles and Average Salaries Actuary: $58K-$180K Information Security Analyst: $50K-$140K Mathematician: $55K-$157K Source: U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics Research Opportunities Undergraduate students are invited to apply for an eight-week research program sponsored by the National Science Foundation. Get more details about the program. Pursue research with a professor either for course credit, or as paid research without course credit. Learn more about the Undergraduate Research Semester. Honors Honors courses Pi Mu Epsilon National Mathematics Honors Society Beyond the Classroom Get a head start on your success at Tech through this non-credit, residential program that reviews fundamental calculus concepts and provides strategies for academic success. Learn more about Tech Prep: The Calculus Advantage. Gain employment experience and benefit from real-world experience in your field. Learn more about the Co-op Program and internships. Join a math club, society, or competition. Find out what’s available: Undergraduate Student Activities. Georgia Tech offers several study abroad programs. Learn more about study abroad opportunities led by College of Sciences faculty. Stories from the School of Mathematics Meet Libby, Math Undergrad Student The Magic of Math Advice from Alumnus Bob Price, Retired CEO Decades-Old Math Problem Solved Related Degrees BS in Computer Science Minor in Mathematics MS in Mathematics MS in Statistics Related Websites College of Sciences School of Mathematics Next Steps Subscribe to the Prospective Student e-newsletter Register for the "It's All About Science & Math" information session Learn How to Apply Apply Now Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Google Plus Instagram Flickr Pinterest RSS Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites & Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Savannah Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student & Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Resources Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Student Life Scholarships & Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, & Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising & Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources Office of the Provost TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Government & Community Partners Professional Education Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login