Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Public Relations Certificate (Graduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Public Relations Certificate (Graduate) Apply Request More Info Public Relations Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Graduate Certificate in Public Relations Learn how to effectively present public images and prepare for a career in a rapidly changing media landscape with the Graduate Certificate in Public Relations in the Lew Klein College of Media and Communication at Temple. This 12-credit certificate program is designed for current public relations professionals to further their expertise in the field, and for students who want to capitalize on growing trends in public relations before entering the industry. Through communication theories and real-world practice, you’ll gain an in-depth understanding of the vital components of public relations—from data and technology to consulting and ethics—to help you excel in the workplace. After completing the Public Relations certificate program, you’ll be able to present campaign ideas to executives through oral and written methods, become involved in high-level decision-making as a communication consultant, analyze and research how advances in technology are impacting the industry, understand the legal and ethical issues of public relations practices through various perspectives, and utilize digital tools to analyze key campaign metrics and results. Delivery Method The Public Relations certificate program is held entirely online, making it ideal for public relations managers, leaders and working professionals. The online format gives students the ability to communicate with instructors and classmates virtually, flexibility in submitting assignments, and easy access to various resources. Courses in this certificate program can count towards the Communication Management MS should you want to pursue a master’s degree. You can also earn these certificates to fulfill additional course requirements in the master’s program. Program Format & Curriculum Classes for the Graduate Certificate in Public Relations are held entirely online and can be completed synchronously or asynchronously on a part-time basis. The 12-credit, four-course program is comprised of the following classes. Consulting and Consultation in Public Relations Data Driven Insights Law and Ethics in Public Relations Storytelling Through Innovation Learn more about the Graduate Certificate in Public Relations courses. Related Graduate Certificates Conflict Management and Dispute Resolution Strategic Communication and Cross-Cultural Leadership Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Graduate Certificate offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,078.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,441.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors Faculty advisors can help you navigate your program and discuss research opportunities, teaching assistantships and more. Learn more about Klein College of Media and Communication faculty. Program Contact For more information about the Graduate Certificate in Public Relations, please contact Kaitlin Pierce, associate director of the graduate office. Email: kaitlin.pierce@temple.edu Phone: 215-204-8560 Gregg Feistman, associate chair for public relations. Email: greggf@temple.edu Phone: 215-204-0532 Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. CO-PR-GRAD Additional Program Information Available online. School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Public Relations Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info