Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of the Bursar Bursar right arrow down arrow Tuition & Fees right arrow down arrow Tuition Guarantee Policy Graduate & Professional Students Non-Resident Surcharges Program Fees Special Course Fees Student Health Insurance How Fees Are Determined Prior Year Tuition & Fees right arrow down arrow Academic Year 2021-2022 right arrow down arrow Graduate & Professional Students Non-Resident Surcharges Program Fees Special Course Fees Student Health Insurance Academic Year 2020-2021 right arrow down arrow Graduate & Professional Students Non-Resident Surcharges Program Fees Special Course Fees Student Health Insurance Academic Year 2019-2020 right arrow down arrow Graduate & Professional Students Non-Resident Surcharges Program Fees Special Course Fees Student Health Insurance Paying your Bill right arrow down arrow Payment Options Tuition Payment Plan International Payments Scholarship Payments Billed Sponsored Aid Veterans Benefits Refunds right arrow down arrow Direct Deposit Enrollment Refund Frequently Asked Questions Tuition Refund Appeals right arrow down arrow Tuition Refund Appeals Process Frequently Asked Questions Tuition Insurance Past Due Accounts right arrow down arrow Collections Payment Plans Collections Timeline Loans right arrow down arrow Short Term Loan Loan Repayment Student Loan FAQ's Tax Forms & Disclosures right arrow down arrow Form 1098-T right arrow down arrow Detailed Explantion of the 1098-T Form 1098-T FAQs Form 1042-S Banking Contract Disclosure Contact Us right arrow down arrow The Team Bursar Contact Form Home » About UC » Office of the Bursar » Loans Set Navigation title in component Short Term Loan Loan Repayment Student Loan FAQ's Loans The Office of the Bursar through its Collections department is responsible for the the repayment and collection of loan payments for the campus-based Perkins Loan, Health Professions Loan, Nursing Loan and Institutional Short Term Loans. The billing service used for these loans is Heartland ECSI. Loan Exit Counseling The U.S. Department of Education (ED) is concerned that students who have borrowed loans fully understand their loan balances and repayment responsibilities. Therefore, whenever students graduate or discontinue their education for any period other than summer term, student loan borrowers are required to complete loan exit counseling. Federal Perkins, Nursing, Health Professions, and institutional loan borrowers complete specific exit counseling available from the UC Collections Office and Heartland ECSI's online tool. Even if you plan to enroll again, loan exit counseling at the time you take a break from your education beyond summer term provides valuable information on your loans. Each loan counseling session takes approximately 25 minutes to complete, and UC will receive record of your successful completion within 48 hours. You will need a specific PIN to access the system; call 1-888-549-3274 to obtain your Heartland ECSI PIN. University of Cincinnati’s school code is "3W". Your SSN will be your account number. CONTINUE TO HEARTLAND ECSI EXIT COUNSELING Exit counseling is required when one of the following conditions is met: graduation, complete withdrawal, less than half-time or no enrollment, or no upcoming fall registration for a returning student. While it is always important to complete loan exit counseling when notified (even if you plan to re-enroll in classes), failure to complete loan exit counseling for Federal Perkins, Nursing, Health Professions, or institutional loans can result in service block holds on the release of your UC transcripts. Completing exit counseling does not put your loans into repayment. It only provides key information on understanding your loans and responsibilities. Office of the Bursar University of Cincinnati 2618 McMicken Circle 500 University Pavilion Cincinnati, OH 45221 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Office of the Bursar University of Cincinnati 2618 McMicken Circle 500 University Pavilion Cincinnati, OH 45221 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top