Skip to main content Undergraduate Admissions Navigation Academics Admissions FreshmanTransferInternationalTransient, Non-Degree Seeking and Second Bachelor’sDual Enrollment and Early AdmissionAdmitted StudentsRequest InfoCheck Status Cost and Aid Visit FAQs View All FAQsFreshmanApplication ProcessAdmitted StudentsCost, Fees and Financial AidCampus Visits and ToursHousing and Campus Life Resources For High School StudentsFor ParentsFor CounselorsVirtual Info SessionsAdmission FormsJoin Our Mailing ListContact Us Apply Application Process Frequently Asked Questions We answer questions about the UCF application process, application deadlines, the best time to apply, checking an application’s status, appeals, decisions and more. Can I qualify for in-state tuition if I have DACA? Undocumented students, with or without DACA, can be eligible for in-state tuition if they meet the requirements stated in Florida Statute F.S. 1009.26. These requirements include: Attend a secondary school in this state for 3 consecutive years immediately before graduating from a high school in this state; Apply for enrollment in an institution of higher education within 24 months after high school graduation; Submit an official hard copy Florida high school transcript as evidence of attendance and graduation. Florida Statute F.S. 1009.26 (Fee Waivers) In State Fee Waiver Request Form Do I need to have my international academic credentials evaluated? International high school credentials are evaluated by UCF and do not need to be sent to an external evaluation agency for evaluation. However, international post-secondary (college or university) credentials do need to be sent to either World Education Services or Josef Silny & Associates for a course-by-course evaluation. Does UCF Admissions require recommendations, essays or interviews? Letters of recommendation are not required and will not be considered in the general admission process. The application for admission provides space for a listing of extra and co-curricular activities; this portion of the application should be completed in lieu of submitting supplemental materials. The essay is an optional component of the application for admission. If you elect to submit an essay, please select a topic within the application form and submit it within your completed application. Supplemental materials – including essays – sent after application submission will not be included in your admission file. UCF does not conduct interviews as part of the undergraduate application or admission process. Does UCF have specific essay or personal statement topics? Although optional, an essay assists the Admissions Committee in knowing you as an individual, independent of test scores and other objective data. We ask that you respond to two of the topics below. Your responses should be no longer than a total of 500 words or 7,000 characters. If there has been some obstacle or bump in the road in your academic or personal life, please explain the circumstances. How has your family history, culture or environment influenced who you are? Why did you choose to apply to UCF? What qualities or unique characteristics do you possess that will allow you to contribute to the UCF community? Does UCF offer any English language learning programs? Yes, The English Language Institute at UCF offers an intensive, student-focused, English learning curriculum based on face-to-face instruction. How can I apply for the grandparent tuition waiver? Known as the “grandparent tuition waiver,” out-of-state students who earn a designated SAT or ACT score and meet other requirements may be eligible to have UCF’s out-of-state tuition fees waived if they have a grandparent who legally resides in Florida. The waiver would apply to 110% of a degree program’s required credit hours. Waivers awarded by the Office of Undergraduate Admissions, including the Grandparent Waiver, may not be combined with other admissions merit-based scholarships. The Grandparent Waiver Instructions and Application form is available on the Forms Page. NOTE: Recipients of the Grandparent Waiver must submit a $200 Enrollment Deposit by the May 1 deposit deadline. Since UCF has a limited number of waivers to award, students who do not submit a $200 Enrollment Deposit by the deadline may have their Grandparent Waiver revoked. How can I find out what courses or credits will transfer to UCF? College-level coursework from other accredited institutions of higher education, meeting university transfer eligibility requirements will transfer to UCF. However, all your credits may not meet the specific requirements of your degree program. The department of your major will determine how these credits will be used and applied toward your degree. UCF currently uses a plus/minus system in calculating a grade point average for transferred coursework. In addition, grade forgiveness is only honored if it has been awarded in conjunction with an A.A. or statewide articulated A.S. degree from a Florida public community college, state college or university. All incoming courses will be reviewed for UCF equivalency once you are admitted. The Transfer Credit Evaluation, located in your myUCF portal (navigate to Student Self Service > Other Academic) will list all courses received at the time of admission as well as any associated UCF equivalencies. For courses without a UCF equivalent, you will have the opportunity to upload a syllabus and the course will be evaluated. You will have limited time to submit syllabi if needed, so you should review the Transfer Credit Evaluation in myUCF at your earliest convenience. UCF has created a convenient transfer equivalency portal to access a database of established course equivalencies from other institutions. While actual awarding of transfer credit occurs after official transcripts are received from the sending institution, the portal can provide guidance as you plan your transition to UCF. How can I gain readmission if I previously attended UCF? Submit your readmission application through the Registrar’s Office. You can contact the office at registrar.ucf.edu or 407-823-3100. How can I increase my competitiveness in the applicant pool? The Admissions Committee looks at many factors when reviewing a student’s application. The admission decision is made primarily based upon the academic credentials (high school GPA, rigor of course work, and SAT/ACT scores). To increase their competitiveness in the applicant pool, students are encouraged to submit 1st semester senior grades and/or updated SAT/ACT scores. How can I qualify for a waiver of the application fee? Your $30 application fee can be waived on the basis of financial hardship by uploading one of the following items within your application at the time of submission: An SAT, ACT, SCOIR or NACAC fee waiver form from your high school guidance office; Documentation from your high school showing your eligibility for a free or reduced lunch; Your family’s most recent tax return If a Social Security Number (SSN) appears on the waiver request, please black out all but the last four digits for security purposes. How can I send my Cambridge AICE scores to UCF? If you are a U.S. student, you may request to have your Cambridge AICE transcript submitted to the Office of Undergraduate Admissions through the Cambridge International Grade Transcript Service. Use the following information when completing the form. Name and job title of person receiving results transcript: Debra Reynolds, Director of Operations and Technology University name: University of Central Florida Mailing address of person receiving results transcript: UCF Undergraduate Admissions, P.O. Box 160111, Orlando, FL 32816-0111 University email address: [email protected] How do I appeal an admission decision? A student who is denied admission to UCF for academic reasons only has a right to appeal that decision. If a student chooses to appeal, they must submit a letter of appeal, clearly stating the reasons why they believe they should be admitted to the university. Letters can be mailed or emailed to: Admissions and Standards Committee c/o The Executive Director of Undergraduate Admissions P.O. Box 160111 Orlando, FL 32816-0111 -or- [email protected] How do I apply to UCF as a transient student? You are a transient student if you are seeking a degree at another institution and would like to take courses at UCF on a temporary basis. Transient admission is for one semester only, after which courses completed at UCF are transferred back to your home institution. Florida public community/state college and university students: You will need to complete the Transient Student Application through Florida Shines. Your application will be processed by the Registrar’s Office at UCF. If you are attending any college or university other than a Florida public institution, you will need to complete an application for admission. Your application will be processed by Undergraduate Admissions at UCF. In addition to completing the online application, you will need to submit an official transcript from your last institution attended. How do I let UCF know I am accepting a spot on the waitlist? If you wish to remain under consideration for admission, you must accept a spot on the waitlist if offered. Your application will be denied if you choose to decline a waitlist offer. You can confirm a waitlist offer on your Future Knight Portal. How do I obtain/verify Florida residency for tuition purposes? Your residency classification is based upon information from your application — documentation of your Florida residency may be required. If you have already attended UCF as an undergraduate student and wish to reclassify your residency for tuition purposes, please visit the registrar’s office website for information on residency reclassification. How do I send a transcript to UCF? We suggest contacting your school(s) individually to determine how they send transcripts. Undergraduate Admissions can accept official transcripts through U.S. mail or electronically when sent directly from your institution through a secure delivery service. Electronic transcripts can only be accepted as official if they are delivered through one of the following approved transcript service providers: SPEEDE (Addressed Institution ID: 10002 Institution ID: 730000000395400) Parchment Exchange (including Naviance and Docufide) National Student Clearinghouse Credential Solutions Scribbles Software AARTS and SMART transcripts (military service only, not required for admission) SCOIR NOTE: If the transcript delivery service asks you to provide an email address to send transcripts to, please use [email protected]. When sending a transcript through one of the above service providers, their system may indicate that it has been delivered; however, please allow two to three weeks for UCF Undergraduate Admissions to process these documents. Instead of sending duplicates, please verify receipt of the transcript through your application status on your Future Knight Portal. Hard copy transcripts may be sent to: UCF Undergraduate Admissions P.O. Box 160111 Orlando, FL 32816-0111 How does UCF view Pass/Fail and Satisfactory (S)/Unsatisfactory (U) grades on transcripts? Your UCF recalculated GPA for admission purposes is determined by what your high school puts on your official transcript and by which method of grading your institution has chosen to adopt. Completed courses being graded as Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory will not affect your UCF recalculated GPA. Courses receiving an “S (Satisfactory)” earn credit for being completed. Courses receiving a “U (Unsatisfactory)” will not earn credit. Courses that are marked “P (Pass)” will also result in credit earned and will not impact your UCF recalculated GPA. However, courses that are marked “F (Fail)” will be viewed as a failing grade and an “F” will be included in your UCF recalculated GPA. It is important to know which option your school is offering and fully understand the potential consequences of your choices if you are given options for U, S, P or F marks. If you are transferring college level coursework to UCF, you should know that certain degree programs require a “B” grade or higher in some courses. You should contact the academic advising office in the college of your major for additional information on how these marks may impact transfer credit. How long does it take for an electronic transcript to arrive at UCF? Electronic transcripts usually arrive at the university within five to ten business days after being sent from the institution of origin. All documents, including documents submitted electronically, require processing time once received by UCF. Document processing time varies by time of year: Non-Peak: 5-7 business days minimum from date of receipt Peak times (around application deadlines and the start of every semester): 7-10 business days minimum from date of receipt To avoid delays, submit all required documents as early as possible and well before deadlines. How long does it take for Undergraduate Admissions to process any document I submit? All documents, including documents submitted electronically, require transit and processing time. Document processing time varies by time of year: Non-Peak: 5-7 business days minimum from date of receipt Peak times (around application deadlines and the start of every semester): 7-10 business days minimum from date of receipt To avoid delays, submit all required documents as early as possible and well before deadlines. I am currently in the U.S. military or am a U.S. military veteran or eligible dependent. Does UCF offer services for me? Yes, the Veterans Academic Resource Center (VARC) is your one-stop solution to all your needs as a student veteran or eligible dependent. Visit the VARC Website I am graduating from an international high school. What academic credentials do I have to submit? Please refer to our Country Reference Guide for a list of secondary school credentials required by country. If your country is not listed, please contact us at [email protected]. I am on the waitlist. What does that mean? Admission to UCF is more competitive today than at any other time in our history. We typically receive approximately 30,000 freshman applications for an incoming class of 6,400. As a result, a number of students are offered space on our waitlist. It is important to understand that a waitlist offer is not the same as being denied; you are still being considered for admission to UCF. Should space open up in our freshman class, the Admissions Committee will reevaluate your application, and you may be removed from the waitlist and offered admission. I have DACA status or am undocumented. Can I apply to UCF? Undocumented students, with or without DACA, are welcome to apply for admission and enroll at the University of Central Florida. Admission is based upon the strength of a student’s academic credentials, regardless of their immigration status. Undocumented and DACA applicants will discover a welcoming atmosphere and a supportive community at UCF. For detailed information regarding the application process, please refer to our website and the steps to apply by applicant type: First-year Applicants Transfer Applicants I requested my transcript electronically yesterday. Shouldn’t I see you received it on my Future Knight Portal today? No. Electronic transcripts usually arrive at the university within five to ten business days after being sent from the institution of origin. All documents, including documents submitted electronically, require transit and processing time. Document processing time varies by time of year: Non-Peak: 5-7 business days minimum from date of receipt Peak times (around application deadlines and the start of every semester): 7-10 business days minimum from date of receipt To avoid delays, submit all required documents as early as possible and well before deadlines. I was home-schooled or received a GED. What should I submit? UCF will consider applications from students who are educated through a home-school program. If your home-school follows a traditional U.S.-based high school curriculum, you should complete and submit a SPARK form. Otherwise, please email [email protected] for assistance. Once you finish your home-school program, you will be required to submit a final official transcript that includes a list of all coursework, showing final grades and units earned for each course completed. A brief description of the methods used for evaluation should accompany the home-school transcript. If home-schooled applicants previously attended another school or completed courses through the Florida Virtual School or through dual enrollment at a local college or university, official transcripts are required. Those courses should also be reflected on the home-school transcript. Applicants who present a GED will also be considered for admission. Official GED results, a partial high school transcript, and ACT and/or SAT results must be submitted. Must I disclose my status as an undocumented/DACA when I apply to UCF? Undocumented students, with or without DACA, are not obligated to disclose their status. For detailed information on the application process, please contact the Office of Undergraduate Admissions. What are my NID and my UCFID? Your NID is your secure sign-on for many systems at UCF, including myUCF and online courses. To obtain your NID, go to myUCF, click Sign On, click What is my NID, then follow the instructions to obtain your NID and create a password. Your UCF ID is the number you will use to identify yourself when you call or visit offices across campus, including Undergraduate Admissions. To obtain your UCF ID, go to myUCF, log in using your NID and password, click Student Self Service > Personal Information >UCF ID Info. This page will display your UCF ID, your NID and your UCF ID Card number, once you have been issued one. What are the foreign language requirements? The state of Florida requires that you demonstrate proficiency in a world language or American Sign Language equivalent to at least the second high school level (e.g., Spanish II) or the second elementary course at the college level (e.g., SPN 1211 – Beginning Spanish II). Please visit our Freshman Applicants or Transfer page for details on the satisfaction of foreign language for admission. This requirement will be satisfied upon receipt of the A.A. degree from a Florida public community/state college or university if you initially entered Fall 2014–15 of after. What documents do I need to submit with my application? To review requirements and required documents, please visit the homepage and select the category of student that best describes you. What is an official transcript? An official transcript is a sealed record sent directly to UCF from an institution you attended. You can send an official transcript yourself if the envelope has not been opened. What is the cost of attendance for an international student? For a list of estimated expenses for international students with F-1 or J-1 visas, please refer to the Certification of Finances form issued by UCF Global. All other students can visit our Cost & Aid page or the current fee schedule for estimated cost of attendance. What is the physical address of UCF Undergraduate Admissions? For certified or overnight mail, packages or if you plan to use a shipping service (e.g. DHL, FedEx, UPS, etc.), please send correspondences to the following address: UCF Undergraduate Admissions 12585 Gemini Boulevard South Orlando, FL 32816 What methods of payment do you accept for my admission application fee and my enrollment deposit? A major credit or debit card is accepted as payment for both the $30 admission application fee and the $200 enrollment deposit. What number am I on the waitlist? The waitlist at UCF is not ranked. All students accepting a waitlist offer will be considered for admission to the university on a space-available basis. When can I take the SAT and/or ACT exam? Students should register for and take the SAT and/or ACT exams early – preferably once in their junior year and again at the beginning of the senior year of high school. SAT and ACT administration dates are published by the respective testing agencies and can be viewed here: SAT Test Administration Dates ACT Test Administration Dates When will I receive an admission decision? UCF operates on rolling admission. You will be notified of your decision as soon as possible, but no later than May 31 of each year. Updates to your admission status will be available on your Future Knight Portal. When is the application deadline? Freshman Application Deadlines Fall: May 1 Spring: November 1 Summer: March 1 Transfer Application Deadlines: Fall: July 1 Spring: November 1 Summer: March 1 All International Application Deadlines Fall: March 1 Spring: September 1 Summer: January 1 View Academic Calendar When is the best time to apply for admission? You can apply up to one year prior to the term for which you plan to enroll. Freshmen should apply early (between September and December of their senior year in high school) for maximum consideration in the admission and scholarship review process. Apply Today Who can apply to UCF using The Common Application? Currently, only first-time-in-college (freshmen) students may apply to UCF using the Common App. Students wishing to transfer to UCF should complete the UCF institutional application for admission. Additionally,first-time-in-college students may, if they choose, submit their application via the UCF institutional application for admission. Apply via the Institutional Application for Admissions I'm having technical difficulties submitting The Common App. Who should I contact? For technical questions regarding your Common Application to UCF, you may contact the Common App Solutions Center, 24/7 year-round. The Solutions Center also holds online chats throughout application season and allows you to contact them via a web form. A search function also exists using keywords to direct you to the appropriate web-based resources. Go to the Common App Solutions Center How do I check my application status using my Future Knight Portal? Please visit your Future Knight Portal and log in using your email address and password. The status page will display a checklist of required documents. You can confirm receipt of documents and view your admissions decision (if available). How will I be notified about an admission decision? For all changes to your admission status, including final decisions, you will receive an email sent to your current email address on file notifying you of the change. Your status will also be posted to your Future Knight Portal. I am a student who has been impacted by Hurricane Maria. What are my options? During fall 2018, the UCF Board of Trustees extended the initial waiver for out-of-state tuition and fees through summer 2023 for residents of Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands who were enrolled by spring 2019 in any Florida public institution and maintain continuous enrollment*. *Continuous enrollment means that you do not sit out for 2 major consecutive semesters (ex. fall/spring or spring/fall.) View the Waiver Request for Hurricane Maria Relief Efforts If I don’t rank in the top 10 percent of my high school senior class, but I still have strong academic credentials, can I still be admitted to UCF? Yes! Apply Now Should I apply for scholarships and financial aid? Yes. You should file for financial aid and continue to apply for scholarships. Should you be admitted from the waitlist, any awards and financial aid for which you have qualified will be applied to your student account. What about the May 1 admission and enrollment deposit deadline? It is possible that you will be notified of your decision after the May 1 deadline. This is not unusual for students on the waitlist. If you are admitted, you will be given a new deposit deadline. What are the chances that I will be moved off of the waitlist? It is difficult to predict how many students may be offered admission from the waitlist. The number of spaces, if any, that open in our freshman class determines the number of students admitted. You are encouraged to submit updated transcripts and/or SAT/ACT scores for the Admissions Committee to review. Related FAQs Does UCF require standardized tests? Yes. All freshmen must submit an official SAT [code: 5233] or ACT [code: 0735] score — they must be reported directly to the university electronically or via U.S. mail. For international students, the TOEFL or the IELTS exam may also be required. Who can attend a UCF regional campus? To attend a UCF regional campus, you have to meet admission requirements, including admission into UCF with an A.A. or A.S. degree or having 60+ credit hours. Learn More About UCF Regional Campuses View All FAQs Become a Knight Ready to get started? Take the next step to save your spot at UCF. Plus, if you’re short on time, you can start your application today and finish later. Apply Now Contact Us Mailing Address P.O. Box 160111 Orlando, FL 32816-0111 Contact Email: [email protected] Phone: 844-376-9160 Fax: 407-823-5625 Business Hours Mon - Fri: 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. Closed Weekends & Holidays Application Deadlines Freshman Applicants Fall: May 1 Spring: November 1 Summer: March 1 Transfer Applicants Fall: July 1 Spring: November 1 Summer: March 1 International Applicants Fall: March 1 Spring: September 1 Summer: January 1 More Resources FAQs Admission Forms Accreditation Annual Security Report Accessibility Request Info Let’s Get Social Facebook Twitter