Skip to Main Content Brown University Graduate Programs Search Menu Graduate Programs Musicology and Ethnomusicology Ph.D. school Graduate School department Music Inquire Apply All Graduate Programs Navigate This Page Navigate This Page About the Program Admission Information Completion Requirements Alumni Outcomes Leadership Contact and Location Brown's Ph.D. program in Musicology and Ethnomusicology allows students to study music of any kind from several perspectives, within a richly interdisciplinary environment. The program's distinctively flexible curriculum permits students to sample liberally from departmental graduate seminars, and also encourages them to explore course offerings in other academic units. Students begin learning about the methods and materials of music studies with core seminars in ethnomusicology and historiography, while creating individually tailored programs of further study that suit their scholarly and professional needs. This might mean developing fluency in textual analysis, ethnography, historiography, critical theory and science and technology studies, all of which fall within the program's inclusive approach to the study of music and sound. The smaller size of the program facilitates close mentoring relationships with the faculty, allowing students to receive guidance about their research from scholars with a variety of interests and approaches. Recent dissertations have explored such diverse matters as Afrocentric consciousness in Brazilian capoeira, carnival performance in mixed-race South African communities, Scandinavian white nationalism and Turkish intellectual property law. Faculty interests and seminar offerings range across fields like critical organology, ecocriticism, improvisation studies, intellectual property, sound studies, technoculture and transnationalism. Students also have the option of taking courses within the music department's outstanding Ph.D. program in Music and Multimedia Composition, of developing performing skills in several ensembles, and of engaging with campus entities like the Cogut Institute for the Humanities or the Brown Arts Initiative. A Brown doctoral degree in musicology and ethnomusicology leads to a career in college and university teaching, or to a position in applied work outside the academy. Admission Information Inquire Apply Admission Requirements GRE Subject: Not required GRE General: Not required (optional) Writing Sample: Required (c. 20–25 pages, in area of interest) Dates/Deadlines Admission Deadline December 15, 2021 Completion Requirements All of the eight courses required for the A.M.; three courses from MUSC2080 or 2090; a half–credit writing seminar, focused on preparation for qualifying exams; additional elective courses (for a total of at least 18 course credits over three years of A.M./Ph.D. coursework); written and oral comprehensive examinations; dissertation. Alumni Careers Learn More Leadership Department Chair Emily Dolan emily_dolan@brown.edu Director of Graduate Studies Joshua Tucker christopher_joshua_tucker@brown.edu Contact and Location Department of Music Mailing Address Brown University Box 1924 music@brown.edu 401-863-3234 Visit the Department of Music Resources Program Faculty Program Handbook Graduate School Handbook Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Graduate School School of Engineering School of Professional Studies School of Public Health Warren Alpert Medical School This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Musicology and Ethnomusicology Open details for Musicology and Ethnomusicology Bookmark this Page