Skip to main content Skip to main content my.SMU News & Events Library Master Calendar Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Contact Us Contact Us Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Google+ Follow Us Twitter Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us Tumblr Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Social SMU Facebook SMU Google Plus SMU Twitter SMU LinkedIn SMU Tumblr SMU YouTube SMU Instagram Skip to main content Law About About Dean's Welcome Diversity and Inclusion Fast Facts Living & Studying in Dallas Why SMU Dedman Law? Academics Academics Academic Advising Academic Calendar Registrar's Office Academic Success Program (ASP) Bar Exam Resources Course Schedules and Registration Information Degree Programs Experiential Learning Externship Programs Forms Law Journals Planning Your Academic Program Study Abroad in Oxford Admissions Admissions Costs and Financial Aid FAQs J.D. Programs Graduate Programs How to Apply Meet Our Students Visiting SMU Virtual Tour of SMU Contact Admissions Alumni & Giving Alumni & Giving 2022 Alumni Happy Hours 2022 Reunion Weekend Alumni Chapters Career Services Class Notes Community Fellows Contact Alumni Relations Distinguished Alumni Awards Emerging Leader Board Executive Board Get Involved Law Firm Challenge Publications Update Alumni Information Career Services Career Services Students Employers Alumni Employment Statistics Career Services Team Contact Office of Career Services Reciprocity Centers & Initiatives Centers & Initiatives Jennifer M. Collins Women's Leadership Initiative Judge Elmo B. Hunter Legal Center For Victims of Crimes Against Women Robert B. Rowling Center for Business Law & Leadership Tsai Center for Law, Science and Innovation W. W. Caruth, Jr. Institute for Children's Rights Deason Criminal Justice Reform Center Clinics Clinics W.W. Caruth, Jr. Child Advocacy Clinic Civil/Consumer Clinic COVID-19 Legal Helpline Criminal Clinic Family Immigration Detention Clinic Federal Tax Clinic First Amendment Clinic Judge Elmo B. Hunter Legal Center for Victims of Crimes Against Women Innocence Clinic Patent Law Clinic Small Business and Trademark Clinic VanSickle Family Law Clinic Faculty Faculty Conferences, Symposia & Lecture Series Faculty Expertise Faculty in the News Faculty Profiles Research Public Service Public Service Completing Your Public Service Graduation Requirement Pre-Approved Placements Forms FAQs Planning a Public Service Career Internships & Fellowships Public Advocate Day Contact Public Service Program Staff Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) - Overview for law students only Students Students Office of Student Affairs Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Financial Frequently Used Resources Graduation Information Inns of Court Program Mustang Exchange Scholarships and Writing Competitions Student Code of Professional Responsibility Student Organizations ☰ Law Students Academic Success Academic Success The Academic Success Program The Academic Success Program (ASP) at SMU Dedman School of Law is dedicated to cultivating a supportive academic environment and to helping all law students reach their full academic potential. ASP provides academic skills training and support for students at all stages of their law school education. In 2015, with the adoption of our new Inns of Court Program, ASP also became a cornerstone program of the 1L Inns of Court. Academic Success Resources Videos, practice exams, and student recommended resources Academic Success Program Mentors ASP FIRST YEAR PROGRAMMING 1L Inns of Court – Academic Success Sessions To help ease the transition into the rigors of law school, all first year students participate in ASP Sessions with their Inns of Court. The sessions are led by the Director of Academic Success (Professor Birdsong) and the ASP Mentors. Our ASP Mentors are high-achieving second and third year law students, who have been selected and trained to provide skills assistance and peer support for students during their first year of law school. In the Core Skills Sessions curriculum each session builds on the previous session. Our sessions cover such topics as: Time Management, Preparing for Class, Note-Taking, Outlining, and How to Write a Law School Exam Answer. ASP Mentor Office Hours ASP Mentors hold Office Hours each semester that are intended to connect 1Ls with top-performing 2Ls and 3Ls who had the same 1L professors. Office Hours provide 1Ls an opportunity to ask those mentors how they conquered their 1L classes as well as an opportunity to ask substantive questions about the material they have been learning. Individual Tutoring Professor Birdsong – Director of ASP – provides individual tutoring for students requiring additional assistance. These individual sessions help students succeed on their law school exams by focusing on specific skills, such as reading comprehension, a review of outline drafting, or practice writing exam answers. If you need individual tutoring, please email birdsong@smu.edu. SECOND AND THIRD YEAR PROGRAMMING Academic Advising and Tutoring Academic advising is available for all students to discuss such issues as academic performance and appropriate curricular choices, any possible need for testing or other accommodations, the availability of the Academic Success Program, and the services of the University Counseling and Testing Center. MPT Bar Prep Course – Fall Semester Only The MPT tests basic lawyering skills in a real-life simulation, requiring examinees to complete an activity that a new lawyer would be assigned (e.g. memo, brief, or client letter). This for-credit course focuses on reading and analyzing cases and statutes, applying legal principles to facts, and writing effective memos and briefs to help students achieve in law school and on the MPT. Advanced Legal Reasoning Bar Prep Course – Spring Semester Only A for-credit 3L bar prep course that gives students a head start in learning the substantive material that is tested on the bar exam, focusing on improving legal analysis skills, as well as practice with Multistate Bar Exam (MBE) subjects. Other Services Offered Students should meet with the Assistant Dean of Student Affairs if there are any personal matters impacting their ability to perform and succeed in the law school. Students may also consult with members of the faculty regarding questions about courses and academic pursuits. The Office of Disability Accommodations & Success Strategies coordinates with the Assistant Dean for Student Affairs in working with students with learning differences requiring appropriate accommodations. The SMU Health Center provides Counseling and Testing services for students and is also available for students in crisis. The stress of law school is sometimes compounded by death of a loved one or personal or family illness or other crises. Students should be aware of changes in behavior in themselves or in other students that may point the need to seek assistance. Students should consult with the Assistant Dean for Student Affairs if they become aware of such circumstances so that an appropriate course of action can be discussed. Questions If you have any questions about our services or need to talk to someone about your plan for academic success, please contact the Director of the Academic Success Program, Professor Birdsong, at birdsong@smu.edu. Students Office of Student Affairs Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Costs and Financial Aid Frequently Used Resources Graduation Information Inns of Court Program Mustang Exchange Scholarships and Writing Competitions Student Code of Professional Responsibility Student Organizations Library Business Office Get Help Now News Media Emergency / Safety Admissions Office / FAQs Department Directory Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © SMU Dedman School of Law 3315 Daniel Avenue, Dallas, TX 75205 facebook google twitter linkedin tumblr youtube instagram