COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU News - All Stories For WSU News and WSU Today content older than July 2018, Search the WSU News Archive. WSU News Archive Return to WSU News Home Filter by: All students Applied Learning Faculty/Staff Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences pandemic community Alumni College of Engineering COVID-19 Research Graduate Profiles Community Engagement Innovation Campus Life Diversity/Inclusion Scholarships Talent Pipeline Innovation Campus College of Applied Studies College of Health Professions SearchDirectory Filter Search Aerospace engineering grad student receives grant from NASA Aug. 26, 2019 - Pardhasai Chadalavada, a graduate student seeking a doctorate degree in aerospace engineering, and Atri Dutta, an assistant aerospace engineering professor, recently received a grant from NASA’s Earth and Space Science and Technology program. New student Drone Club takes flight Aug. 22, 2019 - It's a bird. It's a plane. No, It's a drone. WSU students Spencer Lueckenoito and Will Valentine found drone racing their freshman year of college and instantly it became a hobby. But, neither of them dreamed that their passion would lead to the co-founding of Drone club on Wichita State's campus. Engineering students place top 10 in NASA rocket launch competition May 21, 2019 - Four Wichita State University aerospace engineering students have placed seventh in NASA’s Student Launch Initiative competition. The team designed, built and launched a rocket to complete a simulated Moon mission. Students experience aerospace design through competition May 24, 2018 -- Student aerospace engineering teams work hard every year to develop a functioning aircraft that will fly and complete a mission in the annual Bronze Propeller Competition. Spirit and WSU announce significant R&D, training agreement April 5, 2018--Spirit AeroSystems and Wichita State University announced a new collaboration agreement, bringing with it new opportunities for students and the area workforce. From video to engineering: One student's journey to Wichita State Sept. 26, 2017 - Danielle McLean is a transfer and returning adult student from Tulsa whose internship with Spirit AeroSystems was extended into a co-op position. Competition winners look to provide for homeless, continue innovation April 10, 2017--When Michael Lee and Kristian Buan enrolled in Engineering 101, they never imagined they would win Wichita State University's first Koch Innovation Challenge. Wichita State, BCG forge partnership to advance digital manufacturing March 29, 2017 - Wichita State University and Boston Consulting Group, one of the world's leading management consulting firms, have entered into a strategic partnership to increase collaboration and advance the Wichita manufacturing industry. Hexagon Manufacturing Intelligence partners with WSU Feb. 8, 2017 - Hexagon Manufacturing Intelligence has formed a technology partnership with WSU and will lease 3,000 square feet of space near the university's 3DExperience Center in the Experiential Engineering Building. Professor uses technology to improve pilot performance Jan. 24, 2017 - Wichita State psychology professor Jibo He is collaborating with a team from the University of Oklahoma to conduct research and development on head-mounted display and wearable devices used in simulator-based pilot training. WSU tops national rankings for research and development funding Jan. 24, 2018 - Wichita State has been ranked the top university in the country for industry-funded aeronautical engineering research and development. The new rankings were released by the National Science Foundation. First Previous ... 4 5 6 7 8 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©