More details Skip to main content Dartmouth Home Search Index Dartmouth College Office of the Registrar Enrollment Transcript Registration ORC/Catalog Calendars Faculty About Us Request a Transcript View Term Calendar Registration Schedule Final Exam Schedule Related Sites Timetable Change Link Change Link Office of the Registrar Dartmouth College Office of the Registrar 6014 McNutt Hall Hanover, NH 03755-3541 Phone: (603) 646-2246 Fax: (603) 646-2247 Email: registrar@Dartmouth.EDU Enrollment Non-Dartmouth Study Away Transfer Students Forms & Petitions Quicklinks DartHub Banner Forms Guides Course Assessment Timetable of Class Meetings Transfer Terms Glossary of Dartmouth Terminology Annual Report Fast Facts about Dartmouth Home > Enrollment > Non-Dartmouth Study Away Dartmouth College encourages interested students to participate in Dartmouth-sponsored study away programs. Sponsored programs, such as FSP, LSA, or Exchange programs, are administered by the Frank J. Guarini Institute for International Education. Non-Dartmouth programs are administered by the Dartmouth Registrar's Office. Transfer Terms Occasionally some students take a leave term, and independently seek out an alternate program offered by another institution. These are referred to as Transfer Terms. Students who pursue this option and wish to receive transfer credit are required to provide an academic rationale for such study that meets standards established by the Committee on Instruction. Students seek pre-approval to participate in a transfer term, and to transfer credit back to Dartmouth. If the Committee approves the student’s program of study, the department or program has approved specific courses, and the Registrar has approved credit transferability, the student may earn transfer credit towards their Dartmouth degree. The student pays a transfer term fee of $2,200, unless they choose to be away fall term when there is no fee assessed. Exchange Programs Dartmouth has several Exchange programs with other institutions. These are considered Dartmouth-sponsored programs. Students apply for Exchange programs through the Frank J. Guarini Institute for International Education. If accepted into a program, students then apply to transfer specific courses to Dartmouth through the Dartmouth Registrar’s Office. Contact Us Top of page | Privacy | Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Last Updated: 4/10/20