Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager University Human Resources Brown Gives Brown Gives, the University's annual workplace fundraising campaign, supports United Way of Rhode Island's LIVE UNITED campaign. Brown Gives is more than just a workplace campaign. It's an opportunity to build relationships with colleagues from across the University, enhance teamwork among members of your department, and lead an initiative that helps Rhode Islanders who need our help the most. When you give to United Way, you join a much larger team -- one dedicated to investing in proven programs that bring real results. Over the last 18 months, Rhode Islanders have united to care and support each other during the coronavirus pandemic. As we emerge from this crisis, we can stay united in creating a Rhode Island where every individual in each community has equal opportunity for justice and prosperity. 100% of your support for United Way of Rhode Island (UWRI) goes directly to fund critical programs and urgent services—not costly overhead. This is made possible by a trust for UWRI that covers their fundraising and administrative costs. Ways to Give Give in any amount via credit card, check, or payroll deduction. Give during Open Enrollment in Workday from Monday, November 8 - Monday, November 29; faculty and staff may donate a fixed monthly amount of $10, $25, $50, $75, $100 to be payroll deducted over the calendar year. Payroll deductions begin in January. In-person or virtual department events are a great way to have fun and connect with one another while doing some good. You can collect cash or use our online payment system where participants can contribute to your department event. Purchase a long or short sleeve Brown Gives shirt with 100% of the proceeds going to the United Way of RI. Shirts can be purchased in the Brown Bookstore or shipped to your home (shipping fees apply). Shirts can be purchased here. Please note: Donations are post-tax; individuals may claim the deduction when tax returns are filed unless contributing to a department virtual event. Open Enrollment donations cannot be designated to a specific initiative within the United Way. The money raised through department events is deposited into a general fund which is then presented to the United Way. Dates Brown Gives campaign begins Monday, November 1 Open Enrollment Begins Monday, November 8 Brown Gives campaign ends Friday, December 31 Social media toolkit Please feel free to download our Social Media Toolkit to help spread the word about Brown Gives! These assets will help make your campaign messages compelling and consistent. Incorporate Brown Gives into your email messages and virtual meetings. Show you care about your fellow Rhode Islanders with social media cover photos. You'll find: Zoom background Social media banners Facebook profile frame Gmail banner Full Toolkit Download Brown Gives Logo Contact Please email [email protected] for any questions, inquiries, or to join as a campaign leader. Donate Now Related Forms and Documents Campaigning Tips Impact of Donations United Way of Rhode Island FAQs Also in University Human Resources Benefits Compensation Employee & Labor Relations Annual Staff Evaluations Separating Employees Staff Conflict of Interest and Commitment Recruitment & Staffing Student Employment Talent Development Explore Brown University Explore Brown University Learn More Brown Homepage About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Brown & Providence Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering University Human Resources University Human Resources Brown University Box 1879 350 Eddy Street, 4th floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-3175 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat