Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Classics Home About People Academics Diversity & Inclusion News Events Alumnae/i Graduate Alumnae/i Graduate Placement The Occasional Classicist Recent Graduates Class of 2020 Class of 2021 Site Navigation Home About Office Hours Contact Information Faculty Bookshelf The Couch Library Stay Connected [email protected] Intranet People Faculty Affiliated Faculty Visiting Scholars & Fellows Graduate Students Staff Emeriti Faculty Office Hours Academics Undergraduate Program Study Abroad Research & Travel Funding Academic Prizes Departmental Undergraduate Group Brown Classical Journal History Submission Guidelines Graduate Program PhD Programs Classics Sanskrit Track Ancient History Reading List MA in Classics Graduate Student Symposia Graduate Alumnae/i Graduate Placement Courses Classics Greek Latin Modern Greek Sanskrit Diversity & Inclusion Diversity Statements News The Occasional Classicist Stay Connected Events Annual Lectures & Events Latin Carol Celebration Past Classics Events Alumnae/i Graduate Alumnae/i Graduate Placement The Occasional Classicist Past Volumes Recent Graduates Class of 2020 Class of 2021 Recent Graduates After two years we were finally able to host our annual Commencement Reception and Diploma Ceremony this year! We want to show our appreciation to all of our 2022 graduates by recognizing their achievements at Brown on our website. The Department conferred twenty-one undergraduate degrees in May 2022. Please join us in saying Congratulations to the Classics Department Class of 2022! Diploma Recipients Mia C. Brossoie, A.B Greek & Latin; Medieval Studies; Late Antique Cultures Home: Pennsylvania, USA Thesis: Ausonian Musings on Miming: An Examination of Ausonius' Mimetic Meandering in the Mosella, Cupido Cruciatus, and Bissula Extra-Curricular Activities: Brown Classical Journal (2018-2022, EiC for Vol. 33 & 34) Alpha Delta Phi Society Brunonian Chapter Vice President (Spring 2021) Classics DUG co-leader (2020-2022) Bio: Mia Brossoie, ’22, is pursuing the A. B. with concentrations in Greek and Latin, and in Medieval Studies on the Late Antique track. Her research interests include underrepresented voices in Late Antique writing and reception studies. She has been involved with the Brown Classical Journal from 2018-2022, serving as co-Editor in Chief for two volumes and has been a co-leader of the Classics DUG for the past two academic years. She lives in eastern Pennsylvania and loves black and white dogs, "cow dogs". Ciaran Cahill, A.B Greek Home: New York, USA Bio: I got to love Greek and Latin in high school and have had a great time continuing the study here at Brown, with a particular interest in Tragedy and, more recently, the Presocratics. I took a term off in junior year so I've got one more semester left, in which I'll be taking the archaic Greek survey Catherine (Cal) Chen, A.B Classics; Computer Science-Economics Home: New York, USA Achievements: Visiting Student at St Anne's College, University of Oxford (2021-2022) Bio: Cal will graduate this December with a double concentration in Classics and Computer Science-Economics. Having studied Latin in high school, they fell in love with the lyric poetry of Sappho and Catullus at Brown. They have been studying Classics at Oxford for the past year, and are very excited to return to Brown for their final semester. Outside of Classics, they have been a member of the Madrigal Singers, which is the only classical a cappella group at Brown. Sean P. Ervine, A.B Classics; Economincs Home: New York, USA Achievements: Phi Beta Kappa Extra-Curricular Activities: Brown Investment Group 2019-2020 Economics Tutor 2020 TAMID 2020-2021 Club Tennis 2020-21 Economics Teaching Assistant 2020-2021 Bio: Sean is a double concentrator in Economics and Classics, graduating Phi Beta Kappa for his academic efforts. He has taken classes in myriad fields in his career at Brown, driven by broad academic interests and the desire to challenge himself. He enjoys tennis and distance running, becoming a member of the club tennis team and completing the New York City Marathon in his time at Brown. Within Classics, Sean has particularly enjoyed ancient literature and translation, appreciating the rigor and nuance they demand. After Brown, he will be working at investment bank in New York. He would like to thank his family for their unwavering support over these last four years. Charlotte Everrett, A.B Classics; Economics-Business Home: Pennsylvania, USA Achievements: Francis Wayland Prizes in Greek and Latin ('19) Lucius Lyon Prize in Latin 1st Place ('22) Phi Beta Kappa Extra-Curricular Activities: Ivy Film Festival ('20-'22) ENGN 0090/0900 Program (TA: '19-'22; Head TA: '21-'22) Bio: Charlotte is excited to graduate with a double major in Classics and Economics. She has found this dual course of study— and Brown more generally— to have been uniquely formative of her academic identity. One of her favorite experiences in her studies was a paper she wrote last year, in which she analyzed the role of information in arbitrage opportunities and compared the NASDAQ scandal of 1994, in which traders colluded to maintain wide bid-ask spreads, to instances of speculation in the ancient Athenian grain markets. Critically, she examined how information-sharing platforms have evolved since ancient times and more immediately changed political relationships between those on Wall Street and those at home. She finds studying Classics worthwhile in the development of critical thought and powerful writing but recognizes the pitfalls of such a discipline. The field must be expanded to include more diverse voices, in terms of what makes it onto the syllabus and who has the distinct privilege of delivering the content (writers, scholars, professors). Outside of Classics, Charlotte has been involved in the ENGN 0090/0900 program since freshman year, taking on the role of head TA in her senior year and has helped manage the budget for Ivy Film Festival as part of its business team for the last two years. She is sad to leave Brown but looks forward to a position in global capital markets with Morgan Stanley, where she will help financial institutions issue debt in New York City. Effi-Anna B. Holston, A.B Classics; Linguistic Anthropology; Hispanic Literatures and Cultures Home: Massachusetts, USA Achievements: Study abroad in Barcelona Fall 2021 Phi Beta Kappa Extra-Curricular Activities: MAPS Mentor Brown Refugee Youth Tutoring and Enrichment Tutor Bio: My time at Brown has ultimately been motivated by a love of languages, which I feel has really only been made possible by the unique structure of Brown's curriculum. I've worked on my Latin, tested out Sanskrit, taken up Russian, improved my Spanish, and tied all of them together under the umbrella of linguistic anthropology. I feel so lucky to have shared in these departments and to experience the support of their faculty and co-concentrators. Lucy Kaufman, A.B Greek; Political Science Home: Maryland, USA Extra-Curricular Activities: Beauty and the Beats, member, 2018-2022, Ensemble Theatre at Brown, board member, 2019-2022 Writing Master, English tutor, 2020-2022 Brown Undergraduate Law Review, copy-editor, 2021-2022 Bio: Lucy is a Classics and Political Science concentrator from Baltimore, Maryland. Outside of the classroom, she is a member of Beauty and the Beats (Brown's only all-Disney a cappella group!), a copy-editor for the Brown Undergraduate Law Review, and a board member with Ensemble Theatre at Brown. She would like to thank all of the wonderful professors and students in the Classics department who made the past four years such a great experience and congratulate the class of 2022! Jack Malamud, A.B Latin; Political Science Home: New York, USA Extra-Curricular Activities: BJWA associate editor, Every Vote Counts @ Brown president Bio: Jack Malamud is a double concentrator in Classics (Latin Track) and Political Science (American Track). Paul Michaud, A.B Classics; English; Religious Studies Home: Massachusetts, USA Achievements: 2020 Barbara Banks Brodsky Prize in English 2021 Feldman Prize in Fiction 2022 Preston Gurney Prize in English 2022 Ratcliffe Hicks Premium in English Bio: At Brown, Paul concentrated in English, Classics, and Religious Studies. In the department, he is especially grateful to Professor Pucci. His brother John ‘24 is also a Classics concentrator. Zara L. Norman, A.B Greek; History Home: England Extra-Curricular Activities: 2018, Staff Writer at The Rib of Brown, Volunteer with Brown's Elementary Afterschool Mentoring program (BEAM); 2019, Editor at The Rib of Brown, volunteer with Brown's Elementary Afterschool Mentoring program (BEAM), History DUG Leader; 2020, Editor at The Rib of Brown, volunteer with Brown's Elementary Afterschool Mentoring program (BEAM), History DUG Leader; 2021, Senior Editor at The Rib of Brown, History DUG leader, Brown/RISD Stand-Up; 2022, Senior Editor at The Rib of Brown, Brown/RISD Stand-Up, Writer for Brown Motion Pictures, BCJ Contributor Bio: Zara Lei Norman is a senior concentrating in History and Classics, on the Ancient Greek track. She caught the “Classics bug” in the third grade, when her father gave her a pull-out poster of the Greek Gods from his ‘Guardian’ magazine. After honing that interest with the Percy Jackson series, Zara began learning Greek aged 13 and hasn’t looked back since. She was grateful to find such a lovely community here at Brown, considering that by the time she graduated high school she had been the only one left in her class for a few years. Zara wants to thank Professors Graham Oliver, Adele Scafuro, Kenneth Sacks, Pura Nieto, Kenneth Haynes, and Stephen Kidd for their infectious passion, sage guidance, and patience – 8-year-old Zara could have never imagined such a vibrant course of study. After college, you’ll find her scribbling away in rural Maine, as she goes into journalism and pursues her own writing. David Paine, A.B Classics; A.B Music Bio: David is a senior in the Classics Department who is set to complete his course and graduate in the Fall of 2022. Marijke Perry, A.B Latin; Music Home: Massachusetts, USA Thesis: Dhuoda and Gerald of Wales – Princely Mirrors from the Perspective of the Disgruntled Achievements: 2019 President Francis Wayland Prize – 1st Place for Beginner Greek 2020 - Margery MacColl Award for exceptional promise in Music 2022 - Hope Chatterton Prize for vocal performance 2022 - Lucius Lyon Prize in Latin 2nd Place Extra-Curricular Activities: 2018–2022: Brown University Chorus 2018–2022: Brown Madrigal Singers (Music Director 2020–2021) 2019–2021: BAI Songwriting Workshop 2019–2022: Brown RISD Game Developers 2020, 2022: Musical Forum Mini-Musical Festivals 2022: Ensemble Productions, Director Bio: Marijke Perry is a graduating with an undergraduate degree in Classics and Music. She has specialized in later Latin, but she has also studied Greek and classical Latin. She pursued honors this year with a thesis on princely mirrors, and after graduation she will be headed off to Cornell's Medieval Studies PhD program. Horace Qiao, A.B Classics Home: Illinois, USA Thesis: Views of Carthage from Rome: Polybius and Livy on Hannibal in the Age of Imperial Growth Achievements: Minnie Helen Hicks Senior Thesis Prize 2022 Extra-Curricular Activities: Brown Men's Swim and Dive (2022-2018) Bio: I fell in love with the study of Classics from playing video games like Civilization II and reading about Ancient Rome in my history textbook in middle school. At Brown, I took as many history classes as I could on Ancient Rome and Greece. These classes only cultivated my understanding and passion for the Classics. In these classes, I also became interested in the cultures that Rome conquered, mainly Samnium and Carthage. This interest in Carthage eventually developed into a thesis topic, where I looked at Hannibal as a case study for an overall perception of Carthage as seen through the eyes of ancient historians. This thesis, titled "Views of Carthage from Rome: Polybius and Livy on Hannibal in the Age of Imperial Growth", explored how Livy and Polybius perceived Hannibal and what takeaways a modern reader could glean from Hannibal's story. David Sacks, A.B Greek & Latin Home: Connecticut, USA Thesis: Horace's Philosophical and Political Odes: A Translation Achievements: Phi Beta Kappa President Francis Wayland Prize for Excellence in Preparatory Ancient Greek (2019) Winner, Brown University Concerto Competition (2019) Lafayette Sabine Foster Prize (2020) Extra-Curricular Activities: Brown No Labels Bio: David Sacks, a concentrator in Classics on the Greek and Latin track, distinguished himself through his independent work with Professors Pucci, Putnam, and Nieto. He also completed extensive work in the Philosophy department, culminating in a tutorial with Charles Larmore on Aristotle's and Kant's moral philosophy. David is an outstanding concert pianist; he performed multiple solo recitals and, last fall, performed the Brahms second piano concerto with the Brown University Orchestra. He co-created a course with Professor Glenn Loury, which he co-led twice, and worked extensively with Former Director of Brown's Political Theory Project, John Tomasi. David has been a dedicated advocate of viewpoint diversity and constructive disagreement at Brown, as a long-time leader in various organizations dedicated to viewpoint diversity. He is also a novelist, translator, and poet, and in his spare time he searches for the best post-2000 TV and movies. His favorite classes in Classics were Fortunatus, with Professor Pucci, Cicero and Sophocles, with Professor MacDougall, Phaedrus, with Professor Gill, the Early Greek Literature Survey, with Professor Hanink, his tutorial on Horace’s Odes, with Professor Pucci (and Professor Putnam in guest capacity), and his tutorial on Pindar, with Professor Nieto. He is grateful for the mentorship and guidance of the Brown Classics Department, and would like in particular to thank Professors Pucci and Putnam for their friendship. He would also like to thank Professor Nieto for making sure he actually learned Greek. Rachel Sklar, A.B Classics; Health & Human Biology Home: New York, USA Achievements: Completed an Honors Thesis in Health & Human Biology (2022) Sigma Xi (2022) Phi Beta Kappa (2021) Extra-Curricular Activities: Hasbro Children's Hospital Volunteer, 2021-2022 Health & Human Biology Departmental Undergraduate Group Leader, 2020-2022 Research Assistant, Childhood Asthma Research Program, 2020-2021 Meiklejohn Peer Advisor, 2019-2022 Brown RISD Hillel Executive Board Member and Student-Leader, 2019-2022 Brown Classics Journal Editor and Contributor, 2018-2022 Bio: Rachel Sklar is a senior from Irvington, New York, double-concentrating in Classics (general track) and Health & Human Biology. Within Classics, she focused on Latin from late antiquity and also loved the opportunity to explore the Greco-Roman world through courses in archeology and history. She completed an honors thesis in Health & Human Biology entitled '“The first person they call is their pastor': The Role of New York City Faith Leaders in Supporting their Congregation’s Health and Well-being During the COVID-19 Pandemic." Outside of the classroom, Rachel served as an editor for the Brown Classical Journal, student-leader at Brown RISD Hillel, Meiklejohn Peer Advisor, and research assistant at Rhode Island Hospital. After graduation, Rachel will work as a Clinical Research Assistant at Boston Children’s Hospital while applying to medical school. Maya Smith, A.B Classics; Economics; Medieval Studies Home: Arizona, USA Bio: I am a senior from Flagstaff Arizona graduating with degrees in Economics, Classics and Medieval Cultures. In my free time I enjoy running, reading and creating artwork in all mediums. I worked full time during my undergraduate career as a freelance artist and on a development team for an independent production house! I have a deep interest in manuscripts and manuscript creation, numismatics and sub-Roman Britain and Scandinavia. Achutha Srinivasan, A.B Sanskrit Home: Texas, USA Achievements: Study Abroad in Granada, Spain during fall of 2021 Extra-Curricular Activities: Brown Political Review Copy Editor 2018-2019 Intramural Soccer 2018-2019 Intramural Basketball 2019, 2022 Residential Peer Leader 2019-2022 Bio: My name is Achutha Srinivasan. I'm from Houston, TX, but lived for seven years in Bangalore, south India and came to Brown as a Neuroscience-Econ double concentrator, dropping both after a year. Confused about what my interests were, I took the intro Sanskrit class on a whim and liked it so much that I became a Sanskrit concentrator. Language and culture are inseparable, and my degree became my way of staying connected with my culture and history. Outside of class I like to play basketball and listen to lectures and read books about religion and spirituality. I will be going to medical school in the fall, but hope to improve my Sanskrit skills along the way and make my degree the start of a long, meaningful journey into the Sanskrit and Indian world. Demetri (James) Tsatsaros, S.C.B Classics; Applied Math-Computer Science Home: New Jersey, USA Bio: Demetri Tsatsaros is a double concentrator in Applied Math-Computer Science and Classics who has focused on Modern and Ancient Greek in his classics studies. Amelia Wyckoff, A.B Greek; Comparative Literature (Literary Translation) Home: Connecticut, USA Achievements: Honors Thesis in Comparative Literature Undergraduate Teaching and Research Award Phi Beta Kappa Rosalie Colie Prize for Honors Thesis in Comparative Literature Extra-Curricular Activities: Housing Opportunities for People Everywhere (2018-2020) End Sexual Violence at Brown (2020-2021) Ensemble Theatre at Brown (2018-present) The College Hill Independent (2020-present) Bio: Amelia is a Classics and Comparative Literature concentrator who focuses on literary translation from Ancient Greek and Latin to English and feminist, queer, and trans literary theory. Their Honors Thesis in Comparative Literature presented a translation of Stesichorus’ fragmented poems the Geryoneis and the Thebais, with a critical introduction that engages with the performance contexts and stylistic elements of the texts and the author, affect theory, and identifies a translation convention through analyzing receptions of Stesichorus’ work. Amelia will be pursuing an MSt in Greek and/or Latin Languages and Literature from Oxford in the fall and, after a few gap years, hopes to pursue a PhD in Comparative Literature. While on campus, Amelia performed, produced, and directed theatre, edited and wrote for The Indy, and helped to organize a student movement focused on ending sexual violence at Brown and on college campuses across the country. They hope to continue engaging with each of these passions after Brown, and they are so thankful for their incredible advisees and professors, whose guidance has made them a better student, artist, and citizen of their communities. Auria Zhang, A.B Classics; Applied Mathematics-Economics Home: Pennsylvania, USA Achievements: University of Oxford (Visiting Student, 2021-22) Extra-Curricular Activities: Oxford Effective Altruism, AI Safety Programme (2022) Meiklejohn Program (2021-22) Brown Political Review (Podcast director, 2020-21) Watson Student Advisory Council (2019-21) Bio: Auria is from Chadds Ford, PA and concentrated in Classics and Applied Math-Economics. While at Brown, she worked with the Watson Institute as a member of the Student Advisory Council and was a tutor with the Sheridan Center. For her senior year, she studied abroad at the University of Oxford, where she found a love for Roman imperial art and the Ashmolean Museum. After graduation, Auria will be joining Oliver Wyman in their Boston office. She is so grateful for all the students and faculty in the Classics department, whose support made her undergraduate experience incredible. Alumnae/i Graduate Alumnae/i Graduate Placement The Occasional Classicist Recent Graduates Class of 2020 Class of 2021 Department of Classics Department of Classics Brown University Box 1856 48 College Street Providence, RI 02912-1856 Phone: 401-863-1267 Fax: 401-863-7484 Email [email protected] Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top