Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Loewenberg College of Nursing About Us Programs & Admissions Student Life Faculty & Staff Research & Initiatives News & Events Giving & Support Scrub Hub Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact News & Events Calendar In the news Videos ProgramSimulation Photos White Coat CeremonyNursing Career Fair 2022SNA Leadership Retreat Take Action Schedule a tour Apply now Give now Contact Us Find us on Social Media InstagramFacebooktwitterLinkedIn Home Loewenberg College of Nursing News & Events News & Events Dr. Linda Haddad named Dean of the Loewenberg College of Nursing She will start her tenure on Aug. 1, 2022. >> more LCON Lambuth Preview Day Hyde Hall, Room 215 Saturday, April 23, 2022 Time: TBD >> register DAISY Award for Extraordinary Nursing Faculty Nominations Open Nominate your Extraordinary Nursing Faculty at the Loewenberg College of Nursing by April 22, 2022. >> more Associate Dean for Research/William A. and Ruth F. Loewenberg Chair of Excellence in Nursing The Loewenberg College of Nursing has named Dr. Leanne Lefler Associate Dean for Research/William A. and Ruth F. Loewenberg Chair of Excellence in Nursing. In this role, she will be a tenured professor who provides leadership and expertise in research, promotes collaborative and interdisciplinary research and works with faculty to identify internal and external funding resources and publication opportunities. She will join LCON on June 13, 2022. >> more SNA Wellness Week March 14-18 Community Health Building >> more Fall 2021 Nursing Convocation #LCONvocationF21 Thursday, Dec. 9 6 p.m. Rose Theatre Watch recorded event > White Coat Ceremonies LCON will hosted two, in-person White Coat ceremonies, the first since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic. The 5 p.m. ceremony featured N2 and N3 Memphis nursing students. The 7 p.m. ceremony will featured N4 and A4 Memphis nursing students and all Lambuth nursing students. Watch the recording: https://mediasite.memphis.edu/Mediasite/Channel/947d7279fd6f4b7eaa2447634dfaa9035f DEInamic Chili Contest Students, faculty and staff of LCON are invited to participate in the event, co-sponsored by the LCON DEI Committee and SNA Memphis. The two-pronged goal of the event is to assist SNA Memphis in reaching their goal of raising 500 canned goods for donation to the Mid-South Food Bank and gather feedback from the LCON community regarding perceptions of DEI within LCON. Tuesday, November 16 12 - 1:30 PM CHB 2506 NPs: Going the Extra Mile The second week in November is National Nurse Practitioner Week. Hear about the importance of NPs from American Association of Nurse Practitioners® President, April N. Kapu, DNP, APRN, ACNP-BC, FAANP, FCCM, FAAN. >>AANP video LCON Lambuth Open House/Preview Day November 18, 2021 This is an event for current and future students interested in pursuing their degree on the Lambuth campus in Jackson, Tenn. Nursing students received 2021 BlueCross Power of We Scholarship Congratulations Mya Morrow and Miko McDowell, UofM Nursing students, on being named two of the six recipients of the 2021 BlueCross Power of We Scholarship! #LCONstrong #GoTigersGo #studentsuccess >> The Daily Memphian N95 Fit Testing N95 Fit Testing is being conducted at LCON today for nursing students. This important testing is designed to protect frontline workers, making sure the mask properly fits and seals to the wearer's face. The testing was conducted by members of the fire department. Dr. Larry Slater appointed interim dean of LCON >> Slater bio Dr. Brad Harrell was selected to serve on the nominating committee for the first roster of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Group (DEIG) officers for the American Association of Colleges of Nursing. The DEIG is a convening body that unites expertise, experience and guidance for academic nursing in Leading Across Differences. It will explore innovative approaches to enhancing diversity, equity and inclusion in academic nursing and thee nursing workforce and support the efforts of AACN member institutions and academic nursing at the local, regional and national levels to advance diversity and inclusion. >>more Dr. Larry Slater, associate dean for Academic Programs in the Loewenberg College of Nursing, has been selected as one of the University of Alabama at Birmingham School of Nursing’s 70 Visionary Leaders. Dr. Slater, UAB alum, is being recognized by his peers for his exemplary leadership, innovation, and far-reaching impact on nursing and health care. The award and recognition is part of the UAB School of Nursing’s 70th anniversary celebration. >>more Nursing faculty published an article, “College of Nursing–Sponsored Research Forum to Promote Student Scholarship Development,“ in the Journal of Nursing Education. Contributing faculty include Dr. Jason T. Sasser, Dr. Marie E. Gill, Dr. Janye M. Wilson, Dr. Sohye Lee and Dr. Teresa Richardson. >>Read article Students support local COVID Vaccination efforts >>more LCON Spring 2021 Virtual Student Research Forum held >>more Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/2/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.