Skip to main content Visit Harvard.edu Covid-19 Information Keep Harvard Healthy Testing & Tracing Keep Harvard Healthy Campus Access For Students For Faculty, Staff, and Researchers For Visitors School & Program Information Event Guidance Health & Wellbeing Testing & Tracing Results Dashboard Weekly Test History Understanding Test Results Exposure, Quarantine, & Isolation Travel Guidance Post-Travel COVID Testing Policy Vaccine Information Verify Your Vaccination & Booster Updates & Messages FAQs Keep Harvard Healthy Campus Access For Students For Faculty, Staff, and Researchers For Visitors School & Program Information Event Guidance Health & Wellbeing Testing & Tracing Results Dashboard Weekly Test History Understanding Test Results Exposure, Quarantine, & Isolation Travel Guidance Post-Travel COVID Testing Policy Vaccine Information Verify Your Vaccination & Booster Updates & Messages FAQs Guided by public health officials and experts, Harvard is no longer requiring routine testing for COVID-19. However, all affiliates have the option of testing if they wish, by taking a self-administered test and submitting it via Color. Anyone with symptoms or known exposure should also continue to test and follow HUHS guidance. The University’s testing plan is subject to modification based on community risk and the broader public health environment. To learn more about the public health guidance related to optional testing, read the Gazette’s Q&A with experts. For other questions, your local testing coordinator is your primary point of contact for logistics around accessing testing. If you have clinical or policy questions about testing, you should contact Harvard University Health Services at healthservices@huhs.harvard.edu. To request a testing accommodation, employees should contact disabilityresources@harvard.edu or your local HR; students should contact your School’s local student disability coordinator. View the University dashboard for the latest data on positive cases, total tests, and vaccination rates Testing FAQs How do I set up my Color account and get tested? Where do I pick up my test kits? How do I self-swab? How often do I test? Where and when do I drop off my sample? What do my test results mean? What should I do if I think I’ve been exposed? What type of test does Harvard use? How else can I get tested? What should I do if I test positive outside of Harvard’s testing program? How do I set up my Color account and get tested? Harvard has partnered with Color, a health testing company, to administer the University’s testing procedures. These include providing testing kits and delivering test results to individuals. All testing is done through unobserved self-swabs. 1. Once you’re notified that you’re eligible for our testing program, you should create your Color account and enter your 8-digit HUID number when prompted for the email or ID that’s associated with the program. For questions about whether you’re eligible for this testing program, or technical questions about creating your Color account, email support@color.com. 2. If you have trouble establishing your account, review the Color End User Support FAQ. If your question is not answered there, or if you have other questions about your testing eligibility, contact your School or Unit’s local testing coordinator. 3. To learn more about the steps for self-testing, see the training module “How do I self-swab?” linked below. Where do I pick up my test kits? You may have access to a local supply of test kits in your department, unit, or residence. Staff, faculty, and researchers: check with your supervisor. Students: check with your tutor/proctor/resident advisor, or unit or property manager. You can also check with your School or Unit’s local testing coordinator for test kit pick-up locations. See kit pick up information by School or UnitOpens new window How do I self-swab? The Harvard University Clinical Laboratory has a brief manual on how to self-swab. Read the guidance How often do I test? Harvard no longer requires routine testing COVID-19 testing, but Harvard affiliates have the option to test if they wish. You may do this via the Color testing program (if eligible) or using a home antigen test that you obtain on your own. Anyone with symptoms or known exposure should also test and follow HUHS guidance. View the testing calendar for collection dates and times View the calendarOpens new window Drop-off bins Drop-off bins are available at multiple locations across campus to collect unobserved test samples. View the map and click or tap into each location to see last pick-up times. Test kits must only be returned to the designated drop boxes by the individual who tested; they should not be passed onto others or aggregated for group drop-offs. Find a drop-off bin I just got my test results. What’s next? Color will send you an email and text notification when your results are available. The HUHS Contact Tracing Team will email you instructions once they receive the alert from Color. Check your Harvard email and use the resources below to inform your next steps. If my test is negative No further action is needed. Continue to practice healthy habits and maintain your testing cadence. Understand your test results If my test is positive HUHS will contact you to explain next steps, including how to isolate. Contact tracers rely on your Harvard email for communication, so please check your inbox. Positive results information If my test is unsatisfactory or inconclusive Occasionally, your result may be unsatisfactory; in rare instances, it may be inconclusive. If you receive either result, you will need to promptly repeat the test. More results information I think I’ve been exposed. What should I do? Use the resources below to inform your next steps. Follow these steps if you think you were exposed to a COVID-positive individual—whether on or off campus—but you have not tested positive. Get tested, and follow HUHS’ exposure guidance If you’re a close contact, your quarantine requirements will depend on your vaccination and booster status. Take an optional Color test or at-home rapid antigen test. Read HUHS’ exposure guidance and quarantine requirements Report your exposure Use Crimson Clear to report your exposure, symptoms, or if you tested positive outside of Harvard’s testing program. Report your exposure Review HUHS FAQs HUHS has gathered a list of FAQs to help you navigate the changing policies and procedures related to testing, exposure, quarantine, and isolation. Read HUHS’ FAQs COVID-19 Testing and Tracing Test Methodology Harvard’s testing program utilizes reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests analyzed by the Harvard University Clinical Laboratory and the Broad Institute’s Clinical Research Sequencing Platform. If you need to show proof of a negative PCR test (e.g. to fulfill a travel requirement), you can download your complete clinical report from the results page in your Color account. COVID-19 Testing and Tracing Data collection and privacy Learn what data will be collected, how data will be used, and what the University is doing to protect your privacy. Learn about privacy protection How else can I get tested? Anyone unable to test or looking for alternative options is encouraged to use rapid antigen tests, also known as “at-home” tests. Tests can be ordered for free at COVIDtests.gov, and are also offered by many local health departments. Individuals may also buy tests online or in pharmacies and retail stores, which may be eligible for reimbursement by private health insurance providers. Other testing options include the Stop the Spread program (free to Massachusetts residents), the Cambridge Public Health Department program (free to people who live or work in Cambridge), and Boston COVID-19 testing sites. If you’re traveling internationally, carefully research your destinations’ requirements for entry (e.g. testing, vaccination, quarantine, etc.)—which are changing on short notice. You also need to research the availability and cost of testing in your destination to ensure you can comply with U.S. re-entry requirements. What should I do if I test positive outside of Harvard’s testing program? Report your positive result through Crimson Clear and isolate as soon as possible. If your positive result was on an outside antigen or PCR test, you should begin isolation even before the HUHS Contact Tracing team emails you. HUHS Testing, Exposure, Isolation, & Quarantine FAQs Security & Brand Report Copyright Infringement Report Security Issue Trademark Notice Website Accessibility Digital Accessibility Privacy Statement Get In Touch Contact Harvard Maps & Directions Jobs © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube