Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University University Human Resources Menu Toggle Search Jobs@ISU Adventure2 Workday HR Portal Main navigation Careers Job Seekers Manage Your Career New Employee Employee Benefits Insurance Additional Benefits Prospective/New Employees Retiree Benefits Retirement Plans HR Delivery About Directory Services Employee Tools ISU WorkLife Growth & Development Managers of Student Employees Labor/Union Relations Time and Absence Workers' Compensation Workplace Accommodations Employee Management Conflict in the Workplace Forms Benefits Careers Requests Contact Employee Assistance Program Iowa State University offers you this program as one of its employee benefits. The EAP gives you timely and free access to confidential, professional services when you are facing a personal problem. The goal is to help you find solutions before the problem affects your health or job performance. Eligibility EAP eligible participants include all Benefit Eligible ISU employees (Faculty, Professional & Scientific, Merit and Pre/Post Doctoral), as well as immediate family members. Immediate family members include family members living in your home, and legal dependents who may live elsewhere. Family members may contact the EAP on their own and receive the same confidential services listed above. Services Offered The EAP is a benefit that helps you and your family with issues affecting your day-to-day performance and health, including stress, anxiety, depression, parenting, relationships, substance abuse, and legal and financial concerns. This benefit is provided by qualified professionals at no cost to you. When you call the EAP, a licensed professional counselor will help you decide what steps to take to improve your situation. Employee & Family Resources offers confidential assistance to you and your family members for a wide range of concerns including: life coaching, financial consultation, identify theft resolution, legal consultation, elder care resources, real life solutions, and better living. EAP Summary of Benefits What happens when I call the EAP? An EAP counselor will ask you to describe your concerns. The counselor will spend whatever time is needed with you. The counselor will also connect you with one or more of the many EAP services that can help you. How much will it cost to use EAP services? Your employer provides this benefit at no cost to you or your family members. The program covers six free visits with a counselor. If you are referred for additional assistance beyond what is provided by the EAP, the financial responsibility will be yours. Employees should check with their health insurance provider to see if coverage is available for these referral services. Who will know I used the EAP? EAP services are confidential. No one will be given any information without your permission within the strict limits of the law. What are the credentials of the EAP counselors? EAP counselors have masters or doctoral degrees. They are counseling professionals who have experience in a variety of behavioral health fields and are licensed and/or credentialed in their state of practice. How can I find our more about all the services available to me? Call anytime - 24 hours a day, 7 days a week at 800-327-4692 (TTY 877-542-6488) Employee Assistance Program Brochure [pdf] Employee & Family Resources 505 Fifth Avenue, Suite 600 Des Moines, IA 50309 www.efr.org/myeap Iowa State University University Human Resources Contact University Human Resources 3810 Beardshear Hall 515 Morrill Rd. Ames, IA 50011 hrshelp@iastate.edu 515-294-4800 phone 515-294-8226 fax Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information Loading...