Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Giving to Baylor Menu About Us Leadership Directory News Stories of Giving Give Light Ways to Give Gifts of Cash Gifts of Securities, Real Estate and Personal Property Matching Gifts Memorials and Tributes Memorial and Tribute Funds Bricks and Pavers Gift and Estate Planning Corporate Gifts Priorities Academic Units College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering and Computer Science School of Music University Libraries Athletics Athletics Excellence Fund Baylor Spirit Squad Bear Foundation Dutch Schroeder Letterwinners' Legacy Endowment Fund Parents Baylor Parent Fund Library Excellence Fund Parents Endowed Scholarship Student Emergency Fund Student Life Excellence Fund Special Interests Baylor in Washington Excellence Fund Baylor/Waco Foundation Museums Senior Class Gift Student Life Baylor Line Camp Student Emergency Fund Student Foundation Student Life Excellence Fund Student Missions Student Scholarships General Scholarship Fund Establishing an Endowed Scholarship The Torch (crowdfunding) Giving Societies 1845 Society 1845 Society Impact Report 2021 Old Main Society Make a Gift Stories of Giving Baylor>Giving to Baylor>About Us>Stories of Giving Stories of Giving Shalon Evans I am a Baylor University alum and want to help others join this amazing legacy of academic, spiritual, and personal excellence. ~ Shalon Evans John Steiger Cannot say enough good things about my daughter's experience at Baylor. Baylor has given her the direction and motivation to go out into the world and do great things. ~ John Steiger Mark Dole Proud to be a Baylor Bear. Proud of my degree in the Army-Baylor Healthcare Administration Program. Also proud to be from a family of Baylor graduates. ~ Mark Dole Beth Kilpatrick As we bring a need to God, he meets it, sometimes through perfect strangers, always on time and always in abundance. We feel called to give out of God's generosity to us. ~ Beth Kilpatrick Sinda Vanderpool Dr. Susan Colon exemplified the transformational education for which Baylor stands. I make this donation in her honor so that more students can be educated by professors of such caliber. ~ Sinda Vanderpool William Galvin Andrea Dixon & Coach Jonathan Capron inspire me every day. Thankful for their leadership and legacy at Baylor as they continue to lead the next generation of leaders at Baylor! ~ William Galvin Broderick Leaks My time at Baylor was transformational! I met wonderful people, grew in my faith, and received a great education. Mrs. Beverly was instrumental in my success at Baylor. She has been a true blessing for myself and the multitude of other students that have been blessed to know her! ~ Broderick Leaks Jinohn Wekesser I was only able to go to Baylor because I received scholarships, both endowed and private, so I want to always be able to give back to Baylor students who face financial difficulties being able to stay at Baylor for all 4 years. ~ Jinohn Wekesser Connor Mighell Baylor's Honors College (and especially their University Scholars program) gave me the rigorous training I needed to prepare for law school, combined with Christ-centered community and relationships that endured far after I left. I'm proud to be a member of that good ol' Baylor Line. ~ Connor Mighell Dodie Morris This gift is in memory of Joanna Nelson, a friend whom I met at the Baylor music school many years ago. She spent her life sharing music, love, and laughter. She was a delightful person, and I will miss her. ~ Dodie Morris Steven Napier When Baylor reaches out in a time of crisis to ask for help, it's important for those of us who are able to respond with either financial support or contributions of time and other resources. ~ Steven Napier Modupeola Thomas I've been meaning to donate since I graduated, but haven't been able to do it until now. I'm thankful for the opportunity I had to attend Baylor. Loved my time there and hope that my donation can impact the experience of another person. ~ Modupeola Thomas Nancy McEachern Baylor is leading by example in the way it invests in our greater community as a whole. ~ Nancy McEachern Morgan Cutright I am looking forward to giving back to the Pro Sales Program that gave so much to me as a student. ~ Morgan Cutright Lynne Connery Proud to be an alumna if Baylor and am hopeful that my niece will also attend as a member of the class of 2026. ~ Lynne Connery Brazos Licensing and Development We appreciate the dedication to the community of Waco and the work done on behalf of those in need. With great thanks, Brazos Licensing and Development. With great thanks, ~ Brazos Licensing and Development Mia O'Neal Baylor is an institution like none other. I appreciate that in the midst of uncertainty for the University itself, Baylor continues to look to the needs of others while simultaneously tending to the needs of its students. ~ Mia O'Neal Sharon Barnes Dr. Mayes was a wonderful individual...inspiring, compassionate, as well as motivating. She always had a kind word of encouragement for me. I just hope my grandchildren find the same spirit at Baylor University WHEN they attend. ~ Sharon Barnes Misti Maisch I love the Baylor community and its compassion for the hurting. My family has been so blessed to experience the heart of Baylor. Thank you! ~ Misti Maisch Karyn Gooden I had to work about 30 hours a week during college and would have needed this fund to survive. It's only fair to think of others in the same situation now that I can help out. ~ Karyn Gooden Abel Castro, Jr. Joining Student Foundation was the best decision I made in undergrad. I feel honored to be able to support an organization which was so formative to my growth. ~ Abel Castro, Jr. Dr. William Vandiver Because of the outstanding education and support I received at Baylor I was able to fulfill my dream of becoming a surgeon. I feel an obligation to help fellow Bears in need because I know how critical the completion of their education is to their future. ~ Dr. William Vandiver Susan Williams Janet West Miller was a Baylor alumni who loved music and teaching others. She was a member of the Golden Wave Band as well as her daughter, Karon Miller Hammond (Class of '87). Janet Miller's passion for life and music stems from her time at Baylor University. It was a privilege to know her and to honor her memory. ~ Susan Williams Laurie Nielsen We appreciate the work that Baylor is doing to help our uniquely prepared nursing students who will be our future line of medical and faith defense against illness and disease . Developing faith based compassionate nurses defines BU's Christian world mission. SIC 'EM BEARS!! ~ Laurie Nielsen About Us Leadership Directory News Stories of Giving Office of University Advancement Clifton Robinson Tower, Ste. 800 One Bear Place #97026 Waco, TX 76798-7026 (254) 710-2561 (800) 229-5678, option 4 University_Advancement@baylor.edu Alumni Connect Give Light Campaign Give Online Memorials and Tributes General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Us Leadership Directory News Stories of Giving Give Light Ways to Give Gifts of Cash Gifts of Securities, Real Estate and Personal Property Matching Gifts Memorials and Tributes Memorial and Tribute Funds Bricks and Pavers Gift and Estate Planning Corporate Gifts Priorities Academic Units College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering and Computer Science School of Music University Libraries Athletics Athletics Excellence Fund Baylor Spirit Squad Bear Foundation Dutch Schroeder Letterwinners' Legacy Endowment Fund Parents Baylor Parent Fund Library Excellence Fund Parents Endowed Scholarship Student Emergency Fund Student Life Excellence Fund Special Interests Baylor in Washington Excellence Fund Baylor/Waco Foundation Museums Senior Class Gift Student Life Baylor Line Camp Student Emergency Fund Student Foundation Student Life Excellence Fund Student Missions Student Scholarships General Scholarship Fund Establishing an Endowed Scholarship The Torch (crowdfunding) Giving Societies 1845 Society 1845 Society Impact Report 2021 Old Main Society Make a Gift