You may be trying to access this site from a secured browser on the server. Please enable scripts and reload this page. Turn on more accessible mode Turn off more accessible mode Skip Ribbon Commands Skip to main content Turn off Animations Turn on Animations Academic Resources Academic Calendar Academic Success BlueStar Campus Connect DePaul Central Desire2Learn (D2L) Email (Students/Faculty/Staff) University Catalog Library Campus Resources Campus Security Bookstore Campus Maps Events University Resources Directory Athletics Employment Sites A-Z Information For Alumni & Friends Current Students Faculty & Staff DePaul University DePaul Shortcuts DePaul University Recent Virtual Campus Tour Recent Visit Info visit-info-grid Virtual Campus Tour Virtual Campus Tour Recent Visit Info visit-info-grid Virtual Campus Tour About Academics Admission & Aid Student Life Alumni & Friends Request Info Apply DePaul Shortcuts Academic Resources Academic Calendar Academic Success BlueStar Campus Connect DePaul Central Desire2Learn (D2L) Email (Students/Faculty/Staff) University Catalog Library Campus Resources Campus Security Bookstore Campus Maps Events University Resources Directory Athletics Employment Sites A-Z Information For Alumni & Friends Current Students Faculty & Staff Apply Online Request Info Visit Campus About Rankings Campuses Chicago Events Mission President Administration Distinctions History & Timeline Accreditation & Licensure Academics Undergraduate Graduate Online Degrees Continuing Education Career Success Academic Catalog Colleges & Schools Research Corporate Education Academic Affairs Admission & Aid Types of Admission Visit DePaul Tuition Room & Board Scholarships Financial Aid Veteran Student Test Credit & Placement Check Your Application Status Admitted Students Immunization Student Life Life at DePaul Student Organizations Housing Virtual Campus Tour DeBlogs Career Center Athletics Art Museum Student Affairs Bookstore Alumni & Friends Request Info Apply Main Content Virtual Campus Tour DePaul University Virtual Tour Visit Us Request Info Apply Now Visit Us Request Info Apply Now This website requires WebGL to be enabled. Please try updating your browser. Virtual Campus Tour Lincoln Park Campus Loop Campus Go To The Lincoln Park Campus >Go To The Loop Campus > Arts & Letters Hall Arts & Letters Hall is one of the more recent additions to campus. Opened in 2012 with an exterior to match the unique residential character of Lincoln Park, Arts & Letters features 47 state-of-the-art classrooms. The 119,000-square-foot building features four floors of instructional space. It’s designed for classrooms to flow seamlessly into common spaces, continuing the stimulating discussions fostered in DePaul’s small classes. The instructional spaces surround an interior staircase overlooking a dramatic, four-story atrium. Light-filled bays just off the atrium accommodate lounge and study areas, while a stained-glass image of St. Vincent de Paul overlooks the main entrance. The common spaces extend outdoors to a peaceful and purposefully appointed courtyard. On nice days, grab your laptop and study in the courtyard or socialize with friends. It’s also a great spot for people-watching! Did You Know? With sustainability and energy-efficient features like a green roof and daylight harvesting, Arts & Letters Hall is one of three LEED Gold-certified buildings on campus. Back to the tour Belden-Racine Hall Built in 2000, this five-story, air-conditioned residence hall offers students access to study rooms, kitchenettes and lounges on each floor, a laundry room on the first floor and a computer lab on the second floor. Housing options include Suite-doubles: Two students per unit, two units share a bathroom. Deluxe-doubles: Two students share a unit and a private bath. Singles: One student in a unit shares a bathroom with an adjoining unit. Belden-Racine Hall shares an entrance, mailroom and private courtyard with Munroe Hall. Belden-Racine has a 24-hour staffed security desk, and keycard swipe entry is required. Back to the tour Byrne Hall Peter V. Byrne Hall houses multiple academic programs and student service offices, including the departments of Physics and Astrophysics and Psychology, and DePaul Family and Community Services (DFCS). Byrne Hall was named after DePaul’s first president, Rev. Peter Vincent Byrne, C.M., in 1976. Back to the tour Cacciatore Stadium Cacciatore Stadium, at one end of Wish Field, is home to DePaul’s softball team. The stadium features covered dugouts, enhanced batting cages, a press box, concessions and seating for nearly 1,200 fans. Back to the tour CDM Center The CDM Center is home of the Jarvis College of Computing and Digital Media (CDM), which comprises the School of Cinematic Arts, School of Computing and School of Design. At the base of the Adams/Wabash stop, it’s easily accessible by public transit. Besides classrooms, production spaces and administrative offices, the building hosts more than 25 labs and classrooms with specialized software and hardware for CDM student usage. In addition to teaching and general purpose labs, there are numerous research labs and centers. These specialty labs are equipped with advanced technology, software and experimental tools to support faculty and students in their research endeavors. Did You Know? It’s not all work and no play in the CDM Center. The Loop Fitness Center and Studio, located in the basement (and free for all students), is where you can take a study break by hitting the treadmill or lifting weights. Back to the tour Centennial Hall Centennial Hall offers studio, one- and two-bedroom units that house two or four students in each apartment. Laundry rooms, lounges and study rooms are available on each floor. The first two floors of Centennial Hall are home to a Whole Foods Market, which opened in February 2015. The third floor holds university offices, with apartments located on the fourth, fifth and sixth floors of the building. Back to the tour St. Vincent de Paul Church Rev. Edward M. Smith, C.M., founded St. Vincent de Paul Church in 1875, when the building served as the parish church, pastor’s home, parochial school and parish hall. Since 1875, it has been through multiple renovations. It is considered one of the most beautiful churches in Chicago with its exquisite architecture, spacious sanctuary, Lyon and Healy organ and marble detail. St. Vincent de Paul Church is located at the corner of Webster and Sheffield avenues. Back to the tour College of Education The College of Education (COE) building contains classrooms and all offices for COE faculty, administration and staff. The building also houses college advising and student teaching offices, the Education and Counseling Center and the Academic Success Center. Back to the tour Corcoran Hall Overlooking Cacciatore Stadium and Wish Field, this four-story building provides double-occupancy rooms in a traditional-style residence hall with community bathrooms with private showers. Each floor has laundry rooms, study lounges and music practice rooms, and there are kitchens on the second and fourth floors. Corcoran Hall is named after DePaul’s fifth president, Rev. Francis V. Corcoran. Back to the tour Cortelyou Commons Originally built in 1929 and remodeled in 2006, Cortelyou Commons accommodates banquets, receptions, presentations and other large events. Cortelyou is equipped with built-in audiovisual equipment, a coatroom and an outdoor patio. It is named after Rev. John R. Cortelyou, C.M., DePaul’s eighth president. Back to the tour Courtside Apartments The Courtside Apartments complex is a Chicago row house that has been converted into three student apartments, each housing four residents. These units offer double- and single-occupancy bedrooms. Each unit is equipped with a full kitchen, including a dishwasher, and all residents have access to a laundry room located in the basement. Back to the tour Daley Center The Richard M. and Maggie C. Daley Building is home to the College of Communication and the School of Continuing and Professional Studies. On the corner of State and Jackson, it’s steps from multiple public transit stops. In addition to classroom and administrative offices, the building features creative resources like a green screen studio, control room and editing suites for students to apply and enhance their multimedia skills. The Idea Realization Lab (IRL), a creative space for students to bring their ideas to life, is on the third floor. IRL offers the machinery, tools and materials for a broad range of activities, from 3D printing and laser cutting, to sewing and screen printing, to woodworking and milling. The Loop Equipment Center, also known as “The Cage,” is located in the basement. It’s stocked with professional-grade equipment like digital camcorders, DSLRs, field audio equipment, portable lighting, and light grip gear. Both the IRL and the Cage are free for students. The basement also has theatre spaces with professional AV set-up. These facilities are ideal for students to show the work they are producing in a big-screen setting and to host film festivals and visiting artists. Did You Know? The building is named for Chicago’s former mayor and his wife. Mayor Daley, who served from 1989–2011, is a “Double Demon,” having received both his undergraduate and law degrees from DePaul. Back to the tour DePaul Art Museum Built in 2011 and located just off the Fullerton “L” stop, the DePaul Art Museum (DPAM) offers 15,200 square feet of space for class use, programs and events. The building’s mechanical systems are tailored to provide appropriate conditions for the care of artwork. A second-floor bay window facing the Fullerton “L” allows the DPAM to interact and communicate with commuters through messages and artwork. Back to the tour DePaul Center The DePaul Center is the anchor of the university’s Loop Campus. This 11-floor building is the home of the Driehaus College of Business. Directly above the Jackson Red Line stop, it’s within a block from stops for seven different Chicago ‘L’ trains. The first floor and lower level of the DePaul Center features a full-service Barnes & Noble that serves as DePaul’s Loop Campus academic bookstore. Pass through to the concourse, and you’ll find the DePaul Esports Gaming Center and offices for The DePaulia, 14 East and Good Day DePaul, three of DePaul’s award-winning student news organizations. The Loop Student Center is located on the 11th floor. Loop Market, the main cafeteria downtown, is located here, along with the Student Union, Activities Board and University Ministry. There’s also an outdoor terrace with plenty of seating, ideal for taking in stunning views of the surrounding Chicago skyline as you chat with friends over lunch! In the building you’ll also find: the main Loop library DePaul Central Office of Admission Dean of Students Career Center Student Government Association (SGA) Study Abroad A unique feature of the DePaul Center is its skybridge. It connects the top four floors to the neighboring Lewis Center, allowing students to move seamlessly between the two buildings. Did You Know? The building wasn’t always used for education. It opened in 1912 as a department store. DePaul bought the property in 1991 and reopened it in 1993. Back to the tour 1150 W. Fullerton The 1150 West Fullerton Building houses The Art School as well as DePaul's Health Services Clinic (AMITA Sage Medical Group). The first floor of the 1150 West Fullerton Building is home to the Chicago Public Library’s Lincoln Park branch. Back to the tour 55 E. Jackson Blvd. The university rents office space on numerous floors of the 55 East Jackson Building for Academic Affairs, the Office of Advancement and administrative departments, including University Marketing and Communications and Enrollment Management. Additional administrative offices, including that of the Office of the President, are located on the 22nd floor. The 55 East Jackson Building was formerly known as the CNA Building. Back to the tour Holtschneider Performance Center DePaul’s new Holtschneider Performance Center features practice rooms, rehearsal spaces, the Corboy Jazz Hall, Brennan Family Recital Hall, Allen Recital Hall and the Gannon Concert Hall. The performance center is named after Rev. Dennis H. Holtschneider, C.M., DePaul’s 11th president. Back to the tour Sasha and Eugene Jarvis Opera Hall The former School of Music concert hall at the south end of the Holtschneider Performance Center was redesigned and dedicated to vocal rehearsal and performance space for recitals, concerts and opera productions. Back to the tour Levan Center The Thomas P. Levan Center features high-tech classrooms and is where many liberal arts and social science courses are held. Levan also houses the TRiO Student Support Services office and is connected to the Schmitt Academic Center (SAC) and O’Connell Hall. Levan is named after DePaul’s fourth president. Back to the tour Lewis Center Lewis Center is the main home of the university’s College of Law. The college’s Admission office and Rinn Law Library are housed in Lewis, along with the University Center for Writing-based Learning and a general-use computer lab with more than 50 workstations. Administrative offices, including Student Affairs and the Loop Campus Public Safety office, can be found in the Lewis Center. Formerly the Kimball Hall Building, the Lewis Center was built in 1916 and acquired by DePaul in 1955 through a gift from Mr. Frank J. Lewis. Back to the tour McCabe Hall Students living in McCabe Hall enjoy apartment and suite-style living. There are a variety of housing configurations from one to three bedrooms. All units include a bathroom and a kitchenette or full kitchen. A lounge and study room are on the first floor. McCabe Hall is named after Rev. Francis X. McCabe, C.M., DePaul’s third president. Back to the tour McGowan North Named after William G. McGowan, this $12 million science facility opened in 1998. The 60,000 square-foot, two-story building features research labs, classroom labs, lounges and a computer lab. The Department of Biological Sciences is also located in McGowan North. Back to the tour McGowan South Named for Monsignor Andrew J. McGowan, this $40 million, four-story science facility opened in 2009 and is a LEED Certified Green Building. The state-of-the-art facility houses the Chemistry and Environmental Science departments. McGowan South features more than 30 labs used for classroom instruction and research, lecture halls, multiple study lounges, two rooftop greenhouses and a student-maintained rooftop garden. Back to the tour Munroe Hall Munroe Hall opened in 1970 as DePaul’s first residence hall and was completely renovated in 2000. This six-story, air-conditioned building offers the following housing options: Suite-doubles: Two students per unit, two units share a bathroom. Deluxe-doubles: Two students share a unit and a private bath. Singles: One student in a unit shares a bathroom with an adjoining unit. Rooms on the upper floors of Munroe Hall provide magnificent views of the Chicago skyline. A TV lounge and laundry facility are on the first floor, and a kitchen, lounge and study room are located on each floor. Munroe Hall shares an entrance, mailroom and a private courtyard with Belden-Racine Hall. Munroe has a 24-hour staffed security desk, and keycard swipe entry is required. Several academic and administrative offices are also located in Munroe Hall, including the First-Year Academic Success Program. Munroe Hall (formerly Clifton Hall) was named after a private donor. Back to the tour School of Music DePaul’s School of Music is recognized as one of the nation’s finest conservatory programs. The School of Music building hosts classrooms, rehearsal and performance rooms, offices and a student lounge. Back to the tour 990 W. Fullerton Building The 990 West Fullerton Building is home to many departments in DePaul’s College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences. The Sociology, Political Science, International Studies and Geography departments are all located here. Back to the tour O’Connell Hall O’Connell Hall serves primarily as an instructional building where courses for multiple colleges are held. Also, the Office of Multicultural Student Success Cultural and Resource Centers are located on the third floor. Formerly called The Hall of Science, O’Connell was renamed after DePaul’s sixth president, Rev. Michael J. O’Connell. Back to the tour O’Malley Place Connected to Lewis Center via walkways and elevators, O'Malley Place features the College of Law’s Career Services center, numerous classrooms and a computer lab with nearly 100 workstations for general student use. Formerly the Finchley Building, it was built in 1928 and acquired by DePaul in 1972. The building was rededicated as Comerford J. O’Malley Place in 1980 after DePaul’s seventh president (1944–1964). Back to the tour Ozanam Hall Located in the northwest corner of the Lincoln Park Campus, this six-story, air-conditioned on-campus residence hall is a quick walk to classrooms, the Student Center, the Fullerton ‘L’ stop, retail and restaurants. Built in 2000 and offering a variety of room options, Ozanam Hall, or Oz Hall, is a popular choice for first-year students. In addition to bedrooms, students can access community study rooms, kitchenettes and lounges on each floor, and a laundry room (it’s free—no quarters needed!) on the second floor. The hall is wheelchair-accessible, has a 24-hour-staffed security desk, and requires a keycard swipe for entry. Housing options in Ozanam Hall include: Suite-doubles: Two students per unit, two units share a bathroom. Deluxe-doubles: Two students share a unit and a private bath. Singles: One student in a unit shares a bathroom with the unit next door. Did You Know? Formerly known as Clifton-Fullerton Hall, the building was renamed in 2020 for Frédéric Ozanam, founder of the Society of Saint Vincent de Paul. Started in 1833, the society today has over 1,500,000 volunteers serving in more than 150 different countries. Back to the tour The Quad A green space just off bustling Fullerton Avenue, the Quad is an urban oasis and one of the most vibrant places on campus. While the stunning landscaping makes it a popular place for taking selfies in warm weather, it’s also a great spot in winter for playing in the snow as students embrace all of Chicago’s seasons! The Quad is host to many activities beyond studying, hanging out or tossing a frisbee. The two largest are the Campus Involvement Fair and FEST. Student organizations set up shop every fall for the Campus Involvement Fair, a day of activities and networking. It’s a great way to explore DePaul’s 300+ student organizations and get connected with other students around common interests—or discovering new ones. FEST is a DePaul exclusive concert each spring. The university plays host to A-list performers like Chance the Rapper, Lil Yachty and Childish Gambino. Did You Know? The sun you’re soaking up on the Quad can charge your devices at the same time. There are 4 solar-powered stations for you to plug your phone, tablet or laptop into for a quick recharge between classes. Back to the tour Racine Offices The Racine Offices building houses academic and administrative offices for the Department of Anthropology and the DePaul Humanities Center. Back to the tour The Ray It’s hard to find a place in Chicago that offers a greater variety of fitness activities under one roof than DePaul’s state-of-the-art Ray Meyer Fitness and Recreation Center. And even better, it’s free to all students. Better known as “The Ray,” this four-story facility houses: A 4-court gymnasium A 4-lane, 200-meter running track (with skyline views!) A 6-lane, 25-yard lap and recreation pool A 12,000 square foot strength and conditioning area Group fitness studios Racquetball courts Spin studio Locker rooms The Ray is home to intramurals, club sports and fitness classes—a place to make friends as you tap into your inner competitor. It also offers personal training, massage therapy and outdoor equipment rentals. In the lobby, you’ll also find the Bean Caffé, offering healthy snacks and sandwiches—a popular spot among students looking for a quick bite. Did You Know? Ray Meyer was the DePaul men’s basketball coach for 42 seasons. He retired in 1984 after leading the Blue Demons to 724 wins. Back to the tour Richardson Library DePaul’s four-story library is home to countless resources critical for your success. Anchoring the northeast corner of the Quad, it is the central spot on the Lincoln Park Campus for independent, collaborative and group study. The library provides over 1,100 study seats, multiple study lounges and group study rooms, a computer lab, three conference rooms and numerous special collections. On the first floor, you’ll find the Learning Commons, a modern, collaborative learning studio that provides a variety of peer tutoring services and supplemental instruction. The library catalog and automated reference centers provide access to books, journals and magazines online. And DePaul is a member of the I-Share, ILLiad and WorldCat consortiums, allowing you to order books from more than 70 other libraries for delivery to Richardson. The library, also called JTR, was named after DePaul’s ninth president, Rev. John T. Richardson, C.M. Did You Know? There’s a place in JTR where it’s OK to make plenty of noise while working on projects. Known as the “Maker Hub,” it provides machinery, tools and materials—at no cost—for a broad range of activities that will help you tap into your creativity and bring your ideas to life. Back to the tour Schmitt Academic Center The Arthur J. Schmitt Academic Center, commonly known as “SAC,” lies in the heart of the Lincoln Park Campus. Right off the quad, the facility houses classrooms as well as some of the most popular student support services. One of SAC’s defining features is “The Pit,” a social gathering and study area in the middle of the main floor that includes The Bean Caffé, the campus coffee shop. Here, you can catch up on last-minute assignments, grab a coffee or a snack, browse social media or just hang out! Immediately surrounding The Pit are several important services, including DePaul Central, a one-stop shop for student services, including registration, financial aid and student accounts. Career Center, where students work with advisors on job-search strategies, attend career workshops and get help with résumés. Office for Academic Advising Support, which provides holistic advising and major exploration services to undeclared and exploratory students. Office of Student Employment, students’ connection to on-campus jobs and opportunities to advance their academic and professional goals. On the second floor is the Writing Center. There, students can collaborate on any writing-based project with tutors trained to work with writers across a diverse range of subject specialities. SAC connects directly to two other academic buildings, Levan Center and O’Connell Hall, creating easy access to services in between classes for many students. Did You Know? The university architect arranged for the final beam in SAC to be painted white and made available for an “Autographing Party.” It was signed by students, faculty and staff before it was put in place on March 17, 1967. Back to the tour Sanctuary Hall Sanctuary Hall offers large, furnished studio, one-, two- and three-bedroom apartment-style units. All units include at least one private bathroom, kitchen and dishwasher. Students have access to a laundry room in the basement, a study area and common lounges. Sanctuary Hall features a 24-hour staffed desk and requires keycard swipe entry. Back to the tour Sanctuary Townhomes Each townhome is a four-bedroom, three-bathroom unit that houses seven students in three double rooms and one single. All units have a full kitchen, dishwasher and laundry room. Sanctuary Townhomes are accessed through a gated entrance on Kenmore Avenue, where keycard swipe entry is required. Back to the tour Seton Hall Named after Saint Elizabeth Seton, this four-story, air-conditioned residence hall offers loft-style rooms on the top three floors, and the first floor is home to DePaul’s Lincoln Park Campus bookstore. Seton Hall’s residents are housed in double, triple and quad occupancy rooms, most of which have walk-in closets. Two community bathrooms are located on each floor, with separate entrances for sinks, toilets and showers. Students have access to a full kitchen, lounge, laundry room and study rooms on each floor. Back to the tour Sheffield Square Apartments Two-, three- and four-person units fill the Sheffield Square apartments courtyard building. Each apartment has a full kitchen, living room, bathroom and individually controlled air-conditioning. Laundry facilities are located on the garden level of 2322 N. Sheffield Ave. Back to the tour Steans Center/Vincentian Residences The Irwin W. Steans Center is a community-based service-learning (CbSL) center. Originally established in 1998, it was renamed in 2001 after a generous endowment from the Steans family. The center supports thousands of students in their community engagement efforts. This building also serves as a residence for Vincentian fathers. Back to the tour Student Center The Student Center, also known as “The Stu,” is one of the most popular buildings and hangouts on the Lincoln Park Campus. It houses a range of student services, lounges, multipurpose event spaces and dining facilities. The Stu is home to Create Dining Hall, the primary spot to eat for students living in the residence halls and off-campus students with meal plans. Create offers an evolving mix of homestyle, vegetarian and vegan dishes, and sushi (affectionately referred to as “Stu-shi”), as well as cuisines representing a variety of cultures and traditions. Other options in the building include Brownstone’s Coffee Bar, Cluck and Revolution Noodle. In the building, you’ll find student service offices like the Dean of Students, the Division of Student Affairs, the Office of Student Involvement, University Ministry and the Office of Multicultural Student Success. It’s also a central gathering place for student organizations, who utilize the facility to host meetings, guest speakers and social events. There is plenty of space to relax, study or meet up with friends at The Stu. Did You Know? When students say, “Let’s meet at the statue,” they’re talking about the 9½-foot bronze memorial to Monsignor John J. Egan on the Student Center plaza. Dedicated in 2004, it is one of the most iconic campus landmarks, honoring the lifelong soldier for social justice who began and ended his career at DePaul. Back to the tour Sullivan Athletic Center The Sullivan Athletic Center opened in 2000 and is home to DePaul’s Athletic Department, as well as training facilities for varsity sports. DePaul is a Division I school and a member of the Big East Conference. Inside Sullivan Athletic Center is McGrath Arena, home of the Blue Demons women’s basketball and volleyball teams. Tickets for Blue Demon games are available at the ticket office inside of the Sullivan Center—students get theirs for free! DePaul’s Blue Demons train and compete in 13 varsity sports: Basketball (men’s and women’s) Cross country (men’s and women’s) Golf (men’s) Soccer (men’s and women’s) Softball Tennis (men’s and women’s) Track and field (men’s and women’s) Volleyball (women’s) Back to the tour The Theatre School The Theatre School building, which opened in September 2013, is a 165,000 square-foot, five-story multipurpose facility. It houses a 250-seat theatre, a flexible 100-seat black-box theatre, as well as administrative and faculty offices, classrooms, rehearsal spaces, design studios, workshops and the school’s script library. The Theatre School is the Midwest’s oldest theatre conservatory and is nationally recognized as one of the top conservatory programs in the United States. Back to the tour 2400 N. Sheffield Building Opened in 2009, the 2400 North Sheffield Building serves as an entry point for prospective students visiting campus. It is the starting point for tours of the Lincoln Park Campus. Back to the tour University Center The University Center (UC) is an 18-story residence hall shared with other local universities that is only one block south of the Loop Campus. DePaul students are assigned to common floors and units, allowing them to build a DePaul community. Amenities in the building include a dining center, fitness center, rooftop terrace, laundry room, meeting rooms, pool and pingpong tables, and soundproof music practice rooms. The UC was completely remodeled in 2018, so units boast new flooring, countertops and furniture. A variety of accommodations are available to all residents, who range from first-year through law/graduate school, including: Suites: 2-bedroom, Deluxe Double and Private Room Apartments: 4-bedroom, 2-bedroom, Studio Did You Know? Since opening in 2004, the University Center provides DePaul students a housing option downtown just steps from the festivals in Grant Park, the lights of Buckingham Fountain, the special collections at the Art Institute, and many more of Chicago’s famous landmarks. Back to the tour University Hall This four-story, air-conditioned residence hall offers rooms with large closets and shared bathrooms accessed from the hallway. Housing options include Suite-doubles: Two students per unit, two units share a bathroom. Suite-triples: Three students share a unit and a private bath. Deluxe-doubles: Two students share a unit and a private bath. Full kitchens, lounges and study rooms are located on each floor, and a laundry room is in the basement. A 24-hour staffed security desk is located in the lobby, and keycard swipe entry is required. DePaul’s Residence Hall Council and Radio DePaul have offices in the basement of University Hall. Back to the tour Wish Field Wish Field is home to the Blue Demons men’s and women’s soccer teams. Nestled in the heart of DePaul’s Lincoln Park Campus, it features a FieldTurf surface, a press box, electronic scoreboard and team benches. Back to the tour DePaul University Apply Request Info Visit Campus Directory 1 E. Jackson Blvd. Chicago, IL 60604 (312) 362-8000 Library Athletics Careers Events facebooktwitterinstagram 2001-2018 DePaul University | Disclaimer | Contact Us | Emergency Plan | Consumer Information | IBHE Complaints | Privacy StatementEditor Login Home