Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Education PhD You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Education PhD Apply Visit Request More Info Education PhD Admissions Information Careers & Opportunities Curriculum Our Faculty Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Education PhD Become an expert in a specialization about which you are passionate through the Education PhD in Temple’s College of Education and Human Development. Immerse yourself in a doctorate program that embraces community-connected, student-inspired and social justice-oriented scholarship. Engage in critical conversations with professors and classmates across disciplines about what matters most in teaching and learning. Take advantage of both Temple’s location in the center of Philadelphia’s highly diverse communities and the College of Education and Human Development’s network of educational districts and institutions. You’ll work closely with your Temple faculty mentor to develop your research and teaching skills and learn leading-edge understandings from faculty. Develop the abilities you need to contribute new knowledge to your field. Take courses both within and across specialties to gain a rich interdisciplinary perspective. For full course and curriculum information, look to your specific concentration. Concentrations All doctoral students must pursue one of the following concentrations when applying for admission. Applied Linguistics Explore the use, teaching and learning of languages, especially foreign languages. Students will examine the interaction between language beliefs and practices in multilingual communities to build the theoretical foundation, research experiences and scholarly skills needed for positions in academic environments, research and professional practice. View Concentration Details Educational Psychology Develop an interdisciplinary approach to investigating psychological processes in educational contexts. Prepare to become a professor or a research scientist by building expertise in theory and research on students’ and educators’ development, learning and motivation. View Concentration Details Literacy and Learners Learn how people from birth through adulthood develop literacy. Find out how research and theory can be brought into effective practice in different contexts. Focus on the learners and aspects of literacy you are most interested in as you prepare yourself for an academic or other research-oriented career. View Concentration Details Science, Mathematics and Educational Technology Investigate critical lines of inquiry in mathematics education, science education, and/or educational technology. Learn rigorous analytical research skills needed to carry out research focused on the teaching and learning of those subjects. View Concentration Details Special Education Become equipped to study interventions designed to improve the learning and behavior of students with a variety of disabilities. Students will gain up-to-date knowledge of research and issues pertaining to special education and hone the ability to apply comprehensive research skills to problems relating to the education of children with special needs. Explore and understand the complexities and individual differences those children face, especially in urban environments, to become a highly qualified teacher of special education. View Concentration Details Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Doctor of Philosophy offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $966.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,329.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Student Clubs & Organizations Find peer support and leadership opportunities while tackling the challenges of your program by joining organizations such as the ones below. The Graduate Student Organization of the College of Education and Human Development runs community-based events like school supply drives as well as professional development workshops and activities. The organization upholds a strong commitment to social justice, regularly organizing political events and engaging in projects with community partners. The Temple University Graduate Students Association, a student employee union, maintains positive working lives and conditions for graduate student assistants. Our Advisors Advisors will guide you in navigating the curriculum and selecting the appropriate coursework to achieve your academic and professional goals. A graduate academic advisor will also be available to help you with scheduling, policies and procedures to assure your smooth passage through the program. Applied Linguistics Program Contact Elvis Wagner, associate professor, is the faculty program coordinator for the Education PhD with a concentration in Applied Linguistics. Phone: 215-204-5821 Email: matthew.wagner@temple.edu Educational Psychology Program Contact Avi Kaplan, professor, is the faculty coordinator for the Education PhD with a concentration in Educational Psychology. Phone: 215-204-4497 Email: avi.kaplan@temple.edu Literacy and Learners Program Contact Sabina Neugebauer, associate professor, is the faculty program coordinator for the Education PhD with a concentration in Literacy and Learners. Phone: 215-204-6137 Email: sabina.neugebauer@temple.edu Science, Mathematics and Educational Technology Program Contact Carol B. Brandt, associate professor, is the faculty program coordinator for the Education PhD with a concentration in Science, Mathematics and Educational Technology. Phone: 215-204-6142 Email: carol.brandt@temple.edu Special Education Program Contact Jason Travers, associate professor, is the faculty program coordinator for the Education PhD with a concentration in Special Education. Email: jason.travers@temple.edu Questions For more information about this program, the College of Education and Human Development, how to apply for admission, and your application status, contact Enrollment Management. Enrollment Management Ritter Annex 150 1301 Cecil B. Moore Ave. Philadelphia, PA 19122 Phone: 215-204-8011 Email: educate@temple.edu ED-EDUC-PHD Additional Program Information Visit College Site Go back to AcademicsMore in Education PhD Admissions Information Careers & Opportunities Curriculum Our Faculty Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info