MASTER OF PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION IN ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE AND POLICY Apply now About Program Overview Earth Institute Information Sessions Steve Cohen, Program Director Faculty Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion FAQs Contact Us Admissions How to Apply Tuition & Financing International Students Admission FAQs Admitted Students Curriculum Overview Course Descriptions Workshop Archives Careers Alumni Network Professional Development Featured Profiles Students Alumni More Use tab to navigate through the menu items. ▼ IMPORTANT DATES TAKE ON THE WORLD'S BIGGEST CHALLENGES MPA IN ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE AND POLICY This immersive STEM-designated one-year program prepares future environmental sustainability leaders to address the most serious and complex environmental problems the earth will face. Launched two decades ago, it is the world’s premier program of its kind, and is offered jointly by the School of International and Public Affairs and Columbia's Earth Institute. It seamlessly integrates science with environmental policy and management. Graduates hold key positions in important organizations worldwide in the public, private, and nonprofit sectors. Apply Now Prospectus The Program Experience FAST FACTS Reach A global alumni network of thousands of School of International and Public Affairs and Earth Institute program graduates, who hold key positions of environmental leadership across sectors. Opportunity Alumni employers include Apple, the City of New York, Natural Resources Defense Council, the San Francisco International Airport, the Sierra Club, KPMG, the United Nations, the U.S. Department of State, the Vornado Realty Trust, and The World Bank. Leadership Students learn directly from leading policy and management practitioners, along with top scientists of the world-class Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory. WHY YOU SHOULD APPLY Turn your passion into real, tangible change. Urgent need for effective environmental leaders. Columbia’s top-ranked sustainability programs, resources, and network. Practical training that combines mission-driven science, management, and policy. Immersive one-year program format saves time and money. Graduates combine career status and compensation with personal fulfillment. Program News Lazy Bears and Confused Birds: What a Warming Planet Means for Wildlife In the Arctic, climate change is upsetting the migratory rhythms of many species, disrupting pollinators, and spelling trouble for ecosystems around the world. Read Here Graduation Ceremonies Return to the Real World The reappearance of caps, gowns, hoods, paper diplomas, and smiling friends and families provide continuity and reassurance. I am happy that I got to see that once again, last week. Read More Alumni Spotlight: Jake Higdon Bridges the Gap Between Science and Policy Action Jake's master’s degree from the Environmental Science and Policy program provided him with the skills and experience to shape climate policy in the real world. Here he elaborates on his time at Columbia, discusses his career path, and provides advice to current students. Read Here CONTACT US For more information contact: Maya Lugo Assistant Director 212-853-8164 MPA_ESP@sipa.columbia.edu SIPA Office of Admissions and Financial Aid SIPA Office of Admissions – Columbia University 514 West 113th Street New York, NY 10025 212-854-6216 sipa_admission@columbia.edu IMPORTANT DATES & DEADLINES Early Decision Deadline November 01 Fellowship Consideration January 15 Final Application Deadline February 15 If you would like to receive more information about the MPA in Environmental Science and Policy program, please submit your contact information below. Submit Thanks for submitting!