Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Continuing Education & Summer Sessions You are here Home Academics Continuing Education & Summer Sessions Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Preferred Name Use Pronoun Use and Gender Identity Temple Thought Leaders Housing & Dining Health & Wellness COVID-19: Keeping Our Community Safe & Healthy COVID-19 FAQ Testing & Tracing Vaccines Academics, Tuition & Aid Temple HEERF III Grant Student Housing & On-campus Life Work-life for Faculty & Staff Faculty Teaching Information Return Scenario Planning Temple Community Health Advisory Group University Communication Vaccination Rates and Active COVID-19 Cases at Temple University International Campuses and Programs City Life Philadelphia Visiting Temple Accommodations Dining Options Religious Services Information FAQs Safety Main Campus and Philadelphia Safety FAQ Contact Temple RAVE Temple Guardian App Community Programs and Research University News Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Campus Life Arts and Culture Clubs and Organizations Housing, Dining and OWLcards Parking and Transportation Safety Student Banking Student Centers Wireless, Computers and Phone Academics Advising and Academic Support Courses and Calendars International Students Libraries Registration, Grades and Books Schools and Colleges Health and Wellness Athletics and Fitness Health and Counseling Tuition and Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition and Billing Careers and Internships Career Center Internships Student Jobs Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees Presidential Search President University Leadership Board of Trustees Updates Past Presidents 2019 State of the University History & Traditions Russell Conwell Temple Traditions Acres of Diamonds Honorary Degrees Past Honorary Degree Recipients Temple Health News & Media Media Mentions Temple University Wallpapers Temple's Impact Career in Charitable Change Fueled by Temple Experiences Advancing Breast Cancer Research Leaders in HIV Research 21st-century Learning Temple Firsts Paving the Way Medical & Community Support Student Support Contact members of Strategic Marketing and Communications Offices Public Information Facts About Temple Faculty & Staff Resources Working at Temple Calendars and Time Off Holiday Schedule Careers at Temple Human Resources Performance and Training Business Services Catering Exception Policy Double Tree Catering/ Conferences Contact Frequently Asked Questions Trademark Licensing Policy Corporate Responsibility Logo and Graphics Guide Guidelines for Trademark Use The Student, Faculty and Staff Guide to Ordering Licensed Temple Products Becoming Licensed Trademark and Licensing FAQ Where to Buy Temple Gear University-approved Hotels Club Quarters DoubleTree Hotel Hilton Garden Inn Hilton Philadelphia at Penn's Landing Loews Hotel Sonesta Philadelphia The Conwell Inn Campus Services Computers, Email and Phones Conferences and Meetings Health Sciences Center Form Main Campus Meeting Space Howard Gittis Student Center Form Documents & Insurance Facilities and Space ID Cards Parking and Transportation Faculty Resources Calendars, Schedules and Grades Courses and Curricula Instructional Resources Faculty Senate and News Research and Grants Finance and Travel Accounting and Budget Employee Banking and Finance Tuition Remission Travel and Expenses Wellness and Safety Fitness and Health Safety and Alerts Campus Development Frequently Asked Questions Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Data Integrity and Data Verification Unit In-scope Materials Quick Reference Guide Rankings Data Overview and Updates Additional Resources Frequently Asked Questions FAQ: Fox School of Business MBA rankings Enterprise Risk Management Key Terms and Definitions Helpline Frequently Asked Questions Resources Compliance With the Four Pillars Who We Are Libraries Charles Library Learning can be an invigorating experience no matter your age, educational background or situation in life. Temple offers a host of courses and programs for those seeking college admission, professional development or simply thirsting for knowledge. Continuing Studies The Office of Continuing Studies is the best place to start if you want to pursue your educational interests, but are not enrolled in a degree program. Our students take courses for a variety of reasons, including working toward college admission, professional development, and personal enrichment. Advisors are available to guide you through the process of enrolling in Temple credit courses on a non-degree basis. Learn more about continuing your studies at Temple. Noncredit Programs Enhance your skills. Pursue a passion. Expand your knowledge. Challenge your mind. These are just a few of the reasons to take noncredit courses at Temple. Conveniently scheduled courses are offered in person and online, and are taught by engaging instructors with real-world experience. We offer programs in several categories: Professional Development and Licensure programs in real estate, medicine, dentistry, podiatry, law, physical therapy, and others allow you to maintain your professional license or start a new profession. Temple also offers a wide variety of courses, certificate programs and online learning options that can help you prepare for a different job or get ahead in your current career. Personal Enrichment and Community Education will allow you to explore new interests in music or art. Expand your skills through offerings at our Fort Washington, Ambler and Center City campuses, as well as through extensive programs offered by the Pan-African Studies Community Education Program (PASCEP). Youth Programs are offered year-round and provide learning and performance opportunities for all ages. Students can explore visual arts and music and performance as well as science and technology through our many summer camp programs. High school students can prepare for college with study skills, SAT reviews, and creative writing. Intensive English Language programs offer English classes to non-native speakers who wish to improve reading, writing, and speaking skills. Classes are offered at Main Campus in Philadelphia or at the Temple University, Japan Campus, in Tokyo. Your education never stops with our Lifelong Learning programs for adults over 50 years of age. Lifelong Learning is possible through our Osher Lifelong Learning program at the Center City campus and our Lifelong Learning Society at Ambler Campus. Summer Sessions With more than 140 fields of study, there are many reasons to attend Temple summer sessions. Spend uninterrupted time on a challenging course. Lighten your load next semester by getting required courses out of the way. Graduate early by taking classes during the summer. Temple offers courses on five different campuses throughout the Philadelphia area and Harrisburg. With day, evening and online courses offered during the summer, you’ll find it’s easy to continue your studies whenever—and wherever—you choose. Learn more about summer sessions at Temple. Corporate Training Temple's high-quality education and training programs can be delivered on-site at local businesses, organizations and schools. High-energy trainers provide participants with dynamic and interactive experiences, as well as skills and knowledge they can apply on the job right away. Programs are customized to meet the needs of your organization at a site that's most convenience for you and your employees. Learn more about corporate training options at Temple. Go back to AcademicsMore in Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community.