Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Faculty Governance Human Resources Benefits Campus safety ISC/Workday Jobs Payroll UW CareLink Computing / IT UW Libraries Libraries Catalog Libraries Databases The Whole U Awards of Excellence For more than 50 years, the UW Awards of Excellence have celebrated outstanding faculty, staff, students and alumni whose achievements exemplify the University’s mission.  About this recognition Alumnus Summa Laude Dignatus Larry Gossett, ’71 Alumnus Summa Laude Dignatus KING COUNTY COUNCIL View Profile × Larry Gossett, ’71 Alumnus Summa Laude Dignatus Co-Founder, UW Black Student Union Office of Minority Affairs & Diversity Former King County Councilmember Larry’s decades of community service, both within and beyond the UW community, embody our University’s values. As an alumnus of the Department of History and an early graduate of the African American Studies Program, his advocacy and leadership led to the creation of the Black Student Union as well as our Office of Minority Affairs & Diversity. During his tenure at OMA&D and at other state and national organizations, Larry has been a powerful advocate for marginalized communities and all who are underserved. As a member of the King County Council, he consistently advocated for the most vulnerable, and the University is proud to honor him as this year’s Alumnus Summa Laude Dignatus. Distinguished Alumni Veteran Award William Center, ’78 Distinguished Alumni Veteran Award U.S. NAVY View Profile × William Center, ’78 Distinguished Alumni Veteran Award Rear Admiral, U.S. Navy (ret.) Senior Advisor, International Fellows Programs Daniel J. Evans School of Public Policy & Governance Both during and since his 35-year naval career, Bill has devoted his life to public and community service. As a naval officer, he rose to command the Navy Northwest Region and served as an advisor to the Joint Chiefs of Staff. In the years since, he has taught and mentored UW students at the Evans and Foster schools and volunteered his leadership and expertise to numerous nonprofits as part of his personal mission to help eradicate global poverty. His courage, compassion and readiness to help inspire our entire community. Distinguished Contributions to Lifelong Learning Award David M. Fenner Distinguished Contributions to Lifelong Learning Award International Studies View Profile × David M. Fenner Distinguished Contributions to Lifelong Learning Award Affiliate Lecturer Henry M. Jackson School of International Studies, College of Arts & Sciences Learning doesn’t stop with a diploma or degree. The classes that David teaches through the Osher Lifelong Learning Institute in Continuum College reach students of many ages, helping adult learners continue to grow intellectually and maintain strong social connections. David’s courses and lectures, on topics such as the history of immigration to the U.S., have earned high praise from his students. One wrote, “Absolutely fantastic instructor, deeply knowledgeable; great storytelling made for a compelling course.” Distinguished Librarian Award Jessica Albano Distinguished Librarian Award University Libraries View Profile × Jessica Albano Distinguished Librarian Award Communication Studies & News Librarian and Head Government Publications, Maps, Microforms & Newspapers University Libraries Information and media literacies are crucial skills that Jessica helps students develop through teaching, consultation and mentorship. She helped create the “Savvy Info Consumers: Evaluating Information” guide and collaborated with the Department of Communication to host “Why Journalism Matters.” In 2016 she created an editorial cartoon exhibit that drew the attention of several news outlets. Jessica manages the Libraries’ microfilming program, preserving Washington state newspapers to make these “first drafts of history” available through open-source initiatives including the Washington Digital Newspapers website. A colleague noted that faculty and students often turn to Jessica for “her thoughtful guidance and generous recommendations for research.” Distinguished Teaching Award Wendy E. Barrington Distinguished Teaching Award Epidemiology View Profile × Wendy E. Barrington Distinguished Teaching Award Associate Professor Child, Family & Population Health Nursing, School of Nursing Epidemiology, School of Public Health With rich experience as an epidemiologist and educator, Wendy takes students beyond the classroom for experiential learning opportunities — such as a visit she organized to a Tent City Collective, where students could hear directly from people experiencing homelessness and gain hands-on clinical experience. Throughout the pandemic, Wendy has adjusted her teaching style to meet her students’ needs as she continues to promote the translation of research into public-health practice for communities. Distinguished Teaching Award Andrea Carroll Distinguished Teaching Award Chemistry View Profile × Andrea Carroll Distinguished Teaching Award Associate Teaching Professor Chemistry, College of Arts & Sciences Whether developing an individual course or collaborating on large-scale curriculum reform for her department, Andrea brings “energy, clarity of vision and an unfailing focus on the student experience.” Students routinely praise Andrea’s emphasis on what they need to know and her attention to detail. Throughout the pandemic, her excellent management and planning for general chemistry labs allowed the department to offer the lab-based courses that are critical stepping stones for students pursuing STEM degrees. Distinguished Teaching Award Weili Ge Distinguished Teaching Award Accounting View Profile × Weili Ge Distinguished Teaching Award Professor Accounting, Michael G. Foster School of Business Each year, Weili influences hundreds of faculty across the nation through her presentations at the American Accounting Association’s New Faculty Consortium. She teaches using real-world cases to demonstrate relevance, and her passion for accounting is contagious. Known for being approachable, responsive and encouraging, she cares deeply about the lives of her individual students. One student noted that Weili’s “power to induce comfort, extend embrace and suspend judgment … can only be derived authentically and without incentive.” Distinguished Teaching Award Tadesse Ghirmai Distinguished Teaching Award Division of Engineering and Mathematics View Profile × Tadesse Ghirmai Distinguished Teaching Award Associate Professor Division of Engineering and Mathematics School of Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics, UW Bothell Tadesse creates an inclusive academic environment in which he sparks students’ curiosity, encourages enthusiasm and inspires passion for science and engineering, with the goal of increasing access for women and underrepresented-minority students in the field. Because his courses can be challenging, Tadesse takes a student-centered, interactive approach by relating subject matter to solving real-world problems. One student praised Tadesse’s “commitment to inspiring and cultivating excellence and achievements among all students.” Distinguished Teaching Award Theodore Myhre Distinguished Teaching Award School of Law View Profile × Theodore Myhre Distinguished Teaching Award Teaching Professor School of Law In his Introduction to American Law class, Theo brings the law to life by transfixing his students’ attention on pivotal cases that demonstrate the impact they can make. Outside of class, students flock to his discussion sessions and crowd his office door. He encourages students to question and teaches them to be better people and advocates. One student wrote, “His respect and consideration for intersectional identities and diverse experiences shone through both his syllabus and classroom facilitation.” Distinguished Teaching Award Weichao Yuwen Distinguished Teaching Award Nursing & Healthcare Leadership View Profile × Weichao Yuwen Distinguished Teaching Award Assistant Professor School of Nursing & Healthcare Leadership, UW Tacoma Weichao teaches her students that no one exists in a bubble; we all live within complex networks of family and friends as well as social and spiritual units. Because of that, chronic conditions impact not just patients but entire families — and that influences care management. In her classes, Weichao considers the needs of individual students while building a sense of community. “She is mindful of people from different backgrounds, has a deep sense of cultural humility and is inclusive in her leadership approaches,” one student wrote. Distinguished Teaching Award Sarah Zaman Distinguished Teaching Award Pediatrics View Profile × Sarah Zaman Distinguished Teaching Award Clinical Assistant Professor Pediatrics, School of Medicine Sarah is the type of instructor who begins as a student’s teacher, then becomes a mentor and eventually a treasured friend, one of her students wrote. Her seamless integration of evidence-based teaching into her daily practice inspires her students to become more thoughtful and rigorous physicians — and skilled and enthusiastic teachers. “When I’m around her,” one student says, “I’m inspired to learn, to seek out knowledge, to aggressively and unapologetically pursue clinical growth.” Distinguished Teaching Award for Innovation with Technology Nadya Peek Distinguished Teaching Award for Innovation with Technology Human Centered Design & Engineering View Profile × Nadya Peek Distinguished Teaching Award for Innovation with Technology Assistant Professor Human Centered Design & Engineering, College of Engineering Nadya’s digital fabrication course relies on in-person instruction in a makerspace where students can access 3D printers. When the pandemic made that impossible, Nadya developed a new curriculum that helped students master computer-aided design and 3D printing skills from home. Students have described Nadya’s courses as “the most demanding and most rewarding class they’ve taken,” a colleague wrote. “She has shown remarkable ability to project empathy for student challenges while also encouraging them to work independently and surpass their own expectations.” Distinguished Teaching Legacy Award Anthony Ishisaka Distinguished Teaching Legacy Award Social Work View Profile × Anthony Ishisaka Distinguished Teaching Legacy Award Associate Professor and Associate Dean for Academic Affairs School of Social Work Widely known as Uncle Tony, Anthony “was a man who could radically transform your life with one small encounter,” wrote a former student. “He was always teaching because teaching, service and love simply were who Uncle Tony was, through and through.” He advised students writing academic papers to clearly identify one big idea and rigorously support it. As associate dean for academic affairs, he helped create the School of Social Work’s first service-learning opportunities with communities of color in the Seattle area. His community-based work earned him the S. Sterling Munro Public Service Faculty Award, and the School of Social Work’s Living Human Treasure Award in 2008 for “his genius, embodiment of cultural identity and values cherished by the School community, and enrichment of all our lives.” Anthony passed away in 2019; his wife, Joanne, will accept this award. Distinguished Retiree Excellence in Community Service Award Terence Mitchell Distinguished Retiree Excellence in Community Service Award Management and Organization View Profile × Terence Mitchell Distinguished Retiree Excellence in Community Service Award Professor Emeritus Management and Organization, Michael G. Foster School of Business As a retiree after 40 exemplary years on the Foster School faculty, Terry is a role model for remaining an active researcher and community educator. Dedicated to environmental health and conservation, Terry has donated more than 1,000 volunteer hours to the Woodland Park Zoo. His initiatives have helped the zoo enhance docent training and improve exhibits. He also volunteers for efforts to conserve species, from humpback whales to alligators. An educator at heart, he continues to lecture and teach about protecting threatened species. Distinguished Service Award Colleen Fukui-Sketchley, ’94 Distinguished Service Award UW Alumni Association View Profile × Colleen Fukui-Sketchley, ’94 Distinguished Service Award Head of Engagement, Inclusion and Diversity HashiCorp Colleen’s impact on our University community — particularly our alumni community — will benefit the UW and all it serves for generations. Her extraordinary ambassadorship for the UW and her work to establish UW Impact has reimagined legislative advocacy as a tool for alumni engagement. She is deeply committed to her community and a passionate advocate for diversity and inclusion. In addition to being the youngest person and first Asian American woman to serve as UWAA president, she earned the 2015 Charles E. Odegaard Award, the UW’s highest recognition for achievement in diversity. Excellence in Teaching Award Sarah Brucia Breitenfeld Excellence in Teaching Award Classics View Profile × Sarah Brucia Breitenfeld Excellence in Teaching Award Doctoral Candidate, Classics College of Arts & Sciences After taking one of Sarah’s classes, many students sign up for more — and some even decide to major or minor in classics. Whether they’re teaching etymology or mythology, Sarah brings material to life with historical and cultural context — for example, concluding each Latin class with a mini-lecture on daily life in Rome. One of their fellow teaching graduate students writes, “I have been inspired by Sarah’s incredible work ethic and powerful ability to curate a course in a resoundingly effective way.” Excellence in Teaching Award Devon Geary Excellence in Teaching Award Communication View Profile × Devon Geary Excellence in Teaching Award Doctoral Candidate, Communication College of Arts & Sciences Clear and well-organized lectures, videos, pop-culture examples and lively small-group discussions are just some of the ways Devon engages her students — an approach that makes her courses learning and growing experiences for all. She creates a safe, supportive community environment in which she listens to students and encourages them to share their stories with each other. A colleague from another university wrote, “She is passionate about teaching and takes the responsibility of teaching and mentoring students seriously.” James D. Clowes Award for the Advancement of Learning Communities Michelle Habell-Pallán James D. Clowes Award for the Advancement of Learning Communities Gender, Women & Sexuality Studies View Profile × Michelle Habell-Pallán James D. Clowes Award for the Advancement of Learning Communities Professor, Gender, Women & Sexuality Studies, College of Arts & Sciences Director, Graduate Certificate for Public Critical Race Scholarship With her clear passions for community and dynamic learning, Michelle champions finding innovative ways to attract and make space for students of color and nontraditional students so that they can thrive in their own scholarship, teaching, research and mentoring. One student wrote that Michelle “inspired me to learn more about my Mexican heritage and see how I can work with my community to practice resiliency against the oppressions that we as Latinas face in society and even in our own communities.” Marsha L. Landolt Distinguished Graduate Mentor Award Lee Ann Campbell Marsha L. Landolt Distinguished Graduate Mentor Award Global Health View Profile × Lee Ann Campbell Marsha L. Landolt Distinguished Graduate Mentor Award Professor of Global Health Director, Interdisciplinary Doctoral Program in Pathobiology Schools of Public Health and Medicine “Just talk to Lee Ann,” senior pathobiology students routinely advise new students. Described as accessible, kind and trustworthy, Lee Ann advises students and connects them with opportunities. As director of the Pathobiology Graduate Program since 1996, she has recruited faculty and doctoral students, secured a long-term National Institutes of Health training grant, and interacted with each of her program’s more than 125 trainees. “Her patience, attentiveness and dedication,” one colleague wrote, “are truly a model for all of us working in graduate education.” Outstanding Public Service Award Zahra Ali Outstanding Public Service Award Critical Care, UW Medical Center View Profile × Zahra Ali Outstanding Public Service Award Registered Nurse Critical Care, UW Medical Center Zahra’s work as an intensive care nurse is only part of her investment in the community. As a volunteer math teacher at the King County Juvenile Detention Center, Zahra enrolled in math classes herself to better understand the material and help her students. She has volunteered as a research assistant studying outcomes in patients whose immune systems have shut down. And she volunteers at the UW Farm and at camps for children with chronic medical conditions. “In dedicating her time and energy,” a colleague writes, “Zahra is a paragon of community service.” President's Medalists - Transfer student Elizabeth Lee President's Medalists - Transfer student Environmental Studies View Profile × Elizabeth Lee President's Medalists - Transfer student Environmental Studies Even before transferring from Everett Community College, Elizabeth had the UW in her sights when she participated in an ocean research program that took her aboard the RV Rachel Carson. At the UW, she continued to pursue her passion for oceanography, as well as exploring a breadth of Indigenous history through the Burke Museum, and seeking out unique and diverse opportunities to learn and explore as part of her Husky Experience. After graduation, she plans to attend the UW School of Law and to pursue a career advocating for justice. President’s Medalists - 4-year winner Esaac Mazengia President’s Medalists - 4-year winner Environmental Science & Terrestrial Resource Management View Profile × Esaac Mazengia President’s Medalists - 4-year winner Environmental Science & Terrestrial Resource Management Esaac arrived at the UW eager to immerse himself in environmental studies, and as an undergraduate he explored widely, from local landscapes to Costa Rica. As part of the Interdisciplinary Honors program, he developed his talents for collaboration, creativity and holistic thinking. Throughout his Husky Experience, he has sought and seized countless opportunities to learn, grow and lead. After graduation, he plans to serve in AmeriCorps in the National Park Service and to continue his study of equity and diversity in environmental policy. Thorud Leadership Award Lisa Chew Thorud Leadership Award School of Medicine and Harborview Medical Center View Profile × Lisa Chew Thorud Leadership Award Associate Professor, Medicine, School of Medicine Associate Medical Director in Ambulatory Care, Harborview Medical Center Lisa ensures that Harborview’s most vulnerable patients receive outstanding care. Her leadership and commitment to equity inspire her colleagues to call her a “visionary” whose innovation and advocacy for at-risk patients are making an impact throughout the community. She is deeply dedicated to equitable health-care access, courageously calling attention to the disproportionate impact of COVID-19 on communities of color and working with community groups to expand testing among the populations at greatest risk. Thorud Leadership Award John Lynch Thorud Leadership Award School of Medicine and Harborview Medical Center View Profile × John Lynch Thorud Leadership Award Associate Professor, Allergy & Infectious Diseases, School of Medicine Medical Director, Infection Prevention & Control, Harborview Medical Center Associate Medical Director, Harborview Medical Center John’s outstanding leadership in UW Medicine long predated the COVID-19 crisis, but during the pandemic he has gone above and beyond, leading with extraordinary talent, expertise and wisdom. John’s vision and experience enabled Harborview to quickly mobilize in the fight against COVID-19, and he served as an inspiring and careful decision-maker during the months of outbreaks that pushed our health-care system to the limit. His strategic, forward-thinking leadership saved lives and helped keep our critical health-care infrastructure running smoothly. Thorud Leadership Award Katia Harb Thorud Leadership Award Environmental Health & Safety View Profile × Katia Harb Thorud Leadership Award Director Environmental Health & Safety In leading Environmental Health & Safety, Katia has proven instrumental and indispensable throughout this unprecedented pandemic year. She stewarded our institutional response, enabling the University to make critical, evidence-based decisions under pressure and with extremely high stakes. Our community is indebted to Katia for her swift, knowledgeable decision-making, which informed the policies that kept us safe. Informing policies on everything from cleaning to masking to testing to work-from-home practices, her collaborative spirit and outstanding leadership have provided enormous benefit to our community. Thorud Leadership Award Michael Verchot Thorud Leadership Award Consulting and Business Development Center View Profile × Michael Verchot Thorud Leadership Award Director, Consulting and Business Development Center Michael G. Foster School of Business Michael is a driving force for diversity, equity and inclusion, and his impact over 25 years of service to the Foster School exemplifies our University’s public service mission. His lifelong passion for and commitment to using business as a tool for empowerment have benefited countless students, faculty, small-business owners and administrators. His advocacy for women- and minority-owned businesses, as well as for underrepresented students, has changed lives, bettered communities and helped the Foster School advance its values of diversity and equity. Together We Will Award Marie Angeles Together We Will Award Student Affairs, Evans School of Public Policy & Governance View Profile × Marie Angeles Together We Will Award Director of Student Affairs Daniel J. Evans School of Public Policy & Governance Marie is a bright light in the UW community — envisioning and creating innovative virtual programming to build and nurture community with an explicit focus on antiracism, equity and inclusion. She was part of a core planning team awarded a UW Diversity & Inclusion Seed Grant to launch a tri-school faculty workshop on inclusive teaching in autumn 2020. Her ability to quickly pivot and create outstanding virtual programming during the pandemic has greatly benefited our students. Together We Will Award Peter Han Together We Will Award Brotman Baty Institute for Precision Medicine View Profile × Peter Han Together We Will Award Research Coordinator, Genome Sciences Brotman Baty Institute for Precision Medicine In an unprecedented time under extreme pressure, Peter’s leadership has been instrumental in expanding COVID-19 testing, informing public policy and slowing the spread of the virus. His outstanding work overseeing the expansion of the Seattle Flu Study to include the Seattle Coronavirus Assessment Network brought free COVID-19 testing to the Seattle community and provided critical data to state and local health officials. His vision and adaptability helped the UW and Seattle communities respond to the pandemic. Together We Will Award Catlin Harrison Together We Will Award Diabetes Institute, UW Medical Center View Profile × Catlin Harrison Together We Will Award Patient Services Specialist Supervisor, Diabetes Institute UW Medical Center Catlin led a seamless transition from in-person patient visits to phone calls and telemedicine, while bolstering her staff with information and moral support during a time of great worry and stress. Her exceptional leadership helped her team stay flexible through a period of rapid change, maintaining stable numbers of patient visits and the highest quality care. Thanks to Catlin’s capable leadership through this difficult year, physicians were able to work from home and patients could receive care from home. Together We Will Award Rukie Hartman Together We Will Award School of Public Health View Profile × Rukie Hartman Together We Will Award Program Operations Specialist for Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Dean’s Office, School of Public Health Rukie is a leader in implementing an equitable, inclusive approach to student service. They evaluated a pilot mentorship program for School of Public Health students from underrepresented groups, leading efforts to bring in professional facilitators for virtual healing circles and helping launch a student leadership course series. Rukie’s commitment to equity, diversity and inclusion, and to leading with kindness and empathy, have made a meaningful difference to students and colleagues alike. Together We Will Award May Heng Together We Will Award Otolaryngology, Harborview Medical Center View Profile × May Heng Together We Will Award Assistant Nurse Manager Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery Clinic, Otolaryngology Harborview Medical Center May has shown immense courage in her work on the front lines helping others. Her colleagues note that she’s vastly knowledgeable and committed to patient care. When the drive-up COVID-19 testing site began, May served long hours and worked weekend shifts when called upon; her consistent commitment to care was inspiring. She’s known as a team builder, and her kindness and encouragement have uplifted both coworkers and patients in a stressful time. Together We Will Award Laura Hennessy Together We Will Award Trauma, Burn & Critical Care Surgery, School of Medicine View Profile × Laura Hennessy Together We Will Award Research Nurse Supervisor Trauma, Burn & Critical Care Surgery Department of Surgery, School of Medicine Laura is a leader in solving operational and financial issues within her division, where she took the lead in clarifying and communicating the complex protocols, logistics, and safety and compliance issues arising from the pandemic. Her careful work ensured staff safety in the event of a COVID-19 exposure or outbreak. She has been a powerful force for finding creative solutions to challenging finances, helping to keep research staff employed and the wheels turning smoothly. Her calm tenacity and collaboration are assets to her team. Together We Will Award Austin Johnson Together We Will Award Acute Care COVID Unit, Harborview Medical Center View Profile × Austin Johnson Together We Will Award Registered Nurse Acute Care COVID Unit, Harborview Medical Center Austin exemplifies Harborview’s service culture and is a role model who always seeks to raise the bar for himself and his team. At a time of dynamic change, he worked tirelessly to improve and update practices and policies, as well as to educate his colleagues. He emerged as a leader in protocols for donning and doffing personal protective equipment, helping build staff confidence and familiarity with these critical procedures. He’s known for his upbeat attitude, professional demeanor and ability to put people at ease. Together We Will Award Nola Klemfuss Together We Will Award Brotman Baty Institute for Precision Medicine View Profile × Nola Klemfuss Together We Will Award Administrative Director, Genome Sciences Brotman Baty Institute for Precision Medicine Nola performed exceptional work in shepherding the development of the COVID-19 WA Notify smartphone alert system. Her leadership and guidance helped the Brotman Baty Institute demonstrate the effectiveness of this important technology. Nola organized and ran pilot programs that ultimately involved thousands of participants, and thanks to her extraordinary efforts, our state was able to implement a mobile notification program that was activated over one million times within a week of release. Her commitment and focus made this huge undertaking a success. Together We Will Award Tana Knight Together We Will Award Biochemistry View Profile × Tana Knight Together We Will Award Budget/Fiscal Analyst Biochemistry, School of Medicine Tana’s above-and-beyond work ethic has made the shift to remote work as painless as possible for her colleagues. She took on a wide variety of tasks — scanning documents, mailing items, assisting with payroll, supervising student office assistants, ordering critical health and safety supplies — and her support through this difficult period has been invaluable. Tana’s talents for streamlining processes and ensuring mission-critical work gets done, as well as helping to boost team morale, have made a great difference. Together We Will Award Maria Lamarca Anderson Together We Will Award Advancement & External Relations, UW Bothell View Profile × Maria Lamarca Anderson Together We Will Award Director of Communications Advancement & External Relations, UW Bothell Maria goes out of her way to help others, exemplifying the UW’s commitment to public service. Not only does she contribute to UW Bothell’s mission as a communications leader, she has also found time to give back to her community through the pandemic — delivering thousands of meals and soliciting clothing donations to benefit unsheltered members of the community. Her empathy, kindness and humanity shine through, and her colleagues consider her an inspiration for the way she creates positive impact in her community. Together We Will Award Robert Lawrence Together We Will Award Facilities Maintenance & Construction View Profile × Robert Lawrence Together We Will Award Carpenter Facilities Maintenance & Construction When the UW campus faced the sudden need for protective barriers to help slow the spread of COVID-19, Robbie’s excellent work made a huge impact. Tasked with creating and installing 30 plexiglass sneeze guards, he worked swiftly, allowing Housing & Food Services to open dining halls on time to continue serving students. He consistently demonstrates a high caliber of work, expertise, dedication to protecting the UW community and an admirable attitude of willing partnership and upbeat spirits. Together We Will Award Nedralani Mailo Together We Will Award Office of Equity & Inclusion, UW Tacoma View Profile × Nedralani Mailo Together We Will Award Program Support Supervisor, Center for Equity & Inclusion Office of Equity & Inclusion UW Tacoma In her role coordinating UW Tacoma’s food pantry, Nedralani puts equity and community service first. Throughout the pandemic, her worked enabled The Pantry to remain accessible to students. A UW Tacoma alumna herself, Nedra acted quickly when the pandemic hit, ensuring that The Pantry could safely continue to serve those in need with even greater efficiency and capacity. Thanks to her dedication and leadership, The Pantry served over 300 students and their families last spring, distributing over 1,800 pounds of food. Together We Will Award Pearl McCrea-Welle Together We Will Award Gallagher Law Library View Profile × Pearl McCrea-Welle Together We Will Award Library Specialist I Technical Services, Gallagher Law Library Pearl has demonstrated unwavering excellence at the law library through the challenging transition to a remote work environment. Not only did she adapt to ordering e-books and working with vendors to hold print shipments, but she sought out ways to make remote work more efficient. While meeting these extraordinary needs, she has performed her job with her customary skill, collegiality, creativity and care. Her dedication to her colleagues and the mission of the law library makes a difference across the School of Law. Together We Will Award Brittany Mosser Together We Will Award Psychiatry & Behavioral Sciences, School of Medicine View Profile × Brittany Mosser Together We Will Award Manager, ALACRITY Center and CREATIV Lab Psychiatry & Behavioral Sciences, School of Medicine When the pandemic threatened the medical school’s ability to continue clinical research involving vulnerable and underserved communities, Brittany rose to the challenge. Between a research center and a lab in psychiatry and behavioral sciences, Brittany oversaw 10 research projects; she quickly developed remote strategies for successfully continuing funded studies involving community-dwelling older adults and rural populations. She was instrumental in looking for funding for ongoing research under COVID-19, and her work helped enable research accomplishments that will have lasting impact. Together We Will Award Gregory Pepper Together We Will Award Virology, School of Medicine View Profile × Gregory Pepper Together We Will Award Health Services Manager Virology Division, Laboratory Medicine & Pathology School of Medicine Responsible for expanding the UW Virology Lab’s COVID-19 testing capacity, Greg met this enormous challenge with precision, speed and excellence. He showed an outstanding commitment to expanding testing capacity; creating an efficient and effective work environment; and training new lab scientists, technicians and other personnel under harrowing conditions. Thanks to Greg, the Virology Lab is now performing 7,000–8,000 COVID-19 tests per day, fulfilling a critical function in the fight to end the pandemic. Together We Will Award Jessica Preboski Together We Will Award School of Law View Profile × Jessica Preboski Together We Will Award Program Support Supervisor II Clinical Law Program, School of Law In the difficult transition to remote work, Jessica exemplified professionalism, creativity, resilience and tenacity, going beyond her normal outstanding performance to ensure that the Clinical Law Program continued to deliver quality legal services to hundreds of clients. She was instrumental in guiding the transition to remote teaching, learning and community service in the midst of system-wide upheaval from the courts to the jails. Jessica was proactive and persistent in seeking out solutions, with great impact for people in need of legal services. Together We Will Award Ronda Rutherford Together We Will Award Global Business Center, Foster School of Business View Profile × Ronda Rutherford Together We Will Award Program & Office Manager, Global Business Center Michael G. Foster School of Business Ronda’s leadership has advanced the mission of diversity, equity and inclusion at the Foster School in ways that have galvanized the community. She spearheaded a grassroots DEI community of practice, and her hard work and proactive efforts have led to a more vibrant and active community committed to antiracism and to amplifying this urgently needed work. Her inclusive and welcoming leadership helped engage a diverse group of members from across the Foster School, helping to realize the school’s values of diversity and inclusion. Together We Will Award Nicholas Schockmel Together We Will Award University Libraries View Profile × Nicholas Schockmel Together We Will Award Acquisitions Metadata Specialist Acquisitions and Rapid Cataloging Services, University Libraries When COVID-19 struck, UW library users lost access to millions of print resources. Thanks to Nick’s programming and batch editing skills, and his commitment to learning about digital resources, he connected the UW community with a huge repository of digitized works, enabling 24/7 access to digitized versions of hundreds of thousands of print volumes since May 2020. Nick’s wealth of institutional knowledge, expertise and strategic thinking make him a treasured libraries colleague whose impact is felt throughout the University. Together We Will Award Colin Todd Together We Will Award School of Music View Profile × Colin Todd Together We Will Award Senior Computing Specialist School of Music, College of Arts & Sciences Faced with the unprecedented challenge of teaching music classes remotely, Colin’s contributions to the School of Music have been invaluable. Responsible for overseeing hardware, software and application issues for the school, Colin researched technologies to enable the transition to remote learning and was tireless in educating faculty and providing technology and resources to prepare for the quarter. Perhaps most importantly, he helped instructors continue to “feel normal” in a deeply abnormal time. Together We Will Award Derrick Van Kirk Together We Will Award Housing & Food Services, College of Engineering View Profile × Derrick Van Kirk Together We Will Award Program Operations Specialist Housing & Food Services, College of Engineering Derrick’s can-do spirit of ingenuity and practicality makes him a treasured colleague at The 8, a multi-use community center in McMahon Hall. When the need arose for personal protective equipment to help slow the spread of COVID-19, Derrick mobilized a team of student makerspace staff to create over 600 face shields for UW Medicine front-line workers. He then turned to sewing cloth face coverings for workers on the HFS front lines, helping to protect essential staff when masks were scarce. University Faculty Lecture Award Valerie Curtis-Newton University Faculty Lecture Award School of Drama View Profile × Valerie Curtis-Newton University Faculty Lecture Award Professor and Head, Directing & Playwriting School of Drama, College of Arts & Sciences Valerie is an inspired artist, nationally renowned director, insightful teacher and committed leader. She teaches not only the crafts of directing and acting but also the qualities for making exceptional theater: resilience, persistence and fearlessness. “She has taught us that ‘Equivocation is poison. Have something to say. Be brave enough to say it,’” one student wrote. Valerie notes of her community, “I want them to really see each other and move through the world with greater kindness, greater compassion for each other. And because kindness and compassion in action look like courage, I want to make my community brave.” University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA