Skip to content Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Main Menu About A Brief Introduction | Engineering Study Abroad Milestone Events Student Life Annual Safety Security Report Academics Courses Academic Calendars Current GT Students Transient Students Graduate Programs MS Analytics MS Computer Science MS Electrical and Computer Engineering MS Environmental Engineering Master of Industrial Design Exchange To GT-Atlanta MS Analytics MS CS MS ECE MS ENVE Master of Industrial Design To GT-Shenzhen To GT-Lorraine Faculty Georgia Tech Faculty with Rotational Assignment to Shenzhen Faculty Positions Financial Scholarships Coulter Scholarships Merit-Based Scholarships NACA Scholarships Tuition and Fees Industry FAQ FAQ on Admission FAQ on Financial Matters FAQ on Programmatic Issues FAQ on GT MS Degree FAQ on PhD Ugrad Summer Contact Us Search Search for: Search Exchange to GT-Atlanta for MS ENVE Program Master of Science in Environmental Engineering students who matriculate through GT-Shenzhen must spend the first two semesters at GT-Shenzhen. If a student wishes to exchange to GT-Atlanta before graduation, he/she must declare the intent to exchange during the semester prior to the exchange semester and be in good academic standing (minimum GPA of 2.7 out of 4.0) and good disciplinary standing. Exchange students come to Atlanta on F-1 student visa and are expected to pay the standard out-of-state tuition and fees for the Atlanta semester. If the student is sponsored by the foreign government or institution, however, he/she can only come to the US on J-1 visa. See the GT Office of International Education (OIE) for more details. GT-Shenzhen only offers the non-thesis option for the MS ENVE degree. If a student wishes to pursue the thesis option, he/she needs to come to Atlanta for two semesters in the fall & spring or spring & fall. Whether the student chooses the thesis or non-thesis option, the MS diploma is the same. The student must declare the exchange track before coming to Atlanta and the I-20 form will reflect the intended duration of stay in Atlanta and the financial resources that are required. GT-Shenzhen MS ENVE students are offered the following degree programming tracks and are expected to make a choice during the second semester. MS ENVE exchange students must complete a minimum of 12 credit hours of CEE coursework in Shenzhen. Track 1: Complete the entire MS degree program in Shenzhen on the non-thesis option. Track 2: Complete the first 18-24 credit hours in Shenzhen and study in Atlanta during the following fall or spring semester. F-1 visa holders must maintain full-time student registration of 12 credit hours during the academic semester in Atlanta. This track pertains to the non-thesis option. On-campus dormitory is generally not available to exchange students during the fall or spring semester. Track 3: Complete the first 12-24 credit hours in Shenzhen and study in Atlanta during the following fall & spring or spring & fall semesters. F-1 visa holders must maintain full-time student registration of 12 credit hours during the academic semesters in Atlanta. This track pertains to the thesis option. Track 4: Complete the first 15 credit hours in Shenzhen and study in Atlanta during the following fall & spring or spring & fall semesters. F-1 visa holders must maintain full-time student registration of 12 credit hours during the academic semesters in Atlanta. This track pertains to the non-thesis option. Note: In the above, the number of completed credit hours refers to those credit hours that can count towards your GT MS ENVE degree requirements. Please refer to the CEE Graduate Handbook for details regarding the degree requirements. To apply for the exchange, the student should email gtshenzhen@nullce.gatech.edu approximately 5 months before the start date of the exchange semester with the following information: Name, GTID, track choice, and which semester(s) the student wishes to study in Atlanta. Note that while GT-Shenzhen students are given the opportunity to exchange to GT-Atlanta, the decision to grant the US visa or not resides with the visa officer. Whether the exchange student comes to Atlanta for one or two semesters, F-1 students are allowed to arrive in the US for up to 30 days prior to the start of the semester to settle in and are allowed to remain in the US for up to 60 days for travel and leisure following the completion of the degree program. Students who have completed the MS ENVE degree program in Shenzhen are allowed to participate in the graduation ceremony in Atlanta if they can secure a proper US visa (such as a tourist visa). Exchange Exchange to GT-Atlanta for MS Analytics Program Exchange to GT-Atlanta for MS CS Program Exchange to GT-Atlanta for MS ECE Program Exchange to GT-Atlanta for MS ENVE Program To GT-Shenzhen Faculty Georgia Tech Faculty with Rotational Assignment to Shenzhen Faculty Positions Upcoming Events There are no upcoming events at this time. Contact the Institute Directory Offices Campus Map Apply Support / Give Log in Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404-894-2000 Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment ©2022 Georgia Institute of Technology