Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu School of Public Health About Programs Apply Students Research News & Events Faculty & Staff Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact About Dean's Message Mission and Values Accreditation Council on Education for Public Health (CEPH)Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Management Education (CAHME) History Program Rankings Take Action Apply Now Explore Programs News & Events Contact Us Follow SPH Online Facebooktwitter Home School of Public Health About Every community deserves to be its healthiest self, but not all are. We’re here to change that. In a world of pressing health concerns, a degree in public health can make a difference. Our remarkable, driven students and our research-oriented faculty, alongside our dedicated staff, do just that each day. The UofM School of Public Health is committed to addressing the newest challenges and training the top public health leaders to shape the health of our communities. A world of possibilities.... and degree programs to match your career goals. We offer a new undergraduate program in Public Health, as well as three master's degree programs (Master of Public Health, Master of Health Administration, and Master of Science in Biostatistics); three doctoral programs (Social and Behavioral Sciences; Epidemiology; Biostatistics); and a variety of joint-degree and certificate programs. Explore programs > Learning through service. One of the unique aspects of SPH is the way our students serve the community as they earn their degrees. Students and faculty work closely with officials and community leaders, conducting research that leads to changes in health policies. We are engaged in our community and collaborate with local, national and international health organizations. Because of these relationships, our students have more opportunities for internships and graduate assistantships with leading health organizations. Fully-Accredited The School of Public Health is accredited by the Council on Education for Public Health (CEPH). SPH is also a member of the Association of Schools and Programs in Public Health (ASPPH). The Master of Health Administration (MHA) program is one of 83 programs accredited by the Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Management Education (CAHME) and the only accredited program in Tennessee. Learn more about CEPH accreditation > | Learn more about CAHME accreditation > Nationally Ranked Our programs have been ranked among the top in the country for both quality and affordability, including a top 50 ranking for our MHA program by U.S. News & World Report. View full list of rankings > Learn More Interested in learning more about the School of Public Health? Request information or contact us. Request Information > Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 2/9/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.