Skip to main content The Magazine of the University of Central Florida | Archives In This Issue Spring 2022 Together Again For the first time since the start of the pandemic, UCF’s Gather Luncheon returned to campus to promote community building and healthy eating. Elevating Expression Shawn Welcome ’17 reflects on the power of poetry in a community as he begins his term as Orlando’s poet laureate. Making Waves Thanks to NASA-developed technology, this UCF alum’s company is working to achieve clean water globally. Ingenuity at Work Developments from UCF faculty advance their fields while making societal impacts. We’re Here to End This These UCF researchers shine a light on what it takes to end domestic violence, and they have a question for everyone: Who’s willing to help break the cycle? More Than Words UCF’s Communication Disorders Clinic provides essential training for its graduate students and critical services to the local community. Relationship Goals If you aren’t taking these six actions, you should be, according to experts at UCF’s Marriage and Family Research Institute. On Campus — Spring 2022 From new winter celebrations to new campus murals and learning technology, there’s plenty of ways Knights are staying engaged at UCF. Quite a Catch UCF researchers receive a new, custom boat to continue studying sea turtles. Powering Potential UCF’s new Microgrid Control Lab simulates a modern grid control room and will serve as a hands-on learning and research facility. A Generational Effort For two decades, the UCF Business Incubation Program has supported the growth of hundreds of local small businesses to diversify the Central Florida economy. Now, the program is positioning itself for a new generation of success. Artistic Celebration Flying Horse Editions celebrates 30 years of supporting artistic works and research with an exhibit featured in UCF’s Art Gallery. Why I Believe in Medical City After graduating from UCF’s first class of medical school graduates, Elona Rrapo Kaso ’13MD ﻿has returned to Lake Nona to work and help train students at the Orlando VA Medical Center. She shares what it’s like to see the development of Medical City and UCF’s College of Medicine. Not Your Average Students Education is a lifelong endeavor, as evidenced by this comparison of two of UCF’s oldest and youngest students. Pegasus The Magazine of the University of Central Florida In This Issue Archives Together Again For the first time since the start of the pandemic, UCF’s Gather Luncheon returned to campus to promote community building and healthy eating. Students joined on Memory Mall for the annual Gather Luncheon, an event that was last held right before UCF moved to remote operations at the start of the pandemic in 2020. This year’s community building event provided a more intimate feel with reduced capacity, while still providing a healthy three-course meal, which included gluten-free and vegan options. For some it was a new opportunity to meet other Knights and learn more about nourishing food options, while others enjoyed a familiar tradition that’s been missing from the campus community for nearly two years. “I love the chance to be able to come together, make friends and be around something we all enjoy — food.” — Keana Salle, sophomore health sciences major 2,250 Meals provided at Gather Luncheon since the event was first held in 2016 250 Approximate number of students who attended this year 2 Campus departments collaborated for the event, Wellness & Health Promotion Services and Dining Services Nicole Dudenhoefer ’17 Spring 2022 Share this content on Facebook Tweet this content More from the Spring 2022 Issue Ingenuity at Work Developments from UCF faculty advance their fields while making societal impacts. Not Your Average Students Education is a lifelong endeavor, as evidenced by this comparison of two of UCF’s oldest and youngest students. On Campus — Spring 2022 From new winter celebrations to new campus murals and learning technology, there’s plenty of ways Knights are staying engaged at UCF. Quite a Catch UCF researchers receive a new, custom boat to continue studying sea turtles. Artistic Celebration Flying Horse Editions celebrates 30 years of supporting artistic works and research with an exhibit featured in UCF’s Art Gallery. Why I Believe in Medical City After graduating from UCF’s first class of medical school graduates, Elona Rrapo Kaso ’13MD ﻿has returned to Lake Nona to work and help train students at the Orlando VA Medical Center. She shares what it’s like to see the development of Medical City and UCF’s College of Medicine. Powering Potential UCF’s new Microgrid Control Lab simulates a modern grid control room and will serve as a hands-on learning and research facility. We’re Here to End This These UCF researchers shine a light on what it takes to end domestic violence, and they have a question for everyone: Who’s willing to help break the cycle? A Generational Effort For two decades, the UCF Business Incubation Program has supported the growth of hundreds of local small businesses to diversify the Central Florida economy. Now, the program is positioning itself for a new generation of success. Relationship Goals If you aren’t taking these six actions, you should be, according to experts at UCF’s Marriage and Family Research Institute. More Than Words UCF’s Communication Disorders Clinic provides essential training for its graduate students and critical services to the local community. Elevating Expression Shawn Welcome ’17 reflects on the power of poetry in a community as he begins his term as Orlando’s poet laureate. Making Waves Thanks to NASA-developed technology, this UCF alum’s company is working to achieve clean water globally. Like us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Find us on Instagram Follow us on YouTube Pegasus Magazine Suggest a Story Tell Us What You Think Update Your Address © University of Central Florida 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, FL 32816