Skip to main content Graduate School of Public & International Affairs Header Links About Academics Admissions Research Careers Search Open Navigation toggle video playback An ever-evolving world needs forward-thinking leaders. The GSPIA community approaches society’s greatest challenges with determined intellect, groundbreaking research, and real-world application that embodies a legacy for excellence. Academics Programs GSPIA offers five master’s degrees and one PhD program to give you the relevant and versatile skills to become a thought leader of tomorrow. Concentrations Our concentrations span the most pressing issues facing the world today, giving you knowledge to create change in communities. Certificates Whether it’s studying abroad or specializing in a specific area of the world, we provide opportunities that meet your goals. The GSPIA Experience Pitt Washington Center For well over a decade, Pitt's Washington Center has provided GSPIA students with the valuable opportunity to study in Washington, D.C., and connect with our vast network of engaged and committed alumni. The GSPIA Experience Signature Student Experiences Experiential learning creates a strong foundation for valuable public-service skills through opportunities like collaborative research, learning abroad, and other transformative student initiatives. The GSPIA Experience Career Services Prepare for your future by networking with like-minded changemakers: participate in workshops, apply for internships, and develop skills to land the job you've envisioned for yourself in public service. The GSPIA Experience Centers and Initiatives Home to our most impactful research, centers and initiatives will provide hands-on learning, valuable professional connections, and boost your resume with real-world skills. Slide 1 Slide 2 Slide 3 Slide 4 News Alum Carey Harris wins Woman of Influence Award On May 25, GSPIA alum Carey Harris (MPIA '95) was honored with a 2022 Women of Influence Award by the Pittsburgh Business Times for her work as the CEO of Literacy Pittsburgh. Remembering Professor William N. Dunn In 1969, Dunn joined the GSPIA faculty where he spent the next 50 years teaching and conducting research as an interdisciplinary, globally respected scholar. City of Pittsburgh declares May 16th CONNECT Day As jointly proclaimed by the City of Pittsburgh Council and Office of the Mayor, May 16 is officially CONNECT Day. View All News Events View All Events Graduate School of Public & International Affairs Footer 1 Apply Request Information Main navigation About Academics Admissions People Research Student Resources Career Services Alumni Resources Pitt in Washington Centers & Initiatives Diversity & Inclusion Hire a GSPIA Grad Veterans Resources GSPIA Job Opportunities 3601 Wesley W. Posvar Hall 230 South Bouquet Street Pittsburgh, PA 15260 412-648-7640 gspia@pitt.edu Close Navigation About Academics Admissions People Research Student Resources Career Services Alumni In Focus Pitt in Washington Centers & Initiatives Diversity & Inclusion Funding Hire a GSPIA Grad GSPIA Job Opportunities Request Information Apply Contact GSPIA Close Search Search