Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Creative Inquiry The 2021-2022 CI + UR Seminar Series All students, faculty, and staff are welcome to join the Office of CI + UR Seminar Series. This series is designed to offer opportunities and development topics to assist students interested in or currently engaged in research, inquiry, creative, or other academic engagement experiences. Archived: April 15: Recording Mentor and/or Student Spotlights Any mentor or student is welcome to attend to record a short CI testimonial. REGISTER HERE March 18 & 25 at 11 AM: FoCI and CSRF Open House: A Walk Through This seminar session will build on discussions from March 4. March 4 at 11 AM: Preparing for FOCI: An Introduction to Gather.town and Tips for Virtual Presentations Watch Additional resources for preparing for Gather.town can be found here: https://support.gather.town/help/movement-and-basics https://support.gather.town/help/av-troubleshooting https://support.gather.town/help/screensharing February 18 at 11 AM: Thinking About Summer Speaker: Cora Allard-Keese, Creative Inquiry Associate Director During this seminar, participants will learn about the Summer Creative Inquiry+Undergraduate Research Program and will be introduced to the Student Opportunity Center which gives all Clemson students access to nationwide opportunities for research, presentations, grants, scholarships and internship. Watch February 4 at 11 AM: Developing a Dynamic Digital Profile Speaker: Bridget McNamara, Adobe Education During this seminar, participants will be introduced to building a new type of professional digital presence, a step up from LinkedIn. Bridget McNamara from Adobe Education will present a new approach to designing profiles and personal branding to Clemson – developing a dynamic digital profile with the Adobe Career Branding Workshop. Students thinking about future internships, REUs, graduate school, and careers should attend! Participants will also learn how to engage with the Adobe Digital Studio and the Center for Career & Professional Development to help further develop their profiles. Resources | Survey | Watch December 3: A VIRTUAL Visit to Graduate Programs Around the Country With Clemson Alumni Hosted by Dr. Michael Sehorn, Genetics & Biochemistry Most schools have cancelled student visits this year due to COVID. Don’t miss the opportunity to visit various graduate programs with the Clemson alumni that attend them. Baylor College, Duke University, Clemson Center for Human Genetics, Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, University of Pittsburgh, UNC Chapel Hill and the University of Virginia Biomedical Sciences program will be represented. REGISTER NOW and submit the questions you have about the school/ program. November 19: A VIRTUAL Visit to Professional Schools With Clemson Alumni Hosted by Dr. Michael Sehorn, Genetics & Biochemistry Most schools have cancelled student visits this year due to COVID. Don’t miss the opportunity to visit various medical and professional schools with the Clemson alumni that attend them. UNC, Vanderbilt School of Medicine, University of South Carolina School of Medicine, Presbyterian School of Pharmacy, IU School of Medicine and MUSC College of Medicine and MUSC Dental School will be in attendance. REGISTER NOW and submit the questions you have about the school/ program. November 5: Building a Professional Online Presence - LinkedIn Sam Press, Graduate Assistant in the Center for Career and Professional Development – Michelin Career Center. | Watch October 15: Tech Transfer, CURF and Clemson Students Chase Kasper, Director of Business Development for the Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF). | Watch October 1: Thinking of Next Semester- What is CI and How to Get Involved Join us as you prepare to think of research and engagement opportunities for next semester September 17: Strategies for Strong Recommendation Letters Dr. Melissa Moss, Professor and Interim Chair of Biomedical Engineering, University of South Carolina. Dr. Chad Navis, Department of Management, Clemson University provided additional insight on “The Anatomy of a Recommendation Letter.” | Watch September 3: Introducing The Student Opportunity Center, The One Stop Shop for Research & Internship Opportunities May 27th: Resume Building Workshop When: 11AM-12PM, Thursday Where: 106 Watt (or zoom) In-person or virtual, interactive resume building session. Come to learn some basics OR come to learn some strategies for standing out.Students and mentors are welcome. Please RSVP.Bring your laptop if you want to update your resume. We will also have some hardcopies of submitted resumes.Lunch will be provided via “to-go” packaged meals. Speaker: TRACY AUSTIN ASSOCIATE DIRECTOR OF ANALYTICS AND INITIATIVES Center for Career and Professional Development Clemson University austin5@clemson.edu June 3rd: Building a Professional Online Presence When: 11AM-12PM. Thursday Where: Where: 106 Watt (or zoom) In-person or virtual, interactive session on how to maintain a professional online presence. We will focus on LinkedIn tips and addressing other platforms. Lunch will be provided via “to-go” packaged meals. Speaker: TRACY AUSTIN ASSOCIATE DIRECTOR OF ANALYTICS AND INITIATIVES Center for Career and Professional Development Clemson University austin5@clemson.edu June 10th : Working Lunch When: 11AM-12PM. Thursday Where: 106 Watt (or zoom) Status updates and intro to responsible conduct of research. Speaker: Cora Allard-Keese Associate Director – CI + UR Clemson University callara@clemson.edu June 17th : Important Library Resources for Undergraduate Researchers When: 11AM-12PM. Thursday Where: 106 Watt (or zoom) A demonstration of the library resources that every undergraduate researcher should be aware. Speaker: Jennifer Groff, Science librarian, jgroff@clemson.edu June 24 : Scientific Research Poster Basics & Preparing for Summer Showcase When: 11AM-12PM. Thursday Where: 106 Watt (or zoom) July 8 : Applying for Fellowships and Scholarships This Thursday (7/8) we will hear from Robyn Curtis, Director of Major Fellowships, on how to prepare if you are considering applying for a scholarship or fellowship. When: 11AM Where: 313 Watt or Zoom July 15 : Writing a Powerful Statement of Purpose Speaker: Dr. June Pilcher, Alumni Distinguished Professor, Department of Psychology Write a statement of purpose for applying to graduate school or for a fellowship. Students need to come with a statement -no more than 2 single-spaced pages. When: 11AM-12PM. Thursday Where: 313 Watt (or zoom) July 22 : Preparing to Present Your Poster Speaker: Dr. Michael Sehorn, Genetics and Biochemistry When: 11AM-12PM. Thursday Where: 313 Watt (or zoom) Home Students Faculty Grad Students Summer CI + UR Corporate CI Clemson COVID Challenge About CI Opportunities & Events CI + UR Seminar Series Related Links Current Projects Decipher Magazine Contact Us Watt Family Innovation Center Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram