Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Financial Analysis and Quantitative Risk Management MS You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Financial Analysis and Quantitative Risk Management MS Apply Events Request More Info Financial Analysis and Quantitative Risk Management MS Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Science in Financial Analysis and Quantitative Risk Management Build industry-matched knowledge and skills across the fields of financial analysis, quantitative modeling and risk management with the Master of Science in Financial Analysis and Quantitative Risk Management from Temple University’s Fox School of Business. Combining the benefits of Temple’s financial analysis program and its quantitative finance and risk management program, the Master of Science in Financial Analysis and Quantitative Risk Management offers a unique curriculum that supports pursuing both the Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) Exam Levels I through III and the Financial Risk Management (FRM) Exam Parts I and II during your graduate studies. The Financial Analysis and Quantitative Risk Management MS leads to diverse career opportunities, developing traditional investment banking, investment management and financial risk management expertise. Learn to analyze evolving global business opportunities and specialized financial products, and gain insight into risk management best practices, including corporate value management, derivative valuation, enterprise risk management, investment management, leveraged buyout (LBO) and merger and acquisition (M&A) transaction analysis, machine learning in finance, numerical valuation methods and quantitative fixed income modeling. Perhaps the only program of its kind, the Master of Science in Financial Analysis and Quantitative Risk Management accounts for both the CFA and FRM body of knowledge with interdisciplinary studies in behavioral finance, computational programming, continuous time finance, corporate finance, data science for finance, econometric and time series analysis, financial risk management, global markets, investment management, and numerical methods. Through one-on-one advising and career coaching, dedicated professional development seminars and access to resources through the renowned Center for Student Professional Development, you’ll shape a unique professional future, tailored specifically to your long-term career goals. Learn more about career coaching and other development opportunities. Request Information Learn more about the Financial Analysis and Quantitative Risk Management MS program. Apply Now Ready to apply? Submit your graduate application. Learn More Explore all of the specialized master's programs at Fox. Request Information Apply Learn More Specialized Master's in Finance Programs Temple offers a suite of graduate programs dedicated to producing the next generation of finance professionals. Apart from the Master of Science in Financial Analysis and Quantitative Risk Management, Fox also offers the following finance-related programs. Financial Analysis MS Financial Analysis MS Financial Analysis MS Quantitative Finance and Risk Management MS Quantitative Finance and Risk Management MS Quantitative Finance and Risk Management MS Your Path to CFA and FRM The CFA certification offered by the independent CFA Institute is among the highest distinctions in the investment management profession. The FRM certification, offered by the independent Global Association of Risk Professionals, also ranks among the most highly regarded professional designations for finance professionals. To prepare students for the CFA and FRM exams, the Master of Science in Financial Analysis and Quantitative Risk Management program offers classes that end prior to exam dates for concentrated study time; dedicated modules and industry study packages to support taking the complete CFA Exam Levels I through III during your graduate studies; and dedicated modules and industry study packages to support taking the complete FRM Exam Parts I and II during your graduate studies. Demonstrate your unique professional expertise and gain a competitive advantage in your career by pursuing both the CFA and FRM designations. Classes & Curriculum An innovative, 43-credit curriculum structure featuring one- to 1.5-credit classes offers the opportunity to sit for multiple CFA and FRM exams during your program. Full-time students are able to complete the program in 22 months, while part-time students can graduate in three years. Courses take place in person at Temple's Main Campus. The program's location in Philadelphia provides students access to the benefits of city life and connections to leading organizations. Courses you will take as part of the Master of Science in Financial Analysis and Quantitative Risk Management program include Applied Corporate Finance, Behavioral Finance, Investment Management, Machine Learning in Finance, Numerical Methods, Quantitative Portfolios, Stochastic Volatility and Value at Risk. Learn more about required courses within the Master of Science in Financial Analysis and Quantitative Risk Management program. Related Graduate Degrees Financial Analysis MS Quantitative Finance and Risk Management MS Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Science offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,142.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,142.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. See additional fees and costs associated with the Financial Analysis and Quantitative Risk Management MS program. Program Contact For more information about the Financial Analysis and Quantitative Risk Management MS degree program, contact the following faculty member. Cailin DiGiacomo is the assistant director of graduate enrollment. Phone: 215-204-0314 Email: c.digiacomo@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Joining student clubs and organizations is a great way to meet like-minded students; connect with local, national and international businesses; and enhance the skills you use in your professional career. Fox offers more than 30 student professional organizations. Supplement your academic experience by participating in a club related to your major or interests. The following clubs and organizations are available to students in Fox. The Fox Graduate Student Association connects students and alumni with the greater Fox community, providing professional development, networking and volunteer opportunities for graduate students. The mission of Net Impact is to grow and strengthen a network of leaders who use the power of business to make a positive economic, environmental and social impact. It brings together students seeking to network and to use the power of business to create a better world. The International Business Association brings together students from all over the world to learn about foreign business and the global economy, and offers an array of professional development opportunities. Fox Professional Speakers invites students to practice their communication, presentation and leadership skills in a supportive and positive environment. Those with dreams of starting their own business may be interested in the Entrepreneurial Students Association, which aims to support, inspire and encourage students to pursue their entrepreneurial goals. The association is open to students of all majors. See a full list of student clubs and organizations. Global Immersions Fox graduate students can participate in Global Immersions. They are destination-focused learning experiences that allow graduate students to engage with a different country's culture, language and business practices. Global Immersions expose students to comparative business environments, global business in emerging markets, global companies working to solve crucial problems, intensive and diverse learning experiences, and international innovation and entrepreneurship. Previous destinations include China, India, Latin America and South Africa. Recent participating companies include Black and Decker, BMW, Deloitte, Microsoft and SanDisk. Learn more about Global Immersion Programs. Temple also offers interested students a variety of options for pursuing internship, teaching and volunteer opportunities abroad through the Center for International Business and Research. Learn more about your options for studying or working abroad. Accreditation The Fox School of Business is accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB). The school has maintained AACSB accreditation since 1934. BU-FAQR-MS Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Financial Analysis and Quantitative Risk Management MS Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Events Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Events Request More Info