Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Public Safety Public Safety right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow Contact Us FAQ Executive Team Newsroom right arrow down arrow Blog Posts Safety and Reform News Media Department Policies Safety Services right arrow down arrow Access Control & Physical Security Automated External Defibrillators Background Checks / Finger Prints right arrow down arrow FAQ Bicycle Registration Bearcat Guardian Crime Prevention right arrow down arrow Preventing theft from auto and auto theft Preventing theft and burglary Online and phone scams Housing Rental Scams Keys & Badges Lost & Found Mind What Matters NightRide Special Events right arrow down arrow Event Security Cost Estimate Special Events FAQ Be A Good Neighbor Police right arrow down arrow 911 Communications Leadership Community Engagement Team Crime Statistics Job Shadowing Mission, Vision and Values Bias Free Policing and Contact Cards Records and Reports Recruitment Victim Services right arrow down arrow What Are My Options? Harassment, Stalking and Dating Violence Sex Crimes K-9 Unit Request for Investigation University Threat Assessment Group Reform right arrow down arrow Board of Trustees' Resolution Community Compliance Council right arrow down arrow Meetings, Minutes and Materials Guiding Principles Values Members Resources External Reports and Voluntary Monitorship Clery Act right arrow down arrow Clery Notices Daily Crime Log Campus Security Authorities Annual Security Report Fire Prevention and Protection Units right arrow down arrow Fire Extinguisher Training Fire Drills and Smoke Detectors Areas of Rescue Assistance Fire Log Fire Alarm Construction Standards Emergency Management right arrow down arrow Emergency Procedures Safety Notifications Emergency Plans Bearcat Notifications Home » About UC » Public Safety » Safety Services » Crime Prevention » Preventing theft and burglary Set Navigation title in component Access Control & Physical Security Automated External Defibrillators Background Checks / Finger Prints FAQ Bicycle Registration Bearcat Guardian Crime Prevention Preventing theft from auto and auto theft Preventing theft and burglary Online and phone scams Housing Rental Scams Keys & Badges Lost & Found Mind What Matters NightRide Special Events Event Security Cost Estimate Special Events FAQ Be A Good Neighbor Preventing theft and burglary The potential for crime does exist, but by following the suggestions outlined here, you can substantially reduce the possibility that you, a friend or a colleague might become the victim of theft or burglary. Never leave valuables unattended, even for a minute. For example, if you are studying on campus and need to get a snack, take your belongings with you. Don’t leave expensive items visible from outside your home. Always lock your doors and windows when you leave, even for a few minutes. Do not post about your travels on social media until you have returned. Have an inventory of your valuables with the make, model and serial numbers. This can help you recover your items if they are found. Burglars tend to return to the same areas. If you see something suspicious, call 9-1-1. If you find an intruder in your home, do not try to apprehend the person. The intruder may be armed or may easily grab something in the room as a weapon. Get out of the room and call 9-1-1. If you have a bicycle, always lock it. UCPD recommends using a U-Lock. Register your bike here. Back up your documents on a service such as Google Drive or Dropbox. That way, if your laptop is ever stolen, you will not lose your work. If you live in a residence hall: Lock your doors and windows when you leave, even if you will just be gone for a minute. Never sleep in an unlocked room. If you lose your keys, report it immediately. If you find that your room has been entered, do not go inside or touch anything. Call 9-1-1 immediately. Do not let someone you do not know into the building. If you live in an apartment: Lock your doors and windows anytime you leave, and when you are sleeping. If you lose your keys, report it to the property manager immediately. Leave some lights on while you are away, preferably on a timer. Do not let someone you do not know into the building. Before you sign a lease, look for a safe apartment. Read about what UCPD recommends you look for here. Ensure window AC units cannot be easily pushed in. If you live in a house: Make sure the outside of your house is well lit at night. Lock your doors and windows anytime you leave, and when you are sleeping. If you are a renter and lose your keys, report it to the owner immediately. If you or your family owns the house, consider replacing the locks as soon as possible. Leave some lights on while you are away, preferably on a timer. Ensure window AC units cannot be easily pushed in. Department of Public Safety 51 West Corry Boulevard Cincinnati, OH 45221-0215 Main Number: 513-556-4900 Background Checks, Keys and IDs: 513-556-4925 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Department of Public Safety 51 West Corry Boulevard Cincinnati, OH 45221-0215 Main Number: 513-556-4900 Background Checks, Keys and IDs: 513-556-4925 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top