Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary COLLEGE OF ARTS & SCIENCES HISTORY COMPARATIVE AND TRANSREGIONAL HISTORY Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 HSTCMP 111 History of the Present (5) I&S Nicolaas P. Barr Introduces students to thinking about social, cultural, and political issues of current relevance as objects of historical inquiry and about the role of historical argumentation in contemporary public debate. Offered: jointly with CHID 111. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 111 HSTCMP 200 Ten Events That Shook the World (5) I&S Offers introduction to history by examining ten events of great importance for both past and present. The ten events, which vary from quarter to quarter, come from diverse times and places, thereby encouraging a sweeping view of world history. (See department advisor for the current quarterly list of the ten events.) View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 200 HSTCMP 202 World Wars I and II Digital Histories (5) I&S, DIV Laurie Marhoefer Examines the histories of both World War I and II. Focuses on nationalism and empire, race, gender, sexuality, military technology, ethics, and social history. Students consider how digital history shapes study of the wars, learn digital mapping, text analysis, and podcasting. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 202 HSTCMP 204 Europe and America in the Era of the World Wars (5) I&S Declining role of Europe in the world and rise of the United States from 1914 to 1945. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 204 HSTCMP 205 Filipino Histories (5) I&S, DIV Vicente L. Rafael Introduction to histories, cultures and politics of Filipinos and the Philippines. Examines pre-colonial societies, Spanish colonial rule, nationalism and Revolution, Filipino-American war, U.S colonial rule, Japanese occupation, postcolonial period to Martial Law, continuing rebellions, and the Filipino diaspora. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 205. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 205 HSTCMP 207 Introduction to Intellectual History (5) I&S Ideas in historical context. Comparative and developmental analysis of Western conceptions of "community," from Plato to Freud. Offered: jointly with CHID 207. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 207 HSTCMP 209 History of Christianity (5) I&S Twenty centuries of the history, thought, and culture of Christianity. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 209 HSTCMP 210 Catholic Classics in Historical Context (5) I&S James R Felak Examines some of the most significant works in the two thousand-year Catholic tradition, paying special attention to the historical context in which the work was produced, the life of the author, and the content of the writing. The featured authors include major theologians such as Saints Thomas Aquinas and John Henry Newman, spiritual writers such as Saints. Benedict and Catherine of Siena, and literary figures such as G. K. Chesterton. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 210 HSTCMP 211 Introduction to the History of Science (5) I&S Introduction to major themes in the history of science. Investigation of historical and scientific methods through the study of particular historical cases. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 211 HSTCMP 212 Indigenous Leaders and Activists (5) I&S, DIV J. REID By focusing on historic indigenous leaders and activists globally, students will examine issues of power, sovereignty, identity, and the role of the individual in shaping history. Additionally, students will examine contemporary, global issues that indigenous communities face and collaboratively contribute to a wiki of indigenous leaders and activist movements. Offered: jointly with AIS 212. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 212 HSTCMP 215 The History of the Atomic Bomb (5) I&S History of the atomic bomb from the beginning of nuclear physics to the security hearing of J. Robert Oppenheimer. Includes a study of the scientific achievements that made the bomb possible, the decision to deploy the bomb, the moral misgivings of the scientists involved. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 215 HSTCMP 217 The Space Age (5) I&S Explores the history of ideas, events, and practices associated with the Space Age from the late nineteenth century through the twentieth. Emphasizes intellectual, cultural, and political/military history in the development of rockets and space technology in the United States, Germany, and the Soviet Union. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 217 HSTCMP 220 At the Top of the World: Arctic Histories (5) I&S Elena Campbell History of human understanding of and relationship to the Arctic by tracing the social, economic, political, and environmental transformations of the Earth's northernmost region, from earliest settlements to the end of the twentieth century (the creation of the Arctic Council in 1996), as well as shifts in ideas that accompanied these changes. Offered: jointly with ARCTIC 220. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 220 HSTCMP 221 Global Environmental History, Feast and Famine (5) I&S, DIV Purnima Dhavan Examines how consumption in societies such as China, India, Japan, Africa, Europe, and the Americas developed from 1500 to the present. Broad patterns of global history and how they fit into debates about environmental history. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 221 HSTCMP 225 The Silk Road (5) I&S Waugh History of cultural and economic exchange across Eurasia from the early Common Era to modern times. Spread of religions such as Islam and Buddhism, overland trade in rare commodities, interaction between nomadic and sedentary cultures, role of empires, culture of daily life, and the arts. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 225 HSTCMP 245 Exploration and Empire: The Art and Science of Global Power, 1300-1800 (5) I&S, DIV B. Schmidt Explores key moments in the history of exploration and empire, 1300-1800. Taking an interdisciplinary approach, focuses on scientific and artistic aspects of exploration, their implications for imperialism, and legacies in the post-colonial world. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 245 HSTCMP 247 Global Health Histories: Colonial Medicine, Public Health, and International Health in the Global South (5) I&S, DIV Adam W Warren Traces the roots of the modern global health movement by examining the history of overseas interventions in medicine and public health from the fifteenth century to the present. Focuses primarily on Latin America while including case studies on Africa, Asia, Australia, and the Pacific. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 247 HSTCMP 248 The AIDS Epidemic: A Global History (5) I&S, DIV Lynn M Thomas, Laurie Marhoefer Examines global AIDS epidemic as key episode in twentieth-century. Begins with first AIDS patients in 1980s, moves back in time, considering histories of illness and inequality enabling epidemic to have devastating and uneven effects. Explores how politics of sexuality, class, citizenship and race shaped responses to epidemic by governments and communities, and, how HIV/AIDS gave rise to new forms of activism, research, and philanthropy. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 248 HSTCMP 249 Introduction to Labor Studies (5) I&S Conceptual and theoretical issues in the study of labor and work. Role of labor in national and international politics. Formation of labor movements. Historical and contemporary role of labor in the modern world. Offered: jointly with POL S 249/SOC 266. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 249 HSTCMP 250 Introduction to Jewish Cultural History (5) I&S Introductory orientation to the settings in which Jews have marked out for themselves distinctive identities as a people, a culture, and as a religious community. Examines Jewish cultural history as a production of Jewish identity that is always produced in conversation with others in the non-Jewish world. Offered: jointly with JEW ST 250. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 250 HSTCMP 258 Slavery and Slave Trading in the 21st Century (5) I&S, DIV Examines the forms that slavery and slave trading have taken in contemporary times. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 258 HSTCMP 259 Race and Slavery Across the Americas (5) I&S, DIV S. SMALLWOOD Surveys development of racial slavery across North and South America and the Caribbean from 1500-1880s. Comparative examination of slavery exploring how slavery supported colonization making European settlement across Americas viable; how ideas about racial difference developed, operated differently; how enslaved peoples' resistance to bondage helped abolish slavery in Americas by late 1880s. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 259 HSTCMP 260 Slavery in History: A Comparative Study (5) I&S Slavery as a universal historical phenomenon lending itself to a comparative analysis is studied in terms of its philosophical justifications, economic importance, and local practices. The following historical periods are surveyed: the ancient Near East, Greece, Rome, Islam, Africa, Latin America, and North America. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 260 HSTCMP 265 Modern Revolutions Around the World (5) I&S Introduces the causes, processes, and legacies of modern revolutions. Cases included the American, French, Mexican, Russian, and Chinese Revolutions. Special attention given to how these and other revolutions have shaped the modern world. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 265 HSTCMP 269 The Holocaust: History and Memory (5) I&S, DIV Explores the Holocaust as crucial event of the twentieth century. Examines the origins of the Holocaust, perpetrators and victims, and efforts to come to terms with this genocide in Europe, Israel, and the United States. Offered: jointly with JEW ST 269. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 269 HSTCMP 270 Race, Religion, and Migration in Global Context (5) I&S, DIV Devin E Naar Migration of "Middle Easterners" - Jews, Christians, and Muslims - from the Ottoman Empire to the United States in the twentieth century. How their experiences shaped, and were shaped by, the development of racial categories, definitions of citizenship and national belonging, and broader political, religious, and cultural dynamics linking the Mediterranean world to the Americas. Offered: jointly with JEW ST 270. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 270 HSTCMP 281 Queer and Trans History (5) I&S, DIV Laurie Marhoefer Histories of queer, gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgender, genderqueer, intersex, and a host of other identities. Explores these identities, focusing on Europe and the United States in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries; on German and African American history; and on analyzing race, class, and gender. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 281 HSTCMP 283 Introduction to Women's History (5) I&S Includes units on American, European, and Third World women that examine centers of women's activities, women's place in male-dominated spheres (politics), women's impact on culture (health, arts), and the effect of larger changes on women's lives (technology, colonization). Offered: jointly with GWSS 283; A. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 283 HSTCMP 284 History of Sex (5) I&S, DIV Laurie Marhoefer Traces history of sex (acts and desires as well as related notions of gender) from medieval Europe through nineteenth and twentieth century Europe and its colonies to the present. Examines the dramatic changes in how people thought about sex, changes that touch on important questions in women's and gender history, the history of racism and oppression, the history of religion, and the history of politics and society. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 284 HSTCMP 290 Topics in Comparative/Global History (5, max. 10) I&S Examines special topics in history. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 290 HSTCMP 292 Exploring History through New Media and Technologies (5) I&S Practice history through hands-on work with new media technologies: web, podcast, video, online maps. Students work together to build project site, focusing on specific historical theme chosen by instructor. Students exercise common historical skills - source-based research, analysis, and narrative presentation - while also developing and demonstrating new technical competencies. No prior technical expertise required. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 292 HSTCMP 309 Marx and the Marxian Tradition in Western Thought: The Foundations of Modern Cultural Criticism I (5) I&S Critically examines the formation of modern Western culture, politics, and society through an historical analysis of the work of Karl Marx and the thinkers, artists, and activists who assimilated and transformed Marxian concepts from the late nineteenth century to the present. Offered: jointly with CHID 309. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 309 HSTCMP 310 Science and Religion in Historical Perspective (5) I&S Scientific and religious ideas have been two of the major forces shaping our modern view of the world. Often regarded as being in conflict, they can equally well be seen as complementary and interdependent. Study of the relationship between scientific and religious ideas with focus on particular episodes of history from ancient to modern times. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 310 HSTCMP 311 Science in Civilization: Antiquity to 1600 (5) I&S From pre-classical antiquity to the end of the Middle Ages, stressing the growth of scientific ideas, the cultural context in which they take shape, and their relationship to other movements of thought in the history of civilization. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 311 HSTCMP 312 Science in Civilization: Science in Modern Society (5) I&S Growth of modern science since the Renaissance, emphasizing the scientific revolution of the seventeenth century, the development of methodology, and the emergence of new fields of interest and new modes of thought. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 312 HSTCMP 313 Science in Civilization: Physics and Astrophysics Since 1850 (5) I&S/NW Organization and pursuit of the physical and astrophysical sciences, focusing on the major unifying principles of physics and astronomy and the social and cultural settings in which they were created. Offered: jointly with ASTR 313. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 313 HSTCMP 314 The Psychoanalytic Revolution in Historical Perspective (5) I&S Genesis and evolution of Freudian theory in context of the crisis of liberal-bourgeois culture in central Europe and parallel developments in philosophy, literature, and social theory. Emergence and division of the psychoanalytic movement. Transformation of psychoanalysis in British, French, and especially American cultural traditions. Offered: jointly with CHID 314. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 314 HSTCMP 315 History of Technology to 1940 (5) I&S Technology since the Middle Ages, in its social and historical contexts. From the medieval foundations of metal working, its social consequences and the establishment of a class of engineering practitioners, to the transformation of American rural life, domestic technology, and industry before World War II. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 315 HSTCMP 319 Nietzsche and the Nietzschean Legacy in Western Thought: Foundations of Modern Cultural Critique II (5) I&S Critically examines the formation of modern Western politics, society, and cultures through a historical analysis of the thought of Freidrich Nietzsche and the thinkers, artists, and activists who assimilated and transformed the Nietzschean perspective during the twentieth century. Offered: jointly with CHID 319. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 319 HSTCMP 320 Greek History: 7000 BC to Present (5) I&S History of Greece from its Neolithic village origins to the present. Examines the different forms of one of the most resilient cultures in the human story. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 320. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 320 HSTCMP 340 The Cold War: Realities, Myths, Legacies (5) I&S Provides an interdisciplinary introduction to the Cold War (1947-1991), a global conflict, with political, cultural, and military tensions, between the two post-World War II superpowers: the USA and its "Western" allies, and the USSR and its "Eastern" allies. Attention given to diplomatic, military, and cultural ramifications. Offered: jointly with JSIS B 340. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 340 HSTCMP 345 War and Society (5) I&S Analysis of the techniques of war from the Renaissance to the present with consideration of the social, political, and economic consequences of war in the Western world. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 345 HSTCMP 346 Images of War in History, Literature, and Media (5) I&S/VLPA Explores images of war generated by historians, writers, artists, filmmakers, television producers, and journalists, analyzing the perspectives on 19th and 20th century wars adopted by various observers to see what motivates their representations. Focuses on ways in which various media shape images of war and the effect of this shaping on human consciousness. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 346 HSTCMP 367 Southeast Asian Activism and Social Engagement (5) I&S Rafael Investigates how Southeast Asian activism is tied to the histories of political struggle within Southeast Asia and to questions of diasporic Asian American identity. Engages in group research projects exploring the meaning of social activism within local communities. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 367. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 367 HSTCMP 368 Jewish Thought (5) I&S N. PIANKO Explores the historical context of major shifts in modern Jewish thought. Topics include the impact of the Enlightenment, Emancipation, the Holocaust, and the founding of the State of Israel on conceptions of Jewish theology, identity, and religious practice. Offered: jointly with JEW ST 358; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 368 HSTCMP 369 The Jewish Twentieth Century in Film (5) I&S/VLPA, DIV Stein Surveys twentieth-century Jewish history in its European, American, and Middle Eastern contexts by examining films produced in these settings. Considers central events that shaped modern Jewish culture: the changing geography of Europe and the Middle East, mass migrations, the Holocaust, shifting meanings of race, culture, and religion. Offered: jointly with JEW ST 369. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 369 HSTCMP 402 Topics in Disability History (5, max. 10) I&S, DIV Joanne Woiak Analysis of topics in the histories of disabled people, disability activism, society's perceptions of disability, and connections with other social movements and categories. Recommended: DIS ST 230/CHID 230/LSJ 230. Offered: jointly with DIS ST 402; AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 402 HSTCMP 406 Issues in World History to 1500 (5) I&S Explores important questions about development of civilizations. Topics include the spread of peoples and languages; the significance of technologies such as agriculture, writing, and the stirrup; links between trade and the spread of religions and diseases; and primary and secondary state formation. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 406 HSTCMP 407 The Making of the Modern World: World History Since 1500 (5) I&S A. Yang Focus on how world historians approach the past, particularly how they conceptualize, research and teach modern world history. Emphasis on understanding and (de)constructing historical narratives about modern world and on examining intellectual assumptions and theoretical and methodological frameworks of world history. Provides basic understanding of scope and methods of modern world history, scholarly and pedagogical concerns and interests. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 407 HSTCMP 408 Topics in the History of Capitalism (5, max. 10) I&S Mark Metzler Selected topics in the history of capitalism in a global, multi-century perspective. Recommended: either JSIS 200, or equivalent courses in global history. Offered: jointly with JSIS B 408. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 408 HSTCMP 410 Medicine, History, and Society (5) I&S Investigates the origins of aspects of contemporary life form vitamins, to giving birth in a hospital, bringing a historical perspective to topics including the politics of pharmaceuticals, the emergence of genetic determinism, and bioethics. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 410 HSTCMP 412 Science and the Enlightenment (5) I&S The role of science in relation to intellectual, social, economic, and religious forces in the eighteenth century, and growth of the international community in science during the same period. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 412 HSTCMP 425 History of the British Empire and Commonwealth Since 1783 (5) I&S Britain in the Caribbean, Africa, India, Southeast Asia, and the Pacific; and the settlement, economic development, and political evolution of Canada, Australia, New Zealand, and South Africa. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 425 HSTCMP 440 The Communist Experience Around the World (5) I&S Young Communism from its origins in Bolshevik faction of Russian social democracy to the present, treating the development of the ideology, the various communist parties, and the communist states. Offered: jointly with JSIS B 440. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 440 HSTCMP 446 History, Memory, and Justice (5) I&S Giebel Focuses on the complex interactions between history and historical representation, remembrance and commemoration, memory and identity, and notions of justice and reconciliation. Addresses these issues on methodological, theoretical, and practical grounds, drawing on examples from various genres, periods, and world regions. Offered: jointly with JSIS B 446. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 446 HSTCMP 449 Issues in Comparative Labor History (5) I&S Role of labor in the modern world. Emphasis on the centrality of workers' struggles in the evolution of national societies on the conceptual, research, and expository strategies of contemporary students of the labor movement and on differences and relationships between labor in developed and underdeveloped countries. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 449 HSTCMP 457 Topics in Labor Research (5, max. 10) I&S Analysis of the post-World War II decline of national labor movements and strategies employed to reverse this trend. Requires a major research project on organizing, bargaining, or another question in labor studies. Prerequisite: either POL S 249, HIST 249, or SOC 266. Offered: jointly with POL S 457. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 457 HSTCMP 466 Sport and the British Empire in Asia, Africa, and the Middle East (5) I&S Examines British imperialism in Asia, Africa, and the Middle East through the prism of sport. Explores the rise of sport in Victorian England, its use to discipline and control colonized peoples, and its role in the rise of nationalism throughout the British Empire. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 466 HSTCMP 467 Nations and States in the Modern World (5) I&S Development of national consciousness in the "old nations" of Europe before the French Revolution. Replacement by new nationalism, spreading into East Central Europe, Russia, Ibero-America, Asia, and Africa. Offered: jointly with JSIS B 467. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 467 HSTCMP 468 Theatre as a Site of History and Memory (5) VLPA/I&S Sears Explores Asian theatre traditions as sites of memory, testimony, and archive using ethnographic and historiographical approaches. Includes service-learning components and collaborative performance projects. Offered: jointly with JSIS B 468. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 468 HSTCMP 469 The Sephardic Diaspora: 1492-Present (5) I&S, DIV Examines the history and culture of Sephardic Jewry from the expulsion from the Iberian Peninsula in 1492 to the present. Explores the creation of Sephardic communities in the Dutch and Ottoman Empires, Western Europe, the Americas, and Africa, and the history of the conversos and "hidden Jews." Offered: jointly with JEW ST 466. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 469 HSTCMP 483 Technology and Culture in the Making of Contemporary Empires (5) I&S Benitez, Rodriguez-Sliva Explores struggles shaping organization of US empire in the early twentieth century, focusing on sites where empire's material, cultural, and ideological boundaries were drawn and contested. Includes race, gender and class as colonial formation; technologies of imperial governance such as public health, citizenship, and territory. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 483. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 483 HSTCMP 484 Colonial Encounters (5) I&S History of European colonialism from the 1750s to the present, with an emphasis on British and French colonial encounters. Offered: jointly with CHID 484. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 484 HSTCMP 485 Comparative Colonialism (5) I&S, DIV Vicente L. Rafael Explores the historic roots and practices of colonialism throughout the world, focusing on the roles of nationalism, cosmopolitanism, and imperial domination. Treats colonialism as a world event whose effects continue to be felt and whose power needs to be addressed. Offered: jointly with CHID 485. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 485 HSTCMP 490 Advanced Topics in Comparative/Global History (5, max. 10) I&S Examines special topics in history. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 490 HSTCMP 502 Topics in Disability History (5, max. 10) Joanne Woiak Analysis of topics in the histories of disabled people, disability activism, society's perceptions of disability, and connections with other social movements and categories. Recommended: DIS ST 501 or equivalent. Offered: jointly with DIS ST 502; AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 502 HSTCMP 504 Comparative Ethnicity and Nationalism (5) Theoretical approaches to, and historical case studies of, the phenomena of ethnicity, nationalism, and ethnic conflict in the modern world. Emphasis on Europe and Asia. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 504 HSTCMP 506 Issues in World History to 1500 (5) Explores important questions about development of civilizations. Topics include the spread of peoples and languages; the significance of technologies such as agriculture, writing, and the stirrup; links between trade and the spread of religions and diseases; and primary and secondary state formation. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 506 HSTCMP 507 The Making of the Modern World: World History since 1500 (5) Focuses on how world historians approach the past, particularly how they conceptualize, research, and teach modern world history. Emphasizes as much on understanding and (de)constructing historical narratives about the modern world as on examining the intellectual assumptions and theoretical and methodological frameworks of world history. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 507 HSTCMP 508 Topics in the History of Capitalism (5, max. 10) Mark Metzler Selected topics in the history of capitalism in a global, multi-century perspective. Offered: jointly with JSIS B 508. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 508 HSTCMP 509 Foucault and History (5) V. Rafael Addresses the usefulness of Foucault for thinking about history and thinking historically. Discusses questions of method, politics and ethics of critique, and overview relationships among power, knowledge, and subjectivity in context of modernity that undergirds Foucault's writings. Focuses on a set of Foucault's lectures on war, race, security, biopolitics, and on ethics of truth-telling in lectures he gave at the College de France. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 509 HSTCMP 511 History of Science (3-6, max. 6) View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 511 HSTCMP 512 Seminar in the History of Science ([3-6]-, max. 12) View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 512 HSTCMP 513 Seminar in the History of Science (-[3-6]-, max. 12) View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 513 HSTCMP 514 Seminar in the History of Science (-[3-6], max. 12) View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 514 HSTCMP 515 Field Course in the History of Technology (5) Introduces students to the literature, methodology, and problems of the history of technology, and prepares them for independent study in the field. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 515 HSTCMP 520 Britons and Others (5) Provides an overview of major themes and recent scholarship in modern British and imperial history. Emphasizes the ways in which ideas about class, gender, and race have influenced Britain's relationship to the wider world. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 520 HSTCMP 530 Comparative Colonialisms: Methodological and Conceptual Approaches (5) Introduces students to the historiography of modern European/American colonialisms, focusing on Africa, Asia, and/or the Americas. Addresses methodological and conceptual issues by examining relationship between capitalism and colonialism; violence and routinization of colonial power; colonial categories of race, ethnicity, class, and gender; and resistance movements and nationalist politics. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 530 HSTCMP 566 Sport and the British Empire in Asia, Africa, and the Middle East (5) Examines British imperialism in Asia, Africa, and the Middle East through the prism of sport. Explores the rise of sport in Victorian England, its use to discipline and control colonized peoples, and its role in the rise of nationalism throughout the British Empire. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 566 HSTCMP 568 Jewish Thought (5) N. PIANKO Explores the historical context of major shifts in modern Jewish thought. Topics include the impact of the Enlightenment, Emancipation, the Holocaust, and the founding of the State of Israel on conceptions of Jewish theology, identity, and religious practice. Offered: jointly with JEW ST 558; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 568 HSTCMP 569 The Sephardic Diaspora: 1492-Present (5) Devin E Naar Examines the history and culture of Sephardic Jewry from the expulsion from the Iberian Peninsula in 1492 to the present. Explores the creation of Sephardic communities in the Dutch and Ottoman Empires, Western Europe, the Americas, and Africa, and the history of the conversos and "hidden Jews." Offered: jointly with JEW ST 569. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 569 HSTCMP 580 Gender and History (5) Introduction to gender as category of historical analysis, examining the impact of feminist theory within the discipline of history. Course traces historiographical debates in women's and gender history and explores, through cross-cultural comparisons, how scholars have conceived the relationship between gender and categories such as class, race, ethnicity, and sexuality. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 580 HSTCMP 581 Queer and Trans History (5) L. MARHOEFER Studies development of queer and trans history as subfields and interdisciplinary thought that has shaped them (critical race theory, queer theory, trans studies). Surveys foundational works of theory that have influenced historians (and other scholars) as well as important books and articles in the two interrelated historical subfields. Examines the role of intersectional analysis in the subfields as well as generative debates among historians. Offered: jointly with GWSS 581. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 581 HSTCMP 586 Seminar in Comparative Colonial History ([3-6]-, max. 12) View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 586 HSTCMP 587 Seminar in Comparative Colonial History (-[3-6], max. 12) View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 587 HSTCMP 590 Topics in History (5, max. 15) Seminar on selected topics in general history, with special emphasis on preparation for field examinations. Topics vary according to interests of students and instructor. View course details in MyPlan: HSTCMP 590 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022